Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter one. We finally made it back to our series in Genesis. Genesis 1, 24-31, the creation of mankind. Genesis 1, 24 to 31, the creation of man. So today we're not focusing on the current state of man, but the original state of man before sin, before death, before judgment The current state of man is not our focus, but rather the original state. Of course, for a discernment to be relevant for us, we'll have to you know, make application and do some thinking about our current state. Because, brothers and sisters, we're no longer in that original state of innocence. But that's the passage. And so I have to say that up front, the creation of mankind. And I do want us to focus our hearts at the outset here on the fact that life is a gift. Now in the text what we see is the supernatural creation of Adam and Eve. And for us, you know, we think about our lives, and it's not going to be the supernatural creation that you see in Genesis one. Genesis two, but rather it's natural procreation. But one way or the other, friends, life is a gift. Life was a gift to Adam and Eve through supernatural creation. Life is a gift to us through supernatural. Natural procreation. And we should be grateful that God has given us life. Life is a gift. I hope that's heavy on our hearts. You know, that's not the thinking of the world. The thinking of the world, the thinking of the unbelieving world is life is an accident. Life is a random accident in a random universe. Therefore you're entitled and what's best for you is just live however you want. But that's not the case, brothers and sisters. That's That's not the case. Life is a gift from God. And therefore we should be grateful to God and we should live life to honor God and not to seek our own glory. Amen. with me on this church? So yeah, this is Genesis 1. This is the original state of man, but there's rich in practical relevance for us here. A key word, whenever we're in, especially these early chapters of Genesis, that really structure the way we think about the universe. A key word is clash. Clash. You're gonna see you always see a clash between what the world believes on the one hand and what the Bible is teaching on the other hand. You see a clash when it comes to what the world believes. And what the Bible teaches, and what we believe on the doctrine of man, just like any other doctrines. And so just to get the wheels turning a little bit, I have some uh reflection questions before we read the passage on man And thinking about this clash between what the world believes and what the Bible teaches. Who is man? Is mankind an accident of a random universe, or is mankind the purposeful creation of a personal God? You see, there's a clash. It's a clash of worldviews. What's man's purpose? Is it to live however we please and then vanish? With no future? Or is it to live for God and honor God here and enjoy God here and then go to heavenly glory? You see? It's a clash of worldviews. What is the nature nature of human sexuality? Are there an infinite number of ways to identify ourselves and behave? Or are there two distinct sexes, male and female, made in the image of God? You see, at every point, there's a clash of worldviews. And we can think about man's current moral condition now. Is man on his own currently? Basically good, wise, and loving, and therefore doesn't need God Or is man basically sinful, foolish, and selfish, and desperately needs God? You see there's a clash at every point, a clash of worldviews. I'll give you one more What is our mindset about life? Is life something that we're entitled to or that we earned beforehand? Or is life a gift, a precious gift, a priceless gift, to be cherished To be protected, and they should fill our hearts with humility and gratitude at every point It's a clash of worldviews. What the world and the principles of the world is saying on the one hand and what the Bible is teaching on the other hand. To understand Today, particularly mankind, humanity created in the image of God. Let's read the passage. The passage is verses twenty four to thirty one in Genesis one And God said, let the earth bring forth living creatures according to their kinds, livestock and creeping things. And beasts of the earth according to their kinds. And it was so. And God made the beasts of the earth according to their kinds, and livestock according to their kinds, and everything that creeps on the ground according to its kind And God saw that it was good. Then God said, Let us make man in our image, after our likeness. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God, he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth. And subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth And God said, Behold, I have given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with seed in its face its fruit, you shall have them for food. And to every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and to everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant. for food. And it was so. And God saw everything that He had made. And behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. You know, it's such a general point, and I'm sure this will come out at some point in the notes, unless I skip over it. I tend to do that, and you never know about it because you don't see my notes But in the general sense, you see that not only does God fill the earth with life, but he also fills the earth with things that will sustain life. So we thank God and we praise God that we have the necessary things in this world to sustain us. Because the way life is designed, human life Is our focus is designed to need things outside of itself. To need food, to need air, to need water. And that should design that way, I believe. God's always reminding us that we're not self-sustaining creatures He's designed us, he's made us to be dependent. He gives us all these reminders that we're designed to depend on that which is outside of us, and supremely that's depending on God as our sustainer. So he creates life, but he also creates things that will sustain life. Aren't you happy about that? You like to eat. You like having access to clean water? Someone said I'd love it. Amen. We like food. We like clean air. We like water We like being sustained, and therefore, thank you, God, for sustaining us. Amen? We can take that for granted. I can take that for granted off often in a society of plenty. Right? But we want to turn our hearts to God and thanksgiving. Now just uh you see on your outline, there's the pretty detailed outline in the bulletin And you see the overwhelming majority of our time will be on that middle section where it says the primary issue. And under the primary issue, we'll talk about six truths about mankind's original state. Alright, six truths about mankind's original state. But there's a short section before that and a short section after that So first, just some preliminary issues, just to get our footing. Remember the context of what God is doing. That's way back either the end of November or the beginning of December, where our last preached on Genesis. But just remember the context of what God is doing. Look at verses 1 and 2. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void, the darkness was over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. If you didn't hear my message on that where I we expound and explain all of that, you can look on the sermon audio page, look on our webpage, and you can find that. But this earth in its original state uh was void of life, but it was not livable. Either. It didn't have the things that could sustain life. And so the story in Genesis one has been very simple. It's so simple what's going on in Genesis one. Step by step, God is making the earth Livable. He's making it more livable and more livable, ordering it, filling it, putting things in that will sustain life, and it all comes to its high point this morning with the creation of man, both male and female. female. God, this chapter has been step by step making the world livable. So that's the context. Now also in our passage We see God creating land animals on day six as well. This is day sixth of creation, the creation of land animals, and the creation of humanity. And that's verses twenty-four. and twenty-five, which we just read, but you can read that again. Wildlife and then uh domesticated beasts And creepy, crawly things like insects, or whatever it is that's crawling on the ground, lizards, anything, all land life. Finally, here, preliminary issue. Just uh in case you missed this in verse 26, you see a hint, not a full orbed doctrine. Not a detailed statement, but we see a hint, we see a reverberation of the doctrine of the Trinity in verse 26, where the one God says Not let me make man in my image and my likeness, but God said, the one God says, Let us make man in our image after our likeness. And the doctrine of the Trinity won't be fully revealed or fully worked out until the person and work of Christ and the giving of the Holy Spirit and the writing of the New Testament, but God is unchanging. God has always been Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And everything God has ever done, he's done as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. We've already seen the Holy Spirit of God in verse 2. And in your devotions tonight, if you want to read John chapter 1. Verses 1 through 3, you'll see that God the Word, or God the Son, was also present in creation. God the Son, the second person of the Trinity, all things were created, the text says, through him. And so you have the Trinity creating man in his own image, male and female. You have this echo This foreshadowing, this hint, verse 26 of the Trinity, let us make man in our image after our likeness. And now on to the primary issue, six truths about mankind's original state. Six truths about mankind's original state States. And the first truth, which is the central truth, is that mankind was created in the image and likeness of God Again, verse 26, the first statement of verse 26. Then God said, Let us make man in our image. after our likeness. But then, church, you see this again in verse twenty-seven. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female. He created them. Mankind was created in the image and likeness of God Again, we see right away, life is a gift from God. Male and female didn't bring themselves into existence. Adam and Eve didn't map this out. They weren't on the committee that made this decision. This was God's sovereign decision to create, in accordance with his eternal purpose, and by his infinite power, God created man in his own image and after. And therefore we are right to say life is from God, life is sustained by God, life at every point is that gift the from God. There's so much to say about the image of God because it's a theme that is important and it tracks throughout all of Scripture. I'll we'll just be able in one section of one sermons just to scratch the surface, but hopefully it's a review for you or an introduction for you. I'm just going to highlight three points on what it means that man is the image of God. First of all, the first word is dignity. Dignity. That man is in the image of God means that we have a unique dignity and privilege as humankind. The dignity of being made in the image of God. The other land animals have the breath of life, but only man, only humankind has the image of God, is the image. of God created after his likeness. So we do not merely have the breath of life, giving his biological life and the the animation that comes with that of living life, eating and procreating and things like that. We not only have the breath of life, like other animals, but we also have a personal spirit. or a personal soul like our creator. Of course there's a difference because we're not the creator. We're not infinite We're finite. We're not eternal. We're temporal. God is a spirit. We have spirit So we're more than just the breath of life, like other animals. We are the image of God with a personal soul, or if you want to say, a personal spirit. Dignity, a unique dignity of humankind. That's why we protect life. That's why it's morally, objectively right to protect Protect life, to protect innocent life, and to punish evildoers, those who take life, and so on, and different examples that you can come up with. But this all goes back to the unique dignity of mankind as made in the image and after the likeness of God. Aren't you happy that you're different than a tree? Aren't you happy that you're different than a beetle? Beetles don't reflect on their own self, their own existence. And their eternal destiny and the nature of the soul. Because they don't have a soul. Um so the first word is dignity. That mankind is in the image and likeness of God, in which we have a unique dignity with The second word is representation. Representation. We are meant because we're made in the image of And after the likeness of God, humans, we are meant to represent God's truth and God's justice and God's love all over the earth. Humans have that calling. As you're a human, you have that calling. That's your duty. That's your purpose. You don't need to go to the mountains and meditate for a moment month to discover your person and peel away the levels and layers and find yourself. God has ordained for human beings to have a purpose to represent him on the earth that he made. That's your calling. That's your brothers and sisters. That's your discipleship. That's your practical discipleship in every area of our lives to represent God's truth and God's justice and God's mercy and God's love and God's kindness and on and on And on and on to represent God's character and God's this will be the last one I give you on this, to represent God's will in our lives. That's our call. And that's representation. We're called to represent God. And what we have here is a direct contrast, even in the in the historical context of the writing of Genesis. Moses wrote Genesis after Israel was redeemed. from Egypt. He wrote it to give us as part of the book of the law, the Pentateuch, the first five books of the Bible, to Israel as their first set of scriptures. But in the context, what we have here is a direct argument against the idolatry of the world. Now, in idolatry, man fashions an idol. Maybe out of wood, maybe out of stone, maybe out of metal. Maybe if you're the idol maker, you're into Mixed media, you can mix them together. But in idolatry, man makes the idol supposedly in the image and likeness of a so-called God. That's what idolatry is. We imagine a God and then we fashion an image to represent that God. But in the in the truth, in the account of uh creation In the Word of God, you get something vastly different than man imagining a God and then making it in its image. You have the actual God making man in his image. So we don't have idols that represent the presence of a God in some text Temple. That's idolatry. But mankind represents God in his world. We're the representation of God. That's part of the reason we're not we're actually in the Ten Commandments, you know this. You cannot make idols. You cannot worship idols. Don't create a physical, visible representation of God. You're that representation You're the image of God. You're called to represent God. And that's why God saves people and sets them apart. So that we can represent Him and not our own interests. But that's the architecture, or if you will, that's the design of all false religion. Speculative ideas about God or gods, and then man creating what they look like and where they live. But true religion begins here. Not humans creating representation of God, but God creating representation of God, and that's humans. Does that make sense? Or is that too much of a riddle? Man is the representation of God on earth, both male and female. And we fall under judgment when we fall short of that glorious calling, and that's the reason Jesus came to save us, to get us back on track with our calling, that we'd represent God and not ourselves. So dignity and representation. We have a unique dignity, a unique privilege, having a personal spirit or a personal soul as the image of God. We have a representative purpose or a representation. Mankind, both male and female, was created to represent God in the world. And finally , Last but not least, when we're talking about the image and likeness of God, knowledge and moral character. Knowledge and moral character. This is where it's sometimes difficult to uh um explain because it's so hard for us to imagine mankind not being sinful. It's so hard for us to imagine people who literally were not selfish. Who just believed God and everything, obeyed God and everything, loved God and everything, loved each other as themselves and everything, but that's Adam and Eve before the fall into sin. There really was a time, and we don't know how long exactly, but there was a time on earth before sin. Man in his original state, in his original innocence, Adam and Eve Before the fall were perfect in the knowledge of God and perfect in moral character. This is the image of God. Knowledge and moral character that reflect God's knowledge and God's moral character. And the first thing we should think is, well, that's not what I see in the world. Well, no, it's not what we see in the world. And apart from God's grace in our lives, we wouldn't see any of that in our lives. But by God's grace, by God's salvation, by the blood of Christ, by the resurrection of Christ, by the Holy Spirit He has given us That image of God in true knowledge and true righteousness is being renewed in us. That's your sanctification, brethren. Beloved, that's your sanctification. That's what God is doing in your heart, in your mind, in your words, in your life. By his grace and by his spirit he's renewing in us, he's restoring in uh in us the true knowledge and the true righteousness, the true holiness of God. He's restoring the image and likeness of God to us. Praise God for his glorious grace. Grace. Amen. But that's what God's doing. If God wasn't doing that, if God were not doing that rather, our lives would just be a a snowball of sin getting rolling down the hill, getting bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger, bigger, massive snowball of sin. But thank God for his grace. Thank God for the gospel. Thank God for the gospel. Colossians 3 :10, and this is talking about what's happening in the lives of Christians. Putting on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its creator. Being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator, which becomes our thoughts and thought patterns, which means our thoughts and thought patterns are becoming more and more like God's thoughts and God's thought patterns. Now we won't ever have the mind of God. We won't ever be as smart as God, as wise as God, but because of his word and because of the work of his spirit renewing our minds, our thoughts And our thought patterns are being renewed in the image of God. That's what he says. Being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. That's Colossians 3. 10. Now Ephesians 4. 24. Putting on the new self, created after the likeness of God, in true righteousness and holiness. Did you catch that? It's talking about being born again. But instead of saying you were born again, it says you were created. You were created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. And let's be thankful that God is restoring true knowledge to us. Let's be thankful that God is restoring and renewing and cultivating, like a farmer, cultivating within us, true righteousness and true holiness. Knowledge and moral character that reflect God's knowledge and reflect God's moral character, that's The image of God. And I know and you know that the perfection and purity of that was lost in the fall, but that's the purpose of the work of Christ is to restore that to undeserving sinners. Mankind was created in the image and likeness of God with a unique dignity with this purpose to represent God in God's world and with a knowledge and moral character that is To reflect to God's knowledge and reflect God's moral character, not our own. Certainly not the corrupt knowledge, the twisted knowledge and character of the world around us. Image of God. That's the first point. That's the central point. You're created in the image of God. Number two, mankind was created to rule the earth. Verse 26, and then also after that, verse 28. But it'd be hard to find a key word that stands out more than this word. That you're about to see. Uh the end start starting in the middle of verse 26. And let them have dominion over the fish of the sea, over the birds of the heavens, over the livestock, and over all the earth, and over every creeping thing that creeps on the earth. And then verse twenty-eight, and God blessed them. God and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it and have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing. That moves on the earth. What's the key word? Over. Over. And oh it's over and over again. It says, over this and over that and over this and over that. He says, have dominion. Have dominion over. Twice he said dominion. Which just means rule. This means you're in charge. That's all that means. It just means you're in charge. Rule over. Preside over. Exercise dominion over Everything. Essentially is what he says. Everything. Everything except for God. Wildlife is not meant to rule the world and take over the world. Humans are Practical application of this. We're called to work the land for produce and for grain. To domesticate certain animals to help us with the work that we have to do. in fields or whatever, hauling materials. Use the materials around you to design and to build structures to live in that will protect us from the elements. Invent and make tools and be clever and be creative and make tools that can help you do all of that. Have dominion, exercise dominion, do not give the earth over. to other animals in other realms, but rather subdue it, have dominion over it. And there's more on this coming in point number four four. But point number three is important as well. Mankind was created, number one, image of God, number two, to rule the earth, number three, in two distinct sexes, male and female. That's verse 27. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him, male and female. He created them. So man here is used in general for mankind or humanity. And then you see humanity is created, male and female, image of God, male and female. I know this is a controversial topic and a sensitive topic, especially in our culture today. And let's just make a little general practical application for each one of us Let's make sure we speak the truth in love. But brothers and sisters, let's make sure we speak the truth. Don't be afraid to speak the truth of what God's Word says. Doesn't mean we have to be harsh with it or a jerk about it. We learn by the Spirit to speak the truth in love. Brothers and sisters If God's children don't speak the truth in love, who in the world is going to speak the truth in this wicked world? Represent God, fulfill your calling, fulfill your discipleship. Speak the truth of God's Word with love and humility and compassion. But certainly love and humility and compassion to the world around us doesn't cause us to withhold the truth from them. What good will that do anybody? It's the truth of God that brings people to salvation, isn't it? In a postmodern, radically man-centered world. That we live in thinks in terms of gender and man-made categories of gender. But God wants us to think in terms of sex, male and female. Gender studies as we think about it, as we know about it today, as exists today, gender studies really started becoming a movement in the 1960s. as part of a much larger movement to deconstruct traditional views of sexuality and marriage and family. And aren't we seeing the fruit of it today? And the way of the world is basically biological sex does not matter. What matters is your gender, and you assign your gender. And it's based on your feelings and your lusts and your opinions. And you can choose either from the growing list of so called genders or create a new one. And I'm not saying that to be funny. That's the honest truth. That's the situation Out in the world. I did a quick search on this and I found within ten seconds fourteen genders currently. But then right after that was this statement. This list is not exhaustive, and new terms and identities continue to emerge as understanding and acceptance of gender diversity grow. This is one more evidence that the world needs Jesus. This is one more evidence that the world needs biblical churches. to speak biblical truth with the love of Christ and not give up. The truth of God is the only thing that will bring sinners to conviction, and the truth of God, specifically his gospel, is the only thing that will bring to You don't get changed minds on this first. People save themselves. You have God in just incomparable mercy. And it just In unimaginable power, you have God changing hearts by the gospel, and then the mind changes to accept biblical truth and start applying biblical truth in the different areas of life and society and culture. It's not just gender and sexuality, but the whole postmodern Project is we as humans define reality. We as humans give life meaning. We as humans assign value But that's not the biblical picture. The biblical picture is God defines reality, God gives life meaning, God assigns value, and the only way to true purpose and true and lasting hope is to find God. So I would encourage you if you came in here this morning and you don't have a relationship with God, seek Him. Seek Him. You will seek Him and you will find Him when you seek Him with all of your heart And there doesn't need to be any cliffhangers or any spoilers on this. You seek God in His word and through prayer. Throw yourself down before God. Seek the true God, seek his will, seek his wisdom, seek his power, read his word, keep coming, keep hearing his word, go to God in prayer, ask God for help, ask him to change your heart, ask him to change your mind mind ask him to change your values ask him to change your principles go to god go to god go to god seek god and you will find him i promise you you will find Him. Well, God promises you that. Strike my promise. My promise doesn't have anything to do with it. God promises that in his word. You will seek him and you will find him when you seek him with all of your hearts. God has called us out of the world. And so we're we're not all up in that game of defining our own reality, trying to give life meaning. Trying to assign value, but we're in the kingdom of God's beloved Son. Colossians 1:13. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. Two distinct sexes, male and female. Um I think we're on truth number four. Truth number four about mankind's original Mankon was created to fill the earth. That's verse 28, and that's related to what we said earlier: rule the earth uh rule the earth verse 26 and 28. Now you see in 28 fill the earth so don't just rule one portion of it but continue to uh be fruitful continu Continue to multiply and fill and fill and fill and fill and fill the whole earth. Verse 28. God blessed them, and God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, and fill the earth and subdue it. Alright, we're mankind is called to fill the earth and exercise dominion over all the earth in a way that honors God. Now we've essentially filled the earth, although there's still places to live and make the population is still growing. But essentially, essentially the earth is filled. Um but mankind by and large is not stewarding the world for the honor and glory of God. That's why we need to keep supporting missionaries and keep praying for missionaries and keep sending missionaries and keep planting churches and supporting church plants and Establishing churches so the kingdom of God can grow and grow and grow. Because when people get saved, they become obedient disciples. And that's one more representative of God you have in the world. Filling the earth, filling the earth with image bearers. Now two quick things on this. You'll notice that in verse 28 is a command. You have to double check me on this. I think this is the first command in the narrative. You have this command : be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion. Uh Dominion is said earlier in 26, but that's the creative word of God. That's not said to Adam and Eve. So the application point, whenever a a command is on the table, The application point is what? Obedience. Obedience. Mankind was designed to be obedient. There's a command to come, and when the command comes from the Creator, the creature must be obedient. Now, can we apply that to ourselves? Can I apply that to Matt? Can you apply that to yourself? Let's strive to be obedient to God. But it's not just a command, there's something else that's said here And notice what else this is called. It's called a blessing. It's called a blessing. Verse 28. And God blessed them. God gives humanity a present. A gift, or if you will, an inheritance. And what is it? Well, it's the whole earth. As a gift. God blessed them, saying, Essentially, this whole earth is yours. So therefore be fruitful. Multiply and fill it and subdue it and exercise dominion. I'm giving you a planet, I'm giving you the earth. So not only obedience, because there's a command on the table. But since there's a blessing on the table, what else should there be in our hearts? Just simmering. Oh, I mean, this should always be simmering in our hearts. Since there's a blessing on the table that God gave us a gift, gratitude. Gratitude. Gratitude. Thanksgiving. Gratitude in the heart that then erupts in giving thanks and speaking thanks and singing. Singing thanks. That's why so many of our songs have to do with praising and thanking God for all that He's given and all that He's done. It's a command that calls for obedience. It's a gift that calls for gratitude. Under the surface of this, we see God's plan for man on earth. God's plan is to Is for man to fill the earth and rule over the earth in a way that honors God and reflects his character. Now, the way we do that is through faith in Christ. It's very simple here. This is not a trick question. How do we um how do we represent God and rule over, preside over, be good stewards over the world in a way that honors and reflects God through faith in Christ? in obedience to him. Through faith in Christ and obedience to him. That's how we want to fill the earth. That's what we want to fill the earth with. We should be praying for that daily Now more hurried here. Number five. Mankind was created to be sustained by God's gift. That's verses 29 and 30. Now I actually opened with some statements about that. Verse 2 Verses twenty-nine and thirty. Now God said, Behold, I've given you every plant yielding seed that is on the face of all the earth, and every tree with the seed and its fruit, you shall have them for food. And he also gave For food for the other creatures as well. But mankind was created to be sustained by God's gifts. And so if we're always being sustained, By God's gifts, we should always be walking with thankful hearts. Right? Think of the gifts that God has given you. Think of the gifts that God uses to save sustain you with to bring you joy, enjoyment in in life. We should always be walking step by step with And number six and finally, man was created as the high point of God's very good creation. Man was created as the high point of God's very good creation. Creation. Look at verse 31. God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day Now throughout the narrative, one of the key words has been what? Good. Let's just look at man, but he looks at everything. He says very good. It's very good. It's monumental. It's It's climactic. It's the mountaintop peak we've been climbing toward. The world is not only livable and full of Stuff that will sustain life, but now here's the life that God was heading toward all along. It was all moving to this point to create mankind in his image and after his likeness, male and female, he looks at the finished project and he says, very good. And remember, generally speaking, why's good this word good, I spoke about this in an earlier message. Why does God keep saying it? It was good. It's good. It's good. It's good. It's good because everything's moving closer to God's goal. And it's good because it reflects the goodness of the one who made it. It reflects the wisdom of God. It reflects the power of God. It reflects the purpose of God. Therefore, good. Very good. Never forget that God is good. It's because God is good that He's given you good things. It's because God is good that He's promised us a good future. God is good. Praise His name. This very good high point of God's creation answers the question, why in the world did God make this place in Verse one. Why in the world is God doing all of this? There's a whole chapter as of making this earth This place, more and more livable, piece by piece, step by step, so that man can live in it and fulfill God's purpose. That's it. So that man can live in it and fulfill God's purpose for him. Now, number three, this last thing a personal issue. It's very, very short, but I wanted to end on a personal note I wanted to end on a word that's aimed right for my heart and your heart, so that this is just not just uh abstract reflection on mankind. I want this to be a message to our hearts. As we sit here as God's creation, do you acknowledge God is your creator? Humanity as a whole and each one of us, naturally speaking, choose to live our way. We know that that's true. I don't need to argue that We choose to live our way. That's the natural course of things. And yet, and yet, even though we've gone that path, which is the opposite of our calling, God sent a savior in love. To restore us to what we have forfeit. What we forfeit in our pride, God has restored to us in love. And He's done that by sending a Savior. Jesus Christ. Romans 6, 23. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. What we saw in Genesis 1 is the giving of natural life. Romans 6:23 is talking about supernatural life. The free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. our Lord. What did we forfeit in our pride that God restores to us in love? Life. Life. Life is a gift of God. And when we rebel against God, we forfeit the gift that was given. That's why Romans 6. 23 says the wages of sin is death. The wages of sin is death because the life that we had was the gift from God. When we rebelled against God, we forfeit the gift. We said, I don't want it. I don't want this life. And even though that was our heart, our sinful, corrupt, straying hearts, yet God so loved the world. He gave his one and only Son, that whosoever believes in him should not perish but have eternal life. God restores the gift of life in the image of God, He gives the gift of eternal life. And hopefully you, some of you who are here regularly have memorized, although you don't need to have my specific wording on it, but hopefully you've memorized the essence. Of eternal life. Eternal life is life in fellowship with God. Eternal life is life in communion with God. Being united to God spiritually. inseparably, irreversibly being united to God. It's the best thing that could ever happen to you. And it could only happen if you put your faith in Jesus. Jesus Christ on the basis of his life, death, and resurrection. Do it today. Do it today. Be the best move you ever make because you are not promised. tomorrow. We are not promised this evening. We have a meeting at five. We don't know if we'll make it there We don't control the future. We are not sovereign lords over life and death. Come to Jesus and be saved and fulfill your purpose as a human Being. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your power , wisdom , love, and for your enduring mercy It's in Jesus we pray. Amen.