Words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Joel chapter 1, verses 13 through 20. Joel chapter 1, 13 through 20. While you're turning there, let me just preface that tonight we'll be talking, our main focus will be on the day of the Lord. What it is. Why is it important to us to be studying this? Why do we hear it throughout Scripture? This will be the beginning of this term that we'll see in Joel. You'll hear it again next week and then in a few weeks We'll see it another time. I'm sure if you've read other parts of Scripture, the day of the Lord is a common phrase that comes up Over and over again. It's a common phrase that we hear, and there sometimes can be confusion in it. So we want to study what this is tonight. The other thing I want us to do tonight. And I talked about this when at the intro of this series of Joel is I want us to be reminded of just how bad, how terrible, and how much God hates our sins. I think it's something that as Christians we need to sit in and be reminded of a little bit more Because as we recognize the true depravity, the true devastation of our sins, we start to be in awe and more amazement, more and more each day. Of the grace of God, the redemptive work of Christ, how He has atoned for our sins and made us righteous before God. So may we not rush out of the bad stuff in Scripture. The temptation is, okay, we let Jason talk about the car wreck last week, right? We want to see the car wreck so that it catches our attention, we start to think differently. about how we're driving. Well, you know, Jason took that and and there's a temptation it's like, alright, we heard the bad news, let's just move on. We got it. We see the problem. Let's get moving. And in our lives we do this a lot, that, okay, here's the problem, I recognize it, let me let me put the solution together and just move on from it. But God is having us dwell in the nastiness for a little bit. God is having us sit And think and meditate on our sins. Meditate on how he is the judge. Meditate and think about his wrath is poured out upon sins. And he's going to use this. To mold us, to shapen, to sharpen us, to sanctify us to his glory. So as we study this section tonight, may we recognize that we must see how God is the judge. And he's going to pour out his judgment upon sinners against their sin. We see examples of it throughout history, and it's all pointing to a future final judgment. In prior to glory. So now reading Joel chapter 1, starting in verse 13. Put on sackcloth and lament. O priests, wail, O ministers of the altar. Go in, pass the night in Sakhl, O ministers of my God Because grain offering and drink offering are withheld from the house of your God. Consecrate a feast. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land to the house of the Lord your God and cry out to the Lord. Alas for the day. For the day of the Lord is near, and as destruction from the Almighty it comes. Is not the food cut off before our eyes? Joy and gladness from the house of our God? The siege shrivels under the clouds. The storehouses are desolate. The granaries are torn down because the grain has dried up. How the beasts groan, the herds of the cattle are perplexed, because there is no pasture for them. Even the flocks of sheep suffer. To you, O Lord, I call For fire has devoured the pastures of the wilderness, and flame has burned all the trees of the field, even the beasts of the field panth for you, because the water brooks are dried up, and fire has devoured the pastures. of the wilderness. Joel 's continuing to prophesy and point The hearers' eyes and hearts to see that God is coming to judge their sins. Now, as we're looking at this, as we talk about the day of the Lord, we must see two aspects of it. Clearly there's judgment. The day of the Lord is bringing God's judgment against sin Dare the Lord and bring God's judgment against sin. But the second aspect of it that maybe we miss if we because we're we're so focused on the sin and the judgment aspect of it, is that the day of the Lord also brings mercy. The announcement that Joel is proclaiming and saying, there is coming a day, there's coming a day where God's wrath will come upon the land, that God's wrath will come upon you, is a great sign of mercy. How is this how could this be? How could we read about last week the locust coming and destroying everything How can we read this week about how even the house of God is in shambles? How can we read this week about how the fields are desolate? The the cattle are crying out because there's no hope for them. They're going to perish. There's fire taking over the land. Where's the mercy, God? Where is it? Well it's the fact that Joel's announcing the day of the Lord. There's coming a day. No, we must recognize, this is your first point there, that the day of the Lord is both a present and a future day. The present sense is what we would call historical judgment. We see this throughout the Old Testament. There's times where there's There's a clear statement, the coming of the Lord, the day of judgment, and it's upon a nation, it's upon Israel at times. This is an example upon Judah that there's coming a judgment And it's a historical judgment. The people are punished in that time for their sins. Daniel's a prime example of this. We read in Daniel that the people have uh fled from the Word of God. So what happens is God allows the Babylonian Babylonian nation to take over Israel is to take them captive, and this is how we have Daniel's that he's actually kidnapped into the Babylonian world Why did this happen? Was because Israel had sinned against God. They had rebelled against God and had forsaken his word. This is a historical judgment upon Israel at this time. Likewise, we see a historical judgment coming upon the reader of Joel, the hearer of the original prophet Joel, as he's proclaiming this thing to the nation, he's telling them specifically that there's going to be a judgment to come upon you. We'll see this in chapter 2. I actually believe that Joel is using some imagery here. He's using a past event, a past judgment, the locusts. He's using imagery that the hero would recognize and know, and either they've experienced themselves or their their their fathers or or their relatives have. And he's using that and saying, remember how destructive the locusts were? Well the the coming judgment of God is going to be even more ravishing. It's going to be even more destructive. And we'll we'll read that in chapter two next week, but that there's actually going to be an army that's going to come upon you. So yes, they're gonna they're gonna destroy all the fields and all your cattle and all your sheep and everything that gives you life. But not only that, they're going to take you over. You're gonna become their slaves. Notice that there's a present and then also the future to them. Well, this this judgment, the day of the Lord that Joel speaks of here in verse 15 It's clearly for the hearer, the original hearer, to , respond to that it's going to happen in their time. Maybe also get a glimpse of the eternal day of the Lord, the end day of the Lord, the final judgment that will come. When Christ comes and before him all people. Living and the dead will stand before him and be judged for their works. The book of deeds is opened up. Books of deeds is laid out before them, and he judges them according to their works and according to their deeds. And of course, none of us can stand upon such judgment. But then in Revelation we see this glimpse that as he's going through the books of deeds, he then turns to the book of life. And the final judgment's there. If your name is written in the book of life, then you spend eternity with him. How is this possible? How could our names be written in the book of life is through the slain lamb that stands in victory. This is the gospel. And this is why Joel is reminding us and telling us, and it's why it's important for us in 2024 to be reading this prophet. Because the coming judgment, the day of the Lord that is happening in the time of Joel, the historical judgment that has already occurred in our lifetime. is also pointing our hearts and our minds to the future final judgment. This is just a glimpse. We would call this a shadow. It's just giving us a type. It's, okay, fields being destroyed, armies invading. That's really bad. But that's just a glimpse of how bad the judgment, the final judgment of God, will be upon sin. So the day of the Lord is both a present and a future day. We need to hold on to that. As we're reading Joel, we need to be reminded that Joel is talking about a present day, day of the Lord, to come upon the people that are reading it, to the original audience. We will see glimpses over and over again. We're going to see glimpses throughout Joel appointing to the future day of the Lord, the final judgment. But let us first approach, when we read the day of the Lord in Scripture, let's first approach it and say, is this speaking to a present to the original reader, present to the original hearers? day or s or is it speaking to only a future or is it speaking to both. So in Joel, most of the time we need to approach and say, this is speaking to the original reader in here, and speaking about a historical historical judgment that will come upon that nation and those people. Second thing, the day of the Lord, is the day when God judges nations. And punishes sin. Judges nations and punishes sins We see this idea of judges nations as actually quite important. Sometimes in our day it's hard for us to comprehend this because So much of the Christian life is very individualized in the Western culture that you as an individual are a Christian. You as an individual, Christ died on the cross for your sins. Yes and amen. But we also see this language of nations, especially within the Old Testament, but even within the New Testament. This morning, as Pastor Matt preached out of Matthew 28 , We saw that the disciple-making process was to go into the world and baptize who? Individuals? Go in and evangelize to individual people. No, Matthew 28 talks about the nations. We 're to disciple the nations. Well, why is this? News flash: the nations have rebelled against God. If you didn't know that, read the news. If you didn't know that the nation, to include America, has rebelled against God. Then we're going to miss how God actually views sin. If we think we get a pass , we're good, we got the stars and stripes, we get a pass, the judgment of God cannot be upon us. We're missing and acting quite like how Israel was acting when Joel wrote and proclaimed this prophecy. He's speaking to the nations. He's speaking to us as individuals because we live within cities. We live well Jarrett's a city. It has a red light. I grew up in a town with no red lights, so Jarrettville is a big time in it. So he's speaking to us as individuals, also within our communities, but also to us as nations. The judgment of God is going to come upon all people. It doesn't matter political status, it doesn't matter what nation, what language you speak, what continent you live on. God would judge nations. Now what is he judging them based on? That they they didn't try hard enough? Is he judging them and that they they didn't attend church enough? No, he's judging the nations and he's punishing their sins. The day of the Lord is bringing judgment upon nations and punishing sins because all of us are sinners against the holy God. All of us have broken the law of God. We don't need to box this and say this is only for this specific group of people. We don't need to say the the day of the Lord and God's judgment is only for this type of person because it doesn't matter who you are, where you grew up, what language you speak, how old you are All of us have sinned and broken the law of God. All of us have rebelled against God. And we see that God will pour out his wrath upon these sins. He will punish these sins. Look with me in Ezekiel 13. Just a few, probably 100 pages back. Ezekiel 13. Verse 1 through 7. Let's get a glimpse of both the present and the future understanding of the day of the Lord and how the judgment of God is being poured out upon the nations and that he's punishing sin. Ezekiel 13, 1 through 7. The word of the Lord came to me. Son of man, prophesy, prophesy against the prophets of Israel. Prophesy against the prophets of Israel. Who are prophesying and say to those who prophesy from their own hearts, hear the word of the Lord. Thus says the Lord God, Woe to the foolish prophets who follow their own spirit. and have seen nothing. Your prophets have been like jackals among ruins, O Israel. You have not gone up into the breaches, or built up a wall for the house of Israel, that it might stand in battle in the day of the Lord. They have seen false visions and lying divinations. They say declares the Lord when the Lord has not sent them And yet they expect him to fulfill their word. Have you not seen a false vision and uttered a lying divination? Whoever you have said, declares the Lord, although I have not spoken. Verse 8, therefore, thus says the Lord God, because you have uttered falsehood and seen lying visions, therefore, behold, I am against you, declares the Lord God. My hand will be against the prophets who see false visions and who give blind divinations. Now, let me finish this shall not be in the council of my people, nor be enrolled in the register of the house of Israel, nor shall they enter the land of Israel, and you shall know that I am the Lord God. Here we see this judgment upon those prophesying in lying. They're lying. They're saying, thus says the Lord, but the Lord really hasn't given them a word to prophesy to the nations. Or to Israel. But notice that the judgment and the harm they have done is actually against the nation. Because they have given false prophecies, they haven't built up the nation of Israel. They haven't strengthened the people. The language here is using building up of the actual walls of Israel to protect them from when the armies come. But but prophets don't help build walls. Prophets don't help uh build the strength of armies. But what it's pointing to is that it hasn't prepared the people, their hearts aren't being strengthened. Their faith in God hasn't been strengthened. It's actually leaving the people vulnerable. And now the nation will be judged. When the attacks of the enemies do come upon the people, their hearts are prepared. They're not ready because of the sins of the prophets or the false prophets. And we see that God's judgment will be poured out upon them. Turn with me just a few pages to Ezekiel 30, verse 3. Ezekiel 30, verse 3. As you're turning there, as we see this, we're looking at how the judgment of God is upon the nations. It's upon the nations. Entire ethnic groups because of their sins. Verse 2, Son of man, prophesy and say, Thus says the Lord God, Wail at last for the day. This is the day of the Lord. This is almost the exact language that's used in Joel. For the day is near. The day of the Lord is near. It will be a day of clouds, a time of doom for the nations. You could continue reading that and you'll see that Egypt is judged, that there 's a language of completely destroying Egypt, and then he goes through and he lists a few different nations that will be destroyed And then verse 6, Thus says the Lord, those who support Egypt shall fall, and her proud might shall come down. From Nikbil to Sinna. They shall fall within her by the sword, declares the Lord God. Notice that God is using other nations to punish Egypt. God 's using the hand of other armies to punish them. Likewise, when we see get to Joel in chapter 2, we're going to see the prophecy of a coming army to come and punish. Israel to come and punish God's people because of their sins against him. So the day of the Lord, we don't need to just envision the the skies cracking open and thunder and and clouds and and and lightning bolts coming down and and we see horses and coming out of the heavens. We don't need to jilt to that future idea. Because we see that God's judgment, the day of the Lord, he's using very physical and practical things as the punishment, as the judgment. He's using armies. He's using locusts. He's using famine. We see in the Exodus account that the ten plagues are very normal things. Yes, they're there God's power being displayed, and he magnifies them. But the what he does is he uses the physical things that Manare is aware of. Frogs, gnats, hail. We see that that's already a thing that's there and God is using it as a punishment. In Daniel, once again, we see that God uses the armies to punish. He uses foreign nations to come and and devastate Israel because of their sins. Now why am I spending so much time on this? Because I think I think we quickly want to jump over that That God judges nations. I think we quickly want to flee from that idea and say, no, no, no. He's not going to judge this nation. He's not going to judge us. He's going to judge the individuals within the nations that are sinning. He's going to judge individuals that are breaking the law. Yeah, there's a lot of them, but he's not going to judge the nations. He's not going to judge America. But we don't have that promise. We see that God pours out his wrath upon nations and punishes sin We could go through the history books. We can go through just, let's just use the last week and say, has America sinned and rebelled against God? Yeah. I think fifty-five million dead babies since nineteen seventy-three. Maybe we give a hint to that. I think the idea That that we just go to war and come back and then we we just are are embarrassed by the other the nations And they take over and we don't even recognize it. And money's just flowing out into the nations, your money, maybe we could say that we have rebelled against God, and God is punishing us in a way. We can look at our political situation. A and option B, and you're hoping there's an option Z somewhere Maybe this is God's judgment upon us. We're receiving the perfect president, governor, and leader for us. The perfect one. Why? Because we're a nation that has rebelled against God. We're a nation that hates his law. We're a nation that has sinned and said, you we are more powerful. We are the sovereign ones, not you, God. We don't even know who you are. Brothers and sisters, this is why we must sit and meditate on this truth. Because we're patriotic. It's a good thing. It's because we love our country, we love our people, that's a good thing. And sometimes we want to skip over and deny that God's going to judge sinful nations. We're going to get to what our response is, but may we sit and recognize that this is a reality. That your sins will be judged and the nation's sins will be judged. Just like we see in Joel. So what is God's judgment? Let's get back into Joel. What is God's judgment? Well, the first one is that it is the removing and destroying of blessings. Look at verses 16 and 17. Is not the food cut off before our eyes? Many many of us, if not all of us, pray before we eat, right? And we thank God for the food He's provided. Hopefully. You recognize that it doesn't matter how green your thumb is, you would not be able to make anything pop out of the ground that was tasty. If it was not for God's perfect design and creation and his blessing of that fruit and vegetable It's cut off. This is part of God's judgment. This is how he judges. He removes his blessing from nations. Joy and gladness from the house of our God. We're going to come back to this, but joy and gladness. It's removed. It's destroyed. 17. The seed shrivels under the clouds. The storehouses are desolate. The grain areas are torn down because the grain has dried up. Once again, the destruction of God's blessings towards Israel. His provisions for them has been removed, has been destroyed Does this happen in our lives? When we're in sin, does God remove his blessings from us? Now, it's maybe hard for us because we can go to shop, right? tonight and the storehouse is full, right? It's packed full of uh of grains and and chickens and whatever else that you buy there So we kind of think like, no, we're actually good. We don't deal with this. The blessings of God aren't being removed from us as a nation. They're not being removed from us as a people. We'll address that. The second judgment that we see is the setting wicked men into a position of authority. Setting wicked men into the position of authority. This is one of the forms of God's judgment. This is a historical judgment that we see throughout Scripture. Is that Israel rebels and rejects God, and God allows a wicked nation, a ri-a wicked authority, to come. and take dominion over Israel. And then we know God restores them, He gives them back the land, and then it's kind of cyclical. It happens over and over again. It happened all the way back in the beginning when the Israelites cried out and said, We want a king. We want to be like all the other nations. They're cool. And we said, no, that's not good. God says, well I'm going to give them what they want, but recognize that the king is going to punish them, the king's going to be authoritative over them. The king is going to overtax them. The king is going to expect too much from them. The king is going to send the young men off to war to die on his behalf. This was the warning God gave because they wanted something. They rebelled that God was really king, and God said, Okay, I'm going to give you a king. It's going to be a wicked authority over you. Look at chapter two of Joel, verse two. I won't steal from Jason, but just notice here that this is the kind of Judgment, the day of the Lord that Joel is talking about. A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness. Familiar language, alright? This is how Prophets speak about the day of the Lord and the judgment of God. Like blackness, there is a spread upon the mountains, a great and powerful people. Their like has never been before, nor will be again after them, through the years of all generations. So we see here that a great and powerful people are going to come. Destroy the fields, take Israel captive, imprison them Like I mentioned before, we should expect this in our own lives. The judgment of God is being poured out upon nations that rebel against them. Oppressive leaders are put into place by God as a punishment and a discipline against them. As a judgment against those nations. May we not be surprised when wicked leaders get into power. When the church stays quiet, when the church stops proclaiming the gospel, when the church stops saying that the gospel transforms lives and that there is a God who's sovereign over all, when the church stops that Let us not be surprised when God puts a wicked ruler over top of us. It's a blessing and mercy from God that He's doing such a thing. Why? It's because this is God turning our hearts and saying, we have been foolish, we have rejected him, let us turn our eyes back to him. If he wanted to, and rightly, he could have just killed us. He could have just killed Joel, he could have killed all of Israel and said, Your sins are disgusting, I hate them, you're all dead to me. He says this to Pharaoh in Exodus chapter 9. This is uh I think it's the seventh plague in in Acts or Exodus 9. So the seventh plague to Pharaoh. He goes, hey Pharaoh, if I wanted to kill you, it would have been done. It would have already happened This is God's mercy being poured out. This is God's mercy that he's announcing the day of the Lord. This is God's mercy that he's sending a wicked ruler to lead over the people. Yes, it's crushing. Yes, it's destroying. Yes, it's painful. But all of this is used to turn our hearts and our minds to the Lord. Israel understood who God was after they spent a long time under the authority of Babylon. They came back with zeal to rebuild the city. They came back with zeal to learn the Word of God. Their foolishness, once again, rejected God later, and he did it again, but recognized That God setting wicked authorities over us is his judgment upon us, but he's using this to point us to him The third way that God judges is God glorifying worship is removed. God glorifying worship is removed. Look back with me at verse 16 in chapter 1. Joy and gladness from the house, excuse me. Isn't not the food cut off before our eyes? Joy and gladness from the house of the Lord? Joy and gladness removed from the house of the Lord? How could that be? How could it be that the place that you commune with God in the temple How's that possible that the communion with God has lost joy and gladness? It's because they're seeing his wrath and his judgment against their sins. They're seeing that they're an unholy people, that they are people that have rejected God. But not only that, look back up at verse 13. The end of it says, because grain offering and drink offering are withheld from the house of your God. If God's removing the blessings, he's also removing their ability to worship God accordingly. Likewise, in nations that are rebelling against God, the ability for those people, those Christians, to gather together and worship. God is removing the ability. Now it doesn't mean he completely prevents worship, it doesn't mean that true worship cannot happen. But the freedom we see in America is quite unique in America. The freedom we see in America is quite unique in America, that we can gather together and worship God together. We talk about China. Why is it illegal and challenging for Christians to gather in China to worship God? It's because the nation has rebelled against God. He has put wicked authorities in charge and has prevented them to gather together Not only is it the prevention of right worship, we also see that God removes the form of right worship when wicked men continue in their wickedness. We see across America churches that are filled to the brim, thousands of people each Sunday with a false gospel being preached. What kind of true glorious worship is that when it's man-centered, when it's focused on man, when it's all about becoming rich, when it's all about just feeling good, don't worry about your sins. God loves you. He doesn't care about anything else except that he loves you. And it's this is vague and it's nebulous. It means nothing. May we recognize that God has removed the ability of right worship in those places because a false gospel has been preached. False worship is occurring now. We see that this is a form of God's judgment. He removes and destroys his blessings, setting the wicked men in a position of authority, and God glorifying worship is removed. Have I painted the picture of how destructive and how much God hates sin? I hope not only did I paint the picture of that, but I hope you understand and you're seeing that it's a reality today. That if you're in sin and you're going to continue in your sin, there's going to be a judgment. So what is our response? What's the correct response to the idea, the knowledge that there is a day of the Lord? The day of the Lord, as I said before, is a good, merciful thing because it's the warning that God is going to judge. And if you're hearing it right now, if you're hearing that your sins will be judged. If you're hearing that God hates your sins and he's going to pour out his wrath upon it, that means God has given you enough breath, enough life to turn to him. He could have killed us. He could have destroyed us. He could have killed Israel. But he didn't. He's merciful. He's slow in anger. Doesn't mean he doesn't hate to sin, but he's patient. Repent, brothers and sisters. We see this in verse 13. Put on sackcloth and lament. O priests, wail, O ministers of the altar. Go in, pass the night in sackcloth, O ministers of my God. Verse 14, consecrate a feast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders and all the inhabitants of the land to the house of the Lord your God, and cry out to the Lord, repent, turn to the Lord. Brothers and sisters, if you are in sin tonight, you are hearing me turn to the Lord. Turn to the Lord now. Know that you will find true and everlasting forgiveness in Christ, in Christ alone. If every day you wake up and you're fearful, maybe this is that God's going to destroy me, maybe God's angry at me because of my past sins, then you are not resting in Christ. You haven't recognized that he paid for your sins on the cross. And if you believe that, if you have faith in that Christ, in that work on the cross, there is no fear of his wrath. There's no fear of his judgment. He's forgiven you. Is this the gospel we're proclaiming to the nation? Is this the gospel that you believe? That the wrath of God is upon you in the moment that you repent and turn to Him, you'll find everlasting forgiveness in Christ alone. This repentance is for all people. Notice in 14 that, well, and actually in 13 it starts with the religious leaders It's calling out the priest. Hey, get the get the real the real religious guys in here. Get the really smart guys in here. I just wanted to say that religious people, religious leaders are smart, just to feel good for a moment. But then it doesn't stop there. This isn't a call just to get the the Pope and his minions together. No, it actually goes farther than that. It then says in verse 14, consecrate a feast, call a solemn assembly, gather the elders, and all the inhabitants of the land. From the youngest to the oldest. From the smartest to the dumbest. Notice how I connected the youngest with the smartest and the oldest the dumbest? Gather them all. This call for repentance is for everyone. This language here actually isn't just people, all the inhabitants of the land. There's this sense that this is so dramatic that that Joel's saying, hey, if you got a goat, bring that goat. Now, that's not really what's happening. We don't believe that animals need to come and repent and turn to the Lord, but we see that this is an overarching thing. Everyone All the inhabitants of the land come and repent and worship the Lord. It actually sees that this call within Joel is going beyond the ethnic group of Israel. All the inhabitants. He didn't say just go get all the Israelites, get all the Jewish people and get them in here. He's saying all the inhabitants. If you got some Egyptians living in the land, bring them. They need to get in here. If you got some Canaanites that are somehow still alive and they're in the land, go get them. Bring them in here. It's a call to all people. Regardless of ethnicity, regardless of religious status, all people are called to repent and turn to the Lord. As I've said, it's never too late. If you're hearing the call of repentance , It's never too late. This is the time. It's too late when you ignore the call. It's too late when you say the day of the Lord is near, but that nearness isn't really near. That nearness is far away That's about 18-year-old thinking, right? 18-year-old you can drive as fast as you want. You can do wheelies all the time. And then what happens? 32 hits, and you're like, well, actually my body is failing. Maybe maybe it's a little later for some. But but that thinking of like, no, I'm invincible. I'm invincible. I can't be destroyed. Don't think that way. If you're hearing the call of repentance come now. Maybe you're sitting there and you're going That call of repent, that day of the Lord, the wrath that God's going to pour out, isn't going to be upon my sins because they're not that bad. Come on, my sins aren't that bad. I've never murdered anyone Never stolen of anything more than $50 worth of value. Never done drugs. And you could go down this whole list. I've never cheated on my spouse. And you just make this barrier and say, I'm not as bad. What about Hitler? He's worse. The judgment of God is upon Hitler, not me. But Paul tells us in Romans, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And the just punishment for that sin is death. We see that the judgment of God is poured out upon Israel, all the inhabitants. We don't know the the sin status and And the quality of sin of each individual person, but that the day of the Lord is going to come upon all the people of the nation. Likewise, brothers and sisters, your sins will be judged rightly by God. If you're hearing the call of repentance, turn now. It's never too late if you're hearing it, but someday it will be too late. Someday it will be too late. Third thing, the correct response second thing, excuse me, the second thing of the correct response Is to cry out to the Lord. This is part of repentance. You see your sin and you recognize that God is going to judge it, destroy you because of your sins. Turn to the Lord, cry out to him. This is part of repentance. Verse 14. At the end, cry out to the Lord. Verse 19, I don't have enough time to unpack 19, but it is a beautiful imagery because what Joel does is he places himself amongst the people. Alright, so Joel's not coming in and saying, hey, you, you need to get your act together, and I'm going to bounce because the day of the Lord's coming. He's recognizing that this is his people. And he's saying, To you, O Lord, I call. To you, O Lord, I call. Likewise, brothers and sisters, as we live in this nation, are we doing the same thing? Are we going out there and saying Nation, repent and turn to the Lord, and then you're sitting amongst the people and crying out to the Lord, saying to you, O Lord, I call. Not only that, that Joel setting himself amongst the people, but who is he calling out to? The Lord. Of course. This is the God, the Savior. But who is the one bringing the judgment upon them? It's the Lord. We are to call out to the very judge, the very God who is bringing the judgment upon us. May this magnify God. May we see the glory of God more and more. That he is both the judge. And the Redeemer. Romans 3 talks about that he is just and the justifier. He pours out the wrath on Christ. And in the same moment, he justifies all the saints. And we'd be in awe that God is the one we cry out to, and he's the very one that is judging our sins. And then the last point there. Do not fear the instrument of judgment, fear the judge. Do not fear the instrument of judgment, but fear the judge. Once again in in in the Exodus narrative we see Pharaoh he hates the judgment. He hates the instrument of judgment. He hates the frogs, the locusts, he hates the hail, he hates the darkness. But over and over again he lies and says, okay, I'm sorry God, this time, we actually read that this morning, this time I have sinned, this one time I have sinned. This was on the eighth plague, so it's like, no, no, you've been sinning. But this time I've sinned, and then once the instrument of judgment is pulled back, Pharaoh doesn't turn to the Lord. He just didn't like the pain of the judgment. Brothers and sisters, may we not be the same way. May we not just hate the instrument of judgment so much and say, okay, we're gonna do whatever, just so the pressure is pulled off of us. Just so we get our our ticket to heaven card, may we not fear the judgment, but may we fear the judge. May we put God in his right place. May we see him in all his glory. May we see that his law is good and is right, and he's called us to be obedient to it. And and and the idea of us being obedient to God isn't just because we're afraid, uh as Jason said, that he's gonna be around the corner with a stick and hit us on the head. That we actually love him. That his law is good. That we want to be in obedience to him. We want to follow after him. Not because we're scared of being judged, but because We we're scared of how great he is. And this fear that we read that's confusing in English is actually this awfulness of who he is and his love and his mercy. In the same turn, we also fear that he is the judge, and that his wrath is poured out upon sin. So, brothers and sisters, may we see the day of the Lord is near. When we read this in Joel, may we see that a historical judgment is coming. May we also recognize that that's pointing to a future judgment and that we Should be expecting the same thing to happen. And this should drive our evangelism. This should drive our motivation to proclaim the gospel and the work of Christ. And may we repent of our sins and turn to the loving, merciful Lord. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you reveal truth to us. That you've called us sons and daughters. That while we were sinners, you sent your son Christ to die in our place, to atone for our sins. Lord, if tonight we are in sin, convict us of it. May we see The disgustingness of it and turn to you. May we recognize that there's forgiveness in you alone. Lord, if tonight we're sitting in here and we're doubtful of how you could forgive us. We're fearful That your judgment is still upon us. Show us that in Christ there's eternal forgiveness. That in Christ, faith in him and a new life, you've made us new. Lord, if we're in here tonight and we're fearful and worried , the nation's so wicked, it's so beyond repair. Remind us of how powerful your gospel is. Remind us of how it redeems sinners like us, and it will also redeem the nations. Praise in Christ's name. Amen.