Let's pray before we begin. Father in heaven, please bless our time now and make your gospel glorious in our eyes. And I ask this in the name of your Son, our Savior Jesus Christ. Amen. So the title of this message is the Converting Power of the Gospel. The converting power of the gospel. Now, this immediately evokes two questions. Number one, what is the gospel? And number two, how is the gospel powerful? And I'd like to, God willing, spend a few moments answering both of these questions. And then I'll conclude by considering why such a subject matters, or the so what of the thing. So here we go. Question number one. The converting power of the gospel, okay, but what is the gospel? What is that? Now you may at first think, ah. What a simple question. What a silly question. But brother or sister, I don't think so. I don't think so at all. You see, we're living in a time wherein all kinds of terms are thrown around. All kinds of terms are thrown around. And yet different people mean different things by them. Half the time you can be in a conversation with someone, you're using the same terms, you're having a totally different conversation. And this kind of thing even happens within the church, within Christianity. Indeed, there are many within the church or close to the church or who just claim to be Christianity. Christians that use words like gospel, church, mission , kingdom, salvation, and yet they are using them differently And they're not aligned with Scripture's definition of such things. Brothers and sisters, I've heard even folks use the word gospel and define it as one's testimony. The gospel is love for God and love for neighbor. The gospel is that Jesus loves everyone. None of these are the gospel. And I assure you, this is a matter that we want to get right. And if this is a matter truly that we have gotten right. then you are not upset in any way to hear it once more, the gospel that is. Because if you get the gospel right, you never get over the gospel. If we don't get the gospel right, we don't get salvation right. If we don't get the gospel right, we have no salvation at all. Indeed, we're still out in the cold and dark night of our sin. If we don't get the gospel right. And so, what is the gospel? What is it? The word gospel means good That's the first thing we can say about it. Gospel means good news. So what is the gospel? Well, it is good news. But then we have to ask, well, what is this good news? I want to go to Romans again and find out about this good news. So open up your Bible to Romans. And let's start at Romans 1:16. to 17, Romans chapter 1. And what we're going to be doing is spending almost all of our time scanning Romans. Romans 1 And look at verses 16 to 17. For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. To the Jew first, and also to the Greek. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith. As it is written, the righteous shall live. Now, brethren, these two verses here serve as the introduction and the summary of what's getting ready to follow in the rest of the letter of Romans This is like the thesis statement, if you will, right here. Indeed, Paul from here is going to masterfully and carefully and gloriously unfold this powerful gospel that he speaks of right here in Romans 1. 68. to 17. Before he does, though, he spends no shortage of time on the bad news. The bad news. So that we see the gospel for what it really is, good news. Here's what he says in Romans 118 to 3. 20. You can scan these. Romans 118-3. 20, he says, all men are made by God and for God. All men have sinned against God. All men, because they sinned against God, are guilty and deserve to die. No one's going to be right with God by the law of God, because no one keeps that law but breaks it. And thus, sinful man is helpless and he's hellbound. You understand that? Sinful man is not only hellbound, but he's helpless. He can't do a thing about it in and of himself. In this section of the letter, I should note this too, Paul, actually the Holy Spirit through the Apostle Paul, does exactly what we talked about in the last message. He masterfully uses the law of God to bring the sinner down, down, down, right to the dust to expose and convict him. And so by the time you get to Romans 3. 20, it's as if the bad news can't get any worse. It's as if you're drowning and you're just desperate for saving. You're just desperate for some good news. And then Paul comes in and introduces it. Romans 3. Romans 3, 21 to 26. Here's where the good news starts. But now, the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there's no distinction, all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that's in Christ Jesus. Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just in the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. So notice, keep looking at the text, notice what Paul is saying here. He's saying that through faith in Jesus Christ Sinners, guilty, wretched, hell-bound sinners, lawbreakers, can be justified by God Indeed, through faith in Jesus Christ, sinners are justified by God. Or to put it another way, sinners who come to Christ in faith are in a good standing with God. Now that's good news, especially for the sinner whose eyes have been open to his sin, open to his guilt, and open to the condemnation that he justly deserves Well, how can this be? How can it be that sinners can be right with God? Well, Paul says here in this text that when the guilty law-breaking, hell-deserving sinner believes in Jesus Christ, something glorious happens. He receives a righteousness A right standing with God that doesn't come by the law, verse 21. Indeed, this righteousness is not the sinners The sinner has no righteous coat. He has nothing. But he receives a righteousness. Indeed, this is the very righteousness. Of Jesus Christ that God imputes to the sinner when he believes in Christ. This is what Paul is talking about. You see, beloved, Jesus Christ, the Son of God incarnate The God man, the mediator, the savior. He lived, did you know this? He lived a spotlessly perfect life A totally righteous life. Did you know that Jesus Christ obeyed every law perfectly all the time? I mean, think about that. You and me, we fall every day. We don't have one perfect second. But this God man never slipped. Never messed up. Never a bad thought. Never had he broken the law. When the law came up and measured itself against Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ is vindicated as perfect and spotless. And by that spotless obedience, you see, He earned eternal life by the law. He did what no one else can or will do. He earned eternal life. He earned glory by his own obedience. Listen, Jesus Christ is the only man who has a perfectly good standing with God and who can burst right through the gates of heaven and announce to all, I deserve to be here. He's the only one. But he didn't just earn this eternal life by his spotless righteousness for himself. No, he earned this for all who would believe in him. Him. And what Paul is saying here is this, when the sinner believes in Jesus Christ, the very righteousness of Jesus Christ is imputed to him That is, the sinner is credited with Christ's righteousness. And therefore, he's in a right standing with God and he gets eternal life. It's like this: you and I, our coats are filthy Our garments are so stained and ripped to shreds with sin. But if you believe in Jesus Christ, he gives you his spotless garment And you walk right up to the gate of heaven with the spotless garment of Christ, and you can come in. You can live forever. Christ's robes, his perfect robes of spotless righteousness are put on the sinner who takes him, and these robes cover him totally. And so God looks at the sinner in Christ and says, You're in a good standing with me. It's not us. It's Christ who did it. He can enter into the presence of God. He has eternal life because of Christ's righteousness. But wait, wait, wait, wait. The question should be in your head. What did the sinner's sin? God is just, God is righteous, God is holy. Our sins have to be paid for, do they not? Shouldn't we perish under God's wrath for our sin? But look at the text carefully, look there, and notice Paul says that Christ has taken care of us. of the sin of all those who believe in him. How is this so? Look at verse 25. Do you see it? On the cross Christ was put forward as a propitiation. What does that mean? It means that on the cross Christ was a wrath-appeasing sacrifice. A wrath-appeasing sacrifice. You see, brothers and sisters, Christ on that cross for all who believe in him, satisfied the wrath of God that should have fallen on them. That should fall on you and me. Christ on the cross for all who believe in him took the judgment of God in their place, the wrath of God in their place, the justice of God they deserved. Yes, Christ took the death. That you and I deserve, so that you and I don't have to and never will if we believe Paul says that on the cross Christ redeemed those who believe in him. Look at verse 24. Do you see that word redemption? Christ redeemed those who believe in him. What does redemption mean? It means set free at a cost. Set free at a cost. On the cross, Jesus Christ set free all who believe in him, but he did it at a cost. Well, what did he uh set them free from? He set them free from their guilt, their condemnation, their deserved judgment. He set them free from the penalty of sin. The power of sin, the wrath of God, the judgment of God, He set them free from everlasting death in hell. That's good news. Set free Can you imagine the prisoner who's been in jail for 35 years, 40 years, and the day he's finally released and goes out into the world, oh what a feeling, what freedom What freedom then is this? That I'm freed from death in hell? That I'm freed from my bad relationship with God, the penalty of my sin. What freedom? But how did Christ obtain this freedom? He paid the cost for it. His life He suffered and died, body and soul. He swallowed up hell under the just wrath of God, so that you and me and all who believe in him would be set free. Redeemed. And so to sum it up, Paul says here in this text, well, when the sinner believes in Jesus Christ, his sins are paid for by Christ and removed from his account. He is set free. And Christ's perfect righteousness is is imputed to him, and thus he's justified by God. That is, God declares him once and for all not guilty, but righteous in his sight. God declares him to be in the right with him, to be in a good standing with him, and he therefore has eternal life Notice verse 24, Paul says this righteousness, this good standing with God that God gives in Jesus Christ, it's a gracious gift. You see that in verse 24? A gracious gift. Sinners can't earn it and they don't have to. You can't earn it, but you don't have to. That's just good news on top of good news Paul says sinners must not and they need not do anything but just accept God's gift, the Lord Jesus, and with accepting him also the justification that comes in and through him. Paul says, too, notice anyone who believes in Jesus Christ will be justified. You see that in verse 22? All who believe. Notice that word, all. What a glorious word. All There's two kinds of alls in this text. The one is, all are sinners. That's bad news. Good news, all who believe will be justified. This gift is for anyone who will receive it. The vilest of sinners can lay hold of this gift. It doesn't matter how dark and nasty the stains. It doesn't matter who you are or where you come from This is all that matters. This is the question. Will you take the gift? Will you receive the gift? Will you believe in Jesus Christ? If you will. You will be justified. Here's the gospel according to Romans 3, 21 to 26. God has graciously given sinners his Son, Jesus Christ, and anyone who believes in the Lord Jesus Christ, based on his perfect righteousness, and his death on the cross will be justified. Declared righteous by God. That's good news. For lawbreakers. That's good news for the one who knows and feels that I have broken God's law But going further into the letter of Romans, go to chapter 5, Paul unpacks this powerful gospel even further. As he goes through the letter, he's just unfolding this powerful, glorious gospel. In Romans 5, 1-11, Paul says that all those who believe in the Lord Jesus Christ have peace with God now. Look at verse 1. Therefore, since we've been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Peace. Now, brethren, listen to me. The sinner in his sin does not have peace with God How many a worldly says something like God and I are good. No, I got you, man. Gospel's great, but me and God are good. No. Apart from Christ, apart from the gospel, you and God are not good. You don't have peace with him. The sinner in a sin is not friends with God. It is not well between God and the sinner. There's enity between God and the sinner. The sinner and God are at war. And it's a war that the sinner cannot win. Well what's the problem? Sin. Sin is the big problem that has ruined the relationship between the sinner and God. If a sinful man is to have peace with God, if it is to be well between God and him. Sin has to be removed. The Lord Jesus Christ on the cross paid for our sins, satisfied God's wrath, and you know what he did? He removed our sins as far as the East is from the West. And so now what? The sinner who turns to Christ in faith is reconciled to God. In fact, look at verses 10 to 11 of Romans 5. Do you see the word reconciled or reconciliation three times? The sinner who turns to Christ in faith is reconciled to God. What does that mean? brought together to God, friends with God, and the family of God. No longer anger, no longer hostility. Peace. The sinner who believes in Christ is no longer at war with God. More importantly, God's no longer at war with him. You know, in recent years there's been all kinds of talks about peace deals and ending wars. And you can rightfully so because of the handful of wars that were and are occurring overseas. But, brethren, listen, there's a much more horrific war that is occurring even today. And the stakes are infinitely higher. Indeed, eternity is at stake. This war is the war between God and sinners. But blessed be his name, Jesus Christ, ends the war for all who believe in him. Peace. Christ brokers the peace treaty He puts us at peace with God. He brings God and man together. He makes them friends. He makes it so that all is well now. God is no longer angry with the believer. God puts away the sword of his righteous fury. God puts down his bow that was bent with the arrows of his wrath. He looks upon the sinner in Christ and he sees, no, not enemy, friend. Even more than that, child. And the sinner in Christ now is deeply and richly and forever loved by God. Peace. Peace. And you can be sure of this, brothers and sisters, it is this objective peace with God that Christ gives, which secures for man a true inner peace. How many are there that want true, felt, deep peace? How many are there that are dead Desperate for some type of permeating peace in the soul. And they go here for it, they go there for it, they go everywhere for it, but they can't, they can't get it, they can't get it Because you can't find it in anything in this world. Imagine looking for Waldo, but in a cooking magazine. So it is with trying to find inner peace from something in this world. You won't get it It is Christ alone who can give deep, inner, permeating peace because he gives to man the true objective peace with God. You see, if all is well between God and me, then my greatest problem is taken care of. Indeed, my greatest problem has become my greatest friend, God. I'm gonna live forever. God really are good. I'm gonna be with Him no matter what happens. And if that's true, what do I have to worry about? And now I'm at rest. I have rest. I'm at peace in my soul I can lay my head on my pillow at night no matter what happened or what will happen, and I can say it is well with my soul. How? My sin, oh the bliss of this glorious thought, my sin, not in part, but the whole, is nailed to the cross, and I bear it no more. Praise the Lord. Praise the Lord, O my soul. Do you have that piece? Moving further into Romans 5, 12 to 21, and I'm gonna have to pick it up. Paul continues to unfold the powerful gospel, the glorious gospel. In Romans 5, 12 to 21, just glance at it quickly He says that Christ gives to all who are in him, all those who believe in him, eternal life. Here's what's going on in verses 12 to 21 of Romans 5. Paul says, if you're in Adam, you're dead. Indeed, you're DOA, dead on arrival. And not only that, but you will die, eternal death in hell. That's what you get in Adam, but in Christ, the second Adam, the second man He gives life to all who believe in him. He makes us alive and in him, listen, we will live forever. In fact, if you look at the end of the text, notice 21 leading to eternal life. Grace also might reign through righteousness leading to eternal life. If you're in Christ, You will live forever. You're alive right now in Christ. You'll live forever. Christ has purchased, procured, and given you this life. You ever just think about it? That's the gospel. It's good news. You're gonna live forever. Romans 6, again, we just have to be quick here. I shot a lot of my bullets up front. Romans 6. Paul says here that whoever believes in Jesus Christ is, watch this, united to Christ. Now let me tell you something. Okay. Listen, union with Christ is, oh you must you gotta get this is so important. Do you know, believer, that you're one with Christ? The person who believes in Jesus Christ is united to him, enters into an intimate and most glorious and close fellowship and union whereby all that Christ is and all that he has accomplished. Counts for you and comes to you. Oh, union with Christ. You are never, listen, believer, you are never apart from Christ. Everything he is, that's you. Everything he's done counts for you. God never sees you apart from Christ. He always sees you. And when he sees you, he sees Christ. This is good news. Well, anyways, Paul says in Romans 6, we're united to Jesus Christ, and therefore what? We've died with him as he died, we've risen to new life with him as he's risen. Because remember, if you're united to Christ, everything he is, everything he's done, you too. We've died with him. We've risen to new life. And so Paul says the sinner is no longer dead in sin. He's no longer a slave to sin. No, sin doesn't rule over the believer anymore. He isn't just going to, and he doesn't even want to keep walking in sin By union with Christ, the believer is a slave to God and to righteousness now. He walks with and for his God. You know what this means? If you're a believer united to Christ, You really can put away your sin. You can kill your sin. And we want that. If we truly love God, if we're truly born again, we hate our sin. We're waging the holy war on sin, as the Puritans would say, and we want to kill it. We want to kill it. And we can. We can Romans 8. Romans 8. Just flip there, just glance at it. I can't, I can't, uh it's so much here, but Romans 8, here's what Paul says. All who believe in Jesus Christ are indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. God. Did you know this? We talk a lot about the Holy Spirit in these talks, of course. But this Holy Spirit, Matt touched on it earlier, he is God. He dwells within you. And the Spirit, Paul says, leads and guides us. That's sanctification, you know. The Spirit is making us more like Jesus Christ. Not only that, but if you believe in Christ, Paul says in Romans 8, you're adopted into the family of God, right? We cry from our hearts, our souls, Ahba Father. And if you're a child, Paul says, you're an heir? Okay, to what? An inheritance? An inheritance that includes everything? Like the whole new world and all the pleasures and joys in it? This inheritance, Paul goes to unpack in Romans 8, is everlasting life in resurrection bodies in the new world with all of its pleasures, all of its glory forever. And you need not fret about making it there, because at the end of Romans 8, Paul says, absolutely nothing can separate the believer from the love of God in Jesus Christ. It's absolutely amazing. So what is the gospel? It's good news. And scanning Romans, even but briefly, so much more we could have done, we see that it really is good news. News. It's the good news of who Christ is, what he's done, and what the results are. Who is Christ? Well, Paul says he's the Son of God who became a man. He's the Savior of God's people. What has he done? He's lived a perfectly righteous life. He died a substitutionary death on the cross. He rose from the grave. And thus he has accomplished salvation with every blessing thereof for God's people. And what are the results? Paul says that any sinner, anyone who turns to Christ in faith is justified by God, has peace with God, has eternal life, is indwelt by the Holy Spirit. is adopted in the family of God, is heirs to a glorious future inheritance. That's good news. I have a question for you, Christian. Is that still good news to you? Do you ever tire of hearing it May it never be. The gospel is a star that never stops shining. The gospel is a drink that's always refreshing. The gospel 's a pillow that's always comfy. The gospel should be a friend we always love to see and hear. Do You think that way? Do you feel that way about it? Friend, listen, if there ever comes a time where you say, you know what? In hearing the gospel, I just don't care Something bad has happened. Either you don't see what you really were or are Or you don't see how glorious this good news is and the Christ of this good news is. We never, ever, ever tire of the gospel or move on from it. So question number one, what is the gospel? We've answered that now. Question number two, how is it powerful? How is it powerful? Matt, I'm supposed to go to 1120? Okay. Hmm. How is it powerful? Question number two. Sam, you said the title of this message, the Converting power of the gospel, all right? Converting, that's changing power of the gospel. How is it powerful? Here's the answer. It's powerful because of what happens to the one who takes hold of it by faith. Or to put it another way, it's powerful because God so powerfully converts, changes, indeed saves the sinner through the gospel as they believe in the gospel. Paul says in Romans 1, 16 to 17, I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Would that more people were like Paul. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. For it's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. So let's let's think about this for a moment. The sinner who believes the gospel has their standing changed with God. They were a guilty, hellbound lawbreaker, but when they embraced the gospel, what? They're right with God The sinner who believes the gospel has their identity changed. They were a wretched, enslaved, hellion, worldling, sinner, heading for the judgment of God. But when they believed the gospel, they become friends and Children of God. They are united to Christ, one with Christ. They're slaves to God and righteousness now. The sinner who believes the gospel has their eternity changed They were facing a sentence of everlasting death and hell, but when they believed the gospel, they received eternal life. They will live forever with God in the new world, wherein there is fullness of joy and pleasures forevermore. So Do you see then how the gospel so, or how God rather so powerfully works through the gospel when the sinner believes the gospel? He changes their standing, their identity, their eternity. He forgives their sin, clothes them with Christ's righteousness, declares them to be right with him, unites them to Christ, adopts them into his family, fills them with the Holy Spirit Thus we say the gospel is the power of God unto salvation. Now, as we begin to wind down, let me just remind you. Of how the Holy Spirit works with and through and in the gospel. First, it is the Holy Spirit who opens our eyes and causes us to believe The gospel, so that we then experience the power of God unto salvation. The reason you believe, believer, is because the Holy Spirit opened your eyes and drew you in. This faith you have in Christ that saves you, this faith that has welcomed into your life the power of God, it is not because you conjured it up. The Holy Spirit opened your eyes. The Spirit uses the law to convict the sinner to drive him low, and then he sweetly and tenderly brings the gospel to the sinner, and he brings the sinner to the gospel. He lifts the chin of the sinner and says, look at this good news. Look at the Savior Jesus Christ. The Spirit irresistibly woos and entices the sinner to take hold of the gospel. and that Christ of that gospel. And so the sinner by the Spirit then says, yes, yes, this really is good news. This is the best news. I believe. I believe I will take this Christ. Why does the sinner do that? The Spirit. When you have some time, read 2 Corinthians 4, 1 to 6. But for right now, I'll just go to verse 6. 2 Corinthians 4, 6, for God who said, Let light shine out of darkness has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. You believe in Christ. You receive the gospel believer because God turned the lights on in your heart. Second, it's the Holy Spirit who unites us to the Christ of the gospel. In whom we are blessed with all the blessings of salvation. Listen, the Holy Spirit brings the sinner to his knees with the law. And then he shows him Christ. He shows him Christ in the gospel. And then he draws him near to this Christ. And then by opening his eyes to believe in Christ, he unites the sinner to Christ. And it is then, it is then, united to Christ, one with Christ, that we experience salvation to the uttermost, that we receive all the blessings of salvation. Alright, finally, the so what? So what? Sam, we've considered the power of the gospel. Okay. So what? So, first of all, praise God. Is that the first thing we do when we hear the good news of Jesus Christ? Oh God, thank you. Where would we be without the gospel? What would be if you and me? We'd be nothing Number two, so what? So this, keep your eyes always fixed on the gospel. You know, we never get over it. We never get over it. We don't move uh past it. The Holy Spirit, you know what he's doing actually with the gospel? He's constantly fix fixing our attention on it. He's keeping Keeping us, believing in it, reveling in it, savoring it, so we stay put right there in the gospel. So always, always fix your eyes upon it. It's everything. Third, so what? So let's proclaim this gospel. Knowing what it is and what it does. It's what every sinner needs. Everyone in this room needs it. There's not one person, listen to me, you'll ever talk to that you can say, you know, I don't think they need the gospel. Not one. And knowing that the gospel is powerful to save, we don't need to rely on other things when it comes to evangelism. We don't need to rely on, well, well, if I do this, this, and this, maybe say this, this argument, ah, that might do it. No. Just let that gospel fly. Just let it go. Shoot it. It's powerful. As we close, brothers and sisters, the gospel is the good news. Of who the Lord Jesus Christ is, what he's done, and what are the results. And the Spirit of God, He uses this gospel powerfully in the salvation of sinners. Let's pray. Father in heaven, we're so grateful for your word. I pray now, Holy Spirit, that you are actually working by your word, even as we've been declaring in So Lord, please work powerfully. Lord, I pray if there is by chance one in here who doesn't know Christ, that the Spirit of God is opening their eyes to the Lord Jesus. And for us, help us to always and ever go further in and savor all the more that glorious good news of Jesus Christ. Amen.