Let's take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 1. Ephesians chapter 1, our launch point will be verses 5. Verse 11 and verse 14 today looking at the doctrine of adoption. The doctrine of adoption, also you could call this sonship. Being children of God through faith in Christ. That's what adoption is. You are a child of God through faith in Christ. Came in here this morning, and that's not true of you. You can become a child of God through what? Through faith in Christ. Adoption, sonship, children of God through faith in Christ Last week I summarized it this way also, as God bringing us out of darkness into his family by the work of the Spirit, that's adoption brought into the family of God through the work. And through the power of the Holy Spirit working through the gospel. Ephesians 1, 5, 11, and 14 on the doctrine of adoption. I do want to give a review though, as is the case every single summer, and you know the experts say there's no avoiding this. Church attendance is down because of travel and graduations and Different things like that. So I want to review where we are in the series. We're in a summer series called The Blessings of Christ. Alright? The blessings of Christ, the blessings that are ours. The blessings that come to us from God that we receive and that we experience in fellowship with Christ, brought into His covenant of grace His covenant of grace, gracious salvation, the blessings of God and Christ. The first message in this series, we talked about the source of these blessings Which is God the Father. And we talked about the location of these blessings, which is God the Son, Jesus Christ. That's why these are the blessings of Christ, or the blessings of God in Christ. And we talked about the nature of these blessings. And hopefully you remember this. The blessings of Christ are spiritual and they are heavenly. They are spiritual And they are heavenly. And they also are eternal. And then the second message, we talked about the blessing of justification and the blessing of sanctification. Do you remember this? Anybody? Were you here for that week? I'm seeing some heads nod. The blessing of justification and the blessing of sanctification. The twofold solution to our twofold problem of sin. Justification changes Our covenantal status before God. It changes our standing with God. Justification is God's declaration of our righteousness in Christ Because in Christ his righteousness becomes ours. And so when God brings down his heavenly gavel and declares you righteous in his eyes, because of your faith in Christ, that's your justification. And sanctification is a change of our heart because we need a change of heart. Do you know that this morning? That we need more than just the forgiveness of sins. We need new hearts, and that's what the blessing of sanctification is. Where God sanctifies us, gives us new hearts, and he purifies us by the work of the Spirit, justification and sanctification. And then last week we talked about predestination. And our launch point for all of these has been Ephesians chapter 1, verses 3 and following. We talked about predestination. This wonder, this glory that transcends human logic, it transcends human imagination, that God has put his favor upon you from before the foundation of the world. And what we're doing now in our lifetimes here is just living out and experiencing all the blessings, all the wonder of salvation in Christ because of his eternal plan and purpose. God didn't set his plan and purpose of salvation into motion, we would never know God. There would be no salvation apart from God's plan. And so this is the fourth message, and now we're zooming in on adoption, being children of God through faith in Christ I'll read these three verses, Ephesians 1, 5, 11, and 14, and then I'll pray for our time together, and we'll get into the body of the message for this morning. Ephesians 1, verse 5, He predestined us for adoption to Himself. As sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will. And now, verse 11: In him we have obtained an inheritance Having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. And now to verse 14, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. Obvious key words, verse 5, adoption, and then as sons Verse 11, inheritance, and verse 14, inheritance. Because we wouldn't have hope of the inheritance. Unless we were made children of God. You have to become a child of God. You have to be adopted in Christ in order to obtain the inheritance. So verse 5, adoption and as sons, verse 11, inheritance, verse 14, inheritance in Christ. In Christ, you are an adopted child of God Let's pray. God, we pray that you would open these verses and the truths of these verses. Open them up to us this morning. We pray you would open our minds up to these truths, open our hearts up to these truths, and would you show us Christ in such a way that it changes us By your grace, make our hearts to rest in Him, not in ourselves, not in our works Not in our religion, not in anything in the world, any treasure, any money, any reputation, any status, anything. But let our rest and our hope be fixed and founded firmly upon Christ. Father, I pray, we pray Joining our hearts in faith once again, any who do not know Christ would this very morning in their hearts turn and believe and become children of God. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. In Christ, you are an adopted child of God. If not, then this morning you can put your faith in Christ And through faith, then you'll be a child of God. And in Christ, your identity is settled. Your identity is settled, and you do not have to go on this great inner quest in life to figure out your identity, to try to search for meaning. To try to search for some semblance of hope in this messed up and twisted world. But in Christ, your identity is settled. In Christ, your future is secured. In Christ, your soul is saved. Irreversibly, you've been brought into God's covenant of grace. You are in Christ. You are filled with the Spirit. You are a child of God, and you have a glorious inheritance awaiting. Now that's the summary heart of this message this morning. Right there. I want it to be an encouragement. I want it to be a joyous Celebratory encouragement that in Christ you're no longer a slave to sin, but you're a child of God. You're no longer a blinded, enslaved servant of Satan, but you're a servant of Christ And we're no we no longer have to try to concoct some kind of meaning to make it through life. But we have meaning, we have purpose, we have identity, we have a future in Christ. And that's all that matters. The end of the day, at the end of our lives. Brothers and sisters, it's a sobering thought. Have you thought about this recently You won't live here on earth forever. This life, this life is so fragile. This life is fleeting. What's one of the illustrations that Scripture gives us to think about our lives? It's like a vapor. It's here. It's gone. It's a breath. It's gone. It's very short. Now the older we get, the more we realize that. Amen? We don't think about that when we're twelve and we have no bills. And you have no responsibilities. You just go out, play with your friends, play sports, have fun all day. And you do one chore that takes eight minutes and you think your life is about to end. This is But as you get older you begin to appreciate more what life is. Things come into focus You zoom in on some of the important things, the fleeting nature of life. And by God's grace, hopefully we understand, we come to understand this. I mean, this is a paradigm shift If you've experienced this, you know this is the paradigm shift. When you realize that the life that you live is a gift from God. And this starts you on understanding bigger things. That since the life you live is a gift from God, that you're accountable to God. And you will answer to God. And then you start to learn about sin. And now you now you start to understand your problem. If I'm accountable to God and I've sinned against God The wages of sin is, somebody say it, death. That's right, because life is a gift. And so when we rebel against God, we forfeit the gift. But praise God for the gospel that the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus his son. But all that starts with this God working in our lives, with His providence. Maybe He uses someone in your life as a good example. Maybe He uses a visit to church and hearing His word. Maybe you go to a Bible study somewhere, and these things start to stir in your heart. Maybe it's just through private prayer, crying out to the Lord, literally crying, crying out to the Lord because of what's going on in your life, maybe hitting rock bottom. Maybe just uh just incredible loss and suffering in your life, but something in God's providence, something where he can stir up that this life is a gift. This life is a gift. And to have meaning and purpose and peace and rest in this life, we need to come to Christ and become children of God. You'll see on your outline very clear, very easy outline for today. It's a list of six benefits of adoption i. e. blessings of being sons and daughters of God, i. e. sonship Sonship is not about gender. So if you're a female and you hear sonship, don't feel like you're left out. Sonship in the Bible is about being an heir of the glory of God. Sonship in the in the Bible, having the status of sons, sonship adoption in the Bible is about being an heir of the glory of God, that you will inherit the glory of God in Christ forever. Six benefits of adoption. First of all, you have a new father. That's number one. And that's got to be number one. You have a new father. Look again at verse 5. In the text, where Paul writes, he predestined us for adoption, and then what does it say? What's the phrase? Be a good exegete this morning. To himself. To himself. So you see, this is uh almost a preview of a future message Of another blessing of salvation, which is reconciliation, being brought into a relationship with God Having that that strife, that distance that's between us and God because of our sin, having that taken away and being united with God. That's reconciliation. That's cut the picture you get here. You're adopted. To him, adopted to himself as sons. That's the text. That's your exegesis Predestined us for adoption to Himself as sons through Jesus Christ. We have a new father. You have a new spiritual father. To think of God as our Father means to understand that He has made us in His likeness And that he has pledged himself to guard, guide, and provide for us. He has made us in his likeness, And he, God Almighty, holy, holy, holy, God Almighty, infinite in power Perfect in all of his attributes, has pledged himself to sinners like us to be our guard To be our guide and to provide for us all that we need every step of the way. This is good news, brothers and sisters. God as a father to his people is not a new doctrine in the New Testament. I really want this point to get across because I've heard it taught many times That when Jesus teaches the Lord prayer, teaches to pray, our Father, that this is an innovation, that this is a novelty. That this is a new doctrine that was not previously revealed. That's absolutely false. This is not a new doctrine Deuteronomy 32, 6. Is not he your father? Speaking to Israel Is not he your Father who created you, who made you, and who established you? And the believers in Israel would have heard that and said, Yes, and amen. He is our Father. He created us, He made us, He's established us, God our Father. Isaiah 63, 16. Isaiah 63, 16. Now a prayer of Isaiah. For you are our Father. And then later in the same verse, O Lord, are our Father, our Redeemer. Also Isaiah 64, 8. But now, O Lord, you are our Father. We are the clay, you are the potter, we are all the work of your hand. That's a great picture, isn't it? That's a vivid picture. That's a powerful picture. That's a convicting picture of how we should think about our lives here on earth. He is our Father. He is the potter, we are the clay, and he is molding us, he is shaping us to be who he's purposed us to be The most important ministry in our lives is the ministry that God is doing in our hearts. Which just means the work that God is doing in our heart, because He loves us, because He is our Father, He is the pottern, we are the clay. Apart from God, there would be no sanctification. Apart from God, there'd be no practical discipleship. Apart from God's work in us, what benefit is it to me? I'll make it personal. Me. What God, what good is me doing any work out here for God if God is not in here doing work in my heart? If God is not in here doing work in my heart, all of my work out here is a for all I am a hypocrite. It is the external doing of religion, and it means nothing. Listen, nothing apart from the ministry of God, the work and power of God in my heart. And the same is true for every single one of you. Every single one of us. Cherish the Holy Spirit Church, cry out for the Holy Spirit, for the work of God in your heart. And would you talk about that with other believers? Would you talk about that at home with your family, of what God is doing in your heart, and what you need God to do in your heart, and what you've been praying recently for God to do in your heart? And things that things in your heart that are happening that should not be happening, that you're you're hoping and praying that God would show up. And talk with church people about these things. And talk with God about these things in your prayer. And talk with people at work. Talk with neighbors about these things. Extended family about what God is doing in the heart, and about the fact that this is the core of Christianity. Of God's ministry, because He is our Father. We have a new father, God. This is adoption. Another benefit of adoption is we have a new family. That makes sense, right? We we have a new father. We're adopted by a new father. We also have a new family, which is going to be other people that have also been adopted. By God, who is one Father. So if God is our new Father, it means He's made us in His likeness and He's pledged to guard God and provide for us. Having a new family means we're brought into his church for true worship, true service, and true fellowship. A new family brought into local church, brought into the church for genuine worship, genuine service, and genuine fellowship. And for this point, since this is more of a topical message, Which means the main points don't all come out of the primary verse. We're going to cheat. We're going to flip over one page in your Bible to Ephesians 2, 19. So then, you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and members of the Household of God. Alright, now in your mind's eye, picture yourself. You're doing the devotional at home, or picture yourself you're teaching the Sunday school class, or Picture yourself, there's a Bible study discussion that arises somewhere at work or at the coffee shop with friends. And in God's providence, this verse comes out Will you be the one to point out this phrase? Members of the household of God. And just get that illustration in your mind. There's a house Of God. He rules over the house. And anyone who lives in that house is part of God's household And even though we used to be outside the house and we were not a part of the household, we're now in the house, and we're a part of God's household. A family together in the same house with the same father, having the same spirit, having the same purpose, having the same status, children of God No longer, no longer strangers, no longer aliens, but fellow citizens with the saints And members of the household of God. We have a new family. We've been brought into the church of God for true worship, true service, and true fellowship. Which all that true means is In his spirit and according to his word. That's what that means. Done in his spirit and done in accordance with his word. Not making up our own doctrines. Not doing whatever we want to do because it makes us feel good, but striving in the spirit, striving to obey the word, striving to understand the word, true worship, service, and fellowship. We're brought into the family of God. There are a lot of metaphors, a lot of uh symbols for the church in the Bible And these metaphors, these symbols, just emphasize different points about the church, whether it's the meaning of the church or Could be the nature of the church or maybe even just the importance or the significance of the church. Because local churches is the way God has designed it. God has designed to organize his kingdom in local churches, spread and spreading all over the world. And God has designed to minister to his people in local churches. Spread and spreading throughout the world. And God has designed to advance His gospel and advance His kingdom, you guessed it, through local churches spread and spreading throughout the world. It's vitally important. To be members of biblical, spirit-filled churches. There's no perfect church. There's no perfect church. But there's a difference between an unbiblical church and a biblical church. Between a true church and a false church. Between a church that's filled with the Spirit and genuinely striving in the Spirit and a church that's void of the Spirit and teaching heresy and things that do not honor God Brought into his church. So, of these metaphors, one of them, one of the most common ones, is the church is called the body of Christ. One example would be Ephesians 4, where the church is the body of Christ. And this is an important one because this brings into our minds that we are many members, but we've been joined together under one head. Jesus Christ, many members joined together, like how my fingers join to my hand, my hand is joined to my arm, my arm is joined to my shoulder. My shoulder is joined to my torso. My torso is joined to my hips. My hips are joined. And on and on and on. The church is the body of Christ. Many members joined together under one head, Jesus Christ. We have one master, one purpose, one head, Jesus Christ. The church is the body of Christ. Let's come to church with that spirit Man, if we all come to church with that spirit, we'll just have unity upon unity heaped upon unity because we come to church as members of one body of Christ. The church is also called the bride of Christ, which is very intimately connected to this idea of the body of Christ. But would you say the bride of Christ, Ephesians 5? Not only are we joined to each other, but as the bride of Christ, we are joined to him. What good would it do us if we were joined together in some kind of fellowship, but that fellowship was not joined to Christ? That's just called man-made religion. With the bride of Christ, we're joined to Christ. With the bride of Christ, we're under his leadership. Praise God for that. They were under Christ's leadership, not mine. We're the bride of Christ. We're joined to him. We're under his leadership. We're under his love. Under the canopy of Christ's love, there's no safer place. There's no better place to be under the umbrella of Christ's love. The bride of Christ, under his leadership, under his love, under his protection Another metaphor is the temple of God. The temple of God. The church is the temple of God, which means the church is filled with the Spirit, and the church is God's chosen place. To dwell and represent his name on earth. Of course, God's dwelling place is in heaven. His throne is his heaven, but the earth is his footstool. And throughout Scripture, God chooses Specific people, specific locations for his name to dwell, for his spirit to dwell, for his spirit to fill the place, or his spirit to fill the people, so that he dwells there in a special way for a special purpose. In our age Beloved of God, that's the church. That's local churches. This we can also cheat in Ephesians 2. 21. You should already still be there, Ephesians 2. Still talking about the church, verse 21, in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. The church as the body of Christ, the church as the bride of Christ, the church as the temple of the Holy Spirit. And also the church as the household, the household of God, the place where the family of God fellowships together A place where the family of God worships together. The place where the family of God serves together. We serve each other and we strive in different ways to serve those around us. Whether it's physical needs, Helping the needy in various ways, or primarily and essentially and all ways, trying to reach the lost so that they too might be saved and become children of God There are common ways to misconceive of the church. And you've seen this. I'm not even going to have to give you any illustrations for these. You're going to know about them as soon as I say them. Common ways to think about the church the wrong way, common ways to mistreat the church, because that's what you do. When you think about it the wrong way, you mistreat it. One common way to misconceive of the church is to see it as a store This is when you we come with a consumer mindset. It's very self-centered. It's it's very short-sighted Where we go to the church looking for looking for a preconceived preconceived notion, a preconceived idea idea of what we need or what we want. If we go to the church, if it doesn't have this, I'm out. If it doesn't have that, I'm out. If it doesn't have this ministry, I'm gone. If it doesn do this in this way, I'm out. It's a consumer mindset. We treat the church like target. There's a store, and I'm going shopping. And I already know everything exactly the way that I that I want it, exactly the way that I need it, and if it's not there, I'll just go to the other store down the road Also, it's common to conceive of the church as a stage. Uh this would be more of a performance mindset. But the church is this place where we Come and go through the motions of outward religion and we basically are performing our religion in the sight of each other. And I do my religion in front of you. That makes me feel great about myself. I feel good about myself because I did good things and other people saw me doing good things, and so hooray for me That's absolutely the wrong mindset to come to church, treating it as a stage to do religion and be seen by others. Jesus destroys this mindset in the Sermon on the Mount. Which is Matthew 5, 6, and 7. That's the performance mindset. Maybe the other side of that is seeing the church as a cinema Seeing the church as a cinema, as like a movie theater or um a playhouse. Is that what it's called? The place you have plays, it's called the something house, the theater, theater house, the playhouse. Where you come with an entertainment mindset, where you come basically and you're just going to observe. You are primarily an observer, primarily a watcher. Not going to be spiritually engaged, not really hungry for the word in my heart and mind, not not aware of my desperate spiritual need for the word of God in my life, but I'm going to come and I'm going to watch and I probably will learn some things in intellectually and I probably will do some things externally, but I'm not coming into my heart to genuinely engage with God Almighty through His Word and Spirit. I'm going to come to church like I'll go to a movie and I'll watch and I'll observe. And just like with the stage and the performance mindset, the cinema and the entertainment mindset has Spiritual life cordoned off into one sector. And this going to church. Now here's my spiritual life, but then I go back to my normal life, my regular life, and it's about other things, essentially and primarily. And finally, uh, not that these are the only misconceptions of church. I just these are the common ones that I thought of. Seeing church as a social club, more of like a high school clique mindset Or we go primar church primarily just to see my friends. Yeah, maybe there's the sentimentality and the the nostalgia of the church and the tradition. But primarily what I'm coming to church for is my social relationships, my friendships and the enjoyable social experience that I have at church. And that's also wrong. We should come to the church like this is the household of God. We should come with the family mindset. That we are A spiritual family. We are the family of God. We are brothers and sisters in Christ. And God is our Father. We should come to church with the church as the body of Christ mindset Which will give us a spiritual mindset. When we me we remember that we are the body of qu Christ, we remember that we have a bond that is closer uh than just about any other bond we can conceive of. It's the bond of the Holy Spirit. You're filled with the Spirit of Christ. And the believer, all the other believers all over the room are filled with the Spirit of Christ. And the preachers are filled with the Spirit of Christ. And the music leaders are filled with the Spirit of Christ. We're all filled with the Spirit of Christ. That binds us together for this life and the next. We are the body of Christ. We have a spiritual mindset. We're the household of Christ. We have a family mindset. Do any of you struggle with any of this stuff, or is it just me who struggles with some of this stuff? I mean, we need God to get our mindset right about the church and about our motives and reasons we're coming to church. We should have a mindset of grateful love, and that comes from grasping that the church is the bride of Christ. It's not a store to be a consumer. It's not a stage to do good works and religion. It's not a cinema just to observe and be entertained. It's not a social club just to have enjoyable, friendly relationships. The church is the bride of Christ, and that should fill our hearts with a grateful love. Grateful and joyful love should be the predominant flavor, the predominant vibe of a local church gathering. Because we're the bride of Christ. We've been joined to Him, and He'll never leave us nor forsake us. We should have a mindset of worship and of walking in the fear of the Lord. That comes from remembering that the church is the temple of God. The temple of God, the place of worship, the place where God has put his name, the place where God has poured out his spirit, the temple of God, to walk in the fear of the Lord. Understand, that just means to understand and acknowledge his authority over it. To have a reverent awe, of res a respect, a sincere respect, reverence, and awe in our hearts to God and a desire to obey him So these metaphors of the church are not just for fun. And they're not just clever, clever ideas, interesting things we can think about. I mean they're everything to shape our mindset on what the church is and what our mindset and motive should be when we're coming to church because we have not only a new father But a new family, and we also have a new future. We have a new future. That's number three on your outline. A new future. Can you imagine? Can you imagine, brother, sister, that one day you'll be free from sin Can you imagine that one day you'll be free from all suffering, physical, mental, psychological, spiritual, internal, external, family, work, nation, world? Be free from all sin, be free from all suffering, and you'll be free from all weakness, and you'll be in God's presence forever A new future. And this is why I put verses eleven and verses fourteen in for the message. Verse 11 in Ephesians 1, in him we have obtained an inheritance. Having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. And then verse 14. Who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. We do have an inheritance in Christ We, verse 11, do the exegesis with me. In him, that means in fellowship with Christ, we have obtained an inheritance. Now, we will obtain an inheritance, which that's also true, but that's not what this says. It says we have obtained an inheritance, which means it's yours by right Whatever inheritance he's talking about here is already yours legally. It's already yours covenantally. It is yours by right because you are now in Christ. In Christ we have obtained an inheritance. And the end of that verse is supposed to be one of the biggest encouragements you'll ever receive, where it says this. Who works out, who works all things. He works all things according to the counsel of his will. Because if that weren't true, then you couldn't be sure about receiving this inheritance. If someone could come in and thwart the purposes of God, if some spiritual forces of darkness could come in and kick you out of the kingdom of God. If somebody or something in the world could come in and derail God from giving his children this glorious inheritance, if that could happen, we could not have a certain help in Christ. Of course, that's theoretical and hypothetical. Because we know that none of those things can happen. God works All things according to the counsel of his will. And brother and sister, child of God, the counsel of his will is to bestow upon his people a glorious inheritance And all things are working to that end. All things are working to that according to that purpose and that goal. You will one day be free from sin. I'm certain of it You will one day be free from all forms and degrees of suffering. I am a hundred percent certain of it. You will one day be free from all weakness. Just one of which is the weakness of being distracted by things lesser than God. This is a daily battle. Amen? Being distracted and captivated by things that don't even touch the greatness of God. Well, one day you'll be rid of that weakness. And God truly will be your greatest treasure. And truly God will be your supreme love. And nothing will ever distract you from his exceeding greatness ever again when you obtain this inheritance. And this inheritance is yours by right. Whatever you do, keep your heart fixed on your inheritance in Christ. First John 3 1 to 3, see what kind of love the Father has given to us? That we should be called children of God And so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Do you ever feel that in your life? There's just something about you that others don't get Is there something something about you that people just see as weird, as strange, they don't understand what's wrong with you The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him. Going on in 1 John 3, verses 2 and 3, beloved, we are God 's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes, in other words, anyone who has this hope. Purifies himself as he is pure. You have a new future. You have a new father, you have a new family, you have a new future. Number four, you have a new character. A new character. I put this one in here just because I wanted to read one of my favorite verses. It's Ephesians 5. 1. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. The imitators of God as beloved children. Christ's likeness, pray for it daily. Christ's likeness, hunger and thirst for it. Study the word. Strive after the grace of God in your life that He may conform you to the likeness of Christ, that you may be an imitator of God as beloved children. Fifth, you have a new passion. You have a new passion. I took this one from Ephesians 1, verse 6, which gives the ultimate goal behind all of this great salvation that's being explained in Ephesians 1. You see the ultimate goal and the ultimate reason explained in verse 6 to the praise of his glorious grace. We have a new passion. God's glory and the praise of his glory. I wasn't concerned about that when I was lost. I was concerned about my glory and the praise of my glory, and that's how the world operates. The world is concerned about the world's glory and the praise of the world's glory, and the glory just means a shining forth of greatness, a shining forth of what's good about something. And then the praise of the glory is just the others' people's response to what's been shown forth. We have a new passion, God's glory, and the praise of God's glory. This is the heart of our sanctification. As God matures us. Are you still with me this morning? Would you say amen? As God matures us. We gradually, you know it's gradually if you fought this battle for five minutes, you know this is for any time, any amount of time, you know this is gradual. As God matures us and sanctifies us, the things that are most important to God become most important to us. Amen? The things that are most important to God become most important to us. And, beloved, what's most important to God is his glory and the praise of his glory. And he's most glorified through the person and work of Christ and the salvation that's found in him. And finally, you have a new spirit. And I read this I read this last sermon. I'll read it again. You have a new spirit. Romans 8, 16. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, then heirs. Heirs of God, fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him , In order that we also may be glorified with him. It makes us think about the difference between the old us and the new us in Christ. The old us didn't have the Holy Spirit But the new us is filled with the Holy Spirit. Now the old us were not children of God. The new us are children of God The old us didn't have a glorious inheritance to look forward to. But the new us, if children, then heirs, heirs of God, fellow heirs with Christ. The old us didn't have to worry about suffering with Christ. As we strive to obey him in a world that's given over to sin. But the new us says, provided we suffer with him, in order that we may also be glorified with him And it makes us thankful. It makes us thankful when we think about Christ. We think about all the blessings that are found in Him. When we think about adoption and the glorious inheritance that is legally ours in Christ. It should make us grateful, should make us joyful, to fill our heart, infuse our soul with a love for God, which is the root of all obedience. Who are you? Who are you? Child of God, somebody said it. What are you living for? Where does your hope lie? The world around us and the flesh within us We 'll try to find an identity and shape an identity based on things in this world. My job or my possessions. or my sexual desires, what others think about me, what others say about me, my situation or status in life. These are all worldly and very short sighted ways of trying to create an identity for ourselves. The true identity, true identity that will bring us rest for our souls, true rest, eternal rest for our souls, is found in Christ. It's found in being a child of God through faith in Christ. Be a child of God through faith in Christ. Let's pray. God, thank you for the blessing of adoption. I pray for each one of us here, no matter where we are in our walk with you. Maybe some who don't yet have a walk with you. We include everyone in our prayer that you would work in our lives. That you would be gracious to us in our lives, that you would open our hearts and minds more and more to your word, that you would fill our hearts with your spirit. And to bring us all to this place, this settled rest. They can go to bed at night every single night and close our eyes, thinking, I am a child of God through faith in Christ, and I have a glorious inheritance waiting for me It's in his name we pray. Amen.