Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Looking at thirty-one through forty nine. Let's review all the name of This study is God will set up his kingdom. Dot dot dot on earth. God will set up his kingdom Dot dot dot on earth. The dots are supposed to give you suspense. Too often Christianity is viewed as strictly psychological. Or strictly intellectual, uh things we believe, but don't necessarily change the way we live. Ethereal things Things that don't have an impact on the earth. That's not how we should think about spiritual things. That's not how we should think about what God is doing. We should think about discipleship, and that's not how we should think about the kingdom of God. That is real. It is a spiritual kingdom, it is a heavenly kingdom, but it's manifest, this power is manifest on earth This is how people get saved. If that weren't true, people would not be able to be saved. God will set up his kingdom on earth. That's tonight. The review, I just want to go over the three titles of the other studies. First of all, we looked at that God is in control. God is the sovereign king Over creation, over history, he is in control. The second study was God is at work. God is at work for his purpose, and as he works out his purpose on earth, he's with his people on earth. For Daniel and his friends, they're in exile. They're not in Jerusalem. They're not in the promised land, but God is with them. And they can experience God's presence and God's power through faith. God is in control, but that's not an arbitrary thing He's in control and he's at work working out his purpose. This is a specific thing that he's working toward. Number three, this was the last study, God reveals truth He gives wisdom, he gives knowledge, and he reveals truth, special revelation. This was the last study that we saw where Daniel believes the God God will enable him to know Nebuchadnezzar's dream and to interpret Nebuchadnezzar's dream, which if you remember, Nebuchadnezzar really, really wants the interpretation Interpretation of this dream, but he required uh for the wise men to give him the actual dream itself first and then interpret it. He didn't want to be Number one, God is in control. Number two, God is at work, working for his purpose. He's with his people. Number three, God reveals truth. Now that's so important. Think about just as broad as broad as you can get. Zoom out, zoom up, whatever, just to get the widest wide angle lens you could get of the fact that God is working out a purpose on earth. Well it's very important that He reveals truth to us Otherwise, we wouldn't know what his purpose is. We wouldn't know how he's achieving that purpose. So we have a Bible. This is so important. God communicates With his people to tell us what his purpose is, why he's doing it, how he's doing it, how we are involved in it, what he calls us to. God reveals truth. One of the classic illustrations I go to, just in my own mind, is for this point is the burning bush that Moses saw. It would not have been sufficient. And this is why God didn't do it this way, for God just to reveal himself in the burning bush to Moses, but not communicate to Moses what was going on. He communicated actual communication on a hu to humans. So it's very important. God is in control, God is at work, where is Purpose and God reveals truth so that we know what's going on and what we need to do. Now, tonight, Daniel 2, 31 to 49, God will set up his kingdom on earth. Verse 31. You saw, O king, this is Daniel, speaking to Nebuchadnezzar. You saw. So what are you going to do first? You're going to give him the dream, and then you're going to give him the interpretation. The two things Nebuchadnezzar wanted. Remember Daniel got this from who? He was up all night thinking about it? He got it from God. He actually was during the night. It was a vision of the night. You saw, O king, and behold, a great image, a statue. This image, mighty and of exceeding brightness, stood before you, and its appearance was frightening. The head of this image was fine gold, its chest and arms of silver, its middle or its midsection, and thighs of bronze, its legs of iron and its feet Partly of iron and partly of clay. And as you looked, a stone was cut out by no human hand. So we should envision a hewn stone, something like that you would use for a building. Maybe a cornerstone. But it's not just a rock. Rock where a pebble he picks up. It's a it's cut. It's hewn. It's a hewn stone. hand. And it struck the image, very important phrase, right here, on its feet of iron and clay. Where does the Stone interface with the image, the feet, the feet of iron and clay, and broke them in Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold all together were broken in pieces and became like the chaff of the Summer threshing floors and the wind carried them away so that not a trace of them could be found. Gone forever. illustration that today, just where's the Babylonian Empire today? Where's the Roman Empire today? Gone. Chaffed to the wind, gone forever But the stone that struck the image and became a great mountain that struck the image became a great mountain mountain and filled the earth. Just as a point of encouragement to you, I would just say that it it is still filling the earth even as we speak. The stone lived on The stone grew. The stone is growing. It is filling and will fill the earth with the knowledge of the glory of God as the waters cover the earth. The sea. Verse 36. This was the dream. So now we have the dream. Now we will tell the king its interpretation. You, O King, the King of Kings. To whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, the might, and the glory. Remember our first study? God is in control. God is in control. Who gave Nebuchadnezzar dominion? Who gave Nebuchadnezzar his kingdom? The God of heaven. God is sovereign. And into whose into whose Whose hand he has given wherever they dwell, the children of man, the beasts of the field, the birds of the heaven, making you rule over them. all. God making you rule over them all. You are the head of gold. Another kingdom inferior to you Shall arise after you, and yet a third kingdom of bronze, which shall rule over all the earth. And there shall be a fourth kingdom. The general interpretation is successive kingdoms, successive kings and kingdoms. Should be a fourth kingdom, strong as iron. Because Iron breaks to pieces and shatters all things. Well, meditate on that. Because what's you already know what's about to happen to this iron It's gonna get smashed. So from an earthly perspective From a first-level interpretation, a first-level understanding, iron breaks to pieces and shatters all things except for one thing And like iron that crushes, it shall break and crush all these, and as you saw the feet and toes, partly of potter's clay and partly of iron. So soft but also hard, weak but but also strong. It shall be a divided kingdom. But some of the firmness of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with the soft Clay. And as the toes of the feet were partly iron and partly clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle. That seems to be a pretty important point about the nature of that kingdom. He's he's expanding on this more than anything else about kingdoms one, two, and three, this divided nature, this weak but also strong nature of this fourth kingdom. As you saw the iron mixed with soft clay, so they will mix with one another in marriage, but they will not hold together, just as iron does not Mixed with clay. And in the days of those kings, uh let me pause on here just so I don't just so I don't have to do it later. But if you have questions, you know ask Some people interpret those kings, the phrase those kings in verse 44 to refer to the toes. The text doesn't say that. If you believe that I'm not gonna hold it against you, but in the context, those kings are the successive kingdoms. N Nebuchadnezzar first and then the other the Others that follow. In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed. And it has to do with the fact that it is through history, through a special providence in history that God will set up his kingdom. It's not like God is inactive from the time This revelation is given, and then with the coming of Christ, boom, all of a sudden God is active again. That's not the case. All throughout the history, all throughout the history that's going to happen, God is doing exactly Exactly what God wants to do to pave the way to set up his kingdom. In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom Kingdom be left to another people, it shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end, and it shall stand for Just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and that it shall uh and that uh and that it broke in pieces the iron The bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold. A great God has made known to the king what shall be after this. The dream is certain, and its interpretation. Interpretation is sure. So it goes back to those two things that Nebuchadnezzar really wanted, and it was clear in this passage too. The dream, the interpretation. The dream, the interpretation. Nebuchadnezzar wanted both. Daniel needed both. God gave Daniel both. The dream and its interpretation. The dream that Daniel has said is certain. He's absolutely sure of it. Another point for the sufficiency of God's word. God's word is certain because it comes from God, and its interpretation is sure. Biblical interpretation is. If you get your interpretation wrong, um you don't believe the truth. For example, if you if you don't believe that Jesus is God, wrong interpretation Bad interpretation. Just because you're using the book and using the words doesn't mean that it's right. Doesn't mean that it's Christian. But just one example. So you need the content But then you need the interpretation of the content. You need the revelation, and you need the proper understanding of the revelation. Verse 46. Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face and paid homage to Daniel. Daniel. That was not a common thing. He's not a commoner, which would be unspeakable for the king, the king of Kings from a worldly perspective, Nebuchadnezzar, to pay homage to a commoner. Daniel's less than a commoner. He's he's a an Israelite exile And they've taken away everything from him. He's not one that the king would pay homage to. Yet that's exactly what the king does. The king, King Nebuchadnezzar, falls on his face and paid homage to Daniel And commanded that an offering and incense be offered up to him. That's inappropriate, but from a worldly perspective, from King Nebuchadnezzar's perspective It's really quite amazing. You see how God has in his providence exalted his servant in the eye The king answered and said to Daniel, Truly your God is a God of gods, and Lord of kings, and revealer of mysteries, for you have been able to reveal this mystery. Gave Daniel high honors and many great gifts and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon and chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon. Similar to what Uh happened with Joseph. He was made the de facto king in Egypt. Daniel made a request to the king, and he appointed Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego over the Affairs of the province of Babylon, but Daniel remained at the king's court. So in chapter one, Daniel's exiled. serving in the king's court, the most powerful, the most influential, the richest court on the planet at the time, King Nebuchadnezzar's court. And his friends, because of his request, are given high offices of leadership in Babylon. Do you have a special providence of God to show Daniel and his friends favor, even in exile? God is in control. God is working out his purpose. He is with his people And he reveals truth. You see, all these themes begin to come together on what God is doing here in this situation. Immediately, immediately after After Daniel gives the dream and its interpretation to Nebuchadnezzar, you see something of what God is doing through that. Why did God do that? Number one, yes, obviously to repeat Reveal the truth. Because Daniel needed to know this, and this prophecy and promise of the coming kingdom will he'll get more information about that as the book goes on. And uh Daniel needs to know that. His three friends need to know that. The people of God needed to know that. That's why it ended up as Scripture, and it was Scripture. But you see it's not it's not just the truth by itself like the truth in a vacuum. Revealing the truth, obviously, yes. Yes, that's incredibly important. But it's what God is doing through and in the situation. He's going he's moving things forward in history. He wants Daniel in that position. He wants Daniel's friends in that high position because he's going to use them to show off his glory, his power, his mercy, the reality of himself through the story. Stories that are coming in Daniel, classic stories that we've all been hearing since second grade. God is going to show off his glory and his name. Again, just like he did in Egypt before and during During the Exodus. He's showing off his name and his glory so that he would be known and he would be worshipped and he would be honored. So he's so God is doing that through This situation with the dream and the interpretation. And so at the end of chapter 2, Daniel's right where God wants him. God put him there. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abend Abednego are right where God wants them, God put them there. God is at work. Should not see these things as random happenings. They're connected. God will set up his kingdom on earth. You have the dream, you have the interpretation. Let's go back to verse 31 and Go through each section. The first section we'll just call it the Great Image. Alright, the great statue. And what I want us to be thinking about is that it has impressive beginnings Beginnings, but what kind of end? Yeah, thumbs down end. Impressive beginnings to a horrible end. In your contrast Verse thirty one through thirty three. You saw, O king, and behold a great image, so a just an incredibly massive statue in Image it would not have been common it would not have been uncommon in the pagan cultures to have an image of a king which they would have bl believe was a god or half god or something, uh in a temple or something like that to represent the king's power that he would be worshipped through that. Great image. Th this is just one Not that you could make, but this is massive. The image mighty, so it's it's a powerful and of exceeding brightness, radiant. It's this shining glory This colossal image stood before you and its appearance was frightening, was terrifying. Silver, its middle and thighs bronze, its legs iron, its feet part iron and partly clay. So it's mighty, it's radiant, it's frightening. Chapter two verse one this is why Nebuchadnezzar was so upset because he was terrified at at this dream, what happens in it and But it begins with the image. I don't think that's I don't think that's what terrified of I think the destruction, the utter destruction of the image. I think in a general sense you could put together this is bad. This is very bad. But it's also diverse. It's diverse. There are multiple sections, multiple materials making up this image. The great image. And then next you have the hewn stone. And the defining characteristic of the stone is that it's well, I'll I'll read it. It'll pop out. Verse Verse 34. As you look, a stone was cut by no human hand. No human hand. Now what that looks like in a dream, I cannot tell. Tell you, maybe similar to what's going to come up later in the book, uh the writing on the wall. It's a hand, but clearly it's it's something that's otherworldly, it's supernatural. This isn't something a person has done. But we're told we're not supposed to make a painting of this, right, and try to represent what it looked like. We're given the significant point. Man didn't make This stone. Man didn't cut this stone. It was cut by no human hand, and it struck the image On its feet of iron and clay and broke them into pieces. You have humble beginnings, humbles, supernatural but humble Makes you think of the incarnation. And it should. That's when this will be f you know fulfilled. What the actual striking on the feet. It's humble you can't think of more humble beginnings than Jesus' mother and the situation surrounding it and then his situation surrounding his birth and where it happened and how it happened. Humble humbler beginnings you cannot conceive. But a more but a greater miracle you cannot conceive either. It's supernatural, but it's humble. You put the stone next to the statue, next to the image, just from the pers just from worldly eyes, just from an earthly perspective. There's no comparison which is greater. The image. No comparison which is more radiant. The image. If if you were to say, okay, you bang these two things together, which one's gonna make it? The image from human eye, but there's a supernatural aspect, a supernatural source of this stone that is humble beginnings Are deceiving. Like that, like Christ is a baby in a manger who now reigns in heaven with the very authority of God. It's unbelievable. It's incredible. It strikes on the feet, destroys the image. The remnants of the image that's been destroyed are carried away and gone forever. And then what happens to the stone? This is my favorite, favorite, favorite part probably of the book of Daniel. I mean definitely Daniel too. This is the central point for us for m for the time that we live, because it's happening right now, it becomes a mountain and fills the earth It becomes a mountain. That's first. So you have a hewn stone that destroys, okay, step one. But now, what do you have? You have a hu a hewn stone sitting there, what happens to it? It's growing, it's changing, it's becoming a mountain, and then once it's a mountain, now what does it do it? keeps growing and growing and sprawling and sprawling. So it's it's prophetic imagery, but it grows to fill the earth. Pretty clear understanding of what happens. happens to that stone. The supernatural yet deceptively it's deceptively powerful Um from human appearances, it's small and insignificant, but uh it's gonna change the world. This kingdom is gonna from God is gonna change the actual world And friends, isn't that exactly what's happened? Isn't this the significance of the coming of Christ, the Savior of the world? It's gonna bring good news to the nations, it's gonna be a light to the Gentiles, it's gonna save Men, women from all over all languages, tribes and tongues. Isn't this the good news? The good news of God's kingdom. Or that's the dream rather. That's the dream. You have an image that on the nightly news would have gotten all the press. Would have gotten all the attention, all the praise. The stone would have been scoffed at. But it's the stone that prevails. Now the interpretation Well, questions or comments before we get into verse thirty six, went my whistle here. That's the next section. We're gonna get that in just Just uh just a second. Yep. Yeah. We do and I g we do and I have the cross references for them too. We're gonna do that. That's why I'm kind of racing. Also being repetitive, because there's not a lot of points here, but it's incredibly important points, major points Alright, the interpretation, verse 36. This was the dream. Now we'll tell its interpretation. You, O King, the King of Kings, to whom the God of heaven has given the kingdom, the power, the might, and the So Nebuchadnezzar and representing The kingdom of Babylon, the Cal also called the Chaldeans, is the head. Radiant, valuable, rich, wealthy, beautiful. Gold. Another kingdom, verse 39, inferior to you, shall arise after you, and yet a third kingdom of bronze. So the second kingdom is said only one thing at this point, inferior, and the third kingdom of bronze, there's only one thing said about that at this point, which shall rule over all the earth. It seems like that's gonna have uh more uh particularly more of a sprawl than the other ones. There shall be a At and then after that, it will be a fourth kingdom. And then the thing there's more said about this. The first thing that's pointed out about the fourth kingdom is its strength. Iron breaks to pieces and shatters all things, and like iron that crushes it shall break and crush all these, there's going to be a peculiar power, just a crushing force Conquering force to this. Of course, this will be the Roman Empire. And as you saw, the feet and toes, partly of the potter's clay and partly of iron, it shall be divided, a divided kingdom. But some of the firmness Of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with the soft clay, and as the toes of the feet were partly iron and partly clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle. As you saw the iron mix with soft clay, so they will mix with one another in marriage. Probably talking about um this is not uncommon, but it seems like this w was really done a lot in securing political alliances to grow the kingdom through marriage. And and I seems like the implication is that uh in parts in certain parts that weakened the kingdom. It didn't detract from the strength of those parts of iron, but there were parts of clay it would make Make this kingdom vulnerable. They will not hold together, just as iron does not mix with clay. In the days of those kings, in the days of this image, those kings, one, two, three, four, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom. Alright here so here we go. You know I've been harping on this. Does it qualify as a harp? I don't know you tell me if I've been harping on this for over a month This is it. God of heaven will set up a kingdom. Number one, it will never be destroyed. It'll be an eternal kingdom. And when does he set that up? In the days of those kings. In the days of those Of those kings, he establishes that kingdom. He sets up that kingdom. It be an eternal kingdom. Nor shall that kingdom be left to another people. It will never be sieged. Our status as citizens of heaven cannot be taken away from us. The ministries of the truth True church cannot be taken away from the church. It's a spiritual kingdom on earth. We are on a spiritual conquest to achieve spiritual ends. With spiritual means, prayer, preaching of the gospel that can't be taken away from us, that can never be taken away from us. The church. us in this room or our church. Uh but I just mean the people of God, citizens of heaven. Citizens of the kingdom of heaven who are living on earth. Kingdom shall never be destroyed, not nor shall be left to another people It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end. It's victorious. This is a victorious kingdom And it shall stand forever. Just as you saw, the stone was cut from a mount a mountain by no human hand, and then it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the stone The great God has made known to the king what shall be after this. The dream is certain and its interpretation is sure. Next week I hope to Do an entire class on just this the idea of the stone striking the image and give try to zoom out and give a biblical perspective on God establishing a his kingdom on earth because from Eden you see that that's That is the plan. That is the plan in the Garden of Eden. You see that in the promise, the first promise and the promises and covenants made with Abraham. This is still his kingdom. There's just so much there we can't get into it all tonight, but whatever the focus is in this specific way, next week I want to do another class on this idea. And look at some things through how the how the story progresses throughout Scripture. God set up his kingdom through his special providence in history. In the days of those kings. But the stone struck the feet. The stone struck the feet. It's an unstoppable heavenly kingdom. Let's look at the result. Before we zoom in and give you the actual kingdoms. The result, oh, we already looked at this, verses 46 through 49, right? Providential favor from God. Given to Daniel and his friends. It's a reversal of their situation. They're exalted in the eyes of the king and promoted to high positions It seems pretty clear that Nebuchadnezzar was the only person with more authority and power than Daniel. He gave Daniel that authority. Of course Nebuchadnezzar is under whose author Authority, God's authority. So that's the result. And that's important. I I don't want to talk about the dream and this interpretation apart from what God God actually accomplished through that in the story. It's a story, it's history, it's moving forward. God is doing something, and that's what God wanted to do through all of this. Confirmation of the kingdoms. What are the kingdoms? Number one, obviously Babylon, also called the Chaldeans. Then the The chest and arms of silver would have been Medo, Persia, the Me the Medes and the Persians And then the third would have been Greece, the midsection in the thighs, that sprawling as you think of Alexander the Great and the the sprawl of that kingdom and then the division to get into that later in the book of Daniel, the division of that kingdom after his death, Alexander the Great's death. And then the Roman Empire So let's confirm that with scripture though. Alright? So first looking at I mean it's obvious that the first one was Babylon. He said that in the passage. He told him, This is you. You're the head of gold. Look at Daniel 5. Twenty four through twenty-eight. Then from his presence the hand was sent, and this writing was inscribed, and this is the writing that was inscribed. Mene, Tekl, and Parson. This is the interpretation of the matter. Mene, God has numbered the days of your kingdom and brought it to an end. Weighed in the balances and found wanting. Perez, your kingdom is divided and given to the Medes and Persians. Alright, there you go There you go. Transition from the head of gold, Babylon, to the Medes and Persians, which is the chest and arms of silver Now skim down to verse 30 and 31. Well, we're just skipping one verse, I guess. That very night, Belshazzar, the Chaldean. Babylonian king was killed, and Darius the Mead received the kingdom, being about sixty-two years old. So there you have in the book of Daniel, we We learn that the next kingdom after Babylon is the Medes and the Persians. The first king is Darius, Darius the Mead. Now we need to figure out what that Midsection and thighs are of bronze. Turn to chapter eight, verse five Again, I uh just because of the nature of what we're doing, we're just confirming the the kingdoms. So we're taking these out of context, but eventually we'll get to these Passages. Chapter 8, verse 5. And as I was considering, behold, a male goat came from the west across the face of the whole earth without touching the ground That's terrifying. And the goat had a conspicuous horn between his eyes. He came to the ram with the two horns, which I had seen Standing on the bank of the canal, he ran at him in his powerful wrath. I saw him close to the ram, and he was enraged to But he cast him down to the ground and trampled. Then the goat became exceedingly great, but when he was strong , The great horn was broken, and instead of and instead of it there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heaven. See that it conquers and it sprawls. Uh scope them down to twenty first twenty and twenty-one because what do you get over and over Over in Daniel, you're already seeing it. You get the dream and interpretation. You get the revelation, then you get the interpretation. You saw it in Nebuchadnezzar's dream, you saw it with the handwriting on the wall. You need the interpretation. Verse 2 twenty and twenty one in chapter eight. Now turn to eleven one through four. As for me in the first year of Darius the mead, I stood up to kill Confirm and strengthen him. And now I will show you the truth. Behold, three more kings shall arise in Persia, and the fourth shall be far richer than all of them. He has become strong through his riches, he shall stir up all against the kingdom of Greece. Then a mighty king shall rise, who shall rule with great dominion And do as he wills. So from the text you see the Medes and the Persians is the second kingdom. From the text you see Greek and Greece is the third kingdom. And also from the text, we'll have to move into the New Testament because this is uh looking at the other end. The whole New Testament Testament is about when that stone strikes the feet of this image. So we have to go to the New Testament, but in the text New Testament is God's word, and it's about the fulfillment of God establishing his kingdom on earth. We see that the fourth kingdom is Rome. First of all, we can look at the timing of it. Turn to Luke. One. It's such common knowledge. I don't even know if I need to give verses for this that you know Jesus was born in the days of the Roman Empire. But that's not incidental. That is part of Prophecy. Luke 1 5, in the days of Herod, King of Judea. There you have a historical reference. In the days of Herod. Who ruled from uh thirty-seven BC to four BC as king of Judea? He was appointed By Rome, under the authority of Rome. Luke two one In those days a decree went out from Caesar Augustus, obviously Roman Empire. He ruled from thirty-one BC. To 14, and then Tiberius ruled from 14 to 37. So those are the two Caesars, the two emperors. Significant to Jesus' incarnation and earthly ministry. 31 BC to 14 was Augustus And then Tiberius was fourteen to thirty-seven. Days of the Roman Empire. Uh just one more on this point. I mean they could multiply, and you know that. But John nineteen fifteen First. They cried out, away with him. By the way, a particularly diabolical verse. It's almost like those verses in uh in the Pentateuch where they they're murmuring against God and said, Well, we should go back to Egypt. Let us go back to Egypt. They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him. Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. So the timing of it is confirmed in the New Testament that this fourth kingdom, that the one that struck on the feet is Rome. So you have Babylon, the Medes and the Persians, Greece, Rome, Roman Empire. See that's one confirmation in the New Testament is the timing of it, but you also have the preaching of it. This is very important. The preaching of it. Matthew, if I were just to say to you, what did John the Baptist come preaching? thing that probably would come to come to mind would be repentance, right? He came preaching baptism of repentance or the forgiveness of sins. But what was the substance of his message? Kingdom of God. The Kingdom of God is at hand, repent And um also for foretelling the coming of Christ. Matthew three one In those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea, repent For the kingdom of God is at hand. Pretty simple message. It's here. It's arriving, it has arrived and it's arriving. The kingdom of God. Four Matthew four twenty three. And Jesus went throughout all Galilee teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. The gospel of the kingdom And Mark, you see, that's what he preached also. Repent. Kingdom is at hand. It's not uh complex stuff here. The kingdom that God promised to establish on earth in the days of the Roman Empire has come. Kingdom has come. Matthew 12, 28. You have the timing of it clear in the New Testament. The preaching of it Matthew twelve twenty eight, the preaching and the teaching of it If it's by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, well, let's just ask ourselves, was it by the Spirit of God that he cast out demons? Okay. Then the kingdom of God has come upon you So where's the kingdom of God? It's come upon you. Again, it's not complex stuff. It's very, very simple. The kingdom of God's come upon you. Well, how do we know? Well, one of the ways you know is he's Casting out demons by the Spirit of God. For the power of the Holy Spirit of God. The kingdom of God has come upon you. Matthew 21, 31. By the way, this is just a sampling. That the whole gospel narratives, the whole New Testament is about this, the nature of how God established kingdom on earth through Jesus Christ. And then we're looking forward to the consequences. Matthew Twenty One Thirty One Again, the the middle of a parable here, but just for time, gonna highlight the Salient verse. Which of the two did the will of the father? Remember one son said he was not going to do it, but then he did it. One son said he was going to But he didn't. They said the first. Jesus said to them, Truly, I say to you, the tax collectors and the prostitutes go into the kingdom of God Before you. That specifically is talking about the leaders, and I'll show you how we know that. But the fact the thing I'm pointing out right now is that the tax collectors and prostitutes are entering What? The kingdom. They're entering the kingdom of God. You can't enter a kingdom that hasn't come. You can't enter a kingdom that doesn't exist. He's setting up his kingdom. The climactic events of that are in the Life, death, and resurrection of Christ. That should not be a shock, right? That's the Bible. The life, death, resurrection of Christ. This is the center of it. God's redemptive reign on earth. His re He's eternal Redemptive reign and plan established through Christ and in Christ and for Christ and by the power of Christ. And tax collectors and prostitutes are entering that kingdom And when he says entering the kingdom before you, uh scoot down to verse forty-five. Glance. Glance down at verse 45. When the chief priests and the Pharisees heard his parables, right? The series of parables. he just told, they perceived that he was speaking about them. So they're the you. They're the you Tax collectors and prostitutes are entering the kingdom of God before the leaders, before the stewards of the visible kingdom at that at that time. Verse forty-three. That's my next one. Did you peek at my notes? Yeah. It's a great verse. It's a sobering verse, and this was this is going to be the next one. Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing fire. Fruits. Now you can make a principle a pr a point of principle in terms of the the visible kingdom transitioning from an old Covenant nation to new covenant churches. But specifically this is the leaders. They're no longer gonna be the stewards of the of the earthly manifestation of God's kingdom. be the apostles. It's gonna be the apostles. And again, you think about the transition from the Gospels to the book of Acts and the Day of Pentecost and then the Great Commission. It's fulfillment beginning in the book of Acts. It's the apostolic ministry. The stewardship of this kingdom is taken away from these Hard hearted and stiff-necked hypocrites. And it's going to be given to a people producing fruits. Now you can make the general point, and I think that's appropriate. about the transition from old covenant to new covenant and the nation of Israel to the church, the local churches. I'm okay with that. I mean that's real. But I want to do justice to The context. He's talking to the leaders. And it's really intriguing to me, uh, looking at verse forty-five again, that the chief priests and the Pharisees heard these parables and they perceived He was speaking about them. I think I wonder if Matthew's talking tongue in cheek there, because what's one of the major themes of the gospels in Jesus ministry about these leaders, they perceived almost nothing. They got almost nothing. But they understood this. I had a one professor in Bible college She said uh parables functioned as spiritual hand grenades and they just would blow up your worldview, particularly if you're a self-righteous Pharisee. It and it was so offensive to them because they understood it. Understood it they understood he was speaking about them. Is he gonna k take the kingdom of g of God away Away from them and the prostitutes and tax collectors are going into the kingdom before them, this is no more offensive thing that you could say to those uh Jewish leaders at the time. Yeah, well yeah, or any any anyone. You see that in Psalm two. The the the world the unbelieving world's represented by unbelieving leaders um rebelling against God and scoffing at God, but there's gonna be a reversal. But thank God we're in the day of grace. We're in the day Day of salvation. This is the day of open invitation. And we're not here to give vengeance. We've not been called to exercise vengeance. We're called to invite. We're called to be a people of the open door. the open book the gates the gates of uh heaven are open. They're open right now through faith in Christ and we have the message that grants access to that the gospel But there's going to be a great reversal and a great judgment coming. And there's going to be a lot of shock. People, a lot of them are going to be professing Christians. Now you can't have a kingdom. Alright, now first of all, turn your thinking cap up. What does it go up to? What's your thinking cap? cap go up to twenty, what's the highest setting on the thinking cap? Turn it up to ten. Four. You're next to the coffee maker. Chug of coffee, get the thinking cap, up to ten. Acts two, twenty-nine to thirty-six. Is the first Sermon preached all in the age of the church, the the church a era. Now you can't have a kingdom unless you have a king reigning on a throne. we don't overthink it. Is Jesus reigning today? Where 's his throne? Over and over in the New Testament. He's been seated at the Father. At the right hand of the Father. Over and over again. He's seated. He's been seated on his throne throne he's reigning. Ruler of the kings of the earth, Revelation one. He's reigning on a throne. Now the only reason I want us to put a thinking caps on is because that's a fulfillment of God's promise to David that one One of his descendants will sit on his throne. The earthly throne in Israel, the throne of David, was a type, was a shadow that comes from the New Testament. This is how we're supposed to think about the old covenant form of the kingdom. It's typological. It's a shadow kingdom. It foreshadows the heavenly realities. Book of Hebrews. The fulfillment of the prophecies are in Christ. 2 Corinthians, all the promises of God are yes and amen in him. So we're looking at a passage that talks about the resurrection and ascension of Christ. As the fulfillment of God's promise to install one of David's heirs on David's throne. This is Peter's, not mine, Peter's interpretation of that promise based on the Old Testament. All Peter does in Acts chapter 2 is preach from the Old Testament. It's fulfillment in Christ. Acts 2, is that enough of a lead up? Acts 2 29. I think we're going to go down to 36, but we'll see how excited I am as we get there. Brothers, I may say to you with confidence about this, about the patriarch David. That he both died and was buried, and his tomb is with us to this day. Now, if you want to know why he's saying that, you've got to read tonight verses. twenty-five to twenty-eight. Something David wrote in the first person, but it says verse twenty-five, David says concerning him. So David spoke in the first person Concerning Christ about resurrection and living forever. But he says David, David died and was buried, and his tomb is with him So what's the implication? Where's David's body? Was it resurrected in eternal glory? No, it's still on the earth Being therefore a prophet, David a prophet, and knowing that God swore an oath to him. So here you have David was a prophet, and God swore an oath to him that he would set one of his His descendants on his throne. So you have a particular promise in view for David the prophet. What's that promise? Actually, it's an oath. From God to David. David, I'll set one of your descendants. Verse thirty one, he foresaw and spoke about the resurrection of the Christ, that he was not abandoned to Hades, nor did his own. This Jesus God raised up, that were all witnesses, being therefore exalted to the right hand of God, and having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. For David did not ascend into the heavens, but he himself says, The Lord said to my Lord, sit Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. God has installed the Lord Jesus Christ as King. King of heaven and earth. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. The Lord said to my Lord, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. So the promise is given in typological form because that's what David would have understood. But David was also a prophet. That's the point here. That's the hermeneutic Point. David was a prophet, and he uh he would have understood something about this was pointing forward to the Christ and the fulfillment of that oath that one of David's descendants will Sit on his throne. The fulfillment of that is the resurrection and the ascension of Christ. And since Christ has been risen, and since Christ has been exalted to heaven and seated At the throne of God. Now, what is happening? Look at verse 35. Until I make your enemies your footstool. That's the sprawling stone becoming a mountain that covers the whole earth. The subduing of Christ's enemies. And I'm going to read A cross-reference for that. We read it earlier. Well, that might have been before class. Uh why don't you turn there? 1 Corinthians 15, 23 through 26 So you have the establishing of the kingdom, the stone striking the image is the first coming of Christ. And then you have that stone growing to fill the whole earth. To be a mountain that fills the whole earth. That's the church era Uh 1 Corinthians 15, 23 through 26, talking about the resurrection. That's the context. The resurrection of Christ and the resurrection of all those who are in Christ. But each in his own Don't order Christ the first fruits, first fruits, first fruits of the resurrection harvest. Then at his coming, those who belong to Christ. So when he comes, those who belong to belong to him will be r Christ, risen just as he is risen. Verse twenty four, then comes the end. Then the end. Then comes the end. What's going to happen at the end? When he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. Those are s those are spiritual authorities on earth. Those are his enemies. He's gonna destroy what what happened when the stone hit? Damage. Busted it up, destroyed it. After after He destroys every rule and authority and power. He delivers the kingdom to the Father. That happens at this coming. That happens at this coming after the resurrection. Then comes the end. He's gonna hand the kingdom It back to the Father, verse 25, explains, zooms back and explains what's going on till then. He must reign until he has put all enemies under his feet. And the last enemy to be destroyed is death. It's so simple. You know, sometimes I see these complex charts and drawings and murals about all kinds of things that no one could possibly understand understand about what's going on in church age, how's it going to end? Yeah, we don't have all the answers, but we have some answers. Christ right now is putting his enemies under his feet, and the last enemy to be destroyed is death. When is that going to happen? At his coming. It's going to happen at his coming, and then he's going to hand the kingdom, the completed kingdom, over to the Father. And there's a there's a de It will uh be a kingdom in consummate glory with no sin and no sorrow. It And we'll have resurrection bodies. So there you have it. That's the enthronement of Christ As king is the establishing of the kingdom of God that God prophesied through to Nebuchadnezzar. The dream went to Nebuchadnezzar Nebuchadnezzar first, right, and then to Daniel. And uh just one one more quick point on here. Uh no Turn to Luke 1911. The quick point was going to be on Jesus' most common way of referring to himself and the significance of his ministry as Son of Man. And as you get later in Daniel, Son of Man, Daniel Daniel 7 receives the kingdom from God as a representative for God's people. He the Son of Man is the one who approaches, he comes on clouds, approaching God. He doesn't come On clouds leaving God. He comes comes on clouds, approaching God, and receives from God the kingdom on behalf of the people of God. That's the significance of Son of Man. He's a representative for the people of God who receives the kingdom So that's why we're united to Christ. We're in the kingdom of heaven. We have we are citizens of the kingdom of heaven. So we'll get to that in Daniel 7. Luke 19 Eighteen eleven. That's the one I said, right? Oh yeah yeah. Okay, I know what this is now. This goes back to uh something I said three or four weeks ago about the kingdom of God comes in stages and it grows Gradually. And we'll get that back to that point in detail in a future class. We looked at it in detail a couple weeks ago. As they heard these things He proceeded to tell a parable because he was near to Jerusalem, and because they supposed that the kingdom of God was to appear immediately. In its full glory, its full manifestation, its full power, it's going to appear immediately they were wrong. And I would challenge you, when we come back to this point in the future, we'll look Look at this parable. It's uh it's I was gonna say it's a wonderful parable. Well what's parable is not wonderful parable. You know that the parables of Christ is the greatest teaching That phase of his ministry is is so important and can deepens our understanding of God's kingdom in a way that some of the other teachings uh Don't. The kingdom does not come all at once, and did not come all at once, but it did come. And it grows like a mustard seed. It has an impact spread Sprawling impact like leaven inside a lump of dough. It kingdom of God comes in stages and it grows gradually.