Let me invite you to turn to two places in your Bibles. We're going to be spending the majority of our time in Joel chapter 2, looking at verses 1 through 11. I also want you though to turn and put a bookmark or a pinky finger in Deuteronomy chapter 28. So Joel 2, verses 1 through 11, but then also have at the ready, Deuteronomy chapter 28. Repetition can be a really interesting thing. There are times when repeating the same thing over and over again can be just kind of empty and pointless. But there are other times where repetition of the same thing is exactly what we need. I feel this strongly as the person who's charged with selecting what we sing every single week. I'm keenly aware that there's a danger to selecting songs that merely say the same line over and over and over again, but ultimately say nothing. I can remember uh tuning in to a live stream of another church once. I watched about three minutes, and in those three minutes I'm pretty sure the only lyric I heard sung was I feel like dancing. I feel like dancing. Wait for it. I feel like dancing. Yeah. Clearly repetition can sometimes be a mask for the fact that we really don't have anything to say at all. But other times, repetition is exactly what is needed to get a point across clearly. Parents, how many times do you have to say the same thing over and over again to your kids? My three-year-old already groans at the fact that every time I get her yogurt or applesauce, I hand it to her and I say, remember, small bites. Because I want to protect the integrity of my kitchen floor from messes. She kind of groans and says, I know Daddy, you always say that. But I want her to remember. I want to protect my house from sticky things And of course, there are a lot more important messages that we say to our families regularly. We tell them we love them. We tell them that God is good, that Christ Jesus is Lord and is reigning. We repeat the same messages over and over again because we believe that they're important. We believe that they must be heard and understood. Repetition is a way to call us to attention. And as we look at this passage in the book of Joel this evening, we're going to see many of the same themes and the same images that we've already seen be repeated and be intensified. So just to kind of get our bearings of where we've been, Joel has surveyed this scene of destruction in the land of Judah that's been caused by this invasion of locusts. And he has rightly identified this as a historic act of judgment from God against the people of Judah because of their sin. And last week we saw that he called on the people to repent and to return to the Lord. And in our text this evening, what we're going to see Joel say is that unless you repent. More judgment is coming. And in fact, a greater judgment is coming. The language that we're going to see this evening is going to be heightened from an invasion of locusts. To an invading army that comes as God's agent of judgment against his people Judah And all the while he's pointing forward to this coming day of the Lord, which in the greatest, most ultimate sense refers to the final day of judgment when God comes in judgment against all sin and all wickedness. But all along the way in redemptive history, there are these specific acts of God coming in judgment that are almost like lowercase d days of the Lord. Where God comes in judgment against specific sin, specific wickedness, specific idolatry. And in this case, in our passage, there's a judgment that's coming against sinful, covenant-breaking Judah If they don't repent and return to the Lord. As we see this repetition and this intensification tonight in our text, the question that we should be asking is, well, what's the point? If he's saying the same thing, what's the message that God intends to convey? And this evening, what I'd like us to see from this text is that one of the central things that God's judgment is meant to teach us Is a truth that is simple, but it's central to understanding our whole Bibles. God is king He is the sovereign one who reigns over heaven and earth. And his judgments, both his historic acts of judgment and ultimate final judgment are meant to proclaim his rule and his authority over all things. The imagery we have in this passage tonight is really of a king coming down and smashing a rebellion within his own kingdom. And here's the thing, we will never understand sin, we'll never understand salvation, we'll never understand obedience. We'll never understand anything in our Bibles or in the Christian life if we don't understand the fact that God is king over all, that He has absolute authority over the world he has made. The main point I want us to consider this evening, you have there at the top of your outlines, if you have one, is that God comes in judgment because God reigns as king. God comes in judgment because God reigns as king. And though the notion of judgment kind of makes us squirm, what I want us to ultimately see is that apart from that statement We have no hope of salvation. Let's look now at Joel chapter two, beginning in verse one. Blow a trumpet in Zion. Sound an alarm on my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble, for the day of the Lord is coming. It is near. A day of darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness, like blackness there is spread upon the mountains a great and powerful people. Their like has never been before, nor will be again after them, through the years of all generations. Fire devours before them, and behind them a flame burns. The land is like the Garden of Eden before them, but behind them a desolate wilderness, and nothing escapes them Their appearance is like the appearance of horses, and like war horses they run, as with the rumbling of chariots they leap on the tops of the mountains. Like the crackling of a flame of fire, devouring the stubble, like a powerful army drawn up for battle. Before them peoples are in anguish, all faces grow pale. Like warriors, they charge. Like soldiers, they scale the wall. They march each on his own way. They do not swerve from their paths. They do not jostle one another. Each marches in his path. They burst through the weapons and are not halted. They leap upon the city. They run upon the walls. They climb up into the houses and enter through the windows like a thief The earth quakes before them, the heavens tremble, the sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. The Lord utters his voice before his army, for his camp is exceedingly great He who executes his word is powerful, for the day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? Our outline tonight for this passage will be pretty simple. We're going to consider the first the fact that God comes in judgment. Secondly, because God reigns as king, and then thirdly, it is by these truths, not in spite of them, that we are saved So first we consider the fact that God comes in judgment. I want us to notice how much of the language that we see in this passage kind of echoes and intensifies the language that we saw at the beginning of chapter 1. There's a tremendous kind of parallelism going on here, which should just strike us like a massive Sharpie that's underlining the point. Don't miss this, people of Judah, Joel is saying. Don't miss this follower of Jesus. God intends for his revelation, his message to be heard clearly. So consider with me some of these parallels. In chapter 1, verses 2 and 3, we saw Joel call on the elders and the inhabitants of the land to pay attention. To give ear to what God had brought against Judah in her sin. Well, in chapter 2, verse 1, see that we have an even stronger call to attention. Blow a trumpet in Zion, sound an alarm on my holy mountain. Let all the inhabitants of the land tremble So from the center of the promised land, where God's very presence dwelt with his people, from the most important of important places, Sound the alarm and call everyone to attention because the day of the Lord is coming. The day of the Lord, the day of judgment against sin is near. In all of chapter one, one of the other things that we noted again and again was that God's judgment against the land of Judah was this all-encompassing judgment. You have this unstoppable force in the locusts coming up against the land with inescapable consequences. And we see the same thing here, but with an even greater force behind it. And again, it's like we're going from a sentence with one exclamation point to three exclamation points. The locusts, they they destroyed everything in where their path, and we saw that so clearly in ver in chapter one. But here, notice that in verse two, the coming day of the Lord, it's described as a day of Darkness and gloom, a day of clouds and thick darkness, where blackness is even spread upon the mountains. This is common imagery in scripture that is used to describe God coming in powerful judgment. It's meant to indicate ferocity. Strength, sweeping power, and kind of cosmic upheaval. You see the same kind of language down in verse 10. The point is that what should not be dark is now completely covered in darkness because God is coming in power to judge. And it's as though creation itself is trembling before the mighty hand of Almighty God coming in judgment. Well, another thing we saw in chapter one, especially in verse four, was that everything in the path of these locusts was completely destroyed. You have one swarm after another after another, just completely laying waste to everything in their paths. We'll see in verse three that the same exact thing is happening. It's the same story with this coming army. It's only in intensified. Fire devours before them, and behind them like and behind them a flame burns. In chapter 1, we noted that Joel kind of uses this Eden-like imagery, describing the fruitful land of Judah being laid waste and made barren. Well notice here how he's using the same imagery but making it even more explicit. This army that God's bringing against his own people is this unstoppable force that turns Eden The place of God's presence and God's blessing into a desolate wilderness. See that in the middle of verse 3. The land is like the Garden of Eden before them, but behind them a desolate wilderness, and nothing escapes them. And I want us to see once more that this is the consequence that all sin against Almighty God warrants. Sin casts us out of God's presence. Sin chokes out that which is good and that which is beautiful from our lives. And sin finally leaves us desolate and destroyed and worthy of destruction. When we see this language of judgment, we need to let this language push back against the sort of culturally distorted image of God that so often and so easily gets passed around. So often in our day we tend to envision God as this kind of grandfatherly Santa Claus-like figure, who's just absolutely obsessed with you and with your dreams, and he would please very much like it if you would give him a little more attention, but only if it's convenient for you. We have to ask, is that the impression that we get from a text like this? Does God seem so timid and weak-willed when we see how he has chosen to reveal himself in his word? And here's the thing I want us to see. We think that a softened depiction is more loving and more accessible. But a right understanding of God as the holy one who judges sin will actually be the thing that intensifies our understanding of his love. Because a God who forcefully commands armies coming in judgment against his people Yet still says to sinners, Come to me, you who are weary and heavy laden, and I will give you rest. That's a God who can truly offer rest and deliverance. We'll consider this more under the final point, but see here that the reality of God's just judgment does not decrease the reality of his love, it intensifies it. Well, this pattern of repetition and intensification, it continues all throughout this passage. So in chapter 1, verse 6, the locusts were described metaphorically as this army. Joel calls them a nation, powerful and beyond number. Well, here in chapter 2, verses 4 and 5, he describes this actual army, but notice how he describes them as even greater than an army. He said they're like war horses. They leap on top of mountains. They're like a fire that just devours even the stubble that's left behind after you harvest the field. In verses 7 through 9, we see very clearly that nothing stops this powerful, larger-than-life army that's sent by God. It says, Like warriors they charge, like soldiers they scale the wall, they march each on his way. They do not swerve from their paths, they do not jostle one another. Each marches in his path. They burst through the weapons and are not halted. They leap upon the city. They run upon the walls. They climb up into the houses. They enter through the windows like a thief So they charge, they scale the wall, they're not distracted or deterred, they don't jostle, they don't fall out of line. And I want us to notice something here that is so vitally important for us to understand and that connects with something God had repeatedly taught his people all throughout the Old Testament. Throughout the Old Testament, God had told Israel repeatedly, When you go up into battle against other nations, don't trust in your weapons, don't trust in your chariots. Trust in me. Well, do you see how he's teaching them the same thing here? When God comes against you in judgment, don't look to your weapons or to your walls for protection. They won't stand. And here's the broad point that we take from that. Nothing in man, from man, or made by man can withstand or can avert the coming judgment of God. For you today, friend, you you can't build a wall of good works. You can't brandish a sword of religious fervor and excitement. If there's any hope, therefore, of being delivered from the judgment of God, it must come from God Himself. And moving forward in the book of Joel, that's the point, that's the message. God's coming in judgment, but look to God in faith and be saved. Well before we move on to point number two, I just want us to notice two final things. First is we see this progression and this intensification from locusts to armies. I want us to see that this is exactly what God had said would take place. Turn with me back to Deuteronomy chapter 28. We spent some time looking at this chapter two weeks ago, but remember that as Israel was about to enter in and take the promised land, God held out blessings to his people if they would obey and be faithful to the covenant. But he held out curses that would come upon them if they were unfaithful and if they broke covenant with God. If you are obedient, he will bless you and make the land a new Eden. But if you are unfaithful, if you break covenant, this new Eden is going to be destroyed. And in verse 38 of Deuteronomy chapter 28, we saw that one of the things God would bring against his people would be an invasion of locusts. He says, There you shall carry much seed into the field, and shall gather in little, for the locusts shall consume it. But look down at verses 49 through 52 and see this same progression that we've seen in Joel. The Lord will bring a nation against you from far away, from the end of the earth, swooping down like an eagle, a nation whose language you don't understand, a hard-faced nation, who shall not respect the old or show mercy to the young It shall eat the offspring of your cattle, and the fruit of your ground until you are destroyed. It shall it also shall not leave you grain, wine, or oil, the increase of your herds, or the young of your flock, until they have caused you to perish. Notice how Joel is relaying this very same progression that we see here in Deuteronomy. We need to recognize that when we come to the prophets, we often have difficulty understanding what the prophets are all about. But they're acting as divinely inspired interpreters of Scripture, telling God's people under the old covenant what God was going to bring against them if they continued in sin and in idolatry. Joel is just saying here exactly what God had already said. Well, secondly, I want us to notice before we move on to point number two that this historic judgment that's pronounced against Judah Is meant to teach us that God will come in judgment against all sin at the end of history This is where all history is headed. This day of the Lord is pointing us forward to the ultimate day of the Lord. Now we're not under the old covenant. As God's people, we are not today a nation-state like Israel. We are the Church of the Living God. We need to locate this passage rightly in its place in redemptive history. But make no mistake, every historic act of God's judgment that we are told about in Scripture is foreshadowing a final, eternal judgment that is to be poured out on all sin and all wickedness Consider with me 2 Thessalonians 1, verses 7 through 9. When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God. and who those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might. So friends, it might seem in our world today like sin is running rampant, but do not believe for a moment that God is indifferent to sin. He has judged sin, and he will ultimately come in final judgment against all sin, all wickedness, and all rebellion. Then the all-important question we have to ask is: well, why? Why does God have the right to bring this sort of unimaginable destruction against sinners who turn away from him? The answer I want us to consider from this text is that it's because he is king, because he has ultimate authority over his universe. And this brings us to point number two. We consider that God comes in judgment because God reigns as king. Look with me at verse 11, back in Joel chapter 2. So we've surveyed this language of destruction and gloom. This impossibly strong army coming against and taking over the city, the world itself just being thrown into cosmic upheaval. But see clearly in verse eleven It's God who commands the army. The Lord utters his voice before his army, for his camp is exceedingly great. This army is deployed against the people of Judah, not randomly, but at the command of God Himself. The exceedingly great camp belongs to him. And it's by his powerful word we see in the middle of verse 11 that this judgment is executed or that judgment is turned away. Here's the thing, if you were to just be dropped into the scene of this invasion, it would look like total chaos. It would look like completely random destruction. But Joel wants us to see clearly that what looks like chaos and destruction from our perspective is Almighty God executing his powerful word. And this is meant to teach us that God is king, that God is the sovereign one who reigns over his world. There's not a single molecule in the universe that he does not have ultimate authority over. In the ancient world, it's it's kings who would have armies. So to depict God as the commander of the army here is just another way to say that he's king over all creation. When a king makes a decree, that decree in the ancient world comes to pass. It doesn't run through parliament first. So when God speaks, we read in verse eleven that he who executes his word is powerful. Uh now we don't have a particularly strong view of royalty in our day, and as proper Americans, you know, we think it's pretty silly and if you disagree with us, we're gonna throw your tea into the harbor. But the biblical image of God as king is one that's strong and one that Joel's audience would have understood clearly. God is the all-powerful, ruling sovereign over all things. His reign is not merely ceremonial. It's active and it's powerful and it's over all the earth. And just as a brief aside, this is why our obedience today matters. It's because God reigns as King. Yes, we're saved by grace. But that doesn't mean that obedience is something we'll merely get to when we get around to it. No, we need to recognize that because salvation is by grace, God in his grace is forming us into a people who recognize and rejoice in the fact that He is king over all things. God is forming us into a people who gladly submit to his good authority. And here's the thing we need to realize. God's authority as the King and our happiness are never truly in conflict with one another We often feel that they are, and we can convince ourselves that they are. That's only because we're rebels who are still in recovery. We see all throughout Scripture this truth that God is king, and we see all throughout Scripture the fact that God's acts of judgment are meant to make this truth known to his own people and to the whole world. Think about the Exodus. Exodus chapter 14. The Lord says, I will harden Pharaoh's heart, and he will pursue them, and I will get glory over Pharaoh and all his host. And the Egyptians shall know that I am the Lord. God was proclaiming, I'm king, not Pharaoh. Or think of David's showdown with Goliath. What is it that he says as he's charging into battle in 1 Samuel 17 He says, But I come to you in the name of the Lord of hosts, the God of the armies of Israel, whom you have defied. And the Lord will deliver you into my hand, and I will strike you down and cut off your head, and I will give you the dead bodies of the host of the Philistines This day to the birds of the air and to the wild beasts of the earth, that all the earth may know that there is a God in Israel. So all throughout Scripture, God the King makes Himself known through His Acts of judgment But here in Joel, the tragedy of this scene is that God's own people were living as though they did not know him. God's own people were forsaking the covenant. They were turning to sin, and they were acting as though they were king. So here God declares to them that unless they repent, He's coming in judgment. He won't allow them to live in their sin. God is going to set the record straight about who the true king is. And what I want us to see is that what we see here in the book of Joel is really just a a microcosm of what the whole Bible is all about. God is the perfect, glorious, righteous, benevolent King over all things. And humanity is in rebellion against the King. That's what our sin is. It's rebellion against God. It's us attempting to define right and wrong on our own terms. The natural state of every person who is born in Adam is to look to God and say, I think I know how to run things a little bit better than you do. We can look out in our world today and and see myriads and myriads of issues, and I I hope that you know that the ultimate problem Isn't that people have one political persuasion or another? It's not that kids these days just don't want to work anymore. It's that we are sinners. It's that we are born in Adam and naturally we are rebels against Almighty God. Scripture defines and describes our natural state of sin as being under the domain of darkness. We have sworn allegiance to a different master. And therefore we deserve to face the judgment of the rightful king. And that's the note upon which our passage this evening ends. Because God reigns as the absolute sovereign king over all, no one who has rebelled against him will stand when he comes in judgment. See that at the end of verse eleven. For the day of the Lord is great and very awesome. Who can endure it? Well, that's a rhetorical question, but a very obvious answer. Nobody A righteous king cannot tolerate just a tiny little bit of insurrection in his kingdom. This is true for the historic judgment that was before the people of Judah. And it's true for the eternal judgment that is coming against all sin when Christ Jesus returns. No sin will be shrugged off or go unnoticed. And it can feel then like we're in a pretty bad spot. Because if this is the case, and this is how our passage ends tonight, then the picture is pretty bleak. If Scripture is to be believed, and all have sinned, and no one is righteous, and we're all in rebellion against God the King, then things are in a pretty bad spot for humanity. But what I want us to finally consider is that there is good news. And here's the thing: the good news is that God judges and that God reigns as king. Because it's by an act of his judgment that he has made a way for rebellious sinners to be saved and to be brought back under his rule as king for all eternity. We consider this finally under point number three. We're going to see that it is by these two truths that God brings salvation to his people. So God comes in judgment because God reigns as king. Thirdly and finally, by this we are saved. I'm not going to preach Anthony's text for him, but if you just kind of peek forward to the next verses in the book of Joel, you see that there's this call to return to the Lord. To repent from the heart, to look to the God who is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love And as they look to God in faith, this glorious salvation and restoration is promised for Judah from this coming historic invasion. God promises a historic deliverance for his people. But then as you go on in the book of Joel, that historic act of deliverance is pointing beyond itself. It's pointing forward to this even greater salvation that God is going to bring, not just for the people of Judah, but for the whole world. There's this coming day of salvation where God is going to pour out his spirit. See that in Joel 2, 28. In which all who call upon the name of the Lord will be saved. You see that in 2, verse 32. And the results of this salvation Will be that God's people will dwell in God's presence, in his kingdom for all eternity Turn maybe just a page in your Bible to chapter 3. Once you look at verses 20 and 21, how the book of Joel ends. But Judah shall be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem to all generations. I will avenge their blood, blood I have not avenged, for the Lord dwells in Zion. The final note of this book is God's people dwelling in God's place, in God's presence forever. And I hope as you hear those terms, even as you look in some specific places in the book of Joel, your New Testament gospel wheels are spinning. And you're recognizing that the future salvation to which Joel is ultimately pointing is the salvation that's come to us through Jesus Christ. The message we proclaim today joyfully and unashamedly is look to Jesus and be forgiven of your sins and brought into a saving relationship with God that never ends. Romans chapter 10, verse 9, if you confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. That's the gospel that we proclaim to the world. It's the gospel that we sing every single week. But here's what I want us to see clearly. This salvation has not come to us because God suddenly decided to stop being grumpy about our sins. No, what we need to see is that this salvation has come to us through an act of God's judgment. Christ Jesus took the judgment of God for sin on himself at the cross. God's wrath and God's judgment was poured out on his own son. Jesus Christ was put forward as a propitiation, as an atoning sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. We need to see so clearly and have this in our heads and proclaim it to our neighbors and our friends that God has brought salvation through the judgment that has fallen on Christ. The salvation of sinners is not God acting contrary to his nature. It's not God saying, sin 's no big deal. It's not God as one pastor, put that in quotes, says, breaking the law for love. No Salvation comes by God Himself satisfying the demands of His righteousness in the work of His Son. The judgment that we deserve to face for eternity, friends, was put on Christ once and for all at the cross. And so by a miracle of his grace, we can look to him in faith. And we can trust that our sins have been paid for. That He has given us His perfect righteousness as a free gift. We rejoice in the fact that God's salvation comes to us through an act of God's judgment. Well, what is this act of judgment accomplished? It's the way that God redeems a people to himself who now live lives that rightly acknowledge him as king. Colossians 1, verse 13 tells us that he has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son. The salvation that has come to us through an act of judgment is how we who were rebels against the King are now brought under the saving reign of the King in Christ Jesus. We are now a people for God's own possession. We're his royal subjects, Peter tells us in 1 Peter chapter 2. We now live our lives in this world as strangers and exiles because we've come under and we proclaim the reign of the true king who now is in heaven. And friends, this is what all of the Christian life is. This is what our discipleship is all about. It 's about learning to bring every arena of our lives under the kingly rule of Jesus Christ. By grace, through faith, looking to him in his word. This is what our evangelism is all about. It's about telling other rebels who the true king is and how they can be made right with him through faith. This is what churches are. We assemble together each week in this local body, and we're like an embassy that represents Jesus Christ's heavenly rule on earth in this age. We assemble together as his people whose citizenship is in heaven. And that's true now. And this is where all history is headed. When Christ Jesus returns, we're told that every knee will bow, and every tongue confess that he is Lord. There will one day be no question about his authority. But we don't yet see this. And so in this day, in this age, we grasp this by faith. And we live in this reality of the kingship of Christ Jesus by faith, looking to Him. As we conclude, I just want us to think once more about how this bleak picture in Joel ultimately points forward to something absolutely glorious. So the message we saw in the book of Joel this evening was God is judge and God is king. And that message brought condemnation to the people of Judah in their sin. Today, the very same message has brought us salvation through Christ Jesus. And we are the people who proclaim to the world: God is judge and God is king. God has satisfied the demands of his judgment in Christ. Look to him in faith, be saved and brought under his good rule and reign. So friends, may we live lives of worship to God. May we gladly come under his good and righteous rule through faith in all of our lives, all for his glory. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. Oh God, we thank you that you have brought judgment on your Son so that we might live We thank you, God, for your great mercy and grace to us. God, may we live lives unashamed of the gospel. May we not flinch at proclaiming your judgment, because we know that your judgment has fallen on Christ. And may we proclaim to those in darkness who are under the domain of sin who the true King is. And by grace, God, through faith, may we live as those in this age. who have come under your good rule and your good reign. Oh God, help us to grasp that it is good. That it is not a barrier to our joy, but it is how we find joy. Praise in Jesus' name. Amen.