I'm excited to hop back into our Genesis series. And so let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis 2, 1-3. And also you can put a marker on Hebrews chapter 4. Hebrews chapter 4. The preaching will be from two main passages this week. Genesis 2, 1 to 3, and Hebrews 4 says 4 through 5. We'll also look at verse 11 When we first turn there. But the topic, and therefore the title, is God's heavenly rest. Alright? God's heavenly rest. And what that refers to is God. Reigning in heaven over all things. Did you know that that's God's job? To reign in heaven Presiding over all things in heaven and all things on earth. God is the great king over all. He's enthroned in heaven, reigning in heaven over all things. That's God's heavenly rest. Rest does not mean taking a nap. It does not mean taking a nap. But it's rather God enjoying That which he's created and presiding over that which he has created. Of course, God doesn't enjoy sin Alright, sinners enjoy sin. But but God's creation is good. God's in God's presiding over all things from his heavenly throne. Amen. And um that's Worldview 101, Biblical Worldview 101, that God is a great king. So we're talking about heavenly rest, God's heavenly rest, his reigning in heaven over all things. I said earlier during the reading that there's two aspects of spiritual rest. We come to Jesus and we find rest for our souls. And we have spiritual rest. And you can have that in this life. You experience that in this age. Rest for the soul. Peace for the soul. Because you experience the forgiveness that is found in Jesus Christ. And forgiveness is only found in Jesus Christ. That's a rest for the soul, spiritual rest in this age. But we're looking to our eternal rest. Now we all have goals in life, and hopefully your goals are driven by God's will. Hopefully your goals are saturated in prayer and seeking God's will. But we all have goals. But friend, what's your ultimate goal? What's your ultimate destination? Because you won't live in this body on this earth forever. None of us will. But what's coming after? What's your goal for after? What's your ultimate destination? So, whatever other goals that you have, hopefully they're good goals, not sinful goals. Hopefully they're goals saturated in prayer. Seeking to please God, not seeking to please man. But after that, the ultimate goal should be to enter God's rest. Let me go ahead and pray for our time together in the Word, and then we'll begin with the reading of both of these verses, both of these passages. Father, we thank you for your word, and we join our hearts in faith right now, in this moment, asking that you would teach us by your word. Asking that you would comfort us and give us wisdom by your word. Whatever correction we need, whatever conviction we need in our hearts. We pray that you would drive it home by your word. We confess our sinfulness. We confess. We acknowledge our ongoing need for your grace in our lives. And our ongoing need for your power in our lives, the power of Christ in our hearts and in our minds, and in our words. In our relationships, and all our behaviors, in every area of life, we need you to help us. And so be our helper in our time of need. By your powerful word, by your gracious spirit, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen. First from Genesis 2, verses 1 to 3. Thus the heavens and the earth were finished, and all the host of them. And on the seventh day, God finished his work that he had done And he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy Because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. The key word flies off the page, doesn't it? At least one of the key words, there's multiple ones that fly off the page, but here's rest. God rested. Now from Hebrews 4, 4 and 5. With the author of Hebrew Hebrews references Genesis 2, 3. That's why I'm using this passage also, because the author of Hebrews in this passage references Genesis 2 verse 3. Here's Hebrews 4, 4, and 5. For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way. God rested on the seventh day from all his works. And again in this passage he said, They shall not enter my rest. There's a whole lot more there going on in Hebrews 3 and 4. We won't be able to get into all of it. But you see that here Um God's rest is not only something that God does, but it's also a destination that people will enter into All right. And again in this passage he said, they shall not enter my rest. So you see, God's rest, the reality of it, but then God's rest is something where to enter into. And that's What Lord Willen will be able to expound this morning. The picture is really simple, actually. You have God, God's rest. In heaven, and then you have us here on earth striving to enter that rest. Now, why would we do that? Because we want to be with God. That's the goal of goals. Let that be your destination. Let that be your purpose in life. You have God's heavenly rest, and then we're down here on earth striving to enter that rest. Let's praise Jesus for shedding his blood on the cross. That's what purchases our entrance into heaven. And that's why we're striving to enter. Not working to earn entrance, but striving by faith to enter. Now that's the context, and that's the message of Hebrews chapter 3 and 4. You can imagine three sons laboring in the field. Before the sun comes up, they're out there and they're working. And they're striving. And the whole day they're working hard. They're striving to do what they have been called to do. But the whole day also they're looking forward to finishing their work and going home. You can picture a soldier far from home, called to the battlefield, suffering, fighting, almost starving, but he's doing what he's been called to do, but he is longing. He is striving to go back home. And you can also, along with those illustrations, picture the child of God here on earth. Working for the Lord, striving against sin. Is it not a battle to strive against sin? Is it not a war to battle against temptation? And we're laboring in prayer, and we're laboring in the word, and we're laboring in practical love, and we're laboring in the ministry. We're working for the Lord. We're striving against sin. We're striving. We're pursuing holiness. What the word says, pursue holiness, flee from sin, pursue righteousness, work, but all the while we're doing it. Like those laborers in the field, like that soldier on the battlefield, we are striving for our home, and heaven is our home. Our ultimate home, our true home is heaven. To be with God. You see, Christians cannot just blend in with the rest of the world. We cannot just blend in with the rest of the world with the fallen culture that's living strictly for the material. We cannot just go with the flow and live strictly for the here and now. Or even primarily for the here and now, where we just add a little bit of religion. No, we're set apart. Brother and sister, you've been set apart by a holy God. To live a heavenly life, to live a spiritual life with a different goal, a different destination, to enter God's heavenly rest. That's the picture. God's rest in heaven and us striving on earth to enter that rest. Now, there's three ways of looking at God's heavenly rest, and that's your outline. If you have the printouts in the bulletin, this is your outline. It's a very simple outline. Tried to make it as simple and as approachable as I can. Three ways of looking at God's heavenly rest. First of all, the reality of God 's rest. The reality. Just That it exists. What it is. That's first. Second, reaching God's rest. Alright? Reaching God's rest. So first you have the reality of God's heavenly rest, but then you have us Reaching God's heavenly rest. That simply means ending up there, going there. And then finally, have the relevance, the relevance of God's heavenly rest. Beloved, when we grasp in our hearts that we're going to be with God when we die , It changes how we live. It changes everything about us. It changes how we think about the world. It changes how we wake up in the morning. It changes the way we treat people in our homes. It changes our attitude at work. It changes the kinds of things we'll joke about with others It changes the kind of things that we watch. It changes everything about us when our hope is in heaven and not on trivial things on earth. Is that not true? Our hope in heaven changes us. And that's the relevance. So the reality reaching and the relevance of God's heavenly rest. Now, first of all, the reality of God's rest. And that's from Genesis 2, 1 to 3. Thus The heavens and the earth were finished. And all the host of them. There's different interpretations of what and the host of them refers to. Uh the one I lean toward is that that's referring to the angels. Because they're not mentioned in Genesis chapter 1, but it's clear throughout Scripture that everything that God created, everything, he created in those six days of Creation. So at some point the angels were created, and the angelic host, and that's just a common way of referring to angels, all the host of them. So the heavens And the earth were finished, all the host of them, and on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy. Because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. The reality of God's rest is God reigning in heaven over all things after creating all things. After creating all things. So he created all things and then he entered his rest. The way we'll get there is by looking at the significance of the seventh day That's really what this first section is, is looking at the significance of the seventh day in this text. And I have an A, B, and C for you, alright? So make this real easy. First of all, on the significance The seventh day is it marks letter A, the completion of creation. The completion of creation. Verse 1 in Genesis 2, thus the heavens and the earth were what? Finished, and all the host of them, finished. Done. Complete. But then also in verse 2. And on the seventh day God what? Finished his work. Finished. Done. Complete. And then in verse three. So God blessed the seventh day and made it holy because on it God rested from all his work. that he had done in creation. All his work that he had done, finished, complete, creation in six days That God had finished, finished, all the work that He had done brought to completion. That's the significance of the seventh day. It marks that God's work in creation was absolutely 100% finished. The completion of creation. The significance of the seventh day. In fact, in the Ten Commandments, this comes out again, Exodus 20, 11. Just the first part of it for right now. For in six days the Lord made the heaven and the earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Not in seven days he created, in six days he created, and on the seventh day he rested. He set that day as apart, as special, as different. As holy. He blessed it. Six days creation. Seventh day he rested. Is that not clear in the text? Verse 1, verse 2, verse 3. You can't get any more pervasive as a truth that comes out in the passage when it's articulated in every verse of that passage. Letter B on the significance of the seventh day. It marks God entering his rest. And this comes in verse 2 and also in verse 3. Verse 2, and on the seventh day God finished his work that he had done, and he rested on the seventh day from all his work that he had done. Now the resting and the marking of the completion really goes together. If you read the history of Israel, you'll see there's seasons where the army of Israel is at war. The army of Israel is out at at war doing a work that God had called them to do. But then once the victory is given, uh the king and the nation and the land sees a season of rest. A period of rest. And that doesn't mean that through that season everybody's just sleeping. It doesn't mean that they're just all taking naps. Rest signifies that the work is done. Rest signifies completion. And that's what this rest of God is. It marks the completion of his work on earth, in creation, with creation. Because that's what you have in Genesis chapter 1. You have God in his creation, with his creation, ordering his creation. And doing the work of creation. It's a supernatural, special revelation of God in his creation, ordering it. Designing it, naming different aspects of it, filling it with life, giving commands to Adam and Eve. But then on the seventh day, all of that, all of that is done, and God rests. In the broad scope of Scripture, it's referring to his heavenly rest. The seventh day marks the completion of creation. And it marks God entering his rest. I read verse 2 on that, but not verse 3. Again, so verse 3, God blessed the seventh day and made it holy. Because on it God rested from all his work that he had done in creation. So if somebody walks up to you at work this week and says, hey, I was wondering, what's the significance of the seventh day? You've already got two answers. The significance of the seventh day is number one, it marks the completion of creation, the completion of God's work of creation, and number two, it marks God's rest. It marks God entering his heavenly rest after creation. The Lord has communicated to mankind that He is the king over us. He reigns. He rules. He holds absolute authority and dominion over the world, over humanity. Psalm eleven, verse four. The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in heaven. Where does he reign from? Heaven. The Lord's throne is in heaven. Psalm 93, 2. Your throne is established from old. You are from everlasting. It's pointing us back. The establishment of God's throne from old. Before human history, God took his seat on his heavenly throne to exercise sovereign rule and authority over everything. His throne is in heaven Psalm 103, 19. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens, and his kingdom rules over all. There's no authority higher than God. There's no king greater than God. There's no force. There's no power stronger than God. There's nobody who's going to thwart God's purposes. No one is going to be able to thwart God's purposes in the world, and brother and sister, no one is going to be able to thwart God's purpose in the In your life. world If you are a child of God, God is working mightily in your life, and He will bring you home. He will conform you to the likeness of Christ. You look to him and to his authority. Even if God had the greatest of intentions for us, but if he didn't have the power to make it so, if he didn't have the authority to back it up, what kind of hope would that give us? If the devil could just swoop in and stop God from what he wants to do in our lives. Never. Never the case. The devil could never defeat God All the powers of darkness, all the powers of hell, cannot stop Jesus from accomplishing his purpose. I hope that comforts you. I hope that comforts you that God, the great King over all things, loves you and is for you. He will accomplish in your life the things that He's called you to. One more Isaiah 66. 1. Thus says the Lord, Heaven is my throne, and the earth is my footstool. Which means he brings things on earth under submission to his will. Now he doesn't always do that in the timeline that we want, right? He doesn't always do it in the way that we think it should be mapped out. But nevertheless Heaven is his throne. The earth is his footstool. He brings everything on earth under submission to his will. And on that last day, at the end of this age, all of that will be brought to its final and its fullest manifestation ever. The final judgment. Now, what is mankind's great sin when we think about God's throne and we think about his heavenly authority over us? Well, it's really a dual sin, a twofold sin. Um mankind's great sin When we're s when we're thinking about God's throne in heaven and his authority over us. And that dual sin is, number one, man naturally does not acknowledge God's authority over us. In our natural state we do not acknowledge and we do not embrace that God is the authority over us. What's our natural state? What are what's mankind naturally inclined to do? Well, that's it that's the easiest question you'll ever get in church. Live for ourselves. Just say live for ourselves. Yeah, we think, naturally speaking, we think we have the right to live However we want, and we naturally think we have the right to do whatever we desire Whatever we lust after, we presume in our natural state we have the right. God does not have the authority over us. The way the scripture would say that is they have no fear of God before their eyes. And I told you it's a twofold sin. Not only do we not acknowledge God's authority over us, but we do not acknowledge God's goodness toward us. You go out in the world and start asking people if God is good. You go start asking unbelievers. Imagine you're having a conversation with your unbelieving self before you were saved. And I said, Do you believe that God is good? You'll hear that God is unfair? You'll hear that God is not loving. If God is all loving, why would he allow all these horrible things to happen in the world? And if if if he is all loving and all these things are happening in the world, then he must not be all powerful. You can either have he's all powerful, or you can have his he's all loving, but you can't have both. But God has been so good to us and we don't even acknowledge it. Naturally speaking, we completely ignore, we completely take for granted the good things that God has given us. He is a benevolent father. He is a good God. He's given us life. He sustains our life. He gives us breath. He gives us a measure of health. He gives us food. He gives us water. He gives us friends, he gives us family, he gives us freedom, he gives us, he gives us, he gives us, he gives us more than we could ever deserve. God gives life and he sustains life and what what's supposed to happen, the natural order of things, the natural design for mankind is to acknowledge God's authority and to acknowledge God's goodness, but in our sin we reject both. God is not my authority. I'm my authority. God is not loving. God is at best, at best, aloof. and uncaring. And that's where the gospel comes in. That's where the gospel comes in. Because brothers and sisters, if the gospel didn't change our hearts, we'd all still be in that category of natural men. And I'd be leading the charge and living for myself. And I'd be leading the charge in rejecting God's authority. And I'd be leading the charge in ignoring God's goodness apart from the grace of God. Apart from the blood of Christ, apart from the Holy Spirit, apart from the Word of God, me on my own, you on your own, us on our own, we'd all be in that same category, we'd all be what's the what's the phrase? We're all in the same boat. Of rebellion. And so what did God do? God sent his son. God sent his son to live a righteous life that we could never live. And God sent his son to die on the cross as a substitute offering for our sin. Jesus shed his blood. Jesus received the penalty that I deserve. Jesus received the penalty that you deserve. If you came in here today as an unbeliever, you can put your faith in Jesus. Jesus received the penalty that you deserve. And therefore there's no more penalty for us. That would mean God is unjust or God is unfaithful. If he poured out the penalty for our sin on Jesus, but then also there's more penalty for our sin left left over for us in the final judgment. That can't happen. So if you put your faith in Jesus, what you're doing is you're being saved. You're being spared from the penalty of sin. When you think of the gospel, you should think of, well, you should think of a lot of stuff, but what I want you to think of right now is two P words. Proclamation and power. Proclamation and power. The gospel is the proclamation of Jesus and what he did to save sinners. And calling sinners to put their faith in Jesus so that they can have eternal life Proclamation, the proclamation of Jesus and his life and his death and his resurrection and the great salvation. Proclamation, but also power The power of the gospel to change hearts, to change the rebel heart into a heart that loves God. And so we preach the gospel and we share the gospel, we share the testimonies of how the gospel has changed our lives. We're trusting the power of God. Trusting the power of God. You see this section of the Bible, mankind has not yet fallen into sin. It's going to happen pretty quickly, isn't it? And then you talk about the fall into sin and all the results of sin. The scripture hasn't gotten there yet, but that's where we live. We live in the age of sin. We live under the curse of sin and death, and we need the gospel. We need the proclamation of the gospel, we need the power of the gospel. It's the reality of God's rest is God reigning in Heaven over all things. And even though on earth naturally we reject his authority and we ignore his goodness, yet, because of the gospel The next point. The next point is reaching God's rest, which is only because of the gospel. It's coming in just a second. Didn't I tell you I had an A, B, and C on the significance of the second day? Well, the C is consecration. Consecration. A setting apart of this day to make it special. And that comes in verse 3. God blessed the seventh day and made it holy. And that would become the basis for Um the Sabbath day that Israel was to celebrate part of the Ten Commandments. Arrest from your regular labor on the Sabbath day. It was a day of rest to commemorate. uh creation, God's work in creation, but also it was a day of rest to commemorate uh the redemption from Egypt. Colossians 2, 16 and 17, I'll let you look that up in your own studies. But Colossians 2, 16 and 17 is explicit to Christians that we're not to make judgments, we're not under the authority of Sabbath days. anymore. Um which maybe you're already thinking this. That's why we worship on Sunday, the first day of the week, the Lord's Day. We're not under that old covenant system The reality of God's rest. And now turn to the Hebrews 4 for reaching God's rest. Reaching God's rest. Now, because the main passage was the Genesis and the series that we're going through is Genesis, put most of the time in that Genesis passage. Because I want us to grasp that the significance of the seventh day, God's heavenly rest, his presiding over all things from his throne in heaven. But when you get to the New Testament It talks about God's rest, God's rest as a destination to enter. So Hebrews 4, 4 and 5. For he has somewhere spoken of the seventh day in this way, and God rested on the seventh day from all his works, and again in this passage he said, They shall not enter my rest. And also look at verse 11, Hebrews 4. 11. Let us therefore strive to enter that rest. So that no one may fall by the same sort of disobedience. Brothers and sisters, our goal is to enter heaven Be with God after this life. And that's our goal for others as well. That's our goal in evangelism. We want people to know God We want people to go to heaven. We want people to have their sins forgiven. We want people to enjoy this glory of entering God's rest. Now this um Passage in Hebrews 4 that we've looked at is a very small piece of a much bigger passage. And there's a lot going on in this passage. For those of you who will study this out on your own, uh the pat the the section is uh Hebrews 3. 7 to 413. Hebrews 3-7 to 4-13. And I'll give you the broad strokes of what's going on here. The author of Hebrews is comparing the situation of God's people at three different times. It's almost like overlays. You ever seen those transparency overlays like imagine you had a map and there's one overlay where you had in red uh something that was all going on at at one time and then you had a second overlay a transparency and everything in blue was everything that was going on at a different time. And then you had a third overlay, another transparency, but everything was gr uh in green, was representing what's happening at a third time. You have these three overlays. Israel in the wilderness, Israel in the time of David, and the church in the world during the church age Israel in the wilderness, Israel at the time of David, and the church in the world in the church age. And if you read that passage, 3:7 to 413, You'll see that the author of Hebrews is overlaying these different times. And he's using Scripture and he's making a very practical point. Strive to enter God's rest. Strive to enter God's rest. So there's a lot there. There's a lot of detail. But you look at these overlays, and the point of these overlays that this situation This situation and that situation, three situations. The point is, in every situation, all three times, the people of God are called to strive to enter God's rest by faith and obedience. Strive to enter his rest. How do I do that? By faith and obedience. Look to Christ, believe in Christ, trust in God, trust in the Spirit, trust in His Word, faith, faith, and obedience. Faith and obedience, practical obedience, striving for holiness, striving to turn from sin, cultivating a heart that hungers for righteousness Cultivating a heart that's disciplined in prayer, cultivating a life, cultivating a life that's hungry, desperate for the Word of God. Faith and obedience is the way God's people strive to enter his rest. This is utterly practical. Utterly practical. Third point, final point, the relevance of God's rest. And I put this in its own point just because I wanted to have a three-point sermon. No, I'm just kidding. Just kidding. I actually I put this in here because as I was studying this out, a passage from 1 John came to my heart almost immediately in my preparation, and it was on my heart for the entire preparation. So I said, well I'm just going to give it its own point. The relevance of knowing that we'll enter God's rest. 1 John 3. 3 Check this out. 1 John 3. 3. Everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. Now let that sink in. Let that rest on your heart. Everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. So our hope is in Jesus. Our hope is in heaven. Our hope is in eternal life. Yes, it's pointing to the future. But everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. We strive for holiness. Faith and obedience. Faith and obedience. Cultivating the character of Christ. A desire for holiness. A love for God, a love for His Word, gratitude in our hearts, humility in our hearts. Brethren, pray for these things Let's model these things for each other that our hearts are overflowing with gratitude and humility and joy and contentment because God has set us apart for those things. He set us apart for those things. Flee from sin. Flee from temptation. Don't keep running into it. Repent, repent from your anger. Repent from your secret sin. God will find you out. Everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure when we know, when we know that heaven is our destination. We are striving to live in a way that pleases God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the blood of Jesus Christ that gives us entrance to your heavenly rest. We thank you that your spirit is with us. We pray that you'll give us perseverance and strength. Pray that you'll fill our hearts with humility and joy. Do not allow us, Father, to just blend in with the fallen culture and just go with the flow of the world. But set us apart all the more as the day approaches. To purify ourselves as he is pure. Turn our hearts to Jesus Christ, crucified in our place, and living as our priest in heaven, in him we hope. It's in his name we pray. Amen.