The words we'll examine tonight come out of 1 Peter 1, verses 13 through 25. 1 Peter chapter 1, starting in verse 13. Holy Living. Our topic tonight. It's the focal point of Peter's letter in this section. We'll actually be talking about holy living and what it looks like for a few weeks I'm cautious of saying how long because I don't want to be a liar. And uh maybe the the spirit will work and I want to talk longer on a single word or vowel in a sentence. and we'll just stay there for a week. But we'll see this this understanding of what it means to live out a holy life. We're called to be holy and We'll see tonight what is that calling? Why are we called and how can we live holy lives You'll notice a majority of what we'll talk about tonight and what we'll see in Peter's setup of holy living is not focused on the do's and don'ts. It's not a list of things that, okay, you you do these things, you you follow these twelve steps, and you will be considered a holy Christian. You'll be living a holy life. That's not what we see here. What we see is the mind of those that are to live holy. How do we prepare our minds? What should our focus be set on? Our hearts, what what's consuming our hearts, what is the passions within our lives? And then lastly we'll see tonight What are some of the actions that come out of that? What does holy living look like in action? And then in the next week or two, well after Easter, the next week or two we'll see. More of the practical evidence and the practical work of holy living. But before we dive in there, I must make this statement up front, and I want it to be very clear. That holy living is not legalism. Holy living is not legalism. But then on the reverse side, legalism is not holy living. We have to understand that holy li uh holy living is not legalism. This argument that if you are desiring to be obedient to the Lord, you're desiring to follow after his commandments, you're desiring to live a life that is is glorifying to God and abstaining from the world and sinful things. That's not legalism in its own sense. Legalism would be the idea that you are doing those things in order to earn your salvation. You're you're following rules and structure and uh the laws of God in order to be saved. We know that that can only fail. Well none of us can live a perfect life. But on the flip side, if you Just say, okay, I'm going to follow the rules. I'm going to make sure I'm obedient to all the instructions, and I'm going to be a good, conservative Christian, and that's where my identity will come from. That's where my purpose. That's not holy living. Holy living and the the idea of being holy must start in who we are in Christ Jesus. And then it will overflow into the outworking of who we are. We start with the root. Beloved, we start with the root, our heart. And then we will see the fruit produced from our hearts in how we live and function. Let's look at 1 Peter 1, starting in verse 13. It reads, Therefore, preparing your minds for action. And being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct Since it is written, you shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, Conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile, knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers. not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundations of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you. Who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God. Having purified your souls, by your obedience to the truth for sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God, for all flesh is like grass. In all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. Lord, as we j dive into this text, maybe see a high calling. May we maybe be brought back and humbled as we see the calling to live a holy life. May it may cause us to pause for a moment and say, yeah, I'm not perfect. I haven't done this really well This maybe doesn't describe my life right now. This isn't who I am. And I want to encourage you in saying you're not alone in that. This message isn't a be perfect. This message isn't you gotta you gotta get your life together, you gotta work harder No, tonight the message is look to Christ. Look to God and recognize what He is doing within your life and see the goodness of who He is. This isn't a sermon and a message on the do's and don'ts of living, other than I want you to set your hearts, your minds, your souls, your passions on the person of Christ. Not religion, not good deeds, but on Christ Jesus and what he has done on your behalf. How he has transformed you and made you new. He has brought life to you that you did not know outside of him. So, how do we do this? How are we to live holy lives? We must start with our minds. Verse 13 says, Therefore, preparing your minds for action and being sober-minded, set your hope fully on the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. Well, where is your mind now? And you think about how you're living your life. You think about what influences you and what decisions you make What influences you on how you love one another? What influences you on how you treat your spouse? What influences you on how you deal with your coworkers and your boss? It's our thoughts. It starts with our minds and how we're thinking. Peter uses this language of preparing your minds for action. Some translations may have the preparing the grut the the girding up of the loins of your mind. It's kind of a strange phrase when we think about it, but the imagery there is this this imagery of preparing to do something. Preparing to go into action and and be active. Uh we we know that as we get older, if we would say, Hey, let's go out and and throw the baseball, well we got we got a twenty minute warm up of just stretching out the arm before we throw a ball Right? We have this this warm-up period that we have to do before we go and do the activity. Young folks will learn that very quickly. And in this imagery here, it's the mind of uh, in that day they would wear uh more cloaks or a garment that was long. It wasn't pants. And if they were about to go into battle or they were about to go on a run or do some physical work, they would take their garments and they would roll them up and tuck it into their belts wrapped around them So that their their knees could be free in the breeze and they could go and do their work and their garments wouldn't be tripping them. Well, beloved, are we doing that with ourselves? When you think about being obedient to God, you're following after God and living a holy life, is your mind prepared for the action that God has called us into? What are you consuming regularly? What's going into your mind the most? If you could graft out what's what's in your life, what are you listening to? What are you reading to? What conversations are you having? It I don't need you to tell me right now, but think about that. Try to put it in a graft and and wha what w how big is that that pi section in the graft of music? How big is that pie section of of reading and of social media and and uh just conversations at work or studying for for school? Now take those sections and start to put the glory of God over it. How much is glorifying God? The youth on Wednesday nights, we get to have a lot of fun conversations, right? They're fun? Yeah, okay. And a lot of the conversations revolve around what are we bringing into our minds? Can I listen to this music? Is this okay to watch? Can I read these types of books? And it's not right just to say absolutely not. You can't listen to any music that has a beat faster than 120 beats per minute. That's rap. No, that's not what we should be doing. The better way of examining that is what does that music, what do those books do for us when we bring them in to our minds? Are they growing us in our love for God? Are they encouraging us to seek Him? Are they encouraging us to see the beauty of His creation? Well, but what I'm trying to draw out here is that we must be preparing our minds. Are we dedicating time to the study of his word? Are we dedicating time to having conversations that encourage us in God and in our living as Christians? Is what we're passively just listening to and reading, is it beneficial? Is it neutral, or is it destructive? I think we have those three categories. I think we can live in the beneficial reading. Reading of the word is beneficial. Reading devotionals is beneficial. I think there then there's what I would consider neutral. Some novels that are just fun to read and history books about history is is enjoyable if you're if you're into that kind of thing. Becky's not into that apparently. I think that's fine. I don't want to say, oh, you gotta get rid of that. That's a neutral thing. But you all know the stuff that is destructive. That we're bringing into our minds. That's filth, it's worthless, it's no value, it's not beneficial Are we preparing our minds for the labor and for the living that God has called us to? Well, it doesn't just stay at the preparing of our minds. It's also the, as it's stated here, the being sober minded. Sober minded. Are we clear in thought? Maybe you that'd be a easier translation to understand. Well, as soon as we say sober, we jump right to alcohol and and that is that is a warning there. Don't be a drunkard. Don't don't be uh on drugs that is taking your your conscious and your thinking abilities away from you, but it's not limited. You can't say, well I'm good. I don't drink and I don't do drugs. I'm good. Are you sober-minded? Is your mind and your thinking focused on God? Is it clear from obstructions that prevent you from thinking about the Word of God? Is it uh clear of things that are consuming you outside of the normal living of every day and glorifying God? I think of one that we as good conservative Christians fail at being sober-minded is the intake of the news and media. Right? It's not it's not inherently just wrong, oh don't ever look at the news, but we get consumed by it. It takes us over and then our thinking is always about well f President so-and-so doesn't do this and if this war over here doesn't stop and and we get so consumed up with these things that are global uh uh news th items and and and we get passionate and we want to have debates and arguments over these things which is fine to do but often that's where our focus and our thoughts are at the majority of the day. Beloved, I believe that we need to clear those things out of our mind. We need to be sober minded. Not only are you preparing your mind with the intaking of the word of God, singing of hymns and Reading of good things and having healthy conversations, is your mind cleared of the filth? Is it cleared of the filth You may not even realize it's there, and then one day it just pops up, and you have to deal with old thoughts and old habits and old music you used to listen to. You've got to deal with that. But we are to be sober-minded. And then the third aspect of our minds of the Holy Living is that we are setting our hope in the right place. And it says here, set your hope fully on the grace that will be revealed, excuse me, the grace that will be brought to you at the revelation of cr of Jesus Christ. As obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. Is your mind set on the hope of Christ? Is your mind set on the glory? The glory of what Christ has done for you? Is your mind set on the realization that Christ has paid for your sins? That you are righteous before the Father. Lord , if your mind is consumed with your past sins and your past guilt and your past shame, you're not sober-minded. You're not ready for the holy living. Now what are we to do? How do we solve this problem? Seek the Lord. May we be consumed. May our thoughts be consumed with the glory of Christ. May our thoughts be consumed with the reality that we are forgiven through Christ Jesus. Are we perfect? You know, there's there's a a a popular teacher and preacher that uh he'll he'll criticize us a little bit because as we're brushing our teeth, we're not thinking about the forgiveness of our sins. Maybe he's right at times, but I think that can cause us to have some guilt and shame that we don't need to have. But it are we consumed i when someone wants to talk about Christ, are you more attracted to that conversation? Are you more attracted to geopolitical conversations? Are you more drawn to read up and study And talk about what the Romans did in the fifth century through some battle, more than you are about the battling of the sin within your life. Man, I feel like maybe that was just for us a little bit here. And what's happening with uh so and so down the street street or within your family more than you are with the glory of Christ in his word. What's consuming your mind? And it's a fight. Let's be honest. It's a fight. It's a battle that we live with each day. We must be battling against this. We must be fighting against the flesh, as 14 says, as obedient children do not be conformed to the passions of reform or ignorance You're always being drawn back to that former way. And what Peter's encouraging us, what I'm encouraging us tonight, is we must be fighting against that old way of thinking and putting on the new way of thinking. Transforming our minds, looking to Christ, keeping the hope, his revelation, his glory as our focal point in our minds, setting God In the righteous place of worship that he deserves to be placed. And as our minds are being transformed, as we're girding up our loins of our mind , As we're being sober-minded and as we're setting our hope on the grace that He has given us, our minds will grow and mature. And you'll start to make decisions that a holy living Christian will make. You don't need a class. I don't need to go through a class of how do you make holy decisions. That would be, I think, an extremely long class because I'm still growing and learning in that. But it would be this idea that if we are in the word, our minds are being transformed. Day by day, through the word of God and through prayer, we're going to start to make decisions. We're going to start to live. We're going to start to choose things that are glorifying God. And ch and fight against things that are sinful against God. We must start with our minds, beloved. The second aspect of the holy living is our hearts. I don't think we can separate these. We've talked about that in the past. Our hearts and our minds. God uses both of those. He transforms both of those in the new birth. And we see here that our hearts must be set in the right place. We must have the right God in our hearts to have a holy life. Look with me in verse 15. It says, But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct. Since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. Knowing that you were ransomed from the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. He was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you, who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead and gave him glory So that your faith and hope are in God. Beloved , the question about your heart: Is God at the center of your passions for living a holy life? Is God at the center of your passion to live a holy life Often the reason for a holy living or the seeking after of living according to God's law is out of pride. We want to appease ourselves. We want people to see us. Look how good I am. My church attendance is perfect. My tithing is excellent. My mission work is great. My swear words are below four per year. And and we have this list and we want the world to see. No one said amen. Maybe our numbers are higher. But it's often that we want others to see our holy living more than we want to have God at the center of our holy living. Our passion must be for the Lord. The first aspect of our hearts that must be transformed is to recognize the father and child relationship. Now right away we jump to the father and child between Father God and Jesus the Son. But I want you to start thinking about the Father God and you. But his love for you. He's called you his child because of what Christ has done. That starts to change our heart. It starts to change our posture towards him and then how we live our lives. We must recognize that he is holy. I could spend the whole sermon on this a few weeks ago. Pastor Matt preached on this section. And did a great job. But if you go back and look at that, he uh he draws out the clarity and the understanding that we live holy lives because God is holy. We live holy lives because God is holy. This isn't, he's not calling us to something extra and special that he's not willing to do. He's not calling us to do something that we can't understand or see, but we live because he is holy. And because he is holy, we then recognize that we are to live holy. And why do we do this? Is because we see that he is our Father. Look at verse 17. And if you call on him as Father, who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. Beloved, do you recognize that you are the child of God? No, I I I know that not everyone here had a good earthly father and and that's a a terrible thing. It causes great harm within the understanding of God. For those that did have a good relationship with your father, I know for myself, I I wanted to please my father. I wanted him to be happy with what I did and how I lived and how I acted and talked. Uh I wanted the conduct of my living outside of the home, if he would hear about it, that he would be well pleased with me Me. Well, how much greater shall we be thinking that way with our Heavenly Father, the perfect holy God, who has looked at us and said, You are mine. I am your father. Should we not desire to live in a way that pleases him? Isaiah 63, verse 16. I'll read it quickly here. 63 verse 16 reads, For you are our father, though Abraham does not know us, and Israel does not acknowledge us, you, O Lord, are our father. A Redeemer from of old is your name. O Lord, why do you make us wander from your ways and harden our hearts so that we fear you not? Return for the sake of your servants the tribes of your heritage. Your holy people held possession for a little while. Our adversaries have trampled down your sanctuary. We have become like those over whom you have never ruled, like those who are not called your name. Notice that starts here with recognizing that he is our Father. uh that that Abraham didn't even know about them and then it goes through these trials and these pains and these sufferings because they have they have walked away, they have go abandoned the path of holiness, they're now crying out, Are you not our father? They're seeking his mercy in this time. Likewise, beloved, we are to seek our father. Do we not want to honor him? Should our disobedience not stir up in us and our conscience be pricked because we want to honor God, we recognize that we have offended him. John 14, 15 says, If you love me, you will keep my commandments. That's Jesus speaking to his followers at the time, and he's tying that into he has been sent by the Father. But we must understand that loving God, worshiping God rightly, involves obedience. It involves obedience. The holy living is that we worship God. We recognize that we are his children. The second aspect of our hearts that must be transformed in order to have a holy life is that we must recognize and dwell on the reality that we have been bought with the blood of Christ. Beloved, you have been purchased at a great price. You have been purchased You have been brought into the kingdom of God. You have been made a child of God by the blood of Christ. Look at verses 18 and 19. It says, knowing that you were ransomed. From the futile ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ, like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. Verse 18: You have been ransomed from your futile ways. Your old ways before Christ, your old ways of doing things, of living life, were futile, meaningless, pointless. In fact, Scripture tells us they were leading to destruction and death. They were futile. They were of no value. And we are all in that camp. We have all inherited sin from our father Adam. And we live in this life of sin, and and we uh we have self-pride that we focus on and we worship ourselves and we think that's the best thing, but we see that we have been ransomed. Meaning we have been purchased. Redeemed. We have been purchased from one kingdom and brought into a better kingdom. It's not by silver or gold. It's not by all the riches of the world. It's not by military might or power, as we heard this morning. How was it accomplished? What was our purchasing? Why should this drive us? Why should the ransom of our lives drive us to obedient and holy living? It's because we recognize in verse 19, it was by the precious blood of Christ. He died in our place. He died the death that we deserve to die. He paid the greatest price that you and I are unable to pay in this lifetime. May we see the glory, the glorious work of Christ on the cross. May we recognize as his blood flowed down, our sins were washed away. Beloved, if this doesn't draw us to the Father, if this doesn't change how we think, if this doesn't draw us to hate our sin and love the law of God, I truly do not know what will. Our hearts must be set on who our Redeemer is. We must recognize his gracious price that he has paid for us. It must magnify within us the love that God has for us. He is not our enemy. He is our glorious Father. And Christ is our glorious Lord who loves us and died for us. The third aspect of our hearts that must be transformed and will help us grow in the holy living is the recognition that this has been God's eternal plan. This is God's eternal plan. The love that He's poured out upon us, the work of Christ on the cross, and us as His people to live holy lives is His eternal plan. Look with me in verse 20. Says he was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but was made manifest in the last times for the sake of you Who through him are believers in God, who raised him from the dead, and gave him glory so that your faith and hope are in God. Now, why is this so important to us? Why does the foreknowledge of God's work, understanding that this has been his eternal plan, that he is working in us, is encouragement to our hearts? As beloved, we recognize that it is the work of God that we are able to have a holy life. It is the work of God. Please hear me. This is not a sermon pointing my finger saying you gotta get your act together. You gotta work harder. You gotta you gotta fix all these problems. This is a sermon pointing my finger at you and myself saying, go before the Lord. Cry out to God. Plead with Him. Search His Word. Love him more as you understand his love for you. It is a growing aspect of who God is. We must recognize that Christ's work has been planned. It was the plan before the foundation of the world. But here it is. This is the world that we get to live in in 2025. Yeah, 2025? Yeah, we'll go with 2025. Ethiopia is a different country. That's why I messed up. Or a different year. It's a different year. Why is this important for us is because while it has always been proclaimed, we now get to see it manifested in Christ Jesus. Well of it, we we can't comprehend this because we've always lived in the age where Christ has died and rose from the dead. But could you imagine how they live as before Christ, always looking for something? We talked about that a few weeks ago. They're always peering into the future. They have their hopes set on the coming Messiah. Now you and I are living in the reality that the Messiah has come and we are saved. This should transform how we live. Our worship within our hearts is changed in mold and anew. To draw us to the Father. We should seek to glorify Him in all that we do. It's because we recognize that the only life we have in Christ is because the Father has called us and has has uh mandated and called us into it and designed it for us since before the foundations. So what are we to do? Our actions. We're only going to cover a small piece of this, and then in the next week or two we'll see that unfold. What we could call this is the practical living of holy living. But, beloved, if you're not set, if your minds and your hearts aren't set on Christ, and God's not the center focal point of your holy living, your desire to live a holy life. Truly, I I I'm calling you to pause. Don't just jump to the actions. So often we want to get into the actions. Just tell me what to do. Let me get to work. Let me do it. Because our pride is built up when we can see the working of our hands But beloved, our hearts must be transformed first. The worship of God must be our center point of our holy living. So let us look at our actions. Verse 22 through 25. Having purified your souls, By your obedience to the truth for sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable. Through the living and abiding word of God, for all flesh is like grass, and all its glory like the flower of grass. The grass withers and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And this word is the good news that was preached to you. So what are your actions? What does holy living start to look like once your minds and your hearts have been transformed? Well, the first thing is obedience to the truth. 22. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth. Well , what is the truth? I think it's an important question. If we're to be obedient to the truth, what is the truth? Well, the truth we start with is the Word of God, and I want to take that even farther in a higher level and say it is Christ Jesus. Are you being obedient to Christ Jesus? Now one of our problems is we don't know what or who Christ is. How are we to be obedient to a man that we don't know? We don't know his words. How do we know his words? It's through the studying of his word, what he has said. But the the obedience to the truth, Romans seven, verse twenty-one. Read I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God in my inner being But I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind, and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Wretched man that I am Who will deliver me from this body of death? Here it is. Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. We see this battle and this war raging within our bodies, but notice what is set on the mind and in the heart. How are we to live out the life? It says in verse 22, for I delight in the law of God in my inner being. Beloved, is the law of God good or bad? Good. Thank you. Gold star, Miss Larna. That's good. Is it in your minds? Do you know who God is and what he says is righteous living? It would be unfair of me to say, okay, we're all gonna go play cornerball. Everyone know cornerball? The classic Amish dodgeball game with the baseball But but you don't know the rules and and if I got mad at you every time you did something wrong. Well well no, we have to deal and understand what righteousness looks like. What does holy living look like? Well it's because we love The truth. We seek the truth of God. So my first instruction in what we should be doing in our actions is to be obedient to the truth of God. And that starts with knowing the Word of God, examining the Word of God. That'll be our last point within actions. The second aspect of our actions, back in 1 Peter chapter 1. So we should be loving one another. Loving one another. Look back in verse 22. It says, obedience to the truth for sincere brotherly love. Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Come on, Peter, give us something different. Give us, literally, give us anything other than loving one another. Command me to go feed the the hungry. Give give me the action of living a holy life and that I I can uh that I have to go to church. Give me the action, Peter. Please give me the first action that I have to uh I I I have to say ten prayers every day. Somebody does. What does he root it in? Is that our souls are purified by obedience to the truth for a sincere, brotherly love. Beloved, we are called to love one another. Don't think about the world right now. Think about each other in this room. Each other in this church. We're to love one another. First John 4 21 says, Whoever loves God must anyone know it? Love your neighbor. Notice that's not an option. It doesn't go whoever loves God, if your neighbor is cool and you like the same sports team, you gotta love them. No, no, no. The command is to love your neighbor. If you love God, how do you know that you love God? How is that represented as the command? Because you love your neighbor. Now, first John clarifies that is how are you to love one that you do not see while you do not love the ones in which you see? Okay it's easy. It is easy to say with your mouth, I love God, and it's harder to say with your mouth that I love my neighbor because we often mistrust Treat one another. We don't truly love one another. We don't talk about one another in a loving way. We don't think about one another in a loving way. But the start of holy living is obedience to the truth and then immediately goes into loving one another. You can't separate it. I think the reason that this is so important is because it's the one that we probably fight against the most within our lives. It's subtly. Right now I if I took a poll, who here loves your neighbor, who here loves one another, we'd all raise our hands. And then some issue will arise and someone will offend you and the first thing you'll go and do is grumble and gossip about them. Hate them in your heart, not deal with them in a loving manner. So we see that this is a vital aspect of holy living, and we'll see it later on in future weeks as we understand how this living uh looks like. But it continues on in verse 23. It says, since you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God, excuse me, through the living and abiding word of God So the reason that you are able to take these actions of holy living is because you have been born again. You are a new creature in Christ Jesus. Now therefore, go and live as that new creature. Right? It's not this complex thing. It's not this, oh, you gotta you gotta grow and you gotta change and well no if If you've been uh ripped out of and you've been ransomed out of the kingdom of darkness and purchased and brought into the kingdom of life, if your old dead nature is dead and now you're alive in Christ Jesus Now you're living in this new kingdom. You're alive in this new nature. So therefore go and live. I'm sure I'm not using therefore correctly there. But we are to live, live, live as Christians. Because the word of God is alive, it's brought us life. That's what it it talks about the the word of the Lord remains forever. In the end of verse twenty-five it says, And this word is the good news that was preached to you. The gospel. The gospel is the reason that we live holy lives. The gospel is what motivates us to this holy living. It's what instructs us of how we should live. Living by the Word. It's the third aspect of our actions. It must be obedience to the truth, brotherly love, and living by the Word. Beloved, we must be rooted in this Bible. Are you studying it? Are you examining it? Do you understand what the law of God has commanded? In the Old Testament, do we see the law of God given to Israel? And it twists us up, and we get weird feelings at times as we're reading it, but essentially are we seeing that God has given principles and instructions? to his people and of how they shall live. And then we look at them and we go, this is what righteousness, God was protecting and loving his people. It was a tutor of to which should instruct us of what righteous living looks like. Do we know who Christ is? Do we examine his life? Do we go through the Gospels and we read and we see what he said and how he acted? And we say, I don't get it. I don't understand how he loved those people who mistreated him. I don't understand how he was so patient when they were so foolish. But are we seeking to live in that example? Well, beloved, the only way we can do that is we are in His Word. We recognize that the gospel has transformed us. We recognize the newness we have in Christ Jesus, and we live that out. Blood of the holy living that we are called to in Scripture and by our Lord starts with our mind and our hearts. Allow God to be your center point of worship. Allow God to transform your thinking and your passions. And then recognize that from that root there grows a tree that produces great and holy fruit. And that's our actions. And we'll be examining that for uh maybe the rest of 1 Peter, but for sure the next few weeks. May we seek to glorify God in all things. May we recognize that the calling of holy living is a good and righteous thing. But God must be at the center center of that goal and seeking after. Let's go before the Lord in prayer, and then we will partake in communion. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the redemption of our souls that Christ Jesus has purchased for us. Has made us new. Lord, we thank you for the new birth, the new lives you've given us. And Lord, I ask that you grow in us the understanding of what that new living looks like. Give us a desire to be obedient to you. Give us a passion to follow after you, to seek your word, and to know you. Lord, grow us. Take away any pride that we have. Take away any desire to show off to the world. Take that away from us. May we seek to glorify you in all things. We pray this in Christ Jesus. Amen.