Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Galatians chapter 2, verses 15 to 21. In the Pew Bible, you see the page number up there. Galatians two fifteen to twenty-one, talking about what it means to be justified by faith. And again And that means to be declared righteous in God 's eyes through faith in Jesus Christ. That's the only way that could happen You can picture yourself in the courtroom, God is the judge, and He's holy, and He's perfect, and His standard is holy, and His standard is perfect. And And you're the defendant. Now in my mind's eye, I'm the defendant. But in your mind's eye, you're the defendant. And you can picture God bringing the gavel down and announcing his verdict and the verdict is not guilty but innocent. And the verdict is not condemnation, but justification Now that should be incredible to us as we hear that because we know the lives that we've lived. We have committed sins. We are guilty. And for the gavel of heaven to come down and declare us innocent and righteous before God is a wonderful thing. I mean that is the security of eternal blessing in the presence of God, and that's what justification by faith Faith is, it's a legal declaration by God Himself. is And there's no higher authority that can come in and reverse. There's no executive order that can come in and reverse God's verdict over you. Amen? And understanding the doctrine of justification by faith will guard us from self-righteousness on the one hand. Alright, and it's important that we're guarded from self-righteousness. Justification by faith guards us from believing that we're justified on the basis of our own obedience. That's the definition of self righteousness. When we believe or think or behave as if we're right before God based on what we do. Justification by faith will guard us from that self righteousness. But justification by faith will also guard us from despair. It will guard us from being a slave to feelings of guilt and shame because Justification by faith is supposed to break the shackles. It's supposed to give us freedom that we can have confidence, one hundred percent confidence, one hundred percent bold assurance to use the language. of Hebrews that we are right before God. We are acceptable to God, not on the basis of what we have done. But on the basis of what Christ has done for us. So we're guarded from despair and being a slave to guilt and shame, and we're also guarded from pride and self-righteousness. Where we want to be is free in Christ and confident in Christ. Ephesians 3. 12, Paul writes about Christ. In whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him. Those are some strong words, aren't they? In Christ we have boldness, and in Christ we have access. With confidence. Access into heaven with confidence through our faith in Him that's guarding us. from despair. And then Romans 3, 27 and 28. Then what becomes of our boasting? It is excluded By what kind of law? In other words, what is it that excludes our boasting? What is it that takes boasting off the table for the Christian? By what kind of law? By a law of works? No, but by the law of faith. Where we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. So here's all our works of the law over here. That's not bad things, that's good things. I mean works of the law, when they're done properly, are uh obedience to God and glorify God, but that's not what saves us. Over here is what saves us, and that is faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and that happens in the heart. So I'm really wanting to front load the practical application of this this doctrine so that we're not just heady this evening. I want us to understand this doctrine is the core operating principle of the gospel and it guards us from self-righteousness and it guards us from despair. Let's read the passage and then we'll go through this and you'll see on your outline there's three major points and hopefully we can hit every one Galatians two fifteen to twenty-one. We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners And yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus in order to be justified by faith in Christ. And not by works of the law, because by works of the law no one will be justified But if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a sinner Servant of sin? Certainly not. For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor For through the law I died to the law, so that I might live to God. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh. I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. Could the topic be more important when the passage ends that way? If righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose Because Christ's death is the centerpiece of biblical teaching and the centerpiece of worship and of Christian living. If righteousness is through law and not through faith in Christ, Paul is saying Christ died for no purpose. The purpose Christ died for brothers and sisters, the purpose was to reconcile us to God. The purpose Christ died was to do something for us that we could never, ever do for ourselves. To make us righteous in God's eyes. I'm so glad He did it. Apart from Christ, I have nothing. Apart from Christ, I am nothing Apart from Christ, I have no hope, I have no forgiveness, I have no righteousness to offer to God, I have no righteousness to present in the courtroom of heaven. Except, accept That which Christ gives me as a gift. And that's the righteousness that you have as well. Amen indeed. This is everything, friends. This is everything Before we get to these major headings, uh by the way, if you don't have an outline, feel free, this is a very casual gathering, feel free to go to the back. And get a bulletin. The outline is pretty detailed. It'll help you to follow through. Before we get into these major headings, I'm going to pray for us once more. Pray for our time in the Word. Father, we join our hearts in faith, and we ask that you would open our hearts to Christ. Lift our hearts, lift our minds to spiritual things. To things of the soul, to things of eternity, to the blood of Christ and the forgiveness of sins. To Christian living, living free, living joyful unto you. It's in Christ we ask that you would minister your word to our hearts. Amen. Well the first point, should have been able to guess it. Justification in Christ. Justification in Christ. This comes from verses fifteen. and 16. And the point is that those who believe in Christ are justified in him by faith Apart from works. Those who believe in Christ are justified in him by faith apart from works. Verses 15 and 16 again. We ourselves are Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners. Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So there he says it once. A person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. So we also have believed in Christ Jesus. in order to be justified by faith in Christ and not by works of the law. He says the same exact thing, doesn't he? Doesn't he say the same exact thing? He just flips it around He says in verse 16 at the beginning, we know a person is not justified by works, but through faith in Christ. And then he says, Therefore we've believed in Christ to be justified by faith in him, and not by works of the law. And then just for good measure, he says this, because by works of the law no one will be justified. And that's true. Every sinner who could ever be justified in God's eyes. In other in other words, every sinner anywhere who's declared righteous in God's eyes is declared righteous because of their faith in Christ, not on the basis of their obedience. If you can grasp this point in your heart, it is liberating, to say the least. This is what frees us from trying to earn our way into heaven. This is what sets us free. It breaks the chains. It takes us out of prison, the prison of slavery to sin. This is what sets us free from trying to work our way into God's good graces. Brothers and sisters, there's no such thing If you had to work your way into it, then it's not God's good graces. The reason it's called called God's good graces is because it's grace. It's a gift. It's a free gift. Because it Multiple times there in verse sixteen. Justified again, declared righteous in God's eyes. It's a legal declaration to be declared righteous. But what does that mean? What does righteous mean? Does someone ask you walking down the streets, what does the word righteous mean? What would you how would you answer what What would you say? Well there's different ways you could summarize it, but essentially to be righteous is to be in conformity to the law. To adhere to the law. That's what the word righteous means. It's the opposite of wicked. It's the opposite of lawbreaker. This means law keeper. Righteous is in adherence to the law of God. It is uh morally upright. That's a huge debate in our culture, isn't it? In any culture, uh all cultures throughout human history, that's one of the key debates. What's moral, what's immoral, what's right, what's wrong. Righteous is that which is morally upright. Give you one more way to think about what righteous is or righteousness. It's being in line with the character of God. It's being in line with the character of God. God's commandments to us reflect his character. And so our obedience to his commandments, which is only going to be the result of salvation, not the means of salvation, but our obedience to his commandments is also called godliness or Christ-likeness. It's a reflection of God's character. It's a wonder. Wonder of wonders. of the gospel of Christ's death and resurrection, that though I am a sinner, I could be counted righteous in God's eyes. And though you are a sinner You can be counted righteous in God's eyes. But that righteousness, that righteousness, and tattoo this on your heart. That righteousness is not by works, it is by faith in Jesus Christ That's the only way to lay hold of this hope, brothers and sisters. Justified. You see justified, verse 16 In the first clause, and then justified in verse 16 in the second clause. It's the last word in verse 16 And then verse 17, again, the first clause justified, and then verse 21 toward the end, again, righteousness, if righteousness were through the law, then Christ died for no purpose. This is This is justification by faith. Um works of the law, letter B, he says, not by works of the law. That just means we're not saved by our good works. We're not saved by our adherence to the law. Um but that doesn't mean that works of the law are bad. Brothers and sisters, practical obedience is Not bad. God's law is not bad. The only point here is that works of the law does not earn us a righteous standing with God. If you're a Christian, there will be obedience in your life. And I don't even mean outward obedience. Let's just talk strictly about the heart. If you have love in your heart for God, that's obedience. In fact, that's obedience 101. If you don't have love in your heart toward God, please don't worry about any other obedience. That's what you need first. A heart that loves God. That's a result of salvation. That doesn't earn our salvation. Let her A justified, let her be not by works of the law. But please don't think that that means the works of the law are bad. It's just means they're not the means of salvation. Um letter C, but through faith in Jesus Christ. Again, that's six verse sixteen. Multiple times in there, justified by faith or through faith in Christ. It's important to understand the nature of faith. Faith Does not earn salvation. Faith receives salvation that's been earned in the past Salvation has been earned. Period. Christ earned salvation in his righteous life and his sacrificial death. Salvation has already been earned. You can't add to what Jesus did. You can't take away from what Jesus did either. So faith is is not a work that merits or that earns salvation. Like we go to work. Work for eight hours, we earn a certain wage. That's not what faith is. Faith does not earn. Faith receives. When you go to a birthday party and there are gifts there for you, you reach out to receive the gifts. But you didn't buy the gifts. That's that's absurd. That's ridiculous. Unless maybe you knew no one you wanted to have gifts out there for yourself and you didn't really think anybody was going to bring stuff. But picture a little baby. Opens his mouth to receive a spoonful of what? Mush mushed up peas or something like that. He's receiving the baby food. The baby's not working for it. The baby didn't earn it. Because of love and care, the mother is feeding the baby, or the father is feeding the baby. That's what faith, faith is for the helpless little babies And we receive God's provision. If we think that faith earns, then we don't understand what faith is. Faith is falling down on our knees with empty hands, saying, God, I have nothing to offer. But would you be merciful to me, a sinner? God, would you be merciful to me and forgive my sins? I trust in Christ. That's all we have. That's what faith is. Romans 5. 9 Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. Did you catch that phrase? Justified by his blood. See, it's the blood of Christ that earns our justification. It's our faith that receives it. Just like you go out, you purchase the present, you bring it to the party, and it's the birthday boy who receives it Or you're the parent, you work, you earn money, you go buy baby food, you bring it home, you feed it to your baby. Baby didn't do anything to work for it, but they receive it. That's what faith is. The blood of Christ earned, our faith receives. There's different aspects of faith Three essential aspects of faith. Number one, knowledge. That's just talking about knowledge of the true gospel. Right? So that would be the person of Christ, understanding that he's God and man. That would be understanding the basics of the gospel, a knowledge of the fact that when Jesus died on the cross, he died in a place of So that's knowledge. The second component of faith is what's being called assent, which just means agreement. It's just acknowledged. It's not just the head knowledge of the gospel facts, but it's agreement with them and saying, yes, that's true. Yes, God, I read this in your word, and I agree with you. That's a key component of faith. So there's knowledge of the true gospel, there's agreement with that gospel, and the third component of faith is heartfelt trust. Heartfelt trust. You see, you can agree that something is true, but not put your heartfelt trust in Jesus Christ. That's really the essence of faith is leaning on Christ. Is depending on Christ. Trusting in Christ, not my good works. Trusting in Christ and not my religion. But trusting in Christ alone to forgive my sins. This is the first major point: justification in Christ. Faith saves us because, brothers and sisters, faith unites us to Jesus. And that's why faith saves us. Justifies. Faith saves. Because it unites us to the living Savior. And second point: freedom in Christ. We are free In Christ. This is verses 17 and 19. And the point is: those justified in Christ have died to the law in order to live for God. Those justified in Christ have died to the law in order to live for God. Now this is the most difficult portion of the paragraph if you don't get it all tonight, if you don't have a firm grasp on it. tonight. Uh don't worry about that. There's some deep concepts here, some difficult context uh concepts, and just like many doctrines in scripture, it takes A season of maturity, a season of learning and growth as God brings these things to life in our hearts and minds. But you can remember the simple concept of freedom. Freedom in Christ. Those justified in Christ have died to the law in order to live for God. Let's read seventeen and nineteen and Let's see what we can do with these verses in a short amount of time. But if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ We too were found to be sinners. Is Christ then a servant of sin? Certainly not. For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. For through the law, I died to the law, so that I might live to God. Let's go bit by bit piece by piece. First of all, um let's look at this question that Paul asks in verse 17. Is Christ then a servant of sin? Is that's a a pretty important question, I would guess, right? If we if verse seventeen, if in our endeavor to be justified in Christ, we too were found to be sinners, is Christ then a servant of sin Some question, isn't it? And what's Paul's answer? Certainly not. And so he says that we too were found to be sinners. Right? So it's not just People who are trying to be justified by their own works who have sin in their lives, but people who are seeking to be justified through faith in Christ, we have sin in our lives too. So is Christ a servant of sin? Certainly not. Has Christ forgiven us just to encourage us to go on sinning and not worry about it? Certainly not. Has Christ forgiven us so that we would actually care less about the sin in our life since we know that it's forgiven? Certainly not. Christ does not condone sin. Christ does not ignore sin. Christ certainly does not encourage sin, and he's not a servant of sin to the question. Is Christ a servant of sin? Is his work in our lives unto sin? That's servant of sin. Certainly not. But Christ loves sinners Christ is patient with sinners. And Christ doesn't break fellowship with us just because we continue to sin. Could you imagine? No one would ever make it to heaven. Nobody would ever make it a day in the Christian life If God were to abandon us at the first sight of sin in our lives. Is Christ a servant of sin? Has He forgiven us just to encourage us to keep on sinning and not worry about it? Certainly not. And then let it be, verse eighteen, he says, if I rebuild what I tore down. I think This is the most difficult verse in the passage. He says, For if I rebuild what I tore down, I prove myself to be a transgressor. Now we'll come back to this at the end of the section. Uh but for now just notice that the rebuilding, whatever the rebuilding is, the rebuilding itself would be sin. So if I rebuild what I tore down, so just don't even worry about what is he talking about? What did I tear down? What am I going to rebuild? We'll get to that at the end of the section. The only thing I want us to notice now is that if you were to rebuild, it would be sin. Rebuilding, bad. Stay away from the rebuilding. You tore it down, well don't go back. Don't build it back up. Um We'll come back to it. Unless I forget. Sometimes there's things in my notes and I skip right over it and I don't know until Wednesday. Letter C Died to the law, verse nineteen Through the law, I died to the law. As long as Paul tried to justify himself by the law He was a slave to the penalty of the law. Now don't forget that Paul was a legalist. Before he was a Christian, he was a staunch legalist who thought he was righteous in God's eyes on the basis of his obedience. As long as Paul tried to justify himself by the law, he was the slave to the penalty of the law, or you could say it he was a slave to the curse. Of the law. He was a slave to the condemning voice of the law. But now that he's come to Christ, he's free from the curse of the law. He's free from the From the condemning voice of the law. In other words, he's died to the law. The condemning voice of the law and the penalty of the law no longer has dominion over Paul. He's died to the law. And as Paul works out, in Romans especially, since he's died to the law, he's also died to the reigning power of sin. in his heart. That's the only way we can die to the reigning power of sin in our hearts. Is by dying to the law and coming under the grace of God. So died means to be done with. Died means to be over with. Died means to no longer be under the authority of. So he's died to the law, its curse, its penalty, its condemning voice. And therefore also he's died to the reigning power of sin in his heart, which is why uh he says at the end of this verse, so that I might live to God, because that's the only way we can live. unto God is if we die to the law. But he says, die to the law. But he says something before that Which is really intriguing. Verse 19 begins this way. Through the law I died to the law. So turn your thinking cap up to eleven. I mean supercharge that thing. Through the law? I died to the law. That's what it says, right? Verse 19. I thought it was through the gospel that we're set free from the law. I thought it was through the gospel that we die to the law. And yes, that's true, but that's not what this verse is about. Through the law I died to the law. What does this mean? Well, somehow, the law played a part in Paul dying to the law. Yes? I mean, it's a very base, it's a very Simplest terms, that's what we can say. The law played a part in Paul dying to the law. Somehow, somehow, beloved, the power of the law. Helped Paul to die to the law. The power of the law helped Paul to die to the law. Does that sound strange? Well, actually. That's the very purpose of the law. The purpose of the law is to show us that we're sinners and send us running to Christ for salvation. So it's through the convicting power of the law that we run to Christ for salvation. The law does have a part in us dying to the law. Because if the law never convinces us that we're sinners, we'll never run to Christ for salvation. My oldest daughter is laughing. I must have done a gesture that is making her laugh and she's totally taking me off my point. Which I think is the most important thing I've ever preached, Gracie, so I appreciate that. No, just kidding. That's what you get for trying to make eye contact during sermons. The law does play a part in us dying to the law, in us being liberated from the pedestal. It's very simple. It teaches us that we're sinners. And when the law of God, the holiness of God, teaches us that we're sinners, we flee to Christ. I mean we run headlong to the cross of Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins. So that's what he means through the law, I died to the law. He was convicted, finally convicted, that he can't earn his way to heaven. Hopefully you've been convicted of that at some point. You can't earn your way into heaven. You need a savior. And where do we go? We go to Christ. And we're saved and In Christ we die to the law. So the law if you're in Christ, the law has no authority over you. It's condemning voices and silence. The penalty of the law, the curse of the law, the punishment of the law is irrelevant for you if you're in Christ. Um because Christ took all that penalty and curse on the cross. And then he says at the end of verse 19, so that I might live to God. And isn't that what we want, brethren? To live for God and not ourselves? To live for God and not the fleeting treasures of this world. There's nothing wrong with collecting things or enjoying the the good things that that God has put in He's given us those good things as a sign of his goodness, so that we might enjoy his world and enjoy things in his world in a proper way and give thanks unto him. Um but we can't keep these earthly things forever. So that I might live to God. That means to live under grace and not law. That means to not live for the passions of the flesh. But it means to seek to walk in the Holy Spirit To walk in the Holy Spirit, to be kind and not selfish, to be forgiving and not holding grudges, uh to be a peacemaker, um not a troublemaker, and on and on and on. And you can fill out fill out the list. Everyone in here can Um that we might live to God. And now back to this rebuild what I tore down. It's an illustration and in the context it's difficult to I guess arguably it's difficult to pinpoint exactly what the illustration's alluding to. If I rebuild what I tore down, I think he's saying uh if he put himself back under the law, that itself would be a the greater sin. Why would I go and put myself back under the law? So why would I rebuild, in other words, would I tore down. I think he's thinking about himself. He's giving testimony here. He's why what would I rebuild, what I tore down. And what Paul tore down was legalism in his own Heart and life. That's what Paul destroyed. He repented from legalism. He repented from thinking he was right before God because of his obedience. Why would he rebuild that? Number three, union with Christ. Union with Christ, verses twenty and twenty-one. Verses twenty and twenty-one The point is that those who are dead to the law are united to Christ And filled with His Spirit. Those who are dead to the law are united to Christ and filled with His Spirit. There's no shame in saying that justification is a legal declaration of God. There's a legal aspect to our Salvation at its heart is uh a relationship with God. We're united to Jesus The Holy Spirit fills our hearts. One of the blessings is being justified, but the central blessing is union with Christ. Verses 20 to 21. I have been crucified with Christ. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me, gave himself for me. I do not nullify the grace of God, for if righteousness were through law, then Christ died for no purpose. I apologize that this is the last point in the sermon. I didn't write this paragraph though, so you have to forgive me on that, but you have to take these thinking caps from an eleven and ri maybe just put another thinking cap on to bring that thing up to like 21 turn them both up for this phrase crucified with Christ. Alright, crucified with Christ. Verse 20, Paul says, I have been crucified with Christ. He does not say crucified like Christ, which would mean something like this. Christ was crucified, he died in one sense, and I was crucified like Christ, so in one sense I died to the old me. That's not what he said He says, I was crucified with Christ. When was Jesus crucified? April third, the year thirty-three. Most scholars put it. There's an argument to be made for the year thirty. I think there's a better argument to be made the year 33. But the important point is that Christ was crucified before Paul was saved Right? Christ was crucified before Paul was saved. Yet he says I was crucified with Christ. And you can apply that to any Christian anytime. You were crucified with Christ. I was crucified with Christ, but Christ was crucified before we were saved. Um crucified with Christ. But he's clearly referring to his conversion. Because if you look at verse 20 Um, you obviously you see the before and after in verse 20, right? I've been crucified with Christ, and here's the before and after. It's no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God who loved me and gave himself for me. Now he couldn't say those things about himself before he was saved, and we couldn't say those things about us before we were saved. It is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. That's only when we're saved. And the life we now live in the flesh, not according to the flesh, just in the flesh. Living by faith in the Son of God, that's not us before we're saved. That's us after we're saved. And some mysterious Way, some supernatural way, some way that confounds human intellect. This is bringing into view two things Christ dying on the cross for you, and you turning to Christ in faith. Something from the past in history and something from your personal life, something from your experience, and it's bringing them together and said you are crucified with him. When you were born again, you were crucified with him. When he died on the cross, you were crucified with him. So miraculous. Spiritual sense. When Christ received the penalty of sin on the cross, we died with him. Which means we also died to the penalty of sin. That's the takeaway. That's the takeaway. There's no more penalty of sin for the believer. And then he says, Christ who lives in me. Christ who lives in me. If you want to contemplate what is Christian living? What is discipleship? What does it mean to live for God? You've got to start here. It's Christ living in us. The Spirit of Christ alive in us to bring holiness to fruition to kill, gradually kill the impulse of sin, to over time mature us, over time strengthen us Over time, conform us to the likeness of Christ. Yes, we live in the flesh like Paul, but we do not live according to the flesh, beloved. We live by faith in the Son of God. That's what he says. By faith in the Son of God, who loved, he says, who loved me and gave himself for me. We can say the same thing that Christ loved us. The Son of God Christ loved us. And the Son of God Christ gave Himself for us. And therefore we do not nullify the grace of God. Christ died for us so that we'd be justified by faith, set free from the law, and able to live for God. Why would we go back under the law when Christ has set us free and enable us to live for Him? This is the operating principle of the gospel. You can think of an operating system uh on a computer. You could have the best Hardware, the best computer hardware in the world. But if you don't have software, if you don't have an operating system software, that hardware is useless. You also think about a basketball. Yeah, you have the basketball and that's great. It can be the l best leather in the world, the best seams, the best grip in the world. But if you don't have air inside of it and it can't bounce, it's useless To you. What we're talking about is the operating system of the gospel is the principle of grace, not the principle of law. But the principle of grace, the principle of law is do this and live. Obey and live. Do this and live. Disobey and die. But do this and live is the principle of law. But the principle of the gospel is not like that The principle of grace is not like that. The principle of grace is believe and freely receive. Believe And freely receive. Put your arms out, the arms of your heart. You put those out in faith, and you receive the free gift of salvation. We should not be self-righteous on the one hand. And we should not be proud on the one hand. On the other hand, we should not live in despair. On this hand, we should not be slaves of guilt, thinking that we're we're never acceptable to God. We can never be acceptable to God. How do we, how are we set free from self-righteousness over here? And from despair and self-pity over here, justification by faith. That based on the blood of Christ, any sinner who believes in him is declared righteous, irreversibly declared righteous in the throne room of heaven. We ourselves Jews by birth and not Gentile sinners. Verse 15. And verse 16. Yet we know that a person is not justified by works of the law, but through faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for all that Jesus has done for us, has given to us, and has promised to give to us in the age to come. And we lift this prayer in his name. Amen.