The words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Luke chapter 1 , starting in verse 46. Luke chapter 1, starting in verse 46. Tonight we'll examine Mary's song The song of praise of which Mary cries out to the Lord. And if you were here this morning, you heard Matt preach on the beauty, not of who Mary is, but the fact that God used a broken vessel such as Mary to bring in the Redeemer, to bring the Son, the one to come and die on the cross. He brought him to humanity through this woman, Mary It's why we spent the entire day in our services talking about her. Not to glorify Mary, not to uh rejoice in her or praise her uh in in some false attitude. But to recognize that God uses sinners like you and I, uses sinners and broken people like Mary, and we must recognize that Mary holds a very unique and special place in history. Now we don't need to worship her such as the Catholics do. We don't need to put her up on a pedestal, raise her up to this point where she is issuing our salvation to us. No, no, we don't need to do that But likewise we must not reject her. We must not say she has no meaning, she has no purpose, because we see that the Lord has used her. What I would like us to do tonight is examine the words of how Mary sings songs of praise to our Lord and try to see how we can sing like Mary does. How can we, as Christians, over 2,000 years after her, almost 2,000 years after her, how can we sing songs of praise to our God like Mary? Mary. So let us examine her song. Luke chapter one, starting in verse forty six. And Mary said My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Saviour. For he has looked on the humble estate of his servant, for behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed. For he who is mighty has done great things for me. And holy is his name, and his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. He has filled the hungry with good things. And the rich he has sent away empty. He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy, as he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. And Mary remained with her about three months and returned to her home. Let us pray. Father, we thank you once again for this time. We pray that our hearts and our minds are transformed into the hearts and minds that you gave Mary, may we rejoice and worship you accordingly. us. In Christ's name we pray. Amen. The reason for the season. We hear this phrase a lot right now, right? What is the reason for the season? Jesus, good Sunday school answers. If it's true. We say this, we know this And we're often fighting against the world that wants to pull in all the other fun and enjoyable things of the Christmas season, but they're pulling them in and putting them as the primary. And we're proclaiming as Christians that this reason, the whole purpose of the Christmas season, the whole joy, and the whole atmosphere and spirit of the Christmas season is all about Jesus. We also see this is a very common word. I see giant light-up signs of it on in people's yards. On Friday I saw some of the kids making a craft with this word on it. It's three letters. Anyone know or want to guess what this three-letter word that's very common in this time of year? Joy. Joy. We say this all the time. I mean the the the blow-up signs I see of it in people's yard are A costing money to keep them lit and inflated, but B costing money to purchase these six, seven-foot signs. So what's the purpose? Why are we saying joy? And I think as Christians we need to understand really what's happening in the Christmas season. That something unique, special , historically, radically changing happened in the incarnation of Christ. That God sent his son to come and dwell amongst sinners, to live a perfect life, be obedient to the law, both in his active obedience, but also in his passive obedience to the law There's something special and unique to this this son that was born to Mary, the Virgin, to then grow, obey the law perfectly, and then die on the cross as a perfect lamb. the perfect sacrifice, dying for sinners such as you and I. But not only that, that he was laid into the grave, was dead, and then defeated death, and we all know this, defeated death raised from the dead, and now has sits at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth. That's why we're purchasing giant blow up inflatables, that's a joy. Because we see that the incarnation brought joy in a whole new way into history that humanity had never seen and never fully understood, such as they did in the birth of Christ. And we hear in Mary's song this this song of praise, of gratitude, she's worshiping God. And I think if we examine it, we start to see how our hearts should be postured towards God. The things that we should be thinking about God in our worship, and how we should react to God Don't look at this and think, oh, Mary's so special. She's highlighted. She's great. Those things are true because of God, but look how Mary talks. Mary's constantly pointing to God. She's constantly pointing to God. Look here. Look at what God has done. Look at what God is doing. Look at what God will do. We see this is Mary's constant response. So what should our response be? That's what we'll examine tonight. What should our response be? The first thing we should look at is our response to God comes from our innermost being. Look at verse forty-six again. And Mary said, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior. Notice Mary uses two words there, soul and spirit. We could divide those and really examine uh what why soul and spirit are both used, but ultimately they have very similar meanings and a similar overlapping of context. What I want us to see here is that Mary's rejoicing of the Lord, Mary's magnifying the Lord, comes from her innermost being. Her rejoicing of the Lord is not dictated on the current events of the time. Mary's rejoicing of the Lord is not just feeling good. Ladies, remember she's in the early stages of pregnancy. Feeling good is maybe not the most common thing. Is that fair to say? Haven't been pregnant. So it's not based on of this feeling. It's not even based on the situation. I mean, think about this. She's now pregnant with child without having a husband. Do you think the the her friends and her family are looking at her with real positive attitudes? No, we actually see something quite different. in the the story of uh of her pregnancy. That John uh that uh John was actually going to divor uh divorce her, but then the angel came to him and said, No, no, no, you you should Not. This is from the Lord. So think about how the rest of society was looking at her. Mary's worship of God is not based on external things, but it's based on her innermost being. Likewise, we should examine our innermost being. Is our worship of the Lord starting from inward or outward? What are we placing at the center of our worship? Are we placing our feelings, our emotions, the things that have upset us in the week? How good the music sounded? Does our worship depend on how uh beautiful the pastor put some words into a sentence to form and calls us just to feel really good in our bellies Does the worship of God depend on the blessings of which He has poured out that we think we deserve and that we want? Does the worship of God depend on anything other than God Himself? As we've talked about this over the last few weeks, if we are born again, that means we have a new spirit. The Holy Spirit has given us a new heart and a new spirit. And what Mary's pointing to is that new spirit. The very essence of who you are is what is worshiping God. Don't rely on external experiences. Don't rely on the current events of the time to dictate your worship to God. But focus on who you are as an image. of God, as a child of God. The worship starts inside. And if it starts inside, what's it probably going to do? It's going to overflow outwardly. Meaning that the worship, the response to God, comes from the innermost being and transforms every aspect of who we are. From the very inner piece of us to the very outer piece of us, the worship of God just overflows from us So the first thing we see that Mary wants us to focus on is that our response to God comes from our innermost being, our soul and our spirit. The second thing I would like us to look at is that our response is to magnify and rejoice. Same verses and Mary says, My soul magnifies the Lord, and my spirit rejoices in God my Savior. Two words. Once again, Mary's very intentional with the words here. The first one is magnify. This word simply, we all know the magnifying glass. They're not just for burning ants. If you didn't know that, Henry Boyce. The magnifying glasses actually make things bigger, right? Make things greater. Make great or make glorious. Now you're thinking, wait, wait, wait. Mary a human is going to make God better, is going to make him greater, is going to make him more glorious. Well no. You're right in thinking that. That's not Mary's task. That's not your task. That's not my task. We don't make God any bigger than he already is. We don't make God any greater and grander and glorious than he already is. But when we talk about magnifying, just like that magnifying glass, if I was taking that magnifying glass and looking at the ant, it doesn't make the ant any bigger, but what it does is it takes the the image and magnifies it to the eye. So likewise when we're magnifying the Lord, we're not making him bigger than what he already is. But we're putting a lens onto the world's eyes, onto human eyes, and we're magnifying so that they can now see the glories of God. We're not making him any bigger. We're not making him any greater. We're giving the lens for the world to see the true image of God. How is this done? Do we talk about the wonders of God? Do we go throughout our day, throughout our lives, proclaiming the beauty of who God is? Do we go throughout our days proclaiming our salvation we have in Him alone? Do we go throughout our days proclaiming, recognizing that we are sinners, forgiven by a holy and just God? We start to talk and live in a world that represents us. We start to live and forgive one another, have mercy and grace towards one another, patience with one another. We start to actually magnify God. To the sinner's eye. God is who he is. He is great and glorious. We're just putting a lens in the way we live and the way we talk so that the world can see the glory of God. The second word she uses though is rejoice. Let me back up quickly. And this is a bit nerdy, so we're not going to go down deep into this, but a little Greek here. I just finished up my last Greek class for school, so I have to use it, or I'd fail the class. So the word magnify in the Greek is a continuous action. So Mary's talking about continuously magnifying God, that this is a way of life. And then the word rejoices could be transferred rejoice in the past tense. But it sits in this weird stage of the of the grammar where it is it is a pest event, but it can also be happening currently. So when she's talking about rejoicing, she's seeing that God is the Savior. She's not saying we're rejoicing in the future, Savior. that is to come. She's talking about God the Savior that currently is reigning and ruling. She's recognizing that God always has been the Savior Always will be the Savior. She's recognizing the beauty of who God is, and she's using the word rejoice. Now rejoice is simply exalting, boasting, celebrating She's saying that she is rejoicing, singing songs, worshiping, celebrating, exalting God. That's what she's doing. Now I think this has two aspects of it. Well, I think magnifying is mostly external. You're mostly magnifying God, but I think we can also do that internally. We need to also be reminded of the glorious works of God and and his grandness and magnify him in our own lives. But with rejoicing, I think it has a very personal and internal thing. Our rejoicing of God is often internal. We are often rejoicing and thinking and boasting about the grandness of God to ourselves Along with boasting and rejoicing and celebrating and exalting Christ and God outwardly. We see the two aspects of rejoicing that Mary is saying is her magnifying and rejoicing of God starts very inwardly. But it's going out to the world, but the world is seeing and hearing the worship and praise of God. Now the last this is my third and last point. But we're not close to being done, just so you know. We have a lot to unpack in this third and last point. The third point is what are we responding to? Why is Mary singing the song of praise? Why is Mary proclaiming to magnify and rejoice? Why are we rejoicing today? Why are we celebrating Christmas? It's the incarnation of Christ. We want to see here that the reason we respond is because of who God is. Who God is, what he has done, what he is doing, and what he will do Brothers and sisters, don't think that your only time of responding and worshiping and magnifying God is just in the moments that you see or sense a blessing of God in that very moment. No, we are also looking back in history. We also look back in time and we think, wow, what a glorious and wonderful God that created the very flowers and trees. The little ants that we use the magnifying glass on. What a glorious and wonderful God that created you and I. And we look at the works of our God throughout all of history. And we also look and think about the wondrous works that God is doing right now. We see Him at work right now in our lives. The forgiveness of our sins today. New new sinners coming to be saints today. That's happening around the world. We see it in our church. We see it in our lives. The blessings and the food and provisions God has given us right now and today. That is part of what we are rejoicing and magnifying God for. But also we're looking into the future. We also have a future hope that is glorious. We know that God has worked in the future, that all things will work together for God's for the good. Of God. Let me mix that up. We know that God is at work into the future and we have a hope that is eternal and glorious. We see here that we're not just worshiping God in this very moment, but we see the eternality. of God throughout all of history, both past, present, and the future. So I have five characteristics or aspects of God, of which we are worshipping him in both the past, the present, and the future Their first one is that God is Savior. That's what Christmas is all about. That God has sent his Son to be the Savior of mankind. We heard that this morning preached and proclaimed over and over again because it's a reminder that we must have over and over again. We see throughout all of the New Testament that Jesus is the Savior, God is the Savior, He is the Redeemer. There is no way to salvation except through Christ. We see it throughout the entire Old Testament. God is the Savior. He is the Redeemer. He is the one that will heal and make people new. And Mary wants us to see this. And we see how she is responding to God as a Savior. Likewise, we should as well. We see in verse 47 and 48 once again. And my spirit rejoices in God, my Savior, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. For behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed. God as Savior. Mary's a Jew. She knows the history. She has seen God at work throughout her forefathers, throughout the prophets. God saving and redeeming his people. Even when they don't deserve it. Think about as Israel was was enslaved by the Egyptians. What did God do? He saves them, right? He liberated them from the Egyptians. Not only did he liberate them, but he rescued them as they were being chased. He he gave them a passage through the sea. and took them into the wilderness. Did Israel deserve God's liberation? Did Israel deserve a Savior? By no means. But God is their Savior. He has promised that. We then see them receive the promised land. We see even in Israel's rebellion and rejection of God that He provides food and water to them He provides them a law to give them guidance in their lives. He's provided them a a land. And within their rebellion God sends judgment upon them, punishes them so that they are corrected in their worship of God, in their obedience to Him. And yet He saves them, He redeems them That's in the past we see that. Now Mary's witnessing God is the Savior firsthand. This is why 48 is so important, for he has looked on the humble estate of his servant. Now we must see here that Mary's talking about that God has looked upon her and has said that she will be the woman to carry the son. The Savior. And we see this word humble, and we we kind of think of it as a really positive thing, right? Like, oh, Mary's so humble because she's not prideful, she's not boastful. That is a version of being humble, but I'm going to argue here that the way Mary's using this word is not how unprideful she is. She's recognizing her broken sinfulness. That she is unworthy to carry the Savior. She doesn't deserve to be called blessed throughout all generations, but that the Savior, God, has looked upon her In her brokenness, in her sinfulness, and has said, This is the plan. Not based on Mary's work, not based on who Mary is, but because of what God has planned and what he wills. Likewise, brothers and sisters, he looks upon us. We don't deserve his salvation, we don't deserve his work, we don't deserve his forgiveness in our broken humbleness, not that we're not prideful. It's actually that we're very prideful, we're very broken. He looks upon us and calls us child. That's the Savior that we're worshiping. And we also look into the future. The saving work into the future, and Mary hints at this, for behold, from now on all generations will call me blessed Once again, not all generations will call her blessed because she is something special, but because history changed through the work God did with Mary in carrying the son. All generations throughout eternity will look back and remember that God sent his son to be born of a virgin. It's in the Apostles' Creed. We've been uh uh repeating and and proclaiming the Apostles' Creed for for generations now, for many, many generations. We probably will until uh Christ's return. And in there talks about being born of the Virgin Mary. She's not magnifying herself. She's magnifying God when she talks about the generations thinking of her as blessed. Will call me blessed because. The Savior God is recognized by his work he did within Mary's life. That he brought the Savior through the womb of Mary. Brothers and sisters, we worship God, the Savior of all humanity, throughout all of history. The second aspect of God that we worship is that God is mighty God is mighty. Look at verse 49. For he who is mighty has done great things for me, and holy is his name. Jump down to verse 51 with me. He has shown strength with his arm. He has scattered the proud in the thoughts of their hearts. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble estate. Do we see the mighty works of God today? I hope you do. I hope you do. I hope you see that it takes a really powerful and mighty God to take a sinful heart and make it clean. I hope you see that it takes a really powerful and mighty and awesome God to redeem any one of us. We must recognize that the mighty and powerful work of God is active now, active in the past, and it will be active in the future. This morning in our Sunday school class, uh I was worried that we were actually going to talk through every attribute of God. We were talking about a doxology, how we worship God. And then Matt opened up the floor and said, What are characteristics that we should worship God for? And people just started naming power, holiness, mercy, and I was getting real nervous because I think we covered it all. But it's good for us to be reminded of the attributes of God over and over and over again. As the world beats down on us as it As it tries to push us down, the darkness tries to appear bigger and more powerful than it is. It's good for us to be reminded of how powerful our God is. The darkness may seem powerful, but just the glimmer of light that is in the womb of Mary in this time starts to repeal the darkness, starts to push the darkness. But how much brighter is that light in the moment that Christ died on the cross saying it is finished? Oh, and then how bright is that light when he resurrects from the grave? Oh, the darkness trembles at the coming light of Christ. That's the powerful, mighty God that we worship. We've seen his might throw out all generations. He has established kings, powers, principalities, rulers. He's destroyed kings, nations, whatever group thought they were the most powerful. He raises up what he pleases. He puts down and destroys what he pleases. No army is strong enough. Not even the Marines can withhold God. He saw the powerful work he did in this Marine's life. We see the powerful work of God against nations, powers. Oh, and even Satan has no strength against our guests. He destroys, he imprisons, he bounds, and he will punish accordingly. May we recognize the glorious power and might of our God, and may we worship him accordingly. The third attribute and characteristic of God, which is maybe the most important one we think of, is that God is holy. God is holy. Look back with me at verse 49 again. For he is mighty, who has done great things for me, and holy is his name. Hold on to that and jump down to verse 53. And he has filled the hungry with good things, and the riches he has sent away empty. God is holy. Why is this so important for us to understand? Why is this one of the key attributes that we must worship God according to? Well, we see throughout Scripture that holy is one of the only words that's repeated by the angels in worshiping God. In Isaiah 6, we see them cry out, holy. holy holy in revelation we see the angels crying out holy holy holy and they're crying this out and magnifying Right? You see how this is working? Even the angels are magnifying God. Likewise we are magnifying God. That we magnify his holiness because it is who God is. He is perfect. The very scent of sin cannot be in his presence. Brothers and sisters, we must recognize the holiness of God that he is perfect and that sin and unperfectness cannot be within his realm because then he would not be holy We must see that he sits on his throne. His holiness is the reason and the the position he has as judge. This is the reason that he is just to judge the sinner because he is holy. He is the perfect one. There's no crimes we can accuse him of. There's no sin that has even been close to to being broken or being committed by him. He is perfect. And in his perfection, he sits in heaven. In his perfection, he judges the sinner. And in his perfection, he looks upon you and I and pours out mercy upon us. Oh, the holiness of God. I do believe that the more and more we study and understand what it means for God to be holy, the more and more we will fall to our knees in worship of Him. As we start to see him magnified, to start to see his perfection is actually we can't even comprehend how perfect he is. We can't understand his perfection. We can't understand his wrath and his hatred against sin. We'll start to see how glorious he really is. His holiness is the reason. For the sun. His holiness is the reason for the sun. Think about it. Think about it. He's holy. Perfection is who he is and what he does. Unholiness, aka sin, corruption, cannot be within his presence, and yet you and I are sinners You and I are sinners. His love, his mercy, his grace is poured out upon us. But he can't just say your sins are forgotten. He doesn't do that. He can't just say, okay, if you promise not to sin from the age of 33 To the age of thirty-three in two seconds, you'll get into heaven. Right, that's about as far as we could get with our corrupted hearts, and maybe not even that far. But he doesn't just forget sins, no, no, no. He sends the Son because His holiness requires a perfect judgment to be poured out upon sin, and that that son is the only one that can bear the judgment of God accordingly. He's the only one that can take the wrath of God accordingly and can pay for our sins. Because if we pay for him, it is death and destruction, and it's an eternal death and destruction. But the God man, the truly God, truly man of Christ, has come to be Our Savior, to come and magnify the holiness of our God. Do you see it? Do you see that God's holiness is the reason for Christ? Brothers and sisters, may we worship God because of his holiness. May we see his perfection and be in awe of it. The fourth attribute, which we've already touched on a little bit here, is that God is mercy. God is mercy. As we see in His holiness. His perfection, his judgment is part of his holiness. He is holy. And we see the Son. We see that He is merciful to us. Look at verse 50. And his mercy is for those who fear him from generation to generation. Jump back down to 52. He has brought down the mighty from their thrones and exalted those of humble state. He exalted those of humble state. That's his mercy there. And then look at 53 again. He has filled the hungry with good things. Recognize the merciful work of God in all of this. Now we must understand mercy. Grace and mercy often go hand in hand. Grace is is this aspect of of uh kindness of of a gift of God. We receive grace By faith, uh this is our faith is a grace of God, is a gift of God. Mercy likewise is a gift, but mercy is more God looking at us In pity. Not all, look how sad it is, but he looks at our broken estate. He sees that we are helpless and hopeless, and he takes mercy upon us. The judgment that he has for us that we deserve, he places on his son. The wicked things that we have done and committed against God that deserve judgment. He places upon his son. We see God's mercy being poured out for us in our broken and humbled estate. We see this word humble is used in a very similar way, like it was earlier. In our brokenness in fifty-two and exalted those of humble estate, in our weakness, in our corruption In our sinfulness, God exalts us, lifts us up, gives us hope, gives us a new identity. Not because of what we have done, not because of what we will do. That's not how this works. We're broken. We're we're dead in our trespasses and sins. There is no hope in us alone. Our works can never earn us anything, but God takes mercy upon us. He sees us. He takes pity on us and he sends his son. This is who we worship. This is what Christmas is all about. The sun has come to pitiful beings such as you and I. Such is Mary. What a joy this is that God looks at us and sees our brokenness. We don't need to hide it. We don't need to lie about it. We don't need to cover it up. It's what has caused our Lord to send Christ to us. May we worship God because of his mercy. The fifth and final characteristic of which we respond in worshiping God is that God is faithful. Look at verse 54. 54 reads, He has helped his servant Israel in remembrance of his mercy. As he spoke to our fathers, to Abraham, and to his offspring forever. God is faithful. This is important for us to hear But even more, I think it was important for Mary to hear in that time. It was important for Mary to be singing and proclaiming to her fellow Jews. May they recognize that their God, our God, is faithful. How faithful is God? Is that all the way in the beginning when he created man and man rebelled against him? God has been faithful since then. Since just a few, who knows, years later, with the whole drama between Cain and Abel, we know that story, right? Sin and murder happened. God has been faithful since then. And then we see the promises to Abraham, the covenant God made with Abraham. How perfect was Abraham? He was zero percent perfect. You only have two options in perfection. You're either 100% perfect or you're zero percent perfect. Abraham is zero, just like you and I. Yet, God's faithfulness from generation to generation to generation to generation, all the way up to Mary. His faithfulness, his commitment to his people, the the promised keeper that God is, has gone all the way to Mary. And she recognizes it She sees, she starts to hear the words and the teaching of the rabbi that she grew up with. She starts to hear the words of the prophets she heard read aloud. The Messiah is coming. God will redeem. God will save. She now sees God's faithfulness, his promises being fulfilled right now in history. She sees it now. But not only that, she also sees his faithfulness into glory, into eternity. You see here from uh he's in verse 55, as he spoke to our father to Abraham and to his offspring, for how long? For of ver. Sandlot, right folks? For of ver. May we remember this? That God's faithfulness, his commitment, the fact that God is Savior, the fact that God is mighty, the fact that God is holy, the fact that God is merciful. Is forever. We do not need to fear that God's going to wake up tomorrow and be upset and change his mind on all of the things that he's given us Change his mind on being the Savior. Change his mind on being holy. No, God is faithful through all generations into eternity That's the God we worship. That's why we can wake up and worship him in confidence, because we know he's not changing. It's the reason we can go into the world and proclaim the glory of Christ. It's the reason we can go into the world and proclaim the goodness of God to the world because we know that He's not changing. If sinners come to Christ in faith, repenting of their sins and placing hope In faith in Christ as their Lord and Savior, we're confident that God is faithful to redeem them, just like He's redeemed you and I That's the God we worship. That's the God we celebrate. That's the God we proclaim. The God that is faithful He's committed. He's promised good things. He's promised the savior. He's promised us life with him. And he's going to keep his promise. He's not like you and I. He doesn't have to fail in his promises. He doesn't have to have good intentions and not be able to actually keep them. No, no, no. He keeps his promises and he's promised us his identity. Brothers and sisters, may we look at the example of Mary's song here and see how while she carries the Son of Man in her womb. She's able to worship God because she recognizes what God is doing. How much more Can we now, knowing the story of the birth of Christ, knowing the story of the life of Christ, knowing that he died on the cross, knowing that he was buried in the grave, knowing that he's defeated the grave and now lives. In heaven, how much more can we worship God? We have now seen what Mary was proclaiming and worshiping God for. We've now seen worked out throughout history. As we heard this morning, history radically changed in Mary's time. And now we Get to celebrate and worship with Mary and with all the saints that are in heaven, with all the saints that are on earth, we get to worship the true and living God. It came in the form of a child. So I encourage you that this season, this next week, as we lead into the Christmas Day We celebrate gifts, yes and amen. Decorate, enjoy the atmosphere, the hot cocoa, and whatever else comes with it. this, but may we recognize the reason for the season is Christ. And may we worship him in this time. When we drive past the signs of joy, May we not just think they're pretty signs, but may we recognize that they're proclaiming the truth of God and the joy we have because of Christ. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, you are so good to us. You've sent your Son To live and to die for us, sinners, rebels against you, your enemy who now you have changed and called friend and child. We thank you for this truth. We thank you for your word. We thank you for Mary's example of worshiping the true God. Worshiping not because of a feeling, but because of who you are. Lord, I ask that you change our hearts and our minds to worship like this. May we not be distracted by the world. May we not be distracted by pains and suffering. loss, sin, temptation, but may we worship you because you've transformed our innermost being May we worship you because we recognize who you really are, how great and grand you are. Lord, may we magnify you to the world. May we proclaim the beauty of who you are to everyone. That will listen and hear the glorious works that you've done in our doing. We thank you for your son. We thank you for our salvation through him. I ask that you strengthen each and every one of us You strengthen and grow our confidence and faith. Strengthen us, convict us of sin, knowing that when we confess we are forgiven. Knowing that you see our sin. There's no hiding it. So may we take and step out with confidence in confessing it. May this confession of our sin, knowing that we are forgiven, give us zeal and energy and confidence. May we not fear the world. The world has nothing to hold against us We shall not fear a man, but we can look and have confidence in the living God that you are. We can proclaim that, and we can live with boldness. We can love our wives and our husbands accordingly. We can interact with our coworkers and our bosses accordingly. We can raise our children accordingly because we have confidence and zeal in life and beyond love. Thank you for this. We worship and we praise you. We ask that you remind us of your beauty many, many, many times this week. May we look forward to the day of celebration of Christmas and the birth of Christ. In his name we pray. Amen.