Today's passage is Ephesians 1, 15 to 23, as we continue our series in Ephesians. Ephesians 1, 15 to 23. And today we're talking about remembering each other in prayer. Remembering each other in prayer. It's important that we pray for each other. And we do that as to physical needs. We also want to be doing that as to spiritual needs. That's what really comes out in our passage today. Remembering each other in prayer. What we'll see in the passage is Paul talking about how he prays for the Ephesians. And what that reminded me of is how I need to be praying for you. And then it also reminded me of how we need to be praying for each other. But you'll see this clearly in the passage. Paul is talking about how he prays for the Ephesians. I can apply that to myself, and you can apply that in your life, remembering each other in prayer. You know, when we start talking about the importance of prayer, sometimes it's hard to pick a starting point because there's so many important aspects of prayer. Prayer is so important. We think about the struggles and the hardships that have come our way in our lives, and we all have different struggles, and we all have different hardships, but we don't resent The struggles that have come our way. We don't resent the hardships that have that have come our way. Because if those things are doing their job In God's purpose. What they're doing is they're driving us deeper in prayer. And then as we're driven deeper and more consistent in prayer, what's the result of that? We grow in our relationship with God. And so let's have a proper perspective on all of life, but especially struggles and hardships that they're like a tutor It's teaching us to pray, teaching us how to trust in God in new ways, teaching us how to more consistently call upon God. In situations we don't understand, and situations that are bringing us alone, bringing us to an end of ourselves. But that's God's plan and purpose. There's all kinds of different things to talk about when it comes to the importance of prayer and the power of prayer. It brings us closer to God. And so, whatever it is that drives us to prayer, let's keep going to prayer. Ephesians 1, 15 to 23, remembering each other in prayer. Here's what the passage says. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you. Remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which He has called you. What are the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints? And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe according to the working of his great might? That he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above all rule and authority. And power and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he put all things under his feet And gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. Well, you can see where the topic, the title of the message came from, the end of verse 16. Which says, remembering you in my prayers. Remembering you in my prayers. Paul remembered The Christians in Ephesus in his prayers. I need to remember you in my prayers, and you need to remember each other in prayer. Remembering you in my prayers, remembering each other in prayer. I grew up, I played a lot of team sports, and there was this saying that everybody knew, everybody says. You know it, I'm sure. There's no I in team. There's no I in team. And then there always was some smart alec who would say, yeah, but there is a me if you look closely enough But what's the point of that saying? You're not just here just for your own stats. You're not here just for your personal individual accomplishments. But what? You're here for the team, for the good of the team. Play for your coach. Play for your teammates. Sacrifice for your teammates. Work for each other, work together for the good of the whole. And in the language of the New Testament, when we apply this mindset to the church, it's Paul would say in Corinthians, for the common good. For the upbuilding of the church, for the upbuilding of the body. And when we have that mindset, one of the things we do, brothers and sisters, we remember each other in prayer. And we remember each other in prayers of, number one, thanks. We'll see that in the passage. And we also remember each other in prayers of Petition. And we'll see that in the passage. So that's your basic roadmap, your simple outline for the morning. How we remember each other in prayers of thanks. And we remember each other in prayers of petition. And those concepts are not hard to understand. Thanks, just imagine saying thank you to a friend for helping. Maybe they helped you move. Maybe they helped you giving you a ride somewhere. Maybe they helped you with meals when you were really sick. And you say thank you. So one of the ways we remember each other in prayer is going to God and saying to God, thank you for what you're doing in this person's life. Thank you for your work in their lives. We thank God primarily because he has saved us. He's made us branches. So to speak, branches in fellowship with Christ, who is the vine. We also remember each other in prayers of petition. So one, prayers of thanks. Two, prayers of petition. Now a petition is a request. So here is still the illustration of a friend helping you, but here is where you ask them for help. You send them an email, say, can you help me move on Saturday? You call them up or send them a text message. Can you give me a ride on Tuesday? Can you help me with this? And so that's another way that we'll see in this passage that we remember each other in prayers. Going to God in thanks , thanking God for his work in each other's lives, and then going to God in petition. Making requests, asking God for his ongoing work in our lives. So the main thing we thank God for is saving us. Where he's made us branches in fellowship with Christ, who is divine. And then the main thing we're petitioning God is As branches, we petitioned God for each other that we would bear fruit for the name and glory of Christ. We thank God. I thank God that you are a branch in fellowship with Christ, who is divine. And I also am to petition God. For his ongoing work that you might continue to bear fruit for the name and glory of Christ. That's a pretty simple outline, right? Remember each other in prayer by way of thanks and by way of of petition. Now number one, when we talk about prayers of thanks, we we offer prayers of thanks for God's work in each other's lives. This comes from verses 15 and 16, if you will look there again, where Paul writes, for this reason, because I've heard of your faith, In the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give what? Thanks. I do not cease to give thanks for you, remembering you in my prayers. I keep saying thanks. I keep expressing gratitude I do not cease to give thanks. That's Paul's way of saying this is just a normal part of his devotional life. I do not cease. I keep doing it. It's just a part of his prayer life to give thanks. Now, if you look at verse 15 , If someone were to ask you to give a short lesson on what two things in this verse is Paul thanking God for, what would they be? Number one, their faith. And number two, any guesses? I know you know it. Anybody willing to say it out loud? Their love. Right. There's two very specific things Giving thanks for the faith that they have in Christ, the fact that they trust Christ, and then also their love for the people of God. Paul's saying, I do not cease to give thanks. And we thank God for each other's faith. And we thank God for the love of Christ within our hearts. We thank God for each other's faith in Christ. We thank God for each other's faith because our faith is the result of God's work. Like a painting doesn't create itself. And a sculpture doesn't create itself. And a meal doesn't prepare itself. Don't you wish that it would? And sinners do not save themselves. The sinful flesh cannot produce the Holy Spirit. The sinful flesh cannot produce genuine faith in God. God gives us the Holy Spirit. God saves us. And so when we go to God, one of the things that we always do is thank you, God, for saving my brothers and sisters. First Corinthians 1, verses 30 and 31, Paul writes, because of him, referring to God the Father, because of him You are in Christ Jesus. Because of him you are in Christ Jesus. That's 1 Corinthians 1, verse 30. And then it goes on to say: who became to us wisdom from God? Righteousness, sanctification, and redemption. So that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. We can't boast in ourselves for our salvation because we didn't save ourselves. We didn't earn our salvation. We didn't accomplish salvation Salvation. We didn't atone for our own sins. Are you with me, church? We didn't grant ourselves access into heaven. Jesus did those things. Jesus saved us. God saved us through Jesus. He gets all the credit, all the glory. So when we pray, let's never cease, like Paul. Thanking each thanking God for each other's faith. Let's not take for granted the church of the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. Let's not take each other for granted. Let's not take the sweet fellowship of the Spirit that we have with each other. In fact, let's pour into those things more and more Let's pray that God will grow us in those things and cultivate those things more and more and more to enjoy the blessings. That we share together in Christ, Paul says, do not cease giving thanks. I thank God for your faith. There's many reasons for this. I'm sure you'll be able to brainstorm and think of others. I thank God for your faith, because your faith in Christ brings you to worship. It brings you to gather for worship, which is Christianity 101. This is the basics, what it means. To be God's children, we gather together and we worship our Lord and Savior. But where does that come from? That comes from The faith in our hearts. And the faith in our hearts came from God, and so we thank God for the faith. One of the reasons we thank God for each other's faith is because it drives us to gather together and worship. Him. I thank God for your faith also because it leads you to serve each other and to give cheerfully for the work of the gospel. And we get to see this manifest in each other's lives. Week after week, we see each other serving, and we share together in giving, and we we see Caring for each other. But where does that come from? That comes from faith. And where does the faith come from? The faith comes from God. And so we thank God for each other. I also thank God for your faith because your faith enables you to endure hardship and suffering and to not lose hope. To endure things that bring anguish to the soul and to not lose hope. To keep your witness, For Christ, to keep your profession of faith in the midst of trials, in the midst of horrible loss and suffering. To not give, to not give up, to not lose heart, to not lose hope To not forfeit your confession. And where does that come from? That comes from faith. And where does the faith come from? The faith comes from God. And so we thank God for each other's faith. We must always thank God for each other's faith. We must always thank God for each other's faith because faith equips us to live for God and not ourselves. If you didn't have faith in your heart, would you be trying to live for God? No. You'd be out in the world somewhere giving all you have to live for yourself And for the things of this world. We must always thank God for each other's faith. Because faith Faith drives us to seek God Himself as our security. Not earthly treasures, not the approval of others, and not the external things of religion. But seek God Himself as our anchor, as our rock, as our identity, as our security. That doesn't come naturally, does it? That comes from the Holy Spirit. Where does it come from? To seek God as our assurance, to seek God as our security. Where does that come from? It comes from faith. Where does the faith come from? The faith comes from God. And so we always thank God for each other's faith. The faith you have also saves you from the coming judgment. The faith that you have in Christ saves you from the coming judgment If you don't have faith in Christ, you can put your faith in Christ this morning, and then you too will be saved from the coming judgment. This is one of those doctrines that many churches won't talk about, won't talk about sin, won't talk about God as a lawgiver, certainly won't talk about God as judge. And if you're not talking about God as judge, you certainly won't have any place for talking about the truth, the historical fact of a coming final judgment. And the only way to be saved from that coming judgment is faith in Jesus Christ based on his death and resurrection. And that's why you can put your faith in Christ this morning and be reconciled to God. The full forgiveness of sins, all your guilt erased. You can be reconciled to God, you have the gift of eternal life, and you have the assurance, the thousand percent assurance That when the day of judgment comes, you will be saved by faith in Christ. So yes, you better believe. I thank God that you have faith, because I do not want you to undergo final judgment at the wrath of God So thank God. Thank God that you believe. And if you believe, if you believe That Jesus Christ died on the cross for your sin, and you believe that he rose from the grave as a source of eternal life, you will be saved from final judgment. Now there's blessings that come before that. Reconciled to God, fellowship with God, the forgiveness of sins, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. There's blessings now, but Ultimately, finally, you will be saved on the day of judgment. Romans 5. 9 talks about this. Paul writes, Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. Did you see the the uh the pattern, the present, but then the future. We now have been justified by his blood. Now, that's a blessing now, that's the experience of Christ now, justified by his blood. Justified means declared righteous in the eyes of God. Declared righteous in the throne room of heaven. Innocent. Righteous before God by his blood, which means based on his death on a cross. You heard the message of Christ dying in the place of sinners. You put your faith in him, and God justified you. He declared you righteous. Now justified by his blood. But then he says, Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. When the wrath of God comes, you will be safe, you will be delivered. Like Israel coming through the Red Sea, the waters part, and the great grand army of Pharaoh is trailing Hot on their heels, but Israel is safe, and they are delivered because God is their redeemer and God is their savior. And even though you've sinned, and even though we are all sinful by nature, we all have incurred guilt, we are unworthy people. Despite that, you can be safe. You can be delivered. You can be saved. You can be redeemed. How many ways can we say it? You can belong to God And the Red Sea will not fall on you, and the army of Pharaoh will not overcome you, and the guilt of your sin will not bring you to wrath. Because of Christ. Because he died on a cross in the place of sinners. We thank God for each other's faith. We also thank God for each other's love. This also is in verse 15. Because I've heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints. Your love toward all the saints. Love comes from the Holy Spirit, like life comes from God. Don't reduce human life down to science, down to biology, down to that which is physical. Brothers and sisters, life is a gift from God. God is the giver of life. Don't lose sight of a supernatural truth of all things, the supernatural worldview of how we think about everything. Life comes from God. And love, love in our lives, in our hearts for each other comes from the Holy Spirit We cannot have true Christian love for each other apart from the Holy Spirit any more than you can have life apart from God, the giver of life. And so, therefore, we thank God for each other's love for the saints, for the church, for the people of God, for each other. We thank God for that love. We thank God for each other's love because love causes us to care for each other in practical ways. And I know that you do that And praise God that you do that. And church, let's continue to grow in that all the more and not lose sight of our calling and duty and joy to care for each other in practical ways. But let's make sure we're thanking God for that love. When we thank God for that love, God gets the glory. If we neglect in thanking God, it's almost as if we're under the delusion that we ourselves are the source of this Christ-like love, and we are not the source. Of that Christ-like love. God is the source. We thank God for each other's love because love leads us to forgive each other. For sins, and to overlook shortcomings and mistakes in each other's lives. Only the love of Christ and causing us to forgive and be gracious. We thank God for The love of the Spirit, because the love of the Spirit enables us to be patient with each other. Galatians 5, 6, Paul will write that what counts most is faith Expressing itself through love. Isn't that a nice picture? Faith expressing itself through love. Like you have thoughts. And your thoughts express themselves through your words. If you're going to write an email, first you have thoughts. And then your thoughts express themselves in words that you're writing down. Or you're in a conversation. What are you going to say? Well, first you have thoughts, and then those thoughts express themselves in words, which is a reminder that it's important to make sure we're being sanctified in our thoughts. So our thoughts should be being more godly, and therefore, as they express themselves in words and conversations and emails, our words, conversations, and emails are what? More godly. And less harmful to people. But in the same way as thoughts express themselves in words, faith in Christ Expresses itself through love. We must always thank God for each other's love. Love will build up the church into the likeness of Christ Love will create an atmosphere of humility and mutual respect. Would you say amen? Nod your head or raise your hand if that's what kind of atmosphere you want in church. Humility and mutual honor and respect. The love we have for each other testifies to the world. Beloved of God, the love we have for each other testifies to the world, to the watching world. of the true presence and power of God in our midst. John 13, 34, Jesus says, the new commandment I give you But you love one another just as I have loved you. You also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Our love for one another is a testimony to the presence and power of God in our midst. That's the way people will see. That's the way people will know that we are God's children, that we are the people of God through love that we have for one another. So, we remember each other always in prayer. We remember each other first in prayers of thanks, but then also prayers of petition. Prayers of petition. Here we are asking God, pleading with God for his ongoing work in each other's lives. And this goes all the way from verses 17 to 23, but we'll take it bit by bit. First of all, we petition God. We petition God for each other's growth in the knowledge of God. All right? We ask God We petition God for growth in each other's knowledge of God. That comes from verse 17. That the God Of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and revelation in the knowledge of Him. In the knowledge of Him. See, true wisdom. Based on God's word, that does what says wisdom and revelation. True wisdom starts with the knowledge of God. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. But you cannot have a fear of the Lord if you don't know who the Lord is. And as we grow in our knowledge of God, we'll grow in our fear of the Lord. And as we learn more and more how to walk in the fear of the Lord, we'll learn more and more practical wisdom and knowledge. The knowledge of him, the knowledge of him. Verse seventeen. Now the Imagine a husband who does all of his chores. All of his chores. He always mows the grass. He always takes out the trash. No, we're not talking about me. He does all his chores, always on time, never has to be reminded. A first, second, third, fourth, fifth, sixth time. Never But, but, he doesn't give one ounce of energy to trying to get it get to know his wife more Or learn how to cherish her more in their relationship. Good husband or bad husband? Yeah, I'm getting thumbs down. Maybe the point is just so shocking that you just all But often that's how we can approach Christian living. That's how we can approach discipleship if we're not careful. And in a group this big there's got to be some people. At least some who that's convicting. Who the Spirit is convicting your heart right now that you've been out of balance. And you're doing. And you're doing. You're doing the things. But you haven't been given attention to getting to know God more, to growing in the knowledge of God, and learning more and more about what it means to cherish Him. And to adore him in your relationship with him. That's the first thing God wants, beloved. That's not a garnish on the side of the platter that God doesn't care about. That's The whole meal. That's it. This is what God wants: your heart. To grow in your knowledge of Him, in your relationship with Him, to cherish Him more and more. I'm actually just going to stop the message right here. And we'll finish next time. This is the point I want to end on. Grow in your knowledge of God. You are called to this. This is not optional for some elite group of Christians. This is for everybody. God calls you to grow in your knowledge of Him, and we should be praying for each other like there's no tomorrow. For each other. God help help my brothers, help my sisters to grow in their knowledge of you. Here's a couple psalms. The window into how important this is. Psalm forty two two. My soul thirsts for God, for the living God. For many of you, I know you love the church. I know it. I see it. I hear it. I know it. I know you love serving. But I will ask you, does your soul long for God? Does your soul thirst for closer fellowship with the living God of heaven and earth? Psalm 63, 1. O God, you are my God. Earnestly I seek you. My soul thirsts for you. My flesh faints for you, as in a dry and weary land where there is no water. Colossians 1. 10 is one of the verses that in a really short space of time outlines Christian living. Colossians 1:10. Walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, and then underneath that two things. Alright? So here we have walking is Here's the uh the column, the label above the column. Walking in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, and then you have two things underneath that: bearing fruit in every good work. And increasing in the knowledge of God. Let's remember each other in prayer. By way of thanksgiving, thanking God that we are branches in fellowship with Christ the Vine. Thanking God for his work in each other's lives. And also let's remember each other in petition, laying requests, spiritual requests before the throne of God, asking God. To help us bear fruit, to be fruit-bearing branches For the glory and honor of Christ. And the first thing, the first thing there is growth in the knowledge of God. Let's make sure we're growing in the knowledge of God, hungering for Him, thirsting for Him. I pray that your heart would take courage and take courage and find refuge and rest in Christ. Morning. Look to Christ. Believe in Christ. He is your shelter and he will save you. Absolutely 100%. Father, we thank you for your word, for your spirit, and for the Savior that you have sent to live a righteous life that we could never live And a Savior that you have sent to die in a place for our sins so that we could be saved on the day of judgment. Savior that you sent, risen from the grave, the recipient of eternal life, who now shares that eternal life with any and all who come to Him in faith Father, we thank you that you've made yourself known to us so that we can have a knowledge of you and we pray. We join our hearts and we pray that you would help every one of us to hunger for you, to long after you, and to grow in our knowledge of you. By your word and spirit. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.