Well the words in which we'll examine this morning come out of Revelation chapter 2. Verses 18 through 29. Revelation chapter 2, verses 18 through 29. The title of the sermon is The Importance of Doctrine. A word that is not very common in today's language. Where when it is used, it's often negated or tried to push away that doctrine isn't that important. It's not needed. Doctrine divides. Have you heard that Hebrew language before? But friends, may we see from the Word of God From the word of Jesus as he's writing to this church, how important doctrine really is. False doctrine? Doctrine that is against God. Brings death and destruction. But we'll see this morning that true doctrine, sound doctrine Doctrine that is seeking to know God and to know our Savior more and more brings life to us. Brings power, brings authority. It's a great and wonderful thing. We don't need to fear it. We don't need to say, well, doctrine, that's just for those those nerdy guys in the seminaries. Oh, doctrine, that's That's too big of a word or causes too much confusion and divisions. We don't want to touch it. No friends, may we value doctrine. May we understand that as our theology of who God is, our understanding of who God is grows, it grows our worship of God. It grows our desire to serve and work within his kingdom. You cannot have the worship of God without without having the knowledge of God. You cannot serve God without understanding who God is. And you cannot have true and everlasting life without knowing how your Savior has come and saved a wicked sinner like you and I. May we rejoice in the doctrine. So we dive into this. May we not shy away from it. May we not make it a bad word But may we see that is what is drawing us deeper in love with God. Now join me in chapter two of Revelation, starting in verse 18. And to the angel of the church and Thyatira, write, the words of the Son of God, who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished bronze. I know your works, your love, and faith, and service, and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first. But I have this against you, that you tolerate the woman Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess, and is teaching and subduing. my servants, to practice sexual immorality, and to eat food sacrificed to idols. I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality. Behold I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her, I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works. And I will strike her children dead, and all the churches will know that I am he who searches minds and hearts, and I will give to each of you according to your works. But to the rest of you in Thyratira, who do not hold these this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan, to you I say, I do not lay on you any other burden. Only hold fast that what you have until I come. The one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron. As when earthen pots are broken in pieces. Even as I myself have received authority from my Father, I will give him the morning star. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. May the Lord bless the reading of his word. One of the things we must define here as we examine and understand the importance of doctrine is simply what does this word mean? What is doctrine? There's essentially two main points or main ideas behind this word that are valuable for the Christian to understand. The first one is simply doctrine is the teaching and the submission to Scripture, which then brings the knowledge of God, self, sin, salvation, obedience It brings a whole bunch of things to the life of a Christian. But simply put, doctrine is the teaching and the submission to Scripture. What does God say? What does God say about who He is? What does God say about who we are? As we know that knowledge, that chasm of our brokenness and our need for a Savior grows and grows and then doctrine teaches us. the knowledge of who Christ is and how he saves sinners. How he brings new life to those that are dead in their sins. So that's the first understanding of the word doctrine is the teaching and the submission to the word of God. Everything we know, the depths of who God is, and faith and Christianity is in Scripture But there's a second aspect of doctrine that is quite important for us to understand as well. This is a military term. It's common. The military has doctrine, and this doctrine is instructions and orders. Uh really it's just a bunch of books that are written about how the military is to function. When they face this certain situation, how are they to act? And a good military follows their doctrine. Well, likewise, Christians, we have instructions in the Word of God. How should we act as Christians? How should we live? How should we function? What should we hate? What should we love? It's all part of the doctrine of God. As we go through this letter to this church, we should desire to know who God is more. We should desire to know what God hates more. We see this divide of a wicked teacher within the church and terrible doctrine that's bringing death upon the church. And Christ calls them to come and believe and follow true teaching, true doctrine that brings life. Well, friends, do we value doctrine the way that Jesus instructs us to? Do we desire to know who God is more? In a very painful way, do we desire to know our sin more so that we can repent of it more and more? Do we want to know the depths of our Savior? Do we want to see the glory of our Creator? As I think about the understanding of doctrine, I picture a cave. If we found a cave in the in the backyard here, we would go out, and in the front of that cave, we found a giant golden nugget worth millions of dollars. Would you just take that nugget and then stop? Or would you start to explore that cave? You start to go into the depths of it You keep going deeper and deeper, and each time you turn into a different uh uh cavern of this cave, you find more gold and and rubies and and diamonds, so then you just keep going farther and further into this cave. Well, brothers and sisters, this is doctrine. If you've come to faith in Christ, you've just tasted and you've you've seen the nugget of gold in the opening of that cave. The Christian life now calls us to explore it. To go deep into the cave. May we explore the depths of who our God is, and may we value each treasure we find in this cave. May we value and desire to know the doctrine of God more and more. This letter is dealing with this issue of doctrine. He starts off the letter, as all the letters in Revelation do, in commending the church. God commends the life of the church God commends the life of the church. What they are doing is good. He's happy with how they're working, how they're dealing with one another, how they're conducting their lives, and he's happy with this. Look with me in verse 18. It says, And to the angel of the church in Thyatira, write, the words of a Son of God who has eyes like a flame of fire, and whose feet are like burnished Bronze. I know your works, your love and faith, and service, and patient endurance, and that your latter works exceed the first. Now, uh th this church of this time is in the city that is what we would call a blue collar city It's hard working. Men and women are in the labor. They're they're working with their hands. And they're actually working with bronze. Uh the city was known for their bronze work and they were producers within the region. of this intricate work of their bronze. So I think as we see the language of the identity of Jesus in verse 18 It's just it's recognizing the work of these men and women that this is who they are. You're known for your works. Even before Christ, you were known for being these hard workers. But now in Christ Your religious work is also of uh uh uh commendable things. It is of hard work. You're active within the ministry. In verse 19, he breaks down some of the works they have. So it says, I know your works, and then you see that comma in most translations. Now he's about to list the works that they are doing. He's about to list the works. So the works that they are doing is love, faith, service, and patient endurance. They're doing a good job at this. They're working hard at these things. Think about love, how these blue-collars, rough-necks men and women are loving one another. They're caring for one another. They they actually enjoy the presence. of one another. They want to be in communion with each other. Makes me think of 1 Corinthians 16, 14. It says, let all that you do be done in love. All the works were done out of a passion to love one another. It wasn't this, oh well we're obligated to, we have to do this. No, their works are actually rooted in their love for one another. And continues on. So you have the love and then he also has the faith. Part of their works was their faith, their trust in the Lord. Hebrews 11 1, it says that now faith is the assurance of the things hoped for. The church, their faith was part of their works. They had confidence. They had confidence in who the Lord was. They had confidence that Jesus was their Savior. They had confidence that Jesus is coming back. They had confidence that the attacks of the enemy would not last. Their faith is there. They're enduring the suffering. They're enduring the life that God has given them. This is a good thing. He continues on. He says, and your service. The works of their hands, how they're they're caring for one another. They're probably caring for the poor and the needy within the community. God is well pleased with their works. And then the last thing he's well pleased with is that they're patiently enduring. They're patiently enduring. This really connects with it all that nothing's pushing them off of their focus. Their focus is to do the work of the gospel. The first is to do the work of God, to to love one another, to have faith, to serve one another. They're continued in this. And what does Jesus say? He says that you're actually improving in your works. You see that there in the last part of verse 19 says, and that your latter works exceed the first. They're improving in the works. They're working harder. They're working more. Their love for one another is growing. Their patient endurance is strengthening. Their service is improving. Their faith is growing. Now, right now, if we just ended this, we would say, this is a really good church. It's a really good church. We look at their lives, they're doing the works, their appearance is great. But unfortunately, this letter does not end here. There's a major problem happening within the church. This major problem is that they have false doctrine in their church and is bringing death. Friends, how many churches in America, in this community, do we see that they're doing great things? I mean you go on their their their social media and you can see them doing Great works within the community and around the world that have missionaries. They they they're they're really good at loving one another. They have this great community, everyone feels welcomed. Oh, it's so good to be there. There's there's a warm spirit of love, and it's genuine love for one another. They they seem to be enduring, they seem to have faith. But there's a false doctrine within the church that's being promoted. I think a lot of the the larger churches we see in America have this identity right here. Oh, they're so loving. How could there how could there be a problem? But then the pastor, the preacher's getting up there and preaching a false gospel, is preaching contrary to the word of God. is preaching something other than that there's faith in Christ alone that brings salvation. There's a major problem if it is all about the outward appearance and the outward works and the doctrine is not dealt with. And this is what Jesus does in this letter. Look with me in verse 20. We're going to see the issue within the church. Point number two in your outline is that God rebukes the tolerance of sin within the church. God rebukes the tolerance of the sin within the church. Let's look at verse 20. It says, but I have this against you, that you tolerate that woman, Jezebel, who calls herself a prophetess. And is teaching and seducing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols. Before we continue on, this word tolerance is just like doctrine has been mistreated within our society. Why doctrine has become the bad word that we can't deal with doctrine. We can't deal with the theology of God. Tolerance has become the perfect word word. This is our goal in life, is to tolerate things, right? You just gotta be tolerant. All you gotta do is be tolerant Just be tolerant. Don't deal with the the differences. Just be tolerant. And to a point, tolerance is good. Please hear me. Tolerance is a good thing to a point But the moment that we start to tolerate or permit sin, we have major problems happening God doesn't call us just to tolerate sin. He doesn't call us to permit it, allow it to be happening within ourselves or within the church. He actually tells us to kill it, to get rid of it, to destroy it. Now our desire in destroying sin is to bring life. It's not in the destruction that okay you're you're gone, uh you're dead to us, we never want to interact with you again. No, our desire in killing that sin is that person recognizes themselves. That it is death. They recognize it themselves that it is sin and that they repent of it and turn to the Lord, that they find forgiveness in Christ, and they they flee from that sin. But if not If that sin is not dealt with in your own life, that sin's not dealt with within the church, it will bring destruction. God promises it. It brings death. This morning in Sunday school class, we read in James. We read in James how the lore of our passion, when it's conceived, it brings sin. And when sin is born and it matures, it then brings death. Brothers and sisters, we must deal with sin head on. We must deal with sin and its smallest infancy. We must destroy it as early as we see it. We cannot tolerate it and allow it just to go unchecked. That's what's happening in the church here. This woman, Jezebel, I do not believe this is her actual name. uh in the church of his time, but what Jesus is doing is he's using a reference from the Old Testament. He's using a reference of a lady Jezebel from the Old Testament to help them understand how terrible and destructive This lady and her false teaching is within the church. You can mark these down and you can read these later today or this week. The story of Jezebel starts in 1 Kings chapter 16. 1 Kings 16, verse 29 through 34, you see that the king of Israel marries Jezebel, and she is not an Israelite. So immediately the start of this marriage is a problem. He's following after her. And the language used throughout the Old Testament about Jezebel is that She was known for her beauty, and she knew that she was known for her beauty and used her beauty to deceive and get her away. So what happens is she the the king marries her and immediately problems start to happen within the kingdom of God, within Israel. We see uh throughout the Old Testament that she has prophets killed. The prophets of God are put to death by Jezebel. And then a little bit later, we see that in 2, well throughout the 1st and 2 Kings, it is prophesied that she is going to die within the city and that the dogs are going to come and eat her flesh. Now, do you think that's a prophecy for a righteous or a wicked person? Right. Wicked. It's a wicked person. And throughout the entire story of Jezebel in the Old Testament, she is a wicked person doing wicked things against God's people. And she is out there to try to destroy what God has built. And then her death comes in 2 Kings chapter 9, verse 30 through 37. She's up in a tower, and she's sitting on, the language is quite interesting. I encourage you. Highly encourage you to go read it, but she's sitting in the tower on the window and she has all her makeup on. Right? Her whole life has been wrapped around how she's used her beauty to deceive men. This should be a warning for us men, that it's a common problem that we are tempted by beauty and fall for the lies of what beauty brings when we must recognize the true beauty in God's creation and the righteous woman that God has called us, but it's a side sermon that we'll do later But she's sitting in the window, and as the guards come to arrest her, she's in her beauty. She thinks she's going to get away with it. And actually they take her and they cast her down out of the window to her death. And then they're instructed to go gather up her body to make sure she has a proper burial. And when they get down there, they just find a few bones because the dogs had come and devoured her body. A wicked woman that has caused destruction throughout God's people in the Old Testament. Jesus now calls this teacher in the modern church of Thytirah that she is a Jezebel. He's making this connection of how wicked she is. Now what is the wickedness that she's doing? It's her teaching. Look with me and once again in verse 20 at the end it says, Jezebel who calls herself a prophetess and is teaching and subduing my servants to practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols. There's a lot of interesting things in this verse, but we first must recognize that she has called herself a prophetess. Now, if we know doctrine, does anyone just get to identify themselves as a prophet, a prophetess, as a teacher, as a pastor? Like we just take a survey, whoever wants to be a pastor, raise your hand, we'll get you up here. No But because there's weak doctrine within the church, she walks in, she says, I'm a prophetess, and they just allow her to start teaching. But not only that, there's probably this overarching tolerance. Okay, we gotta overarch tolerance in love and say if we would say no to her If we would say no, that's actually against the doctrine of God. That's against his word, they're going to think we're haters. They're going to call us mean. So what does the church do? They permit it. They allow her to get up and teach. And her teaching causes is terrible teaching. Her teaching is subduing the servants, the children of God in the church. It's subduing them To practice sexual immorality and to eat food sacrificed to idols. Now, a church that is sound in their doctrine, if someone get comes in there and starts teaching And proclaiming this idea of sleeping around and you need to sleep with these other these prophetesses that will get you closer to God. A church that's sound in doctrine hears that and is willing to say, no, absolutely not. Not in this church. That's not what God's word tells us to do. But this church wasn't willing to stand on doctrine. This church thought tolerance would be the best thing. Get her in. Make her feel like she's part of something. Sure there's problems. Sure there's bad teaching. But if she feels like she's part of us, maybe she'll turn and things will change. God's word doesn't tell us that. God's word tells us that we have to deal with the sin. Not to tolerate it, but to call it out. Not to allow it to grow and mature, but to hate it as God hates it, and out of love called a person to repent. And we see that that's what Jesus does Verse 21 he says, I gave her time to repent, but she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality. Behold I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her, I will throw into great tribulation, unless they repent of her works, and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who searches minds and hearts, and I will give to each of you according to your works. Notice that the works of the church are not sufficient enough to keep God's wrath from coming upon them. Uh we have reason to understand and assume that the people that are practicing and doing good works of love and faith and service and patient endurance are also some of the people that are partaking in the sexual immorality and following after the doctrine of the Jezebel. So don't think, well, if I just work really hard, if I just serve and do good works, God's wrath won't be upon my sin. No, God still sees your sin and he hates it. There's a judgment poured out upon your sin. Now we know that in Christ we have forgiveness. And that's what Jesus says. He says in 21, I gave her time to repent. Repent, this idea of you're driving down the road, you're heading right towards the sin, and repentance is the 180 turn away from the sin and back to God. He's given her time. He's called her to repent. But we see she refuses to repent of her sexual immorality. She likes it. She likes it. Let's not sugarcoat people's sin. People sin because they like to sin. The pagan, the rebel against God, those that have not been born again by the Spirit love their sin. So did you before your new birth We don't need to act like, oh no, that if they if they just if they if they just were were treated nicely, if we just love them and brought them in and said everything's good, you don't have to change anything. Over time they're going to see that it's a problem. No, you didn't come to faith that way. The Holy Spirit convicted your heart that you recognized that you were a sinner and need for a savior. The Spirit didn't tolerate your sin and allow and that's how it can convince you to become a Christian. No. The Spirit convicted you of your sin and turned your heart, gave you faith, and gave you new life in Christ Friends, we can't tolerate sin. We can't tolerate false teachers. We can't tolerate sexual immorality, both within the church or within your own life. Repent. Repent. It's so clear. We think of this as a negative thing. Oh, don't call out their sin. Don't don't point it out. Just permit it. Allow it. But we see the sweet, saving grace of God in the language of repent. Repent should be the medicine to our souls. Do you hear that? This is one of those nuggets that isn't too far in the cave of doctrine that when we see it, we should snatch it and hold on tight to it. The repentance. Repentance means that while you are a sinner, you can turn from your sin and have sweet forgiveness from your Creator through your Savior Jesus Christ. This is good. Don't shy away from it. This is the depths of doctrine. Do you like this doctrine of forgiveness from sin? I sure hope you do. Then we shouldn't shy away from it. The church is fit and sorry, Tyra is failing to see the deep and beauty of the doctrine of repentance. They thought maybe permission and tolerance would be better. But we see it's not. The failure of repentance, the failure to turn to Christ, away from your sin and turn to Christ, brings destruction. In the middle of 22 it says, I will throw excuse me, in the beginning of 22, it says, I will throw her onto a sickbed, and those who commit adultery with her, I will throw into great tribulation. Those that refuse to repent of their sin will receive judgment from God. And this language is actually pointing back to the Old Testament. While Jezebel was thrown out of the window down to the ground, Jesus is now connecting the dots for them that that wicked woman who received her punishment by being thrown out of a window This wicked woman and Thy Tyra will receive her judgment from the Lord by being thrown into sickness, and the children being thrown into tribulation. We start to see the beauty of the overarching of all of Scripture, right? That it's not disconnected, but that God's using it to teach us and to grow us. We should see this language in the connection with Jezebel in the Old Testament and say, this isn't good. If tolerance and permission of sin brings this type of pain and destruction, it can't be good. It can't be good. We don't need to parse it out and understand, well, what was the sickbed and what's the tribulation that her children are going to face? We should just see and say, it's not good. It's bad. It's death, it's destruction, either physical or spiritual. It's not a good thing. Verse 23 continues on, and I will strike her children dead. And all the churches will know that I am he who seek searches mind and heart, and I will give to each of you according to your works. The beauty here is that God's judgment upon sin is part of his sign and mark to the churches of his glory and his greatness. Do you see that? It says, and that the other churches will know because of how I've dealt with this sin. Other churches will know him. God isn't just tolerating sin and permitting it to happen. He's poured out wrath upon Christ for your sin. Your sin 's not just permitted. It hasn't just been, okay, I'll let it go. No, he's dealt with it on the cross. And he's not just permitting sin to go uh uh around the world and he's just permitting it and tolerating and says, it's not that bad, I'll let it happen. He's either pouring out the wrath upon Christ, or he will in his final judgment upon all of creation. There is a judgment that is there. And this judgment is part of how he proclaims his goodness, his righteousness, his holiness to the other churches. So may we not shy away from the doctrine of sin and repentance. May we not shy away from the doctrine that there is sin that needs to be cast out and destroyed. Maybe not shy away from the doctrine that we shouldn't just allow false teaching and sexual immorality and other sins to indwell us as individuals or the church. May we not permit and tolerate it. Notice this connection in verse 23. Says, I am he who searches mind and heart. This language, I think, is driving home both the head knowledge, the doctrine, and the heart, the hands, and the action, the life of the church. You know, for many, we saw in the letter to Ephesus, their issue was that they had the head knowledge. They knew God, their doctrine was top-tier. They were the best. They were the Westminster Seminary of the churches, the best of the best. It's all right. But it the the the death hadn't sunk down into their heart. They weren't living out the doctrine. They knew all the right answers. They wrote all the good papers. They could spout off the Sunday school answers, but their hands didn't have any life within them. We see this church, and I tire is the exact opposite. Their hearts are oozing. They're oozing with works. Their hearts are there. They're all about it. The zeal, the passion. There's something in them that they just want to serve and work, but they're dumb up in their heads about the doctrine of God. They're so foolish that they're allowing this false prophetess to come in and teach that the children of God should be sleeping with other prophetess, and that the children of God should be eating food sacrificed and worshiping other idols. Do you see the disconnect? That's a problem, either way. We must find the balance of the knowledge and doctrine of God that produces the works of our heart. And God knows it. If you think right now you're, well God doesn't know, or I'm I can at least put on this front that I look like I'm I'm a uh a religious person. I'm at church, I'm doing all the works, everything looks good, but your but but the inside of who you are and who your knowledge of God is is dead. God knows both your heart and your mind. He knows it. Or maybe you have the head knowledge, but your your works are just putting on a front. This is the tradition. This is what we do. This is just, I want to look good to the world around me. God knows the reason behind your works. That's why He's saying the heart. He knows your knowledge, the doctrine, and your heart. Now some of the fear that may come across right now is you're going, I don't have uh whatever biblical degree I'm not well trained. I don't I don't have I don't have the ability, the knowledge, the the desire to read and write papers on theology, and that's for those nerds that write textbooks. No Stop thinking about it in the academic world. The doctrine of God. The doctrine of God is the word of God that transforms your heart to new. The doctrine of God is when you realize that you are a sinner in need of a savior, and that the only way of salvation is through Christ hanging on the cross and taking your sins. The doctrine of God that you need to know is to recognize that Christ didn't stay in the grave, but he rose from the dead, defeating sin and death. The doctrine of God, it takes it and allows you to understand that Jesus now sits in heaven. After his ascension from earth, he sits in heaven. Having dominion and authority and power over all of creation, both in the heavens and on the earth. The doctrine of God is what transformed you and made you new. Dive deep into that cavern of doctrine. Don't think, oh, I gotta understand the big fancy words. Seek the Word of God. If you don't know a word, look it up, search it. If you're trying to understand the connections that Scripture is making, use a reference in your Bibles. Ask someone. That's why God gave us a community to live in. The knowledge, the doctrine of God, isn't an academic thing. You see that it pierces the head and the heart And it's the very thing that God used to transform us. It's his word. It's not textbooks. It's the Bible. Go to it. Enjoy it. May you seek to dive deep into this cavern of knowledge of who God is. He continues. In 24, we see what should we then do? We see that God commends the life of the church, and then he rebukes the tolerance or the permission of sin within the church. Point number three, it's vitally important. The value of doctrine isn't just to fight against sin, but we see that biblical doctrine brings strength and authority to the church. Biblical doctrine brings strength and authority to the church. And I'm not just talking about like the people in this room. Like, okay, the strength and authority applies here and it's over. No. The doctrine, doctrine, knowledge of God, the understanding of his word and who he is, brings strength and authority to the church. around the world, and it actually brings the strength and the authority over the evil, wicked powers of the world. The church is powerful when they know God. The church is powerful when that knowledge of God seeps down into their heart and causes us to do the works of God. If you doubt me, let's look at verse 24. But to the rest of you in Thytira, who do not hold this teaching, who have not learned what some call the deep things of Satan, to you I say I do not lay on you any other burden. Only hold fast what you have until I come. Notice the two doctrines there. It's the teaching of the Jezebel, and he called it the the the the deep things of Satan. Not a good term. That doctrine, uh we don't want our doctrine to be the deep doctrine, the deep things of Satan. We want our our deep doctrine to be the deep doctrines of God, our Creator. But he says right here that that there is the false doctrine But those that have not followed after that doctrine, hold to the true doctrine of the gospel. Hold to the true doctrine that brought you new life. He says that in 25. Only hold fast. What you have until I come. He's not saying you need to go get your degrees. You've got to go learn more. He's saying hold to the doctrine that brought you salvation. Hold to the depths of God. That brought you life. Reject the false doctrine. May we seek to know God in the simplest ways. And be awed in how complex and miraculous he really is. Seek him in the simplest ways. You're going to be in awe of how complex and wonderful he really is as you dive into the simple doctrines of God. He continues on. Says verse 26, the one who conquers and who keeps my works until the end, to him I will give authority over the nations, and he will rule them with a rod of iron, as when he earthen pots are broken in pieces, even as I myself have received authority from my father And I will g I will give him the morning star, he who has an ear, let him hear, and what the Spirit says to the churches. Friends, may we see here that the doctrine of God and our knowledge of God should empower us. The church is not so simple and weak that it must hide and shy away from the world. The church is not so weak that we're fearful. Of the world and everywhere we turn. The church is not so weak that we can't have influence and authority within the world around us. We see the exact opposite of this reality. Is that the church is so powerful because of the head of the church, the one that has ultimate power and authority over the nations, that we as the church Get to exercise this dominion, this power, this strength within the world around us. Are we not doing the works of our Father within the world around us? Are we not proclaiming the gospel of salvation in Christ to the world around us? Are we not calling the leadership of the world around us to submit to the risen Lord? To submit to Him that justice True justice can only be found in the Word of God. This is the role of the church. I think too often we've said that the church isn't powerful, the church is actually weak. And we're just waiting for the return of Christ. We're just sitting back and waiting until we die. And we're missing the call and the command that God gives his people. Why are we able to have such power and authority? Is because our Lord and Savior has that authority. Psalm 2, we're going to turn there. If you have your Bibles open, turn to Psalm 2, starting in verse 7. It 's a beautiful chapter or psalm that proclaims the authority of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Well before he was born on this earth. But Psalm 2, starting verse 7, says, I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son, today I've begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel Huh, sounds kind of familiar language, does it not? Continuing on says, Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling Kiss the Son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. For his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. For you strike all your enemies on the cheek, you break the teeth of the wicked. Salvation belongs to the Lord. Your blessing be on your people. Say law. Our Savior, Jesus Christ, reigns in heaven. Having authority over the nations. Now he's the head, and the church is the body. Why would we not have authority and power within the nations while we live on this earth? Why do we doubt that his kingdom is at work here in this earth? Why do we not think that we should be proclaiming the authority of our Savior to the kings? We see the psalmist do it. He has no fear. He has no problem proclaiming such things. Verse 10. Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the sun lest he be angry. And you perish in the way. But here's the the beauty of it. For the wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are all who take refuge in him. This is the gospel message that we're taking to the ends of the earth as our Savior commanded. Kiss the sun, lest he be angry. Find sweet forgiveness in the sun. Notice and feel the wrath of God pulled off of you as a sinner and find the identity and the mark of a child placed on you through the Spirit. Is this our message to the world, Church? Or are we going to just sit back and say, no, we we're not powerful. We don't have authority in this world. The world's too scary. We should just let them be. Or we're going to follow our Savior, his instruction, and notice and and believe that he has given the church power and authority to preach the gospel, to see the hearts and the minds of sinners transformed. To see the kings of the nations become saints and making just laws according to his commandments Are we willing to say we're not going to tolerate the sins of the world and say, we'll just permit them, we'll allow them to happen. They're not that bad. Maybe if we just allow the sins of the world to go unchecked and unnoticed, they'll finally see how bad they are. Are we willing to say, just like our Savior, that we must call the sinner to repent of their sins? And find sweet forgiveness in Jesus Christ. Call the rebel against God to repent of their sin and find the family of God. In Christ Jesus. May we see and recognize that God has called us as the church to exercise power and authority in this world. How are we able to do that? Off of our emotions? Off of our political party? Off of the tradition and the U. S. Constitution? How are we to do this? Brothers and sisters, we do this by the doctrine of God. Do you know God? This is the very basic. Do you know God and what it means to be saved by Christ? If you know that doctrine, how powerful, how strengthening that doctrine is to the world when we start to preach it. But it goes beyond that. How can we have power and authority in a society that's so wicked? When you start to know the doctrine of God, know that He has called you to flee from sin, to kill sin in your life. And to follow after his commandments, you then start to live your life differently. You start to interact with your coworkers differently. You start to treat your boss And your job differently. You start to treat your studies in school differently, not seeking to cheat and connive your way through it. That's the doctrine of God that does that. It influences the culture. How else can we exercise power and authority in this world? Well, we we call the civil government to obey Christ How are they going to know the justice of God if we don't point them to where it is found in the Word of God? We can't just sit back and say, well, you're the political leaders, so we're going to tolerate and permit you to do whatever you want. Friends, you would not do that with Pastor Matarai. We're just committing sin in here. And we're just teaching false doctrine. I know some of you wouldn't even allow us to get off of the stage before you would come and correct us. But somehow we allow that to be in the world. Church, are we strengthened by the doctrine of God? We know what justice actually looks like We know what God says is right and wrong. And are we calling the world to follow after? Now we're not forcing it to happen. But we're not going to tolerate it. We're not going to permit it. We're going to call them to repentance. And we're going to trust and believe. It's part of the doctrine of God. We're going to trust and believe that justice and God's wrath will be poured out accordingly and correctly. Friends, may we be encouraged by the doctrine of God. May it strengthen us in our daily lives. May it empower the church Universally, but here in Jarrett's North Hartford Church, can we be empowered by the doctrine of God? Can it cause us to go on a great adventure, to dive deep into the words of God, to seek every little letter of the Bible? To know who God is, to know who what our sin is, to know the glories of Christ. May we seek to know what justice is. May we seek to understand what it means to call the sinner to forgiveness in Christ. Friends, may the doctrine of God be the start of a journey in our lives. May we grow more and more each day. May we yearn to ask the questions and seek the depths of who He is. And may we recognize that we don't fulfill and find the totality of this cavern, of the doctrine, and all its treasures until we enter into glory with Him. And that just means this is a lifelong journey. May we recognize the works of God are good. May we not tolerate sin. And may we value the doctrine of God that He has given us. Let's go before our Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. Lord, I now ask that you strengthen us in our knowledge of you. Grow us. Give us a desire to know you more. Show us your word. Allow us to rest on your word alone. Lord, may we recognize the power and the authority you've given this church We actually believe that the kingdom of hell, the reign of hell, will not prevail against the church. That you, as our head, will lead us into battle. You'll give us the strength to proclaim the gospel to the lost. The Spirit will work in their hearts to make them saints. And we joyfully enter into this battle with you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.