All right, let's turn to John six. John six. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for this time today we've had together. I pray for the fellowship downstairs and the food. Thank you for The pizza and whatever other refreshments you've given us, help us to be grateful and thankful for all that you've given us. Continue to nourish us and provide for us physically and also spiritually. In Christ we pray. Amen. All right. I just found a misplaced question. I'll store that away. So John six, forty four to forty five, Jesus uh that's I was starting verse forty three, it's the beginning of John 6, 43 to 45. Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves, which tells you that what? What were they doing? They're grumbling among themselves about what he was teaching. Verse 44, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. It is written in the prophets, and they w will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. First of all, we see the necessity of being drawn in order to Come to Christ. The necessity of being drawn. He says this verse 44: No one can come to me unless the Father who So a person must be drawn by the Father to come to Christ in the right way, to come to Christ in faith. There's no room for a person to come to Christ without being drawn by the Father. The Father who sent me draws him. No one, no one can come to me unless the Father who sent me Draws him. So there's people there who have not been drawn by the Father, therefore they've not come to Christ, professing believers, but not true believers. So the necessity of being drawn. Brother, it's probably in my ministry, and as I look out, it's probably the least talked about aspect of how all this happens. Right? I mean That's required. That has to happen. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him this The necessity of being drawn. First of all, this is not just the general drawing or the general call of the gospel, which goes out and Many, many people hear it. This is the effectual call because there's a guarantee of resurrection. Everyone who is drawn by the Father in this way, everyone who is drawn by the Father in this way will be risen on the last day. No one can come to me unless the Father who draws me, or unless the Father who sent me draws him. That's the necessity. And I will raise him up on the last day. That's the guarantee of resurrection. So If you're drawn in this way, in this way, if you're drawn in this way, you come to Christ in faith, and you're risen on the last day. That is a straight line, unbreakable iron bar between the drawing and being risen on the last day in glory, eternal glory. You can't break that. That's a promise. It's part of this whole complex of promises In the gospel, the gospel is like a brilliant diamond. There's many facets to what it offers, what it promises. So you have the necessity of being drawn, the guarantee of resurrection, and you have the instrumentality of the word. Because this happening in Christ's ministry and as it continues to happen in the church age, it's the fulfillment of prophecy. You have the necessity of being drawn, the guarantee of resurrection. And he had the instrumentality of the word. That's verse forty-five. It is written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. And we saw that in the passage of my first. Message this morning. The context of all of this is the Word of Christ. And why are they not receiving these aspects of it? Why are they tripped up by these difficult aspects? Why are they grumbling? Why are so many professing believers all of a sudden abandoning Christ? They weren't receiving the word. They weren't drawn. They weren't taught of God. They weren't hearing and learning from the Father. Verse 44, verse 45. Now practical application for the whole. Um the whole shebang. Going back all the way to session one, we should be hungry and zealous to seek the Word of God in our lives. Brothers and sisters, lead the charge in that Be a Christian who's all about the word. Come to church and you're all about the word. We're here for the word. We need the word. We want the word. Set the example. And we should be hungry and zealous to cry out for the Spirit's work in our lives in prayer. Hungry and zealous for the word, hungry and zealous for the work of the Spirit in prayer. Hungry and zealous for the convicting Work of the law in our lives. Because the convicting work of the law is what drives us to Christ. So practical way to think about it. Brother, sister, if you're not grieved Over the sin in your life, then what's missing is the convicting voice of the law. And you need to cry out to God that He would revive that anew in your heart. Come to church, sit under the Word, and be Seeking the convicting voice of the law, so that God by His grace and mercy would grieve you over your sin. Because that was what will drive you to go to Christ for sanctification and comfort. We should be hungry and zealous for the word, for the spirit, for the convicting voice of the law, and for the comforting, sanctifying power of the gospel. And Jason read a great verse, 2 Corinthians 3:18. Go home and read it and meditate on it. Commit it to memory. 2 Corinthians 3:18. We see the glory of Christ in the gospel and its transition. Transforms us into his likeness. We have a sight of Christ to transform us. And of all the practical things, this is the thing I really want to break down because we've talked about the theological. I want to go As practical, as understandable as possible of how the gospel conforms us to the likeness of Christ. Are you ready? You ready? Alright. When we see the gospel, we see all that God has given us and all that God has done for us. What that does is it fills our hearts with gratitude and love. Alright, so this is simple. See the gospel, we see what God has given, we see what God has done. It fills our hearts with gratitude. And love. Now, gratitude and love for God create obedience. That's it That's Christian loving right there. That's, I can't think of a simpler, more practical way to outline that. You see the glory of Christ in the gospel, all that he's done, all that he's given. By his grace, by his love. You see it all. You see the glory of Christ in the gospel. It fills your heart. It infuses your heart with gratitude for what he's done. With love for God, because He's the one who did it. And out of that gratitude and out of that love, grow obedience. Grow a desire for repentance. That's the way you should think about this. The gospel is not just for the lost, it's for the children of God to see the glory of God and be conformed to the likeness of Christ. In his providence, God draws the sinner. He can use so many things. He can use in his providence. Somebody hitting rock bottom. And so they come to church and start hearing the word. And then he uses the word to draw. Somebody going through a deep depression. Someone going through the family falling apart, someone battling addiction. Maybe it's a completely indiscernible, unplanned why you came to church. Maybe it's the influence of a friend or family that brings you To the word. Maybe it's the invitation of a friend or a mailing from the church. Maybe it's a ministry or witness of a local church. But whatever it is, this is how God the Father draws the sinner. He brings the word into their lives, and then he brings them into the word. Period. That's it. You seek God through his word, and on the converse side, God draws you. with his word. And I know it happened in uh all kinds of ways in God's providence where he brings the word into your life. And then he brings you into the word. And then through the ministry of the word, the convicting voice of the law, the converting power of the gospel, the Father draws the sinner to seek. He draws the sinner to receive, and ultimately he draws the sinner to love and worship him. Through the Lord Jesus Christ, and thinking back to that question, make sure I say this, and in the power and presence of the Holy Spirit. All right, let's pray and then we'll go downstairs and continue the fellowship. Father, we thank you for your goodness, grace, mercy, love, wisdom, power, holiness, law, gospel, everything We pray for you continue to shower your blessings and favor upon us by your infinite love. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.