Well the words we'll examine this morning are Exodus twenty, verses eight through twelve. Exodus twenty verses eight through twelve So I received the call last night for the bullpen to come in and preach this morning. I was glad that God has already had us working through the Ten Commandments in this series, and I'm able to jump right back into it. So if you've been with me in my morning sermon series, I've been walking through the law of God and that it's good, it's fruitful, it's a benefit to society. And to the Christian and to the church. And these two commandments, we'll look at the fourth and fifth commandment this morning. I believe they emphasize the goodness of God's law even more. So often when we think about the law of God, when we think about laws in general, we think about how they're oppressive, how they prevent us from having fun, how they push us down and take away freedoms. But the law of God is not that way. The law of God is designed to give freedom, to give life, to give hope and joy in this life One of our issues of why we believe laws are so impressive, oppressive, is because of just the society and the culture that we live in Just think about what our politicians do each year. Each year we have legislators go into session, and the purpose of the legislators is to To create laws. Update and create laws. So each year there's new laws coming out into society. There's new laws of which we're called to follow coming into society. And Many times they feel oppressive to us because they are. Plenty of them are They limit us on our freedoms of how to worship. They limit us on our freedoms of how to care for one another. They limit us on our freedoms of how to conduct and run businesses. So then, when we take the law of God, we immediately jump in and say, oh, that's oppressive as well. Please hear me, friends, that that is not the law of God. The law of God is not oppressive. It's freedom. It brings hope and it brings life. Another reason that we often think about the law of God being oppressive is because in our flesh. And our sinful desires, when the law of God comes into our lives, that radically shakes up what we want and what we like I used to like to do this, but that's a sin. And now that you tell me that's a sin, that feels oppressive because now I can't follow after my lusts, after my desires, after my passions. So then we say, oh it's oppressive. But when we see the glory of the law of God and how it helps, it strengthens, it elevens , we start to see that it's it is actually good. And that the things that it uh calls sin and the things that it calls out that we should not partake in are actually not Beneficial for us. They're harmful, destructive to our lives. And I believe the fourth and the fifth commandment help to emphasize the goodness of God. God's law, the benefit of God's law, how it makes life better when we're obedient to God. Now hear me this morning. This is always important. I feel like I have to over-emphasize this. I do not believe, because Scripture does not teach this, that you can be saved by the law. Right? So if you're in here this morning, you're like, oh, I'm going to solve all of my problems and I'm going to learn the Ten Commandments and check them off perfectly, and then all my problems will be washed away. That's not true. Salvation comes by the blood of Christ in faith in Him. Salvation, hope, life comes from the life giver, Jesus Christ. But he has given us the law as a tutor. He has given us the law as a guide. He has given us the law to correct the lawbreaker, to correct the wicked and unrighteous. That's what Timothy tells us. That the law is to correct and to draw people, to point them to their need for a savior because of how sinful they are, and there must be someone or something hard. Holy and righteous, which is God. So do not hear me this morning saying you're going to be saved by the law, but also do not hear me saying that the law is not good. The law is very good. We want the law. We need the law of God in our lives because it teaches us how to love God and to love our neighbor. So join me as we look at Exodus 20, starting in verse 8. It says, remember the Sabbath day, to keep it holy. Six days you shall labor and do all your works, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son, or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant Or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within your gates. For in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea, and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Made it holy. Verse 12: Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. So here we see the fourth and the fifth commandment. Remember the Sabbath. That's the fourth commandment. That's found in verses 8 through 11. And then the fifth commandment, found in verse 12, is to honor Your father and mother. Sermon complete. Let's go home, right? Happy Mother's Day. That's simple, right? That's two basic commandments. And yes, absolutely. But we must understand why they're so beneficial to us. We must see and value them, that they still matter to us today, and we must seek to honor God in our obedience to them. So let's look at the fourth commandment. Remember the Sabbath. Remember the Sabbath. It's verses eight through eleven, and verse eight says, Remember the Sabbath day to keep it holy. Some translations will say, and keep it holy. So we see that this idea here is that we have a day that's unique and that the we are to keep it holy, meaning separate. It has something unique It's not like all the other days, and it lays out the seven-day week that we understand that we labor for six days, and then we have a Sabbath , a one day that is holy and unique But what is unique about it? What is unique about it? Well, let's just understand what the purpose of the Sabbath is. The first purpose of the Sabbath is in the very title of what it is itself is we are to rest. Sabbath could just simply be translated as to stop or to cease. Alright, so we are to rest. So, and and this is maybe the most common understanding of it, and if you've ever been in a Jewish culture or Jewish context that On Saturday, their Shabbat, their Sabbath, is very serious that from sundown on Friday night until sundown on Saturday, everything shuts down And and they rest. They stop all their normal activities. When I was in the army, I was actually working in Israel, and it's really strange that the army shuts down. On Saturday. I mean everything. Like we we had to make sure our food was prepared beforehand because after Friday night we couldn't even walk far enough to go get our food where they looked Located at for us because you couldn't walk certain distances. They're very strict about this. And there's no military training, there's no operations, no missions happening. Everything just shuts down. on that Saturday. It's a very unique thing, but they're trying to emphasize this idea that the sh the Sabbath is ceasing to stop to rest. And we see the purpose of this is to draw out that so many of us find our identity in our work. I hope that stings for some of you, because I know some of you. That many of us, I'm putting myself in this, many of us find our identity in our work. And when God commands us here to rest, he's pointing out that that's not where our identity is. Your identity can't be in something that you cease to do. At least one day a week. This rest here is very clear that the stopping, the stopping of your regular work, and to keep it holy, to keep it this day unique. Unique, to keep it special. The purpose of that is to draw out that we are not sustained by the the work of our hands. God has blessed us with careers. and businesses. God has blessed us with trades and skills that we use to bring in an income. But that's not the actual source of your success. That is not the source of your sustainability. It's from the Lord. It comes from God. He's the one that has given you the ability to be a carpenter, a mechanic, a banker, a counselor. He's the one that has given you the ability to be the teacher, the mother, the father. He's the one that has blessed you with the finances that you have. Sure, it was from your 40, 50 years of work and a trade. But it is God that has established you in that trait. And when we sit back and we just rest and pause , We're reminded that it is not us who has accomplished all this, but it is God. I believe many of us, many of us, fall into the sin of busyness. And we justify it as a good and righteous thing. Many of us fall into the sin of busyness, and we justify it as a good and righteous thing. We're Americans, we work hard. From sunup to sundown. We're always just working and striving to accomplish to make more money to to build a better business to build a better future for our children. Right? It's not bad intentions. And we just work and we say, okay, I've got to work seven days a week. Praise God, he didn't give us eight days a week, or I'd have to be working an eighth day of each week. And we just we're constantly striving to work and work and work. And God is calling us out on that and say, you must rest. Pause. So the first purpose of the remembering the Sabbath is to rest. Don't over-spiritualize that right now. It is the stopping from your regular activities, the regular business of your life. And I'll get to some of the practical things a little bit later that I recommend as good work. But the second purpose of the Sabbath commandment is to remember the Lord. Look with me in verse 9. It says, Six days you shall labor and do all your work, but the seventh day is a Sabbath to the Lord. Hear that? To the Lord. The rest to the Lord your God. On it you shall not do any work, you or your son or your daughter, your male servant, or your female servant, or your livestock, or the sojourner who is within you Your gates, for in six days the Lord made heaven and earth, the sea and all that is in them, and rested on the seventh day. Therefore the Lord blessed the Sabbath day and made it holy. So the second purpose of the Sabbath commandment is to remember the Lord. The first piece that we should remember about the Lord is that He is the creator of all things. Think about that. The very purpose of why we pause and why we rest from our labor is to remember that God labored in his creation. He spoke all of creation into existence, and then he formed man and breathed life into man. And then he rested That's the connection that's drawn there. That on that Sabbath, when we pause from our labor, when we rest from our work, we reflect that God, the creator of the universe, also rests. Not because he was lazy. Not because he got exhausted. He was tired. No, we're talking about God. No, he is Demonstrating to us the goodness of rest. So when we take the Sabbath and we follow the Sabbath commandment, we should be remembering the Lord as the creator. Creator of all things. The second aspect of our remembrance of the Lord is that He has blessed us. He has blessed us with everything we have. To include rest. There's not a single gift or good thing in your life that you have that is outside of the will and providence of God. Not a single thing. Sure, the big one, salvation. You know, we can all say, yeah, absolutely, God is the sustainer, he's the provider of my salvation. But then when it comes to food. That's my no, that's God. What about my job? That was God. What about my family? That's God. What about the joy I get from hearing certain songs and music? That's God. He is the provider of all good things and all blessings, and we should reflect on that in our rest. Why do we have to take rests and to reflect on that is because when we are busy, let's be honest with yourselves, when you're busy with work, children, finances, issues. Issues when you're working 9 to 5, but really it's 5 to 9, and then you come home, you're tired, you're worn out, you get that meal, and you go to bed. How much are you reflecting on the goodness of God? You're just sustaining. Right? We're just trying to survive in life. We're just working with our hands, trying to provide for our families and for our meals. We're just trying to keep going, to live the American dream. And we forget about God, and He has commanded us to rest and remember how He has blessed us. The third aspect of the remembrance of God is to put our eyes on the eternal rest that is in Christ Jesus. Jesus God, remember the Lord on our Sabbath, and remember the eternal Sabbath that we have in Christ. That there is an eternal rest awaiting us. That we can have true peace, true calmness, true rest, where the stress of the world has been removed from our shoulders. where we can sit back and just say, this is good. That is an eternal hope that we have only in Christ. That's what that Hebrews 4 passage is all about. That we will enter into an eternal rest in Christ. And those that have faith in Christ now have already tasted and experienced some of that rest, but you will see it fully. When we enter into glory. Friends, when we rest from our work, we should reflect on the eternal. When we rest from the labor and the motion of our hands, we should reflect That God has provided so much for us, and that we have peace with the Creator, and that we will enter into His presence one day. So the purpose of the Sabbath commandment is for us to physically rest, but also spiritually rest and reflect and remember the Lord. Now, some good Bible-believing Christians will say that the fourth commandment doesn't apply to Christians today. Because they say our true eternal rest is in Christ. And I say yes and amen. But the Sabbath is still designed for us. God still designed the Sabbath. He puts the foundation of the Sabbath in the creation order. And then he points to it, and Jesus talks about how the Sabbath is good. So Mark 2, verse 27, this is where Jesus says the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. Alright, so the Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath. Now remember this was Jesus was getting pressed by the Pharisees because they were claiming that he was working on the Sabbath. He had done something. He had done a miracle. The disciples were working at different times, and the Pharisees would get upset because they were picking food. And the Pharisees would rush in and say, No, no, no, no. You're not keeping the Sabbath holy. Your disciples picked the heads of wheat off. No, no, no, you're not keeping the Sabbath commandment because you healed someone. And what they're doing is they're focusing on the outward work of the Sabbath, the the avoidance of work, while their hearts are corrupt. Their hearts are always working to find something wrong. Their hearts are always working to produce something. Some kind of lust of their own passions. And that's why Jesus points that the Sabbath, the rest, is for us. It's for us. Our benefit, it's for our good. We aren't made for the Sabbath, but the Sabbath is for us. Now, as Americans, this is hard for us to deal with. That resting is good. Resting is good for us. We need to hear this and believe this: that resting is good, and God has intended and built a system that allows us to rest. So let's talk. I have three categories of how this applies. So we'll first look at the Christian, how it applies within the life of the Christian. Then I'll look at the church, how we should be applying it as the unified body of Christ, and then as I phrased it, in the civil, the so we have the Christian, the church, and the civil. How should society deal with this? So often we say, well, this is Christian stuff. Society has nothing to do with it. No, the Lord speaks and has dominion over all things to include society. So we need to look at what society should be doing with it. So, Christians, how should we apply the fourth commandment? Well, first, we should rest. Shouldn't be a brain buster for you. You shouldn't be shocked by this. But what happens is we say we rest, but we actually don't. We say we rest, but we actually don't. Right now, someone in here is thinking about the report they have to send tomorrow morning when they get into work. Vince is guilty. Sorry, Vince. You outed yourself on that one. Right? It's so easy for us to be thinking about work, even though we say I'm gonna sit back, I'm gonna relax, I'm gonna drink my lemonade. And I gotta think about my budget, my bank account, the the work I have this week. I gotta get this accomplished. I gotta make sure my schoolwork is done. Right? We have so much that our minds are just Just going and going and going and going. It's part of the reason we gather together for worship on Sundays. Right? We're trying to establish a day. Now hear me. I don't believe that we are mandated by Scripture to meet on Sunday. And say this is our Sabbath rest. But I do believe that we are commanded to have six days of work and the Sabbath to be rest. But one of the intentions here is that we gather together In the morning to focus in on the Lord, to sing songs of praise to the Lord, to worship the Lord, so that maybe the rest of the day we are reflecting on that and our time together rather than what lies before us tomorrow. You can stress all about tomorrow, and you're not going to stop it from coming. Right? The work is always there, but we are called to rest. But often, maybe you're saying, no Anthony, I'm good at home. I'm good at home. I rest. I don't think about my bank account. I never think about it. So why am I going to do it on Sunday or when I'm trying to rest? But then you come to church and all you can do is just work. All you can do is get into ministry. I've got to work, I've got to serve here, I've got to be active here, and every Sunday, if I'm not doing something, then I'm not accomplishing the will of God. Well, that's a lie as well. You're called to rest. To sit back. That is why the multitude of pastors is so important. There's times where where Pastor Mack can just rest. He can stay at home and say he has a cold and rest. Right? I'm just kidding. If you're listening, Matt. I feel bad because I was sick earlier this week and I probably gave it to him. So this is payback But there's true rest there, right? And and we intentionally build in the system where well there's there's Sundays where I I do nothing I can rest. We also build into our schedule other days other than Sunday to find that rest. But friends, we c we must rest. We must. Stop lying. Stop believing that the American dream is only fulfilled when you work on all seven days and you work as hard as you can and that your children will have a better life because you worked from sunup to sundown and they never got to see you just sit back and enjoy it. Time with them. Don't fall for that lie. The second aspect for Christians is we must worship the Lord. This should be in every aspect of our lives, but the Sabbath day is important for us to do that. That we sit back and we We reflect on the goodness of God and we worship Him. We worship Him in a unique and special way. This day is holy. It's special and unique because of how we think about and remember the Lord. So we're worshiping the Lord. We should rest and we should worship. Fun fact: we don't do dishes in our house on Sunday. I'm not saying that's the law, you have to do that, but we do dishes Monday through Saturday. If I have an excuse not to do dishes, I'm going to use it on Sunday, right? It's a simple thing. I'm not saying you have to do that, but start to think about how can you intentionally design a day and make it holy that you just Just get to sit back. Hey, problems are still going to show up. Your hot water heater may start leaking tonight, and I'm not saying, oh, don't touch it. It's Sunday. Just let your house flood. We have to deal with it. Right? A school project that the kid didn't tell you they had due two weeks ago is due tomorrow. We have to deal with it. But are we in are we trying to establish a rhythm in our lives where we can Rest for just one day and trust the Lord that everything will survive, everything will continue on because He's in control. Church. Alright, so that's the Christian. And you want to talk to me? I love this topic. I could keep going on practical examples. But here's come talk to me afterwards if you want. But here's the for the church. Church, are we teaching and instructing and giving people the opportunity to rest? Or are we expecting just love labor constantly working. Every day we have a different ministry and different project that we're bringing you in and make sure you set up tables and make sure you do this. Make sure you're going door to door every single day of your life. All these things are good. They're guised as good things. Sharing the gospel is good. Going door to door is fine. Setting up and doing ministry is good. But sometimes we say that's where our identity is found. In the church, we are tempted to put that pressure onto the individuals and forcing them to break the commandment. themselves. Church, are we preaching and teaching that rest is good? That the American dream is not our dream. The true dream, our true identity, is rooted and found in Christ, and He has commanded us to find May we be a people that proclaim this, to live this in our lives and within the church. This brings me to the third category: the civil. How should we be living in society? How should we be promoting this in society? I believe society needs to promote healthy rest. If you are a boss, a business owner, a manager, are you promoting the rest of your employees? Notice God does. He points to the slaves, the lowest class of humanity in this system. He's pointing to them and saying they deserve rest. But then he goes even farther that even the livestock deserve rest. Are we living and promoting in a society where we say, yeah, we're gonna rest? It's good for us. We don't need to keep Chasing the stock market, make sure it just keeps growing, make sure we just keep getting stronger as a nation. But are we saying true strength, true meaning, true purpose comes when we rest and look to the Lord? So the fourth commandment is very important. I believe one of our great failures of a society is that we've just lost this. Live overseas, we lived in Germany, in Italy, rest is a normal. Maybe too much in Italy, but rest is very normal. Sundays stores are shut down. You don't have Walmarts just open 24-7. I'm not saying we're But I do think there's a culture that we've lost the value of rest because we're chasing some lie of a dream or fulfillment in something. So let us find rest in the Lord. This brings us to our fifth commandment, our final commandment this morning, is honor your father and mother. No amen, parents. Alright, we'll continue then. Honor your father and mother. Look with me in verse 12. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. Honor your father and mother. We have to understand what this word honor means to fully comprehend this commandment. Honor, simply put, is to revere, to prize, to value, to respect. Respect. So we we honor our parents. We value them. We find them as the jewel. It's a prize to us. Right, if if uh you lost uh a very expensive diamond, you would spend a lot of time seeking and finding it. Well, likewise, we should value and cherish our parents. And their instruction. Should revere them, have respect for them. So what does this look like? You know, we can say a word, we're to honor them, and then just say, go do it, right? Go honor them. But what does it actually look like in our lives? Well, the first one is the obedience. And I want to maybe talk to the younger generations now. Thank you, Evans, for sitting up front for that younger generation. But you are re-obeying Your father and your mother. You're obeying them. This commandment is given in Ephesians 6 as well. Ephesians 6 instructs children to obey their parents. They give you instruction. You listen to the instruction. You obey the instruction without delay That's kind of the trick that we like to try to we weevile into this, is that we, well yeah, we'll obey tomorrow when I feel like no, it's we we see this obedience happening here. This is part of that honoring of your parents. But let me not just pick on the younger generation. Let's think about ourselves. How often, as our parents get older, we just say, ah, they're just, you know, that's Than I'm a grown man, I get to do what I want. You can't, Mom, you can't tell me what to do. Words I have said myself as a grown man, that's not okay. Right, yes, you have you are independent, you are an adult, but let us respect our parents and revere them. Value them regardless of their age, regardless of of how old we are. There's an obe uh an obedience there The second one is, so what does it look like to honor your parents? We have obedience, but also respect in word and in action. Word and in actions. Do you respect your parents? Are you honoring them with how you talk about them and talk to them? Are you honoring them with how you act After they instruct you to do something, or how you're conducting yourself within their presence. Are you honoring and being respectful and how you're treating them? But this brings us then to the third part of what does this look like? As it gets then to our hearts as well. It's not enough just to say yes or no. Yes, ma'am. Like, oh, okay, I'm good. You told me to clean my room, I clean my room, and said, Yes, ma'am. That's not what I'm looking for. That's not what the commandment is seeking after, but it's the heart as well. Is your valuing of them in your heart? Do you have a love for them? Do you prize them and value them in your heart and in your attitudes towards them? A yes and then an eye roll is not a good thing. You know, obedience with a huff is not good. God has always spoken about this. He cares about our hearts much more than the outward action. He understands and knows and has taught us that when the heart's transformed, then the outward action comes. But often we just want to accomplish the outward action. and not deal with our heart. So okay, I'm gonna be nice with my words and I'm gonna be obedient, but really I detest my parents in my heart. I think negative thoughts about them in my mind. mind. And that's not an option. We are to love and value our parents within our hearts. Let me just draw the seriousness of this Commandment. Look. Well, first to see, this is often what's referred to as the first commandment with a positive reward given to it. So in verse 12, it says, Honor your father and your mother, that your days May be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. So there's a blessing that comes from this. When you honor your father and mother, you have long days, that you have longevity, you have health, you have blessings. in society. And we're going to get to that in just a moment, but notice the seriousness of this commandment. Because sometimes we just kind of give it lip lip service, like, all right, be nice to your parents. then we move on. Like we gotta get to the you shall not murder. That has to be a whole lot more important than honoring your father and mother, right? Or don't steal. We love we want that commandment uh in society a whole lot more than honoring your father and mother. But the word of God and the law of God looks at honoring your father and mother as an extremely serious law when it is broken. Look with me in Exodus 21, verse 15. Exodus 21, verse 15 says, Whoever strikes his father or his mother shall be put to death. Pretty serious, right? And you go, well, Anthony, they're hitting. You know, that's that's more than just being disrespectful with the mouth. That's them being violent with their parents. Yeah, but this is a very unique situation. There's other laws throughout God's law about striking other people that don't result in death. But here, God's putting the seriousness that when the child strikes their parents, it shows the hatred they have within their heart. And that it's such a serious offense that the death penalty is just and right. Do you hear the seriousness there? How do we get to that? is because God understands that uh so no one just wakes up one morning, they love their parents for eighteen years, and then on their eighteenth birthday, they wake up and they start physically abusing their parents. God understands that there is a history, a history of dishonoring of the parents leading to up to that moment. And that this physical outward expression of it shows the deep, darkened, hardened heart of that individual. And why is this so important? Why is this such a serious thing? Why does this when a child strikes his parents deserve the death penalty? is because God in his system has made the household an essential part of society. Essential, hear me, essential part of society. And because of that, when the household is disordered, when the household is breaking down, when the children are coming up within the household disrespecting and dis honoring their parents, then they're going to go into society acting the exact same way against the people that did not raise them. Have you been to some cities? Right? Let's just be honest. We see it in our lives. We see it in society. We have dishonored the value of the family and the parents and our sisters. So that then when the the children grow to be teens and young adults and adults, they disrespect everyone. They dishonor everyone. So then there is no value of property, there is no value of life to these people, and because we don't take this commandment seriously, and the law has no punishment for the dishonoring of family and society. It's just flourishing and getting worse and worse every day. This is why the law of God is so important. This is why the law is so good. It 's because it takes the important things and Puts them at the right focus for us. Instead of jumping right to murder, he deals with honoring your family first, your parents first. Because we understand that this often leads to these other issues. Have you noticed about the Ten Commandments? He doesn't start what's if we were building a society today, the first thing, if if Dave and I were vice president and president of this new country we started The first thing we would say in the law is that you cannot murder, right? Because we don't want people being killed. But that's not how God starts his law. God starts his law with focusing in on him and worshiping him. And God focuses the law then within to the heart of man and the rest, and then into the honor within the household, so that then when we get to the murder, the committing adultery, the The stealing, the bearing false witness, it's based off of that, leading from the worship of God and from the household out into society. God has a wonderful, wonderful system established here. And he recognized that the household is an essential part of society, and if we don't get that right, we will see the effects of it downstream. Now, let me also give a warning to parents. Alright? You know, it's so easy to be. I'm sure some children have been nudged a little bit this morning. But let me nudge the parents a little bit. Are you conducting your household and your way of instructing in such a way that you are worthy of that honor? See with me in verse 12, it says, so that your days may be long in the land that the Lord your God is giving you. The only way that those days would be long in the land is if they were being taught righteousness and justice. Right? If I'm a parent and I'm teaching my child to steal, to kill, to live, what to whatever passion comes up within them. And they're honoring me and obeying me and doing that. What's going to happen in society? What's going to happen in their life? It's not going to be a longevity of life Right? So, parents, there's a seriousness here. Deuteronomy 6, 4 through 7 puts up puts the focus, it starts off by the Lord our God is one, and we are to worship him, and then drives it home. Drives it home that the parents are to be instructing their children when they are walking, when they are sitting, when they are lying, from day rise to the sunset. Set all of the time. So, parents, you have a great, great, great responsibility on you as well. This commandment applies to you as well. That's what Ephesians 6 can Continues to lay out there of the value of the children obeying, but also the parents leading and guiding well. You cannot have longevity in this land if you are not instructing your children in righteousness. Teaching them the way of the Lord. Now, friends, I know, I know that some of you are sitting in here and you're saying, Anthony, you don't know my parents. You don't know how terrible it was in my house. Growing up. You don't know how wicked and mean, and and you're right, I don't know. And I recognize that. And I see the brokenness of this world in that. And there's still an identity that God has called to honor them. Not in their wickedness , not in their evil deeds, not in the way they maybe talked or treated you. But there is an a recognition of honoring them and seeing that God used them in unique ways. That God was still in control even in the world. wickedness. Now that's years of pain often. That's a hard concept to grasp. But it also then points us to our Heavenly Father. You may have a terrible example in your earthly father. But we have a heavenly father that is perfect and holy and righteous and loving and merciful and gracious when we are And we are called to honor Him. When we have the worst example here in society within your own lives, we look to heaven. We find the perfect example We should look at our bad examples of our parents possibly and seek to be a better example to our children. And seek to be a better example to our grandchildren. Always pointing them to the love and mercy of God. Always seeking for their well-being, not just physically, but spiritually, so much more important. So what does this look like in the Christian, the church, and the civil society? For the Christian, honor your parents. Don't talk bad about them. They've made mistakes. Newsflash, if you're not a parent yet, your parents aren't perfect. And newsflash, when you become a parent, you won't be perfect either Honor them. Value them. If nothing else, even if you had the worst parents, verbally, physically abusive, never caring, neglecting you, God used them to bring you into existence. God used them to create you here on this earth. Honor them with your words, with your actions. For us that are older and our parents are older, maybe even passed away, do not be so sharp to critique and to point out all their flaws. Respect them in their conversations about them For us that have older parents, or for when they become old, we must care for them. We must care for them. Honoring them is valuing them even in their dying days I despise the system that we just cast them off and don't love them and care for them. We have great institutions to help provide that care, but are we loving them, visiting, and and And still treating them as our parents in what's often considered their weakest and most vulnerable moments. What about the church? How should the church be demonstrating and living in this example? Obviously we should be teaching and educating children to obey their parents. We must be instructing them. Parents on what is righteousness, how to live and conduct themselves as parents. But also, we must honor the saints that came before us. So they're not biologically our parents in that sense, but they are our parents. We stand on so many saints' shoulders that have come before us. So often we look at generations past and say they were just weird. They were really stuck up about this and they really cared about this, and we're better than them. No, we're not. God has revealed to us. God has grown us. But let us not say we are better than them. Let us respect and honor those that came before us. Of course, within this church, I mean, some of you can testify to the generations that came before us, but historically, we stand on the shoulders of saints that have fought theological battles That you and I cannot even fathom. The reality that we are Baptists and Protestants, believers in Christ, saved by the grace of God, is only due to the work of those that have come before us. Us and the mercy of God in history. We must celebrate them and appreciate their work. Sure, they're not perfect, but let us not dishonor those that have come before us. And then the last section, I'll conclude here, the Civil Magistrate Society. How do they honor this commandment, honoring your father and mother? I believe that they need to remove themselves from trying to be the father and mother, to try to stop being the parental figure in society. That's not their role. God has given them the sword of vengeance. And that is what they are to do. That is the only instruction in Scripture of what the civil magistrate is to do, is to yield the sword of vengeance and praise the righteous. Praise the good. Stop being the parents. Allow parents and allow families to flourish. Discipline, dishonor. Discipline the wickedness within society. But promote the good and healthy value and benefit of the family. Promote and encourage the mother and father being in the life of each and every child. Promote the the benefit the society is not ran and organized by the government, but that indeed the family institution is essential to society because God has orchestrated that way. Friends, as we see in the commandments, these are for our benefit. It's not oppressive to honor your parents. It's not oppressive to take a Sabbath and to rest. God has given us these laws and these commandments to benefit us as individuals, as a church, and as a society. May we see the goodness in his laws. May we also recognize that if we just get society in order with the Ten Commandments, everything will be made right. No, may we seek the salvation of the lost. By coming to faith in Christ. May we recognize that the the bringing of alive the dead sinner to new life is what brings revival and hope to the new To the land, to the household. We seek for the law to come to faith in Christ, but we also recognize that the law of God is disciplinary, it's a tutor, and it's correct. And it is good for all people. Let us thank the Lord for his word and then continue in song. Holy God, we thank you for your word and testimony. Lord, we thank you for your law, which is good for us. It is a benefit to us. So Lord, we pray that we honor you. We seek to obey your law by our heart's desires, not just by our hands. Lord, I ask that you give us minds and a passion to rest in remembrance of you and the benefit that you've provided. Lord, I ask that you strengthen us in our obedience. And honoring of our parents. Pray for godly men and women to be raising children, for those godly children to honor their parents, to flourish and to be fruitful in the land. For a long time. We thank you and we praise you for all of your goodness. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.