Welcome. We are continuing our study in these last days from Hebrews 1-2. In these last days, God has spoken to us by his son. the Lord Jesus Christ. The defining reality of this historical era that we live in is, say it together in our hearts, Christ is Lord. That is our confession. That is our profession. We're not ashamed of it. This defines who we are. But the point I've been trying to get across is it defines the state of affairs of the world. This is the age we live in. These last days. God's climactic revelation and climactic redemption in his Son Jesus Christ. So welcome. Tonight's study is This age and the age to come, this age and the age to come, I'll pray for us We'll look at a preliminary passage. Something in my mind I picture in this kind of study. This is our diving board passage. We just begin with it, but then we dive into the topic. And there's all kinds of other passages that we're going to be flipping to in this in the pool, so to speak. Father, we bless your name. You have created us, and you've saved us by your grace and power through Christ, through the gospel message, the message of his righteous life. The message of his sacrificial death, the message of his glorious resurrection and ascension, the message of forgiveness By his blood. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your word. Thank you for your Holy Spirit. Thank you for your church. Thank you for the hope of resurrection. Thank you for reconciling us and showing us mercy. Even though we do not deserve to know you, you have made yourself known to us and you've changed our hearts that we may know you and see you and love you and look forward to being with you. Father, we thank you. That everything that's going on around us, we have hope and security in you. So we ask that you would help us tonight. Teach us by your word and spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. And God's people said Amen. Yes. Amen. So this age and the age to come. We'll begin with a reading in the middle of a story, but just giving this reading, Mark 10, 28 to 30. To introduce the topic, Peter began to say to him, to Jesus, see We have left everything and followed you. Now you could Pick you could read in you could read a tone into that just like you read a tone into people's emails and letters, right? Um and there is a little there is a pride that Peter and the disciples struggle with But just on the surface of what that is, that's a very good thing. That's how we're supposed to live, to forsake everything in order to follow Christ. And we are like Peter in that we want to do that, but there's always going to be a a struggle with sin underneath. Jesus said, Truly I say to you, there is no one, no one Has left house, or brothers, or sisters, or mother, or father, or children, or lands , forsaking everything. For my sake and for the gospel, who will not receive a hundredfold. Now just put your finger there and let's just pause. Peter is highlighting He him something about himself and this inner circle of disciples, pointing out that they've left everything and followed him. But Jesus broadens it out and and says there's no one, no one who's left house or brothers or sisters or mother or fathers or children or lands for his sake and for the gospel. Who will not receive a hundredfold, a hundredfold of all those things that they forsooked, of those blessings. Now Let's continue. Who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time or now in this season Houses and brothers and sisters and mothers and children and lands with persecutions And in the age to come, eternal life. So you can see the contrast here, just uh verse thirty Just stare at it. There's a contrast and the comparison of multiplied blessings received now in this time or now in this season. And then on the other hand, and this is at the end of the verse, after the comma, and then there's this word and, and in the age to come, eternal life. The age to come, eternal life. So, you have this now in this season or now in this time, and you have the age to come. There are already multiplied blessings to the child of God. Not yet the full blessing of eternal life in its resurrection form But uh you can see just some examples. Jesus says you've left uh houses or brothers or sisters or mother and on and on and Those are hundredfold, those are multiplied for the child of God and that's true because as a church member, um everything that uh your brothers and sisters own is yours in Christ. And you see that plays out in the book of Acts. Maybe not from a legal perspective. Your name is not on the deed. But if something happened to you and you were put out on the street, there's a line of brothers and sisters in Christ ready to help you and ready to say to you, My house is your house. You will not sleep on the bench. And um brothers and sisters, the the the the before I was saved I had well I I still have them, but I only I only had I only had um Two brothers and three sisters. Now I have a multitude of brothers and sisters in the Lord. Multiply them to me And so there are hundredfold blessings in the kingdom of God. Yes, we forsake all for Christ, but we gain Hundredfold. But then in the age to come eternal life. And so that's the basic thrust of what we're talking about tonight. This age. Here he says this season or this time. But then he also says the age to come. Um so here's why I'm doing this topic tonight. It's to make sense of the already but not yet aspect of salvation that we talked about last week. Do you remember this? Already but not yet. And this applies to both personal salvation And it applies to the kingdom of God. And so we are already being sanctified, but we are not yet fully sanctified. We're already risen in the inner man, but not yet risen in the outer man. There and on and on and on. So personal salvation is already, but not yet. We're already citizens of heaven, but we're not yet in heaven. So you can think of other examples. But it also applies to the kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven. It already exists, but it's not yet fully manifest in its final form in the new heavens and the new earth. Already, not yet. And so when we talk about this age, this current age, and the age to come, we it'll make sense of the already not yet. And the key word here will be overlap. Overlap. There's an overlap of the ages that we live in. So that even though we are on earth, we're citizens of heaven. So that's kind of a d a d a lower and upper way of thinking about it. That's a metaphor, right? But we're on Earth In earthly bodies, but we're of heaven, citizens of heaven. We'll look at a passage that uses that phrase later today, if we get to it, that we're citizens of heaven. But you also can think of it in terms of time, not just lower-upper, but present-future. We're already citizens of the kingdom of God. E the eternal kingdom of God, even though we are still in this present evil age. Let me draw it up here. And as I go up to draw it, what I'll do is review this diagram because I've been adding things to it, but I'm having to regretfully, regrettably, have to take some of it down. in order to add the new parts tonight. So I know you're sad about that. Okay, but uh this line is the line of history. This big line right here, this conglomeration of lines, is Christ's return. This is the uh center point of history, the climax of history, and just generally speaking, we're calling this the first coming of Christ, his righteous life, his sacrificial death. His burial, his resurrection and ascension and dethronement in heaven, symbolized by that crown. And at the end of the age The crown has an arrow coming down, the return of Christ. And this circle here represents all of the historical events leading up to the return of Christ, all of the events that happened upon the return of Christ, and then the historical situation after the return of Christ. That will be a study of last things. The last things. That's the juicy topic. That's where all the debate is. Most of the debate is. Heavy, heavy debate. I think we'll we will talk about some of those things in the weeks to come. Study of last things, and on the other side of that is the eternal state. You could think about that as the age to come. That marker is not too dark. Let me see if the green one. Yeah, I should throw that away. Yeah, that's a little better. The eternal state. Uh okay, so what else? So this whole era between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ. Is the time period w that we are calling the last days, aka the church age. Yeah And um this right here is AD 70, the destruction of Jerusalem, which is God's judgment upon unbelieving Israel, not believing Israel, unbelieving and apostate Israel. Jesus prophesied it. It happened in AD seventy. This uh whole church age are these last days. Hebrews I keep saying it. It's the theme verse. It's been the the jumping point for the whole This whole series, Hebrews 1, 1 through 3. The definitive reality of these last days is God's revelation in His Son. And what is he doing? He's building his church in all the nations, and nothing will thwart his efforts. And you can just say goodbye to that. You have it memorized. You know what's going on in the last days. And this is the glorious work that God has called us to to give ourselves. Give our lives for his sake and for the sake of the gospel. And tonight we're talking about this age and the age to come. Now, this age we could just call The world we live in, generally speaking, I'm gonna I'm there's gonna be a particular definition of this age. Well that we'll get into, but generally speaking, we'll just say it's the world. Don't know if it necessitates the cross hatch. It's this age Or this world. Now I'll take a red, and the age to come has Already begun. And I'm starting this here at the resurrection. We'll just give this uh one diagonal. We won't do the cross hatch. This age And the age to come. Now uh just a uh general overview, what we're what we're going to talk about tonight is first of all Those two things. We'll look at some other cross-references just to get a good grounding on this age and the age to come. Then we'll very briefly look at The end of the age, the end of the age, and then we're going to look at the overlap, the overlap itself, which is where we are. Now one quick word on defining the age to come, defining it, and why I started here at the resurrection. It's the age of resurrection glory. It's the age of resurrection glory. It's the final whatever you say, whatever we however we differ on how we get there within this circle Okay? And there are different views there, and I have my views and you have your views. But however we get here, the eternal state The full and final and irreversible form of the kingdom of God, resurrection glory, the new heavens and the new earth. God dwelling with his people in resurrection glory. That's the age to come. Now it has already dawned in a specific, concrete way in this world. The resurrection of Christ, the dawn of new creation. His resurrection body is the first historical instance of new creation. And we come to share in that By the Spirit that He has poured out, by the Holy Spirit He has poured out into our hearts, which begun on the day of Pentecost. Okay, so that's why I begin. The age to come, the resurrection. Our sharing in that begins at the day of Pentecost, and there'll be an end of this age. We'll talk about the four biggies that have to happen within that circle. The four biggies, not the only things that happen within that circle, but the four biggies. See if you can guess them ahead of time. And then the age to come will be in full bloom. The whole earth will be reborn, renewed, redeemed. Romans 8. And so will our bodies, and we will dwell with the Lord forever. Now, if that doesn't put in perspective life on this earth, I don't know what will. This is what we live for. This is what we strive for. Our lives here are just a breath, just a snap. But this is eternity. So, this is what we live for. So, we're going to talk about the two ages, and then we're going to talk about the end of this age and the four biggies and the overlap of the ages. Christ is Lord. He's building his church, unstoppably building his church. He's advancing his kingdom. What kind of kingdom is it? It's a saving kingdom. It's a kingdom where he's saving sinners. It's a spiritual kingdom, which means he saves sinners by giving them the Holy Spirit, forgiving their sins. It's a heavenly kingdom, which means We become citizens of heaven even while we're still here on earth. It's a conquering kingdom, mean meaning it uh overcomes spiritual forces of darkness. And it is an inaugurated kingdom. It's just not a consummated, fully manifest kingdom yet. And maybe communal application too, before we get to that outline, which is with two ages, the end of the age with the four biggies, and the overlap. Okay, do you want some personal application? Okay Um, do you? Do you? It's not hypothetical? Okay. Well, I've got maybe you just want to hear the word And not hear and obey the word. Tongue in cheek, okay? But this is why I stopped to give personal application and com and that's individual but also communal. uh thinking about what Christ is doing in these last days. And all of this, if if all of this stuff is true About the kingdom of God and eternity. Well, personal application number one is very simple. Believe. Believe. Number one, believe the power of the gospel. Believe that the gospel has the power to change sinful hearts into hearts that love God. Do not look at the culture and everything that's going on and secular culture and think there's no way God can save sinners. Absolutely he can. Absolutely he can. He's God, he has infinite power. Believe the power of the gospel. Believe the supreme authority of Christ. He said, all authority in heaven and what has been given to me. And on earth. Satan does not have supreme authority. Christ has supreme authority. Believe it. Believe it. Believe he is the sovereign God because he is sovereign God. Believe in God's work through his church. Believe in we've we've got to believe in God's work through his church, through his local churches. Believe that God can use our church to have a kingdom impact in the community, in our families, in our workplaces. In your town, in the county, believe God's work through his church, through the power of the gospel and the supreme authority of church of Christ. Not the supreme authority of the church, the supreme authority of Christ who's working in and through his church. Believe that God will make good on his purposes to disciple the nations This is how the gospel narratives end. He sends out the apostles to disciple the nations, to make disciples of all nations, and to baptize them, and to teach them the ways of Christ. Believe that this is what Jesus wants to do and has purpose to do and is doing and will do. Nothing will stop him. So believe, believe these things. Don't let the sinfulness of what's around you and what's inside of you. Sinfulness manifest in different ways in all sectors and spheres of human society. Don't let it Hinder our belief or hedge in our faith in God. We must be a people of faith. And we must believe in the power of the gospel and the power of the word and the working of the Holy Spirit. If the church doesn't believe these things, brethren, who in the world will? We've got to believe. We've got to have faith in God. It's an old song, isn't it? Have faith in God? And just keep saying it. Have faith in God, have faith in God. And no, I will not sing it. But in my heart I am. Uh number two, act. Act. Lay down your life for these things. There's no no better thing to live for. Lay down your life for these things. It's called discipleship. Speak a word of these things in daily life. Start seasoning it with speaking a word of these things in humility but with conviction. Humility does not mean we lack conviction. And conviction does not mean we lack humility. Pray diligently. Pray diligently. Devote yourself to the Word of God. The Word of God will transform us to be better servants in all of these things, in believing and enacting. Pursue holiness and pray for holiness. Pour into the body life of the church. Pour into it. I say this over and over. I hope it doesn't get old. But um we didn't come up with the idea of the local church. Pastor John didn't come up with it. It was here before he was born We we didn't have a committee meeting about it. This is God's infinite wisdom that the organization An advance of his kingdom in this era of history are local churches. Local churches. That's just where our hearts have to be. That's where Scripture puts our hearts. We want the advance of the kingdom and the spread of the gospel. No matter what else we do, no matter what other Christian things we're doing. Ground zero for discipleship is the home. We thought I was going to say the church. It's the home. And then secondarily, the church. God's wisdom, not ours. So uh the these topics, this topic is ripe for personal application And if it's true, if what we're saying is true, if the Bible's true, and if we believe it, everything in our lives should change. Everything in our lives should change compared to who we were. Alright, now the two ages. We read Mark 10, 28 through 30. I'll read it again. Jesus said, Truly I say to you, there's no one who's left house. So are brothers or sisters, your mother or father or children or lands for my sake and for the gospel who will not receive a hundredfold now in this time houses, brothers, sisters, mothers, children, lands With persecutions, right? With persecutions, and also in the age to come, eternal life. So there's reward here, kingdom reward, kingdom blessing. That's existing simultaneously to persecution, but there's the ultimate blessing of eternal life in the age to come. Now, Luke twenty thirty-three. Luke twenty thirty-three Sadducees came to question Jesus, to test Jesus, asking about resurrection. And again, picking up in the middle of that, but toward the beginning, Jesus has a word for them. In the resurrection, uh here's the question, in the resurrection, therefore, whose wife will the woman be? For the seven had her as wife. For the context, you have to go back and read that. But here's Jesus' answers what I want us to focus on. Jesus said to them, the sons of This age, okay, the sons of this age marry and are given in marriage. But those who are considered worthy to attain to That age and to the resurrection from the dead. Those who are considered worthy to attain to that age and to the resurrection of the dead. So this age, that age. Neither marry nor are given in marriage. For they cannot die anymore. Because they are equal to here you go. They're equal or the same as angels And our sons of God being sons of the resurrection. So twice in there, the defining mark of age to come, that age is resurrection. Okay, the resurrection, particularly of the body. And don't get thrown by this uh language. It's it's qualified, qualified by all of Scripture, same as angels or equal to angels, sons of God. It's um it's because you now share in the heavenly life. You now share in heavenly life and proximity to God. And it's in the in that age, the age of resurrection, there's no marriage and there's no death, are two things that come Come out of that in this age there is marriage, there is death, and there's um no bodily resurrection in in the way that it will be. There's miracles throughout history, those are unique miracles. But those individuals, take Lazarus, for example, they were resuscitated, they did not receive a glorified body, right? Lazarus died again Lazarus uh uh if he was a believer, he'll share in the age to come and get a new resurrection body different than his first resuscitated body Anyway, no resurrection, but there is marriage and there is death. Resurrection of the body, no marriage, no death. This age, the age to come. A two-age Way of thinking. Turn to Ephesians 1, 18 through 23. Ephesians 1, 18 through 23. I always have such a struggle reading anything in Ephesians 1. It's Not exactly, but basically two massive sentences. So if you want to read something from three to fourteen, you've got to pick it up in the middle of a of a sentence. It's one extended Thought. It's the matrix of glorious redemptive thoughts. And then the second portion from 15 on is basically like that too. Ephesians 1, picking it up at 18, picking it up in Paul expressing his love and his prayer request for the church there, his prayer life for the church there. Ver picking it up at verse 18, one of the things he says about he's praying that they would have the eyes. Of their hearts enlightened. I like that phrase. Eyes of the heart enlightened. That you may know what is the hope to which He has called you. What are the riches of His glorious inheritance in the saints? And what is the immeasurable greatness? These are all things Paul wants us to grasp with the eyes of our heart, right, in the inner being. The immeasurable Greatness of his power toward us who believe. That's encouraging according to the working of his great might, that he worked in Christ. That he worked in Christ. Now there's a subtle transition, but it's important because he was talking about God's power at work in us, but then he likens it to this, this power that he worked in Christ. When he raised him from the dead and seated in the seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, Far above, far above, all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named. Name is a shorthanded way of talking about other beings. Every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come, okay? This age and the age to come. He already has this supreme authority is the phrase I've been summarizing this. And we saw in the Great Commission in shortened form at the end of Matthew, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Here it's Extended, uh seated in heaven at the right hand of God, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named Not only in this age. So he already has that authority. He's already seated in that seat. He already has supreme authority in this age And obviously he'll have it in the age to come, and he'll exert that authority in a new and maximal irreversible way in the age to come. The supreme authority of Christ is our heartbeat. This is what we're about. And this is what we mean when we say Christ is Lord, is that there's no authority greater than him. So, supreme authority of Christ. Did I say I would read through 23? Let's keep going. Let's keep going. And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things. To the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. Beautiful picture. Please don't miss it there. Christ Has supreme authority over everything above in heaven and on earth, in this age and the age to come, right? Upper, lower, present, future. And you, the church, have been spiritually adjoined to him. You are his body. There could be no greater spirituality status that a human being could attain to than the status of being joined to Jesus Christ by faith. What a blessing. What a privilege. Brothers and sisters, we do not deserve this We do not deserve to hear these words or speak these words. But in God's grace, He's made it so And he's joined us to the one who has supreme authority. If we cannot have confidence, we go into battle against the spiritual enemies within and without. We need to get on our knees and fall on our faces and perhaps weep until the Spirit will give us that confidence. Where else are we going to go? Well if we don't have confidence in Christ, are we going to go somewhere other than Christ to get that confidence? He's the anchor. He's the anchor. Brothers, he's our only hope. Jesus Christ is our only hope I mean that for our salvation, but I mean that for anything, for life, and um anything else of any value. All right Let me what my whistle here. Any questions that have been on the tip of your tongue? I'm going to move on to. Remember I said I would give a particular definition of this age? Before it was just general history before Christ returns. But I want to get of a particular particular definition of that and give you some cross-references. Any questions Scanning the room. Awkward silence officially over. Okay. This age, this world. Scripture also refers to it is the realm of darkness. Now the word world, W O R L D is used in different ways in scripture. And we're not going to do a full Bible s a word study on that. But one of the ways it's used is just in a s in a specific way refers to the realm of darkness. The the spiritual realm where Satan has his grip. And it's called This Age or This World. It's the realm of darkness. I'm going to give you seven, and we'll look at the cross-references Well, no, we won't flip there. Maybe in a future class when one of the classes that we're going to do is focusing on Who are the enemies of Christ? And what specifically does it mean that he overcomes and defeats these enemies? And so when we get there, we'll go to these cross-references. But here we go. The present evil age, Galatians 1. 4. Paul refers to this age as the present evil age. Now remember, all things must be taken in context of all of Scripture. Scripture interprets Scripture. Evil is not the defining reality of this world. Evil is not the sovereign God. God is the sovereign God. Within his world, in the context of his sovereign purposes and working out his plan the way he wants, on his timeline There is the present evil age, Galatians 1. 4. Paul talks about there are rulers of this age, 1 Corinthians 2, 6. Rulers of this age, thought leaders, political leaders. Who would be not believers in those roles, but those still in the grip of Satan, rulers of this age, philosophers would be an example. Other religious leaders would be an example. Number three, there is a wisdom of this age or a wisdom of this world. 1 Corinthians 1 20 There's the wisdom that comes from God revealed in Scripture. And then there is, tell me if this is right or wrong, then there's a different kind of wisdom that comes in the world. That rulers of this world advocate for. So there's a this present evil age, there's rulers of this world, the wisdom of the world. This is all talking about the realm of darkness as it is. There is a set of desires within this world. 1 John 2. 17. 1 John 2. 17. The desires of the world. the desires of this age. First John two fifteen, a set of allurements in this world. Uh John fifteen nineteen, the whole set of allegiances to this world. And so world in these contexts Is talking about that the the realm of darkness, that which is under the grip of Satan. John 's uh John writes in 1 John, do not love the world. He's not saying we don't love people who are in the world. He's not saying we don't love God's creation. We should love God's good creation and enjoy it. He's saying we don't love things that are of the realm of darkness. We don't love things that are contrary to God, that are under the grip of Satan. We don't love satanic things. We don't love things of this world. And of course, there's a leader of this world. Satan. And let's look at those Second Corinthians four four In their case, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers. To keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Those are unbelievers. Now, that situation of being blinded can be reversed. Which is the only way it can be reversed. The only way it can be reversed is the gospel of Jesus Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit. But God of this world, we've got to take that in context. He's God of the realm of darkness. He's the leader of the realm of darkness. Doesn't mean he's sovereign God over God. Doesn't mean he has more authority than Jesus Christ. He does not Scripture could not be clearer that Christ has supreme authority above and below present and future. God of the world. World is not absolute sense. And God, obviously in that phrase, is not absolute sense. It's just talking about he's the leader within the realm of darkness. John 12, 31 and 32. John 12. thirty one and thirty two Now is the judgment of this world Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people to myself. And he's been doing it ever since. He's been doing it ever since. As the church continues to grow, like that mustard seed of the kingdom, continues to grow, continues to spread. The way God wants it to. Because of a definitive and decisive victory that Jesus won in his first coming. Overcoming temptation, the power of his earthly ministry, his victory at the cross. And his victory in the resurrection, and his enthronement in heaven, where he now rules, having conquered. So, one more, Ephesians 2, 1 and 2. Ephesians 2, 1 and 2. Ephesians chapter two, one and two Yes, even that's difficult too to read anything within um Ephesians two one through ten or a unit. But I we we just can't read every unit that we go to. You know my heart, you know I want to Uh Ephesians 2, beginning verse 1. And you were dead in trust in the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world. He's talking to Christians, so that can apply to us. We are spiritually dead, dead in trespasses, dead in sins, in which we once walked, following the course of this world, realm of darkness, this age, following the prince of the power of the air. Spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Now you know that cannot that that this cannot be irreversible The state of spiritual death is not irreversible. Otherwise, he wouldn't be able to be writing this to these people. He's saying this is who you used to be. You used to be dead in sins. But Verse four, God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved, and raised us up with him, and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. So, the realm of darkness and the Lord of darkness are real And there is an ongoing spiritual battle that will persist until the end of the age. But Satan does not have supreme authority. And darkness is not more powerful than the light. The kingdom of darkness will not stop Christ from doing what Christ purposes to do. End of the age. End of the age. So that's the two ages and a particular understanding of of this age, the r it's the r this age, this world, the realm of darkness. But we know already, and this will be our last section, not this section, but the following section, that the age to come, resurrection glory has intruded. Has intruded. And this is our salvation. That we already are partakers of resurrection, glory. In Christ. Okay, end of the age. Just a few cross-references here, and then the four what? I was gonna give you the four what? The four biggies. If anything else we say happens here, we've got to understand that these are the four biggies, these these happen here. End of the age, Matthew 13 , 47. Just to get our eyes on the phrase. Matthew 13. Did I say 14? It's Matthew 13. The parable of the nets. And again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net That was thrown into the sea and gathered fish of every kind. When it was full, men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers. But threw away the bad. Vivid pictures there, right? Gathering up the fish, the good over here, throwing the bad away. So it will be at the end of the age. So it will be at the end of the age. Angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous. Throw them into the fiery furnace, which is a figure for hell. It's a figurative representative uh phrase representing the reality of hell, eternal torment. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. What a horrible, horrible, horrible, terrifying Picture where we would be going apart from Christ and for God's sovereign mercy expressed to us in Christ. But you see the phrase in 49, so it will be at the end of age, end of the age. And then let's see, let's get back up, same chapter, Matthew 13 , 38. To 40. Within the parallel, this is the parable of the weeds explained. The field is the world And the good seed is the sons of the kingdom, children of God. The weeds are those sons of the evil one. And the enemy who sowed them is the devil. So Jesus is interpreting the parable for us. Okay? That's why he's just being specific and ripping through these different items. The harvest Is the end of the age, and the reapers are angels. Okay? End of the age. Now let's look at the last sentence in the book of Matthew. 2820 And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. To the end of the age. And it's important to remember the disciples, the apostles are representative Leaders, Peter was a representative leader of the apostles. The apostles are representative leaders, the foundation of the church as we know it. And their ministry was unique and limited to that apostolic age, but it laid the foundation for the New Testament and for the body life of local churches ever since then. In God's providence, in God's power, not theirs, God working through them. So the end of the age, just a couple cross-references there. There will be an end of the age. this age. Now the four biggies will be the return of Christ, the resurrection of the dead, the final judgment And the new heavens and the new earth, or you could call the eternal kingdom, which is just sh a shorthand way of talking about the kingdom in its eternal form, its final form. So the return of Christ, Biggie number one. The resurrection of the dead, Biggie number two. The final judgment, biggie number three And the new heavens and the new earth, the eternal kingdom, biggie number four. There's details to fill in there, but just a general picture of the four biggies within here as we transition to the eternal state. the age to come. The age of resurrection, glory that has already number one, we've got to understand this if we're going to understand who we are and what we have in Christ. Number one Resurrec the age of resurrection glory has already dawned in the what? Historical event. It was pretty important. Resurrection of Christ. And um human beings on earth first come to share in that on the day of Pentecost. And on the day of your being born again, your regeneration, your spiritual conversion in the inner man, you came to share in that. And so that is our final section talking about how we come to share in this, but I'm giving it the title The overlap of the ages. The overlap of the ages, which is where we are. Which is where we are. And so we are Sojourners, aliens. This this world is not our home. We're just a passing through. We are really here. We are really apart. Of this world, but we are not of this age. We are not of this the realm of darkness. We are children of light, Bible says. So the overlap of the ages I have I didn't put numbers for these points. I put stars. I must have really liked them. But 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 6. And I think we have time to flip to all six cross-references. You guys ready for it? Yes, we're getting knobs. Okay, we're going to do it Now, the first one is John 17, 14. John 17, 14. And the point is that we are in the world, but not Sh of the world, yeah, you guys know this stuff. In the world, but not of the world. Uh this shapes our perspective as we live life in this world. In the world, but not of the world. 17. John 17, beginning in verse 14. See now as soon as I see the passage, I'm tempted to To b to back up more. Uh go back and read uh the whole prayer here, John seven starting in John 17, 1. For our purposes though, picking it up in verse 14. I have given them your word, since Jesus talking to the Father. I've given them your word, and the world has hated them. Because they are not of the world. Okay? Not of the world. The disciples of Christ who received the Word of God They've believed the Word of God. Their lives are shaped and driven by the Word of God. They are not of the world, and therefore the world has hated them. Just as I am not of the world, I do not ask that you take them out of the world, but that you keep them from the evil one , protect them, guard them. They are not of the world, just as I am not of the world. Sanctify them in the truth or by the truth, your word is truth. Sanctification is something that happens to children of God as we traverse the hatred and trials and tribulations of this world and this age. But it's by the power of the Word of God, the Word of God, if you were to do a sermon on that, well you'd do a sermon first of all on the passage, not just a couple verses there. although you could, I'm not technically against it, but the uh the word of of God given to disciples Is the central issue here. See, they would have been just fine. The world would have no problem if you rejected the word of God along with them. And if you said, Oh, that's foolish. How could you ever believe that nonsense? Then the world would not hate you. But the world ha has a hatred for you because you receive the word. The word of God makes all the difference. The Word of God makes all the difference. Just in your mind's eye picture a church that believes that the Bible is God's word and wants to try the best it can by faith and by the power of the Spirit to to do things in accordance with the word. And now think of another church who uses the Bible but doesn't believe it's God's word. And really is making no effort for their thinking and their methods and what they're doing to be shaped by God's word. Two completely different quote-unquote churches So the Word of God makes all the difference. We are in the world, but not of the world. Secondly, we're citizens of heaven. Citizens of heaven. Glorious glor I just got to give you a heads up here, okay? Glorious passages we're about to go through. Philippians 3, 19 through 21. Philippians 3, 19 through 21. I will try to contain myself. You know that's not easy for Pastor Matt. Philippians three, nineteen through twenty-one. And a lot of it's just my personality, you know. I just I don't really think about actually I don't think about I don't think at all about getting excited. And but a lot of it too is just that I know who I was before Christ intervened in my life. I know exactly who I was, exactly what I was, exactly where I was headed. I didn't know it then, of course, until God opened my eyes by his word and grace and spirit, yes. All of the above, yes. They all go together. That was good. You guys all said at the same time. So I listen, I'm thankful. I'm thankful. And Philippians 3, 19 through 21 is one of those passages that ignites my heart. Their end is destruction. Talking about enemies of uh the gospel. The enemies of the gospel. Their end is destruction. Their God is their belly. And they glory in their shame, with minds set on earthly things. But our citizenship is in heaven. And from it, we await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. who will transform our lowly bodies to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself. That issue of the power that Christ has keeps coming up over and over again. But we often miss it. We often forget it. We often live a timid Christian life and are afraid to say what we believe because we want people to like us Or we want people to join the church and we want them to think that we're kind, and so we don't we don't speak with conviction, we don't speak with clarity. And all of those are different uh manifestations of forgetting the power and the sovereignty and the supreme authority of Christ. But we await from heaven a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly bodies to be like his glorious bodies. Ask yourself in your heart, could there be anything better than that? Actually there is. Right, because it's it's whose presence will be in with that resurrection body. I do not want a resurrection body if I cannot be in the presence of Almighty God. It's that body that enables us to be with Him and to see Him. Jesus, the risen Lord. To be with him, to see him, to speak with him. This is real, and we'll be there. And so it was not a trick question. But as I ask it, I'm thinking, well, yeah, there's something to the resurrection body. There's something greater than the resurrection body. It's the God we'll be with as we have resurrection bodies. So we're in this age, not of this age. We're citizens of heaven, and our life is hidden from us Our lives are hidden from us. Colossians 3, 1 through 4. Colossians 3, 1 through 4. What does it mean that our life is hidden from us? I'll tell you in a second. We're going to read the passage first. I'll talk about how great the passage is, and then at 9. 15 I'll Summarize what it means that our life is hidden from us. If then you have been raised with Christ, what tense is that? Past, present, or future. Past. You've been raised with Christ in the inner man, right? Already uh uh already a partaker of resurrection life. Seek things that are above. Where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God, supreme authority. Set your mind on things that are above. Not on things that are on earth. For you have died. What tense is that? Past. You've died. You've died to the you to the you who was a slave to sin, died. The you that did not love God. Died and anew you was born. You've died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. And when Christ, who is your life, appears, one of the four biggies, the first of the four biggies, then you also will appear with him in glory. Another one of the biggies, the resurrection. Um your life is hidden with Christ in God. The word I want to highlight here is a very basic word. It's the word To describe how we can grasp and understand and live out our true identity in Christ. And that word is faith. Our true identity, our true spiritual status is hidden from us. That means you simply I said I'll summarize it. It means you can't see it. It's very it's a very simple thing that has to do with concrete reality. You cannot see things in the heavenly realm because you're not in the heavenly realm. You cannot see Jesus Christ with with the eye. You see him with the eyes of your heart. That's a metaphor where you see him by faith. 1 Peter 1. Though we do not see him, we love him. So our true identity, our true status, which is in Christ at the right hand of God Almighty in heaven, is invisible to us. So our identity is something that we understand by faith, and it's something that we grow in by faith. We must walk by faith, not by sight. And that's so important that faith is not just the thing that happens when we become a Christian. It is the thing that happens when we become a Christian. We come to faith, we place our faith in Christ. But faith also is a mode of existence. It's a way of living. It's a walking by faith. And it starts with Christ, and then it's then secondly our identity in Christ. I'll go more quickly. 2 Corinthians 5. 17. Second Corinthians 5. 17 and Pastor John, please note that I did not say I'll move quickly, I said I'll move more quickly. So just so it's it's relative More quickly. More quickly. Yeah, I'll go more quickly. Second Corinthians five seventeen. 2 Corinthians 5, 17. We are in this world, but not of this world. We are citizens of heaven. Our life is hidden from us, and we are new creatures. We are a new creation, which means we are partakers of new creation in Christ. 2 Corinthians 5 Uh let's uh sh yeah five seventeen. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ He is the new creation. And it's more abrupt than that in the Greek. It says, if anyone is in Christ, a new creation. Some even use the word creature. He's a new creature. Or there is a new creation. There's different ways that's translated. But the point is, if you are in Christ, you've come to share a new creation. You are a new creation in Christ. And in Christ is Arguably the most important phrase, definitely top three most important phrases of the New Testament, we must be in Christ. We are saved by being in Christ. It's a shorthand way. to summarize being spiritually united to Christ, or we would say today a relationship with Jesus, which is fine. You can say that to have a real relationship to Jesus. to be united to him, to be reconciled to God through him, to come to Christ through repentance and faith, being born again and being in Christ. So Romans six four Romans six four We are in the world, but not of the world. We are citizens of heaven. Our lives are hidden from us in Christ. We are new creations. And we walk in newness of life. There's a walk that comes from this that's different than who we used to be, and different than the world around us. Romans six four. We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death In order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness. of life. There's a parallel there, the newness of Christ when he was raised to the newness of our lives after we're born again. True conversion leads to a life of obedience. Does it lead to a life of perfect obedience? No. But it leads to a life of true obedience. And it leads to a life that wants obedience, and it treasures obedience. Finally, finally, finally, finally, Ephesians 2, 4 through 7. I knew I was cheating. I could not resist myself earlier on. I was supposed to just read Ephesians 2, 1 and 2, and I skipped down. But I want to close on Ephesians 2 4 through 7. We are in this world, but not of this world. We are citizens of heaven. Our lives are hidden from us in Christ. We must live them by faith. We are new creations, new creatures in Christ, that we may walk in newness of life. The parallel power to Christ being raised from the dead. And we are seated with Christ in glory. Seated with Christ in glory. We saw that in the Colossians 1. But uh it's even more explicit here, Ephesians 2, 4 through 7. But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us. Even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. That's talking about our conversion, our regeneration, when we came to Christ through faith and repentance, right? Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved, which means being saved is a gift. And he raised us up with him. He raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places. In Christ Jesus. So that, now that is a phrase that tells you what It's going to tell you the purpose of what came before that. What come before that? The exercise so that he'd get in shape He got a job so that he'd have an income. God gave us new life and seated us with Christ in the heavenly places so that in the coming ages He might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. That answers the question that I wanted to end on is why? Why all of this? Why is God doing all of this? Why did He create the world? Why why was there a plan of redemption? Why did Jesus come? Why is he going to come again? Why the eternal state? Why? God is showing forth his grace and power and kindness in and through Christ, that Christ may be seen and loved and enjoyed and sung about and worshipped forever as a display of the glory of God. And that's it. There's nothing greater. And that's what we're a part of. That's what church is about. That's what discipleship is about. That's what prayer is about. And that's what life is about. An eternal showcase of God of God's glory in Christ. Oh man, get in on it. Get in on it. God does not need us to accomplish his purposes, but in his grace he uses us. He invites us in. He gives us a seat at the table. Get in on what God is doing. Don't miss the opportunities put before us. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you, we praise you, we worship you in the name of Jesus Christ. As those filled with His Spirit, that was a gift of grace. We ask, Father, that you would help us to live our lives by faith and not by sight. You would help us to live as citizens of heaven. Not as citizens of this world that's passing away with all of its desires and all of its seductions. Oh Father, we ask for your help. In Christ we pray. Amen.