As we come to the word, we're in 1 Thessalonians 4, 1 through 8. So take your Bible and open up to 1 Thessalonians 4 Looking today at verses 1 through 8, the call of sanctification. The call of sanctification. We're really picking up on where we left off in Acts twenty six, eighteen. Last week there was this phrase Um about Sinners who have been converted and turned to God, and it says of them in Acts twenty-six, eighteen, they receive forgiveness of sins and a place among those who are Sanctified by faith. So that's what we're preaching on today, being sanctified by faith. I have been saying the previous two messages that there's two spiritual events that need to happen for someone to come to know God. First of all, that person needs to come under conviction of their sin. When you come under conviction of your sin It simply means that you see that you need a savior, that you see that you're guilty of sin against God, and you come to grips with the fact I need to be saved from the judgment of God. That's conviction. That's the spur the first spiritual event in the heart that needs to happen. The second one is conversion. When the gospel comes and we see the Savior, and instead of rejecting the Savior and His gracious salvation, rather we embrace the Savior by faith. That 's conversion. We turn to God in faith on the basis of Christ's sacrifice. So two spiritual events to come to know God, conviction and then conversion. Now here's the transition to this week. Upon conversion, there's two ongoing results in our lives. Two ongoing results in our lives that summarize Christian living. And those two ongoing results that result from conversion are sanctification and discipleship. Sanctification and discipleship. We'll get to discipleship in another message. Today is just sanctification. I pray for the message and our time together. And then um I'm going to give you a uh brief definition of sanctification before we read the passage. Let's pray together. Father, as we come to your word, I pray that within our hearts you would help us to sense Our need for your word. I pray that you would help us to hunger for your voice within our hearts. I pray that you would give us learning spirits. I pray that you would give us desperate Spirits, desperate for your grace, desperate for your power, desperate for your truth to light our paths Father, we pray that you would help us in the preaching and in the hearing of your word, that your word would break through to our hearts And produce change for your name and for your glory. We ask these things in Jesus' name. Amen But before we read the passage, I want to give you a simple definition of sanctification because I want to make sure all of us understand just the basic point of what sanctification is. It means two things. It means being set apart by and for God. That's number one. Being set apart by and for God. I have a small pile of clothes. that are set apart only for yard work. They're set apart for a particular purpose. See the only time I even think about looking at these this little stack of clothes, yard work. Good grief, yard work. Where's the where's the clothes I've set apart? To be sanctified means God takes us up out of the world and he sets us apart, so it's set apart by God and for God to live for God, a specific use in this world, that's what being sanctified is, being set apart by and for God. But there's another aspect of sanctification, being purified. by God, being set apart for God, and being inwardly purified by God. So to think about what purified is, just think about what needs to happen to a swimming pool at the beginning of the season before you go into it Are you going to go into a swimming pool that's brown and sludgy and has algae and has leaves? No, you get gr it'll be gross, you'll probably get very ill. What needs to happen to that pool first before human bodies go into it? It needs to be purified. So sanctification is being set apart for a particular use unto God, and also being purified by God in order To do that thing that he set us apart for. That's sanctification. We've all been called to sanctification. Our passage, 1 Thessalonians 4, 1 through 8, follow along. Finally, then, brothers, we ask And urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God, just as you are doing, that you do so more and more. For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus. For this is the will of God. Your sanctification, that you abstain from sexual immorality, that each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor, not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God, that no one transgress and wrong his brother in this matter, because the Lord is an avenger in all these things. As we told you beforehand, and solemnly warned you. For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this, disregards not man, but God who gives you, who gives his Holy Spirit to you. The first thing we need to talk about is that sanctification is God's will for every believer. We could just flip the sentence around. Every believer is called to sanctification. Sanctification being set apart and then being purified is God's will for every single solitary believer. Look at verse three. This is the will of God. Say it with me if you if you have the courage. Your sanctification. And then look at verse seven. For God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. Sanctification is God's will for every believer. Five points About the nature of sanctification. First of all, sanctification is an evangelical grace It's an evangelical grace. I think on the outline I printed I just put it's evangelical. That means having to do with the gospel. That means it's a matter of the God's grace that's come to us in the gospel. Sanctification is an evangelical grace. And all that means is that sanctification is not a work that we do in order to get a reward. Rather, sanctification is a gift from God that leads to works. Good works are a result of sanctification, not the essence. Sanctification is an evangelical grace, it's a gift. of God within us that then leads to good works. Please don't ever measure Your spiritual growth or mine don't ever measure my spiritual growth or spiritual maturity by external deeds or by external ministries or by anything external, external good works. That is not the essence of spiritual maturity and of sanctification. You can't measure the horsepower of a truck just by looking at the truck. You've got to pop the Hood, and you've got to look inside. What are we working with? Sanctification is an internal work of God within us. It will then lead to good works. Secondly, sanctification is spiritual. Sanctification is spiritual. Sanctification is indeed a good work. Sanctification is a good work of the Holy Spirit within us. The Holy Spirit working within us to produce that which is not natural to us, holiness unto God. Sanctification is indeed a work, a good work of the Holy Spirit within us. Third, sanctification is Christological. That means it's if spiritual means it's something that the Holy Spirit does. Christological means what? Something that Christ does. And you can't separate those two things. The Spirit's work within us is Christ's work within us. Christ comforting us in our hearts through trials is the Holy Spirit comforting us in our hearts through trials The Holy Spirit helping us to overcome temptation is Jesus helping us to overcome temptation. Jesus Encouraging us when we're feeling discouragement and despair, the Spirit and Christ are working the same things within us. Sanctification is Christological, which means sanctification results from seeing Christ by faith and Christ transforming us. We see Christ by faith. And in seeing Christ in the glorious revelation of the gospel, the living Christ in heaven transforms our hearts. You see, sanctification is something that God does. So it's something that God does in our hearts. Second Corinthians three eighteen. We all with unveiled face beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. And this comes from the Lord who is Spirit. No, we're beholding the glory of the Lord. And in the context of 2 Corinthians 3 and 4, what Paul is talking about is As we behold the glory of the Lord as revealed in the gospel of Jesus Christ, we behold his glory in the gospel, and he transforms us inwardly more and more into the image of Christ. That's sanctification. God making us more like God. Through the power of Christ, through the power of the Spirit, we behold God's glory, and it's a sight of God's glory that transforms us. If you want to know how this principle works, just think of a young child watching a cartoon. For four hours, where all the characters in the cartoon are bratty and snotty to each other. Now, they've been staring at this cartoon all Saturday. And are you gonna tell me that that's not going to shape their behavior? Where's the bratdiness coming from? Where's the snottiness coming from? Where's the sarcasm coming from? Where's the argumentative spirit coming from. from Listen, they've been watching it all day. They're soaking it up like a sponge. What do you expect? We're transformed by things we gazed upon. The glory of God in the gospel transforms us to the image of Christ. That's why external works are not and can never be the essence of Christianity. They cannot transform us. They can be the result of being transformed inwardly, but it's the inner sanctification, this evangelical grace. wrought by the Holy Spirit, wrought by the person of Christ as we see Him by faith and are transformed by Him forth Sanctification is personal. You must go to Christ to be sanctified. Just because the blessing of sanctification exists. Does not mean it exists in my life. Just because the gift of sanctification exists does not guarantee that every Christian is proactively striving to grow in their sanctification. You must go to Christ to be sanctified. I don't know why my illustrations are all children today, but A five-year-old playing out in the dirt will not get clean unless he takes a and no sinner will ever be sanctified unless they go to Christ. You must go to Christ. Like the five year old needs a bath, I need Christ. Like the five year old needs a bath in order to be cleaned and presentable to come to dinner. Every sinner needs to come to Christ to be cleaned and cleansed and purified and sanctified in the heart in order to live for God and worship God. Properly, sanctification is God 's will for every single solitary believer. Brothers and sisters, are you being sanctified? Can you look at things in your life that have either have happened or that you're currently praying for related to sanctification? Is there sin in your life that you're proactively crying out to God that He would sanctify you in this area? Sins of the heart? Sins of the mind. Sins of the mouth. Are we being sanctified? Brethren, are we being sanctified? Sins of the eyes Sins of the ears, sins of the hands, things we do, sins of the feet, places we go. Beloved of God, are you being sanctified? It's personal. It's personal. I need to be sanctified. And you need to be sanctified. It's evangelical, spiritual, Christological, personal. Fifth. It's gradual. It's gradual. Sanctification is God's will for every believer, and it's gradual. There is an initial sanctification. The Bible does use the word in that way also. When we're born again, we're initially sanctified. We're initially cleansed. We're initially set apart. But another Use of the word in Scripture is a progressive sanctification of an ongoing process of God making us more like Christ. It's gradual. It's an ongoing process. Much like a baby being born. He he's born into life in this world. Life begins at Conception. But in terms of life in this world, life in this world begins at birth. You enter into life in this world, but then the baby grows in life in this world. Physically. Mentally, spiritually, babies grow after being born. When we're born again, we're initially sanctified and purified as we receive the Holy Spirit But sanctification is going to be a gradual process that will span our whole lives. It's not like you really get urgently for Christian living for twenty five years and then the last five years Just turn it off, leave it to the younger generations and and um forget about spiritual things. Sanctification is a gradual process of spiritual growth that'll take us to our dying breath. Take us to our dying breath. It's gradual. As imperfect as our looking to Christ is, we look to Christ. As imperfect As our sanctification is and appears, we are truly sanctified, gradually, over time, into the likeness of Christ Beloved of God, if we're not being conformed to the likeness of Christ, what in the world are we doing here? Well, we're just playing religion? Are we just playing church? What we need, what we desperately cry out for and are pleading with God is that He would change us. into his likeness for his name and for his glory so that sin would not have dominion in our hearts. That's what we want. That's our longing That's one application. Is why we come to church, why we come to worship. Worship is where God puts forth Christ and all of his grace and all of his blessing and all of his power. God puts forth Christ. through his word and through his spirit, that we might be transformed by his word and transformed by his spirit, so that we can then leave this place and go out into the world and live for God in this world. As those Represent God truly by the work of His Spirit. Sanctification, there's no doubt about it. No doubt about it. It's God's will for every single believer. Every believer is called to sanctification. Verse 3, this is the will of God, your sanctification. Verse 7, God has not called us for impurity, but in holiness. I'll insert a just a little bit of practical application here. Since all of that is true about sanctification, that it's God's will for all of us. We must be a people who pursue a steady diet of the word , steady diet of worship. A steady diet of prayer and a steady diet of persevering in the faith. Don't give up. Stay in the fight. Whatever else happens, brothers and sisters, don't give up Stay in the battle. Hold fast to your confession of faith in Christ. Don't stop looking to Christ You know, all the struggles we have in this battle to live for God and advance in holiness, a lot of these struggles are designed for God to show us our weakness. For God to show us more and more our sins so that we learn to appreciate more and more the death of Christ for our sins So we have weaknesses, and we have ups, and we have downs and we have battles and we have discouragements, but stay in the fight, which means stay looking to Christ and not to good works. Perseverance, the word, worship, perseverance, and prayer. God has given us particular concrete helps in this calling of sanctification. He's not just tossed us out on the street and said, Oh go go live for me. Figure it out. No, he's given us some practical helps, some practical tools. So have a steady diet of the word, worship, a steady diet of prayer and perseverance. Sanctification is God's will for every believer. The second thing we need to talk about is that sanctification means pursuing holiness. Proactively pursuing holiness in life. Holiness is anything that reflects God's character. That's what's holy You go out into the world and do a survey of what's good, what's bad, what's right, what's wrong, you'll get all kinds of answers. Well you know a lot you can already predict a lot of the answers. But anything that's truly good is only good because it aligns with who God is. God and who he is is the definition and the standard and the source of anything else that could ever be considered good to any degree. God is good. God is holy. God is pure. He's perfect in all of his thoughts, desires, words, actions, judgments. God is holy. To be sanctified means to pursue holiness. That means to pursue Reflecting God's character in heart, mind, words, and actions. This comes from verses one and two. Finally, then, brothers. We ask and urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and to please God, just as you are doing, that you do so more and more. For you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus. They were given instructions Their call is to obey. They were shown how they should walk and how they should live to please God, ought to walk and please God. Their call is to obey, to pursue obedience, to run after and cry out for holiness in heart, mind, word, and deed. The command here is do so more and more. Do so more and more. Sanctification Means pursuing holiness. The yard work won't get done on its own. I can't think it into existence. I've got to get the yard clothes on. I've got to take my body outside and proactively get myself involved in the yard work. Are you with me? It's not the joy of my heart. I'm not one of those guys who's who loves working around the house and working outside. I don't have anything against those guys. Do what you're gonna do. But that's not me. But the point is, I can't just think it. I've got to proactively pursue it. I've got to do something You'll never see the fruit of sanctification in your life unless you proactively pursue the fruit of sanctification in your life There's a passive aspect to sanctification because it's something God's doing in us, not something we're doing for God. But we must proactively go to God for Him to do that thing in us. You don't care about it, it won't happen. If you're not praying about it, it won't happen. If you're not proactively pursuing this, it won't happen. Pursuing holiness is a matter of urgency. This phrase really popped out to me in verse one. Finally, then, brothers, we ask And we urge you. There's an urging. There's a pleading. This is a strong reminder. It's supposed to wake them up. Intriguing also that this is the final major point of the letter. That's why he says in verse 1, finally. So here's the conclusion. Here's the wrapping it up point. We ask and we urge you in the Lord Jesus. Pursuing holiness is a matter of urgency. Beloved, don't put it off. It will not happen on its own. We ask and urge. And then also you can look at You can cheat down and look at the end of verse 6. These are things that Paul solemnly warned them about. We told you beforehand and solemnly warned you of just how important holy living is. What are you most urgent about in life? What do you pursue most in life? What is your heart most fixated on in life? Technology? Games, sport, fun, entertainment, appearances, books, gardening, family Cars, trucks, clothing, politics, power and influence, parties, taking naps. What is it that our minds are set on? It should be, first and foremost, always Christ and that which is in him, and pursuing spiritual growth as we look to Christ in faith Should be what we're most urgent about. Should be what our hearts are set on. Pursuing holiness is a matter of urgency. Before we need before we move on to the next subpoint here, let's throw that out for a question for each one of us to marinate. Is it a matter of urgency for you? Is it a matter of zealous pursuits? Is it a matter of proactive chasing? Holiness. Holiness is a matter of urgency. It's also a matter of obedience. I mean this gets to this gets right to the heart of the overall point that this is God's will for every believer. It's a matter of obedience. The end of verse one. How you ought you to circle the phrase You ought ought to walk and please God just as you're doing so, but you do so more and more. And then in verse 2, for you know what instructions we gave you through the Lord Jesus. Whatever he's talking about here, sanctification is based on instructions from Jesus. Instructions from Jesus. It's a matter of obedience. Matthew 6, 24, Jesus said, No one can serve two masters, for either he'll hate the one and love the other, or he'll be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money, but money is just a representative example of there. You can't serve God as your supreme master and anything else as your supreme master. You have one master that you could serve. Pursuing holiness is a matter of urgency. It's a matter of obedience. Flip with me to 1 Peter 1, verse 14. Just how important is holiness? Just how urgent is it that we pursue holiness? First Peter one fourteen through nineteen. As obedient children Do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. But as he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all of your conduct, since it is written, You shall be holy, for I am holy. And if you call on him as Father who judges impartially according to each one's deeds, conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. Knowing that you were ransomed from the feudal ways inherited from your forefathers, not with perishable things such as silver or gold, but with the precious blood of Christ. like that of a lamb without blemish or spot. The picture is of being redeemed from sin, of being Delivered from bondage to sin. As Israel was delivered from bondage to Pharaoh in Egypt, the sinner in Christ is delivered from bondage to sin, redeemed by the precious blood of Christ. He says in verse 17 conduct yourselves with fear throughout the time of your exile. It's not talking about being terrified of God, like you'd be terrified of a pack of wolves in the forest. The book of first John clearly teaches that the perfect love of God casts out fear of judgment For those who are in Christ, there's no condemnation. There's no guilt remaining. There's no death penalty that needs to be executed upon us for our sins. This is talking about the fear of the Lord, and the fear of the Lord is recognizing God's authority over us. And that's always saying that's how you should live. Always live. mindful of the fact that you are under the authority of God, that God has jurisdiction of the earth, therefore God has jurisdiction of your life. That's what it means to walk in the fear of the Lord, to recognize God's authority over us. And that's why the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge and the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Because as long as I I mean I could just think about my former life, this whole era of my life where I did not acknowledge God's authority over me. And as long as you don't acknowledge God's authority over you, you'll never care at all about spiritual things and about living for the Lord. That's what it means. It's not being terrified of God. For those who are in Christ and those who are redeemed by the blood of Christ, we live in the fear of the Lord. We recognize God's authority as king, sovereign king and judge over all things. Finally on this point about pursuing holiness, let's go back to the Thessalonians passage. It's a matter of growth. The child of God Should be pursuing spiritual growth till the day they die. Unless you're already at This is going to sound irreverent. It's a hypothetical, okay? Unless you're already perfectly conformed to the image of Christ, you must continue pursuing spiritual growth. Every single one of us not only can grow, but beloved, every single one of us must grow. God calls us to spiritual growth God 's will for each one of us is sanctification, and we all have room to grow. He says at the end of verse 1, the end of verse 1. That you do so more and more. Don't take it as a personal slight or a personal offense if someone who loves you speaks into your life about an area you need to grow in. They're trying to help. They want you to grow. They want something that's good for you, not bad for you. And he acknowledges that they are walking in obedience. Just as you are doing, that you do so more and more. So just because you're walking in obedience, that doesn't get you off the hook that you need to continue to grow and do so more and more, growing in love. Advancing in sanctification, advancing in repentance. Sanctification is God's will for every believer. Have I said that yet this morning? Every single believer is called to sanctification. Secondly, sanctification means pursuing holiness. Now think of sanctification like a coin that we're just going to flip right now. It means pursuing holiness. Flip that coin, it means fleeing wickedness. fleeing wickedness. We're running to that which is holy. We're running away from that which is wicked. Verses three through six And I have five of these, and I'm going to rapid fire these, five of these points under fleeing wickedness. First of all, it's a matter of abstinence. Look at verse 3. This is the will of God, your sanctification, that you abstain, that's abstinence, abstain from sexual immorality. Don't dabble in sexual immorality. Abstain from sexual immorality. Secondly, fleeing wickedness is not only a matter of abstinence, it's also a matter of self- Control. Verse 4. That each one of you know how to control his own body in holiness and honor Parents, one of the best things we could ever invest our time, energy, and prayers in is teaching our children the importance of self- control. Don't allow them to talk over people without consequence. To interrupt each other without consequence. To fling their bodies all over the place like they rule the universe without consequence. Teach self-control because you're investing in their spiritual future and so they can understand what self-control is and that they are responsible for their bodies and for their words. Self-control is such an important aspect of life. Fleeing wickedness is a matter of abstinence, self-control, and it's a matter of distinction. Verse 3. Uh verse five, rather. Verse five on distinction. Not in the passion of lust, like the Gentiles who do not know God. So now you're seeing a contrast of those who are called to holiness, and it's the opposite, or it's distinct from the worldly living that surrounds us. The worldly living that we used to partake of and be a part of this whole rebellious system of lost humanity. God has sanctified us. He's plucked us up out of that rebellion, out of the kingdom of darkness, and he set us apart to live for Him. Differently, distinct living. Fourth, fleeing wickedness is a matter of Christian love Verse 6. See that no one transgress transgress and wrong his brother in this matter. And this how serious this is. Because the Lord is an avenger in all things, as we told you beforehand and solemnly warned you. Sometimes People, sometimes especially leaders, use formal public religion as a cover-up and as a guide for sexual immorality behind the scenes Taking advantage of others because of using a position of authority to abuse others and exploit others and then to cover it up with formal religion and create barriers. So that the people at fault are not accountable and get away with things they should not get away with. But I'm going to tell you, God sees every single bit of this abuse. Under the guise of religion. Here's what, and that's exactly the reason he says, basically, God will get vengeance. God will not let this slide. The Lord is an avenger in all these things. Finally, fleeing wickedness is a matter of a sensitive heart. A sensitive heart. Verse 7 and 8. God has not called us for impurity but in holiness. Therefore, whoever disregards this disregards not man, but God, who gives the Holy Spirit to you It's not me you need to be worried about because I'm the one preaching. I have no authority. All I'm just a messenger of the Word of God. You disregard God's call to sanctification. You're disregarding God who gives the Holy Spirit to you. That's what it says. Whoever disregards this disregards not man, but God. Don't worry about me. I'm nobody. Just a pathetic, weak sinner who's been saved by the grace of God, and by the grace of God, he allows me to serve in the church in this particular fashion. But you will not stand before me on the day of judgment. You do not have to answer to me. Brothers and sisters, you don't have to answer to me. You stand in the presence of a holy God. You live on the planet that God created. And he he is an avenger in all these things. And then verse 8, you disregard this call to sanctification Pursuing holiness, fleeing wickedness, you're disregarding God who gives the Holy Spirit. And this is why you need to have a sensitive heart. A sensitive heart to the Holy Spirit's presence inside of you, a sensitive heart to the things of the spirit. And when we're lost and we didn't care about our sin, we didn't even know what sin was, we were numb to the wickedness And the treachery of our sin. We didn't feel it like we should feel it. That's why we needed to come under conviction, to be convicted of our sin. But now it's different. Brethren, now we're different. We're sensitive to the presence of sin within us. So we need to be sensitive to the Spirit leading us out, leading us away from sin. Lead us not into temptation. Have a sensitive heart when we talk about what God calls us to. And today we're talking about the God calls us to. Shout it out if you've been paying attention. It starts with an S. When we talk about what God requires of us, what he calls us to, here's what it should produce. It should Produce within us and stir up within us a deep sense of helplessness and desperation. When you hear about the call to holiness, and we really start to think about what holiness is, it should not make us just sit back and think, oh yeah, it's fine. I'm good with that. It's meant to produce within us a deep desperation to go to God for help because we should be thinking the whole time, I cannot do any of this. I cannot do any of this on my own. I can't move forward one millimeter in sanctification apart from God's grace, apart from God's Spirit, apart from God's help, apart from God's powerful working. We can't go anywhere apart from the Holy Spirit. One of my favorite preachers says this don't make a move without the Holy Spirit. And it's true for Christian living. We can't make a move without the Holy Spirit. So we hear about the call, we hear about the requirement. It should stir within us a a piercing sense of helplessness And that piercing sense of helplessness is meant to drive us to the living Christ for help. He is our helper. The call to sanctification must lead us to the throne of God by faith. Not that you have the power to step over from the visible realm into the heavenly realm, but by faith, the call of sanctification drives us to the throne of God, where Christ reigns at the right hand of God, and we beg God for help. That's the practical application. Brothers, sisters, learn how to beg. Learn how to go to God as a beggar, to beg God for help. God, you've called me to sanctification. Please help me. You've called me to pursue holiness. I'm begging for your help. You've called me to flee wickedness. Begging for your help. Jesus Christ died for our sins. We come to him now as he lives in heaven as an ever -present and ever-approachable help. That we might live for God truly. The cross is where Jesus died for our sins, and the cross is where sinners go to die to sin in everyday life The cross kills and the cross makes alive. It kills sin. It kills the old man and it brings To new life. Life in Christ, life in the Spirit. The power of the cross is your best friend. The power of your cross is your only hope and sanctification. As we preach on the call to sanctification, this pursuing of holiness and this fleeing of wickedness Please remember the very first point I made about it is that sanctification is an evangelical grace. If you see sanctification as a work you need to do for God, then I have failed you this morning. Sanctification is not a work that we do for God. It's a work that God does inside of us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus. Thank you for the Holy Spirit. Thank you for your word. And thank you that we're not living just meaningless lives, uh coasting through space with with no future, no destiny, no purpose, but that you've told us who you are, you've told us who we are, you've given us hope, you've given us a way. To know you, love you, serve you, find peace and joy and rest in you. Father, we look to you for help, and we look to you for help in Jesus' name. Amen.