Words we will examine this evening come out of Jonah chapter 4. Jonah chapter 4 in the Pew Bible. It's page 116. But Lord willing, after spending so much time in Jonah in this series, that your Bible's kind of just Start to open to it, right? It's it's unique how that happens over time that when you're in a passage your your pages are actually softened and I think it's the Lord just directing you back there in some ways and it's a good thing. It's a good thing to have marked up Bibles. It's a good thing to be in a passage. And For a long time to examine it in some depth. And tonight will be our last sermon out of Jonah 4 Hopefully. Maybe we'll come back, but we'll conclude this this short profit tonight. And so we've looked at this, we've just seen quite the journey of this This man Jonah, how he was called by the Lord, uh he rebelled, he tried to flee from g God's calling. He then went and and God made sure that he was not going to get away. With the storm, he sends a storm, and the sailors then throw Jonah overboard. And in this what appeared to be the end of Jonah's life, God then sends the fish to swallow up Jonah. And as Jonah's in the belly of the fish, she's crying out to the Lord in a prayer. And probably at that point it appeared as though Jonah, this was the last breath Jonah had. And then as As he finishes his prayer, what happens next is the Lord tells the fish to go vomit him up on the shoreline. So now Jonah is out of the fish. What a journey! In just a short period of time that uh he was fleeing from God. God sent the storm, he now sent the fish. Now Jonah's on the shoreline, and now he finally obeys the command of God to go to Nineveh. And to call that and to call upon them the destruction that will be upon them in forty days because of their sh wickedness, because of their sin. And as Jeremiah pointed out wonderfully last week in Jonah 3, we see that message going forth. He's preaching that there There's destruction coming upon them, and we see the entire city from the king all the way down repenting and God relenting of his destruction too. So we would imagine that as we go into chapter 4, we see Jonah just dancing. He's pumped. Over 120,000 people. being saved. And uh the whole the whole city is saved from the destruction that is rightly theirs. Right? So we we just think, oh this is this is gonna be uh he's gonna be clapping, he's gonna be dancing, he's gonna be excited. But if you know this story, that's not the case. I believe that uh Jonah was probably in the US military Uh we one of our languages is to complain. I remember I was on a mission one time in Ukraine and we had we'd been out for quite a few days. We're eating all of our meals out of a a plastic bag that gets old real fast. We weren't showering. That gets smelly real fast. We weren't sleeping. And I just the whole time we're out there, we're complaining. I can't wait to eat. I can't wait to shower. I can't wait to sleep in a bed. And then finally we get back to our base and man it just feels so good. And we go shower. And the water was too hot. I remember like I was I was furious that this this shower I'd waited for was too hot. And as we went in to eat, it was the worst meal. Um I can't tell you the names we had for it, but it was not good me uh names. It was terrible. Um there was one drink we called chimney water. We didn't know what it was, but it tasted like if you ran water down the chimney, that's what it tasted like. All right. So just We're all right, that now the meals ruined, and then we go back to finally we just get to sleep in a bed, and then I remember that our bed situation was two twin beds smashed up against each other, and there was a two by four in between me. and the guy next to me. And boy did I complain. Right? But that's just the nature of how we are as humans. We just, oh, it's gonna be so much better. I get this new job, I get this new group of friends, I go to this new church. Everything's gonna be better. And the moment we enter into it, that's wrong, that's wrong, that's wrong. I wouldn't do it that way. And we just start to complain. Or even good things, you get a new job, you get a promotion, and you're happy. But I thought the taxes were gonna be a little bit better. Yeah, well this isn't now all that great. I thought this marriage thing was just gonna be honeymoon phase the whole fifty years of marriage. Don't laugh at that. That's reality, right? But this is our issue, is that we get into situations and we can always find the negative. And we're always quickly grumbling and complaining. And we're often missing the wonderful, miraculous things that God has done or is doing. And tonight we see Jonah in that exact situation. And your temptation tonight is going to be: come on, Jonah, stop acting that way. Stop being a little child. Come on, stop like I would never do that. I would never complain like Jonah. I would I would never see the wonderful salvation of God upon a city and then act as Jonah had But let me challenge you. I believe many of us actually would act this exact same way. Maybe not in a situation, but there's there's plenty of situations that God has been And good and merciful and gracious and abounding in steadfast love and relenting in disaster to us, and then the first thing we do is complain about it. Well, this isn't right. I wish it was this way. So as we see this, may we see Jonah's life and go, Oh, how disgusting that looks to see Jonah complaining as God has blessed him. And then go, wait a second, has that happened in my own life? life. Have I done that? Am I doing that right now, maybe in a situation? But the second thing I want us to see It's the mercy and the grace and the patience and the steadfast love and the relenting of disaster that we see From God. The mercy, grace, patience, steadfast love, and that he is relenting from disaster. May we see his response is so much different God has every right to be angry. God has every right to just destroy everything before Him. We have sinned and rebelled against Him. His creation has rebelled against Him. The designer, the sustainer of the universe, the very things that he has designed and is sustaining is rebels against him. He has every right to complain And be to grumble. But we don't see that happening. We see the complete opposite. The one that has the right to complain does not. And the one that has no right to complain, the creature, is the one complaining. So let us look at Jonah's the this end of Jonah in chapter 4 and let us see man's response and see how we need to correct that, and then let us look at how God responds and how he is to be So starting in Jonah chapter four verse one. But it displeased actually let me just back up to chapter three, verse Verse 10, because I think it it it emphasizes this transition. When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them. and he did not do it. But it displeased Jonah exceedingly. And he was angry. And he prayed to the Lord and said, O Lord, is not this what I said when I was yet in my country? That is why I made haste to flee to Tarshus. For I knew that you are a gracious God and merciful. slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster. Therefore now, O Lord, please take my life from me, for it is better for me to die than to live. And the Lord said, Do you do well to be angry? Jonah went out of the city and sat at the east of the city and made a booth for himself there. He sat under it in the shade. Till he should see so he till he should see what would become of the city. Now the Lord God appointed a plant, and made it come up over Jonah, that it might be a shade over his head, to save him from his dis Comfort. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant. But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that attacked the plant. So that it withered. When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind, and the sun beat down on the head of Jonah, so that he was faint. And he asked that he might die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. But God said to Jonah, Do you do well to be angry for the place? And he said, Yes, I do well to be angry, angry enough to die. And the Lord said, You pity the plant for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night and perished in a night. And should not I pity Nineveh, that great city, in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who do not know their right hand from their left, and also much cattle. I hope you see the contrast there between how Jonah responds and how Yahweh responds. How Jonah is reacting and he's in his emotions and he's allowing any slight discomfort discomfort. Or frustration, or it's not my way, to just cause him to be angry. And multiple times his anger takes him to the point where he pleads with the Lord that he would be dead. How foolish of a man. A man that just a few days ago was in the belly of a fish praising Yahweh, worshiping him, recognizing how great he was. Really, he was at the cusp of death. He was there, crying out to the Lord, He saves him, and now he's upset and he's pleading. To die. He thinks, oh, it would be better if I was dead. And then we see the Lord showing mercy and grace, and all of this should just show us the contrast between the creator and the creature. But let us look at man 's response to both the good and the bad. We don't need to break up what is good, what is bad, but what we're going to see Is that Jonah responds pretty much the same way. When good things are happening, he can't recognize them. He's frustrated. When bad things are happening, this just proves his point that he should This just proves how mad he gets to be. And we see this going back and forth. But the first issue or the first response that man has is a lack of joy for the good. It's a lack of jewelry for the good. Look at verse 1 with me. It says, But it displeased Jonah exceedingly, and he was angry. What displeased him exceedingly A lot, an abundant amount of displeasure, was that the Lord saw that Nineveh re uh re turned away from their s evil ways, and he relented his disaster. That's what upset Jonah. A great thing, a good act, a loving action of Yahweh is what upset Jonah. And I think about our own lives. Are we tempted to be upset about something good? Well, my enemy, you know, think about the person you just despise the most, they're the biggest enemy, the biggest frustration and headache. What happens when they come to faith in Christ? Are you overrejoicing? Are you joyful that they've come to Christ? Or are they frustration to you? You were hoping for their demise. You wanted to see the vengeance of the Lord laid out in In history that you could see them receive the punishment, but now they're a Christ follower. I had an experience like this with a a co-worker, he's a roommate, he was a very unique man And he started going to church with me. And that actually brought frustration to me as a young man because this was my one place that I got to go away from my roommate and my coworker that was just mine And now he started to join us. He started to come to church. What was I going to do? Be mad say no you can't come? I was tempted. I was actually frustrated with this. A great thing that happened. But we are so tempted to be like Jonah that good things are happening, but they just weren't exactly how we wish they were. We thought they would be different. Or it's just not working to what our will is. We just lack the joy for the good. Or maybe we're not exceedingly displeased, says Jonah, but we're really not joyful in the situation. We're not joyful for the abundance of good that God is doing. How often does that happen in your life? Well, God has blessed you with many things, with careers and family and friends and a church. And yeah, you're happy, but you're not overly joyful. What God has done. There's this resistance to be too happy. I think part of it is we just think, well, we know something bad's going to happen. Sure, today is good. Today is wonderful. But I know I've lived this life for a while. When I wake up in the morning, there's going to be a problem. There's going to be a situation. So I don't want to get too happy. I don't want to get too comfortable. I believe that's the enemy's lie to us. The enemy is always trying to point out the bad. The enemy is always trying to draw our attention away from the goodness of God and draw our attention to the problems, the discomforts. So that while, okay, we're not exceedingly displeased like Jonah, but we are definitely not exceedingly joyful for what God is doing. We see when when uh when we have uh just to put it, we had 130 people in church today, some new faces. We should be joyful of that. We should be rejoicing. There's new families coming in. But what are we tempted to do? Yeah, but this center row right here could have been filled up a little bit more. More. Right? We could have had just a few more people in Sunday school. Well, sure. Those things are true, but let us rejoice in the good work that God is doing. Let us be happy for what God is doing and not just jump right to the negative. Always find the problem, always find the issue with it. But let us have joy for the good. I believe the second response of man and the good and the bad is that we dis this is a hard one to accept, but we see Jonah doing it. We dislike the character and the will of God. We dislike the character and will of God. Thus saith the Lord, this is a sin. This is breaking my law? And we go, I actually don't like that. You know why? It's because I like doing that sin. It makes me feel good. It brings me happiness and comfort here on this earth. And so then we're like, oh, we're not going to be happy right now because we don't like what God has said is right or wrong. We don't like God's will. That this is his plan and this is how he is unfolding history. No, God, we thought you were going to already be back. We already thought you were gonna you were gonna be back here on this earth, that the second coming of Christ would already be accomplished. And now you're making us sit here and deal with all this conflict, all this war around us. Come on, God. You got to do better. We dislike the character and will of God. Look at verses 2 and 3 with me. This is exactly, this is exactly the issue Jonah has. And he said, and prayed to the Lord, and said, O Lord, is not this what I said when I was in my country? This is why I made haste to flee to Tarshus. For I knew that you are a gracious God and merciful and slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love and relenting from disaster. What? That's what you're upset about? That's why you fled from uh the Lord's commandment? That's why you went to Tars or tried to go to Tarshis? And try to get away from the Lord and try to avoid going to Nineveh because you knew that God was going to relent. You knew that God was merciful and gracious, patient, steadfast in love. Yeah, that's exactly why Jonah did it. Now let's put ourselves in Jonah's situation. All right, so Jonah's in the time where the kingdom has been uh the the Israel and Judah have been established And Jonah is working within the kingdom there. And now there's these four nations that are warring against Israel. They're warring against them. They're trying to take over the land. They're trying to destroy Israel as a nation. So here's Jonah as a prophet, and the message of the Lord is to him to go to Nineveh, the big bad enemy. The very nation that has been warring against him. The very nation that has, he's probably, Jonah probably has some connection to families that have been displaced by the conflict. Jonah probably has knowledge of people that have been put to death by this nation or this foreign land that is and Nineveh is the very capital of that foreign land. So Jonah's going, I'm not going to the end. I'm not going to the enemy because I know that the Lord can save them. I don't want my enemies to be my brother. Jonah is displeased. He wishes he would die because God saved his enemies. Do we have that temptation? The frustration with that at times. I I I just think about the current conflicts in our in our geopolitical sphere of of wars going on right now. And there's an aspect that we just say, just destroy, just just annihilate, just wipe out. But what happens, what happens when the Lord saves them? What are we going to do when the nation of Iran and the Islamic regime lays down their weapons because they have come to faith in Christ? What's gonna happen? We're gonna go, well, but we need to address all this that happened in the past. Or can we be excited that the Lord can save our enemy? Can redeem wicked men just like he redeemed us. But we don't like that. That actually upsets us. We despise the character and the will of God. We dislike it, we push against it, we want it this way. God, your timing should have been better here. You probably should have been more more of the justice in this situation and not so much of the patience. Right? That's what we want. Give me the patience. Use all of your patience on me and use all your justice on that person. But that's not what the Lord does. We see that He is abundant in all these. May we not be like Jonah. May we not get frustrated at the very character of God. May we not hate God's law and his word. Even when it runs contrary to our desires and our wants. May we be aligned to Him. May we not react with frustration and anger and hatred. Because of what God is doing. This then brings me to the third response, and I believe it's the main response of Jonah. And I argue it's probably the main response for many of us. And it's the woe is me response. I guess there's at least one person that maybe connects. The woe is me. And it pops up. I I I can think of just a situation in my marriage where it just popped up and it was like this, oh woe is me. And it's like because of that like the we are upset and oh the world is just always out against me because I didn't get this specific thing I wanted But essentially that's Jonah's response. Everything's bad. Everything's terrible. Everything's always happening to me. Why is my life so much harder than everyone else's life Right. And and let's be honest, that's a very natural response for us. You don't know my life. Praise God you don't know my life perfectly. But in your world, you are you are the main character in your world Right? You are you you know your thoughts, you know the struggles you have, you know the temptations you have, you feel the attacks of the enemy in your life. You don't feel the same, you don't know the same for those things in my life. life. So it feels very much as though woe is me, everything's worse. And especially with uh modern technology and we look online, everyone's social media, they are in the best vacation, the happiest moments. The family is just lovey-dovey all the time. And then you look at your own situation and you go, that's not me. Facebook so-and-so is very happy. There's never a problem on social media, right? But what happens is we are starting to compare ourselves and we're starting to say Yeah, my life is worse. My my struggles are worse. And that's exactly what Jonah does. Look in verses five through eight with me. He says, Jonah went out of the city and sat to the east of the city and made a booth for himself there. Essentially that would have just been some some kind of shrubs and sticks he stuck together and just kind of sat under. Uh this language of booth, uh festivals of uh of booths would have been A festival where it was very intentional that they would build a lean-to -type material, but it would have holes in it so that you could see the stars. It was a reminder of the creator. But here he just made a little lean to. He wants to sit out there in the desert and mope around, com complain, and try to see what's going to happen to Nineveh. So he has this poorly made shelter over him. He sat under it in the shade till he should see what would become of the city. Now the Lord God appointed a plant and made it come up over Jonah that it might be a shade over his head to save him from his discomfort. So here the Lord is blessing him. He just provided this this plant, a miraculous plant to grow overnight and to provide shade for him. He had a booth, it wasn't doing it. He then pr God provided uh a plant to gut give him shade. So Jonah was exceedingly glad because of the plant. Verse seven But when dawn came up the next day, God appointed a worm that it attacked the plant, so that it withered. When the sun rose, God appointed a scorching east wind. And the sun beat down on the head of Jonah, so that he was faint, and he asked that he might die, and said, It is better for me to die than to live. Woe is me Woe is me. It always happens to me. It's always I'm I'm the victim in every situation I just can't ever get ahead. I can't win. Oh, I had this nice booth and I had this nice shade plant, and then that shade plant went away. Woe is me. Friends, is that how we are? Oh, let me let me let me paint you into a Jonah situation. God provided a nice career, a nice job for you. But in the blink of an eye, that job went away. For whatever reason, woe is me. It always happens to me. I'm the one that has lost. I'm the one that gets everything taken away from me. Wait, who wait wait? Who gave you that career in the first place? Who provided that paycheck to you in the first place? It wasn't your employer. It was God. It was God that had set you in there. And in God's timing, and I don't want to say, oh, it's easy. Oh, it's just simple. Just be happy, go lucky. But in God's timing and his will, that has gone away. And and we do this with so many different situations. My car breaks down, woes me. It's always my car. It's always my car that breaks down. No one else's car ever breaks down. No one else ever has this problem. No one else ever gets in this trouble. And it's always focused in on ourselves. And that causes us when we're focused in on ourselves, when we are the main character in our story. It causes us to think that the world is out to get us. And that includes God God's always trying to get me. He never wants me to succeed. He never loves me quite as much as he loves others. And friends, this brings me to the remedy. We have the three responses: the lack of joy for the good, the dislike, the character and will of God, and the woe is me mentality. What is our remedy? How do we not act like Jonah? Alright, so the next time we see 120,000 people repenting of their sin and God relenting of the destruction upon them, how are we going to react unlike Jonah, but react in a righteous way? Well, I believe the answer is this: we must root ourselves in Christ. We must root ourselves in Christ. If you will, keep your bookmark and Jonah will come back, but look with me in Philippians 4. Very classic passage, Philippians 4, 4 through 8. Rejoice in the Lord always. Again, I will say, rejoice. Let your reasonableness be known to everyone. The Lord is at hand. Do not be anxious about anything, but in everything, by prayer and supplication, with thanksgiving, let your request be made known to God. And the peace of God, which surpasses all understanding, will guard your hearts and your minds. Where? In Christ Jesus. Finally, brothers, whatever is true, whatever is honorable, whatever is just, whatever is pure, whatever is lovely, whatever is commendable, if there is anything any excellence, if there is anything worthy of praise, think about these things. What you have learned and received and heard and seen in me, practice these things, and the God of peace will be with you. Now, why am I saying we must be rooted in Christ? Well, it's first that verse there in verse 7: guard your hearts and your mind. That's Paul's way of saying everything about you. Must be guarded in Christ. If you are born again, you are in Christ. You belong to Christ. You have been born again of the Holy Spirit. So that's where we're rooting ourselves in. But how does that protect us from the woe is me mentality? How does that protect us from complaining or having a lack of joy for good? How does that protect us from from disliking the character and the will of God, it's because that's our identity is rooted in there, and our identity is not actually rooted in ourselves It's rooted in Christ. And when we're rooted in Christ and we're being transformed, we're being transformed by the knowledge of Him. We're being transformed by the will of God. We're being transformed into the likeness of Christ. Then verses 8 and 9 just flow out of us. Brothers, whatever is true. Well, that's God. We have to be thinking about God Whatever is true. You can't be thinking about woe is me when we're talking about everything true. Whatever is honorable. Well, honorable is worshiping God for who he is So if we're going to be honorable, as we're being transformed in the likeness of Christ and whatever is honorable, then we're not complaining about the character and will of God. Whatever is just, same thing. We can't be complaining about the will of God and be following in just. Do you do you start to see what I'm doing here? Is that when we're rooted in Christ, this is who we are, and we're being transformed into his likeness And then these things are flowing out of us, and what comes from that is praise, worship, and thanksgiving to Yahweh. Praise, worship, and thanksgiving. to God, even in the hard times. Doesn't mean the hard times go away. It doesn't mean that trials will come against you. But it transforms how we respond to them. Instead of being, woe is me, this is all bad, God hates me. It's going, while I don't understand it, God, I know that you're in control. I know who you are, that you are merciful, gracious, patient, steadfast in love, and relenting in disaster. That must be how we approach These things. So the next time, tomorrow, let's just be honest, maybe tonight, when the trial comes before you, before you go to bed, instead of responding negatively immediately, take that deep breath. Remind yourself that you are righteous because of Christ. That you are forgiven because of Christ. That you are a child of God because of Christ. And now respond to that situation. Trial. Easier said than done, right? Don't don't try to don't try to paint me in a corner and say, oh, Anthony's just perfect, and every time Anthony takes a deep breath before he responds. No. Some of you have seen me fail in that. But May that be our approach. May we go to that more and more. That we want to honor and worship God in our response to everything. Now let's look at the opposite. Let us look at God's response. Both to good and bad. Let's get back into Jonah. I think we missed some of it of how patient God is throughout the story of Jonah. From the very commandment of God, he tells Jonah to go to Nineveh and call out upon them that they have their wickedness, call out upon them destruction. God didn't owe that to Nineveh. God had no requirement or obligation to get Jonah up and send him to Nineveh. You know what God could have done the moment Nineveh sinned? Gone. Bye. And he would have been just in doing it. As that story then goes along, and Jonah fleeing, what happened? Jonah, God could have sank that ship down to the bottom of the ocean as Jonah tried to flee from him. And made sure that Jonah died down there, and God would have been just in doing it. But he doesn't. God could have allowed him to perish in the belly of the fish, and he would have been just, but he doesn't. And as Jonah's complaining after seeing God relenting his disaster upon Nineveh, God could have allowed that sun and that hot wind to just shrivel shrivel up Jonah and allow him to die out there in the desert. But he doesn't. That's not God's response. Look with me in chapter 4 of Jonah and verse 3. I've now said it quite a few times just so you get this is God's response. God's response is mercy, grace, patience, steadfast love, and relenting. Where do I get that from? It's Jonah's issue with God. He says, for I know, right there in the middle of verse 2, is that for I knew that you are a gracious God and merciful Slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and relenting from disaster. That's God's response. That's God's response. His mercy His mercy that he is just showing while while they deserve destruction. Well they deserve destruction, he is showing them mercy that there is forgiveness. He's giving them a hope that when they turn, when they repent of their evil ways, he relents of the disaster. His grace That's that grace that He sent Jonah to preach this message to them. That he sent Jonah to go and announce to them their wickedness and their evil and their rebellion against the Holy God. That is the grace of God. It 's patience. It's interesting that the narrative and the preaching that Jonah does is in 40 days God will bring destruction. He didn't owe them forty days. He didn't owe them ten days. He didn't owe them a millisecond. Yet God is patient. He's patient. Why is God patient? It's because he knows that the Sinner turning from their sin, coming to him, that he will show them mercy and grace. It's continued steadfast love. But even while they were sinners, God loved them so much that he uprooted Jonah and set him through some wild trials and put him through some crazy situations that God's love for this wicked people of Nineveh was so strong it was unwavering that he would take Jonah and send him as a messenger And the relenting that we see that once men have a repented of their sin, turn from their evil ways and turn to Yahweh, that He withdrew the disaster that was rightly theirs. Well, friends, what about our own life? What about our own life? The mercy of God, the grace of God, the patience of God, the steadfast love of God, the relenting disaster. Is all rooted in Christ. It's how we see it revealed to us. That while we were sinners, while we were weak , The Father sent the Son to die for sinners like you and I. He sent Christ to come to this earth. What a mercy! What a mercy. That an over disgusting wickedness and sin that he sent Christ. What a grace! A gift we don't deserve. What great patience God has had. That for generation after generation after generation, from the fall of Adam to the coming of the Messiah, there was sin and wickedness that just seemed to be unchecked. here on this earth. But God in his patience waited for the right time to send his son, to die the perfect death. The steadfast love. Though while we were rebels against him, even now when we still sin against God, his love is steadfast. Unchanging, unwavering. Why? It's because of the work of Christ and his relenting disaster. We deserve destruction. We deserve an eternity in hell. We deserve the eternal punishment that is ours because of our sin against God. But he has poured that wrath out upon his son. The wrath that you deserve. That that should be yours, that you should you should spend eternity paying for. That was poured out upon Christ on that cross. And now we don't ever taste or See that destruction. We don't taste ever see that punishment. That forgiveness is now ours. Look with me quickly in uh Ephesians chapter 2. I won't steal any th thunder. Well, we've already we've already gotten through here, so maybe I will. But uh as we look at Ephesians chapter 2, verse 4. It's I think one of the most beautiful passages and Scriptures and all of the Bible says this But God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. So that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness towards us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of work, so that no one may boast Friends, if this doesn't bring us joy in life, if this doesn't cause us not to grumble and complain all the time, I I really don't know what will. It probably shows that this doesn't bring joy to your heart, if this doesn't bring just a comfort and a rest in times of trials. Friends, this may not be true for you. If this doesn't resonate in you and you just go, I can't believe that a sinner like me can have this reality and this identity. That a God being so rich in mercy, because of how greatly he has loved us, that he sent his son to die for us, if that doesn't overwhelm you and consume you, then you don't understand what has happened. happened by the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. You don't recognize that He now sits in heaven having dominion over heaven and earth. You do not know him. And I plead with you to come and meet that Savior. Come and know Him. Believe in Him. Recognize what He has done. And see the punishment that you rightly deserve. But in Christ, we see And we experience the mercy, the grace, the patience, the steadfast love, and the relenting disaster of God. Now look with me at the very end of Jonah 4. It's an interesting. Jonah is a very unique book in many ways. If you want to talk about the grammar, it's very unique. But also look how it ends. Now let's do a little English class. What's that very last punctuation, the second to last punctuation? in Jonah chapter four. What's that? Question mark. It's a very unique, unique ending to almost any book of the Bible. It's a question mark right there at the end. God is now pr uh posing this question to Jonah. And let's let's pick up where he's at in in verse 9. He says, but God said to Jonah, do you do well to be angry for the plant? Right? This is Jonah. Or this is God just showing his patience with Jonah. Jonah? Right, is you're grumbling, complaining, because the plan I sent you I now took away. And he's just being patient. And Jonah being Jonah, he says, Yes, I do well to be angry, angry even to die. And here's how the Lord responds to him. And the Lord said, You pity the plant for which you did not labor, nor did you make it grow, which came into being in a night and perished in the night. And should I not and should I not uh excuse me, and should not I pity Nineveh, that great city in which there are more than a hundred and twenty thousand persons who do not know their right hand from their left, and also much cattle. So it's interesting that he ends with a question mark, but it's also very interesting that he ends with talking about cattle. Alright, I think this is the first time that just shows farmers are very important. It's more important than the city, right? Alright, thank you. We confirmed that. But no, I think what we actually see happening here Is God demonstrating how great and merciful and gracious and wonderful, patient He truly is? So he's he's laying out and he's showing how foolish Jonah is that he's upset that something he didn't labor on has now gone away. He didn't labor over the the plant and now that's gone. He's upset. He has pity over. He's all worked up about it. Here's God who has created all 120,000 people of Nineveh and all the cattle in Nineveh and everything that Nineveh stands on. He is the creator of it. And so he's pointing to Jonah saying, you're upset about something you do didn't d labor over at all, why do you not think that I can have pity on my very creation? So he's showing how great he is that he's the the Creator, and that all of this belongs to Him, and that He is completely just in having pity on them. But then what He's also doing in bringing in the cattle, because I don't believe the cattle are saved by repenting of their sins. That's a very unique thing to the soul of man. But what he is magnifying is what I believe we see in Revelation 21, 5, is that he is making all things new. Alright, so we see the fall of Adam in Genesis 3. And that has brought destruction, has brought pain, that has brought conflict into all of creation. All of creation. Man's not the only one affected by the fall. Alright, we're not the only one affected by the fall, but we see all of creation is affected by it. And what we now see is God pointing to how uh glorious he is, how wonderful he is. In this very example here in Nineveh, that his relenting of disaster, of course, is all about man relenting or repenting of their sins. Sin, but he also demonstrates that this also brings a grace and a mercy upon all of creation, which I believe is pointing to a shadow, or it is a shadow of how Christ's work and Christ's mercy and grace and patience and steadfast love and how that has brought relenting uh has brought a relenting disaster upon all of creation will go into the eternal eternal. When he is making all things new, we're talking about all of creation. Sometimes we get in our minds that as we get into heaven it's just us kind of floating around in little wings and and we have this whole messed up and we're just in clouds. And we we can't picture and fathom what heaven is, but we see that Christ returned. He is making a new heavens and a new earth. That there will be his creation as it was intended, and we will dwell in it. So therefore, we will see animals and plants, the mountains, the rivers. What I'm trying to point us to is that God's mercy and his grace is for all of creation and that it's found in Christ. That Christ is the one that will bring this newness. Christ is the one that God has used to bring the hope to all of creation. How grand is that message? That sinners like you and I are saved in Christ, and that we're also recognizing in the eternal that all of creation will be made new. He's the one that created us from the beginning, and he's the one that will make all things right. And here in Nineveh, we're just getting a small glimpse of it. And the hundreds of twenty of thousand, how much more is when he does that to the whole Friends, I hope you saw the mercy of God through this book of Jonah. How you saw the patience The continuous love as man and his foolishness rebelled over and over and over again. There's a merciful, gracious, patient, steadfast, loving, relenting God. Waiting, ready. And that is our call. Come to him. Taste and see. Taste and see what Jonah failed to recognize. Let us go before Of the Lord in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for your word. We thank you to see the truth of how merciful you are and gracious. Lord, I ask that you remind us of this in our own lives. May we be reminded of mercies in the past that we have experienced. May it cause us to think of you more, to not just assume the worst in all things. But to see your goodness in all. Lord, I ask that you give us the message to preach to the world, to turn from their sins and find the forgiveness in Christ. To find your hope that is in Him alone. We pray all this in the name of Jesus. Amen.