Jeremiah chapter two, fourteen through eighteen. Remember the uh the main purpose of preaching is to exalt Christ. That's God's way of putting Christ before us. And there's all different passages and different topics in scripture, different areas of life and different areas of Christian living. So the applications and the specific details will always be different. But the overarching purpose of preaching the The core of preaching is God, through his word and spirit, putting Christ before us. So every time we come to the scriptures, God in one way or another will sh again show us our need for Christ, show us our sin, show us our weakness. Weakness. In one way or the other, he'll show us our need, and then in one way or the other, he'll show us his provision that meets that need, who is Christ, and all the blessings of salvation that are found in Christ. Christ. Jeremiah 2, 14 through 28. I've called this message the domino effect. You'll see something of the domino effect of sin, but that's just an illustration. It's not always a linear progression. But you'll see that sin that brings a matrix of rebellion. It's not just one sin is not just one thing or cause rebellion in one way. But I'm calling this the domino effect because as I studied through and read through this passage and saw all these different effects of sin, I just got the pictures of the Just the domino effect, the snowball effect of sin in our lives. And if God doesn't come in mercy and if God doesn't come in power, that's where we all would be. Snowball domino effect of sin. Alright, Jeremiah 2, 14 through 28. It's a longer passage, but we are going to begin with a reading of this passage. Jeremiah 2, beginning in verse 14. Is Israel a slave? Is he a homeborn servant? Why then has he become prey? The lions have roared against him, and they have roared loudly. They have made his land a waste His cities are in ruins, without inhabitant. Moreover, the men of Memphis and Taphanes have shaved the crown of your head Have you not brought this upon yourself by forsaking the Lord your God when he led you in the way? And now, what do you gain by going to Egypt to drink the waters of the Nile? Or what do you gain by going to Assyria to drink the waters of the Euphrates? Your evil will chastise you, and your apostasy will reprove you. Know and see that it is evil and bitter for you to forsake the Lord your God. The fear of me is not in you, declares the Lord God of hosts. For long ago I broke your yoke. and burst your bonds, but you said, I will not serve. Yes, on every high hill and under every green tree you bowed down like a prostitute. Yet I planted you a choice vine, wholly of pure seed. How then have you turned degenerate and become a wild vine? Though you wash yourself with a lie and use much soap, the stain of your guilt is still before me, declares the Lord. How can you say, I am not unclean? I have not gone after the bales. Look at your way in the valley. Know what you have done A restless young camel running here and there, a wild donkey used to the wilderness, in her heat sniffing the wind. Who can restrain her lust? None who seek her need weary themselves. In her month they will find her. Keep your feet from going unshod, and your throat from thirst. But you said, It is hopeless, for I have loved foreigners, and after them I will go Stop there. First of all, look at verse 17. Look at verse 17. You see this sin of sins, really the uh the core of their sin Have you not brought this upon yourself by forsaking the Lord your God? This is what sin is. It's forsaking God. Now the world wants to make this out like that's not too big of a deal, and our pride within us wants to make out like that's not too big of a deal. It's the opposite of why we're we're created. Look at verse thirteen. My people have committed Two evils. They have forsaken me, the fountain of living waters. That's the first evil. And they've hewn out cisterns for themselves. Broken cisterns That can hold no water. Verse 17, forsaking the Lord your God. Verse 19, force you forsake the Lord your God. And look at the end of verse 19. The fear of me is not in you. They did not have the fear of the Lord, which is how Paul ends up summarizing the nature of sin and human depravity in Romans chapter 3 in the first part. They do not have the fear of God before their eyes. Verses 14 through 17 show us the misery, and it shows us the tragedy of sin Starts with some questions. Verse 14, is Israel a slave? Is he a homeborn servant? And the answer is, and should have been no. Israel is a firstborn son. Israel was a chosen chosen and precious and favored and especially loved firstborn son. But they're under judgment. They're being treated as an object of wrath. They have become an object of wrath Look at Exodus four twenty-two. This motif of Israel as God's chosen son is very important to the Old Testament and understanding Israel, and it's very important to understand the New Testament and The fulfillment of God's promises in Christ. Exodus four verse 22 Then you shall say to Pharaoh, thus says the Lord Israel is my firstborn son. And I say to you, let my son go, that he may serve me. If you refuse to let him go, behold, I will kill your firstborn son, which was what number of the plagues? It was the last plague. Yeah. And um it it's it's a meaningful plague. There's a lesson here. Israel is God's firstborn son. So Pharaoh showing hostility to God's son, the judgment matches the crime. Now Hosea eleven, one and two. Hosea eleven, one and two See how quickly you can find Hoseya. When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. that's fulfilled in with Christ as baby Jesus is taken to Egypt And um then returned. Matthew writes that's to fulfill. Out of Egypt I have called my son. When Israel was a child I loved him. Out of Egypt I called my son. The more they were called, the more they went away. They kept sacrificing to the bales and burnt and burning offerings to idols. One more here in Jeremiah, back in Jeremiah, very close to our passage. Very close to our passage in Jeremiah 3, 9 Because she took her whoredom lightly, which means she didn't care about her idolatry and sexual immorality. She thought there was no problem with it Because she took her whoredom lightly, she polluted the land, committing adultery with stone and tree. Yet for all this her sister Judah did not return to me with her whole heart, but in pretense declares the Lord God's son is supposed to be a representative of God on earth. Adam was God's son. Adam was supposed to be a representative of God on earth, to represent God's character. To serve God faithfully, to exercise dominion on earth according to God's will and God's purpose. This was Israel as a nation, was meant to be a representative of God's morals, of true worship, of true ethics But they're a rebellious son. So when we come in Jeremiah to these questions, is Israel a slave? Is she is he a homeborn servant? The answer is no. Israel is a chosen representative of God on earth. You could not say this about any other nation. Israel was the kingdom of God. Israel was special and set apart. And she gives us a little bit of the importance of how we are called a set-apart people for God on earth. The weight of this, the gravity of this, the importance of this. This is not a small thing that we've been sanctified to live for God and as individuals and as a church representing God on earth Why then has he become a prey? The lions have roared against him. They've roared loudly. They've made his land a waste. His cities are in ruins without inhabitants. Moreover, the men of Memphis and Taphanes, Egypt, have shaved the crown of your head, made you slaves. Have you not brought this upon yourself by forsaking the Lord when he led you in the way? The misery and the tragedy of sin is they were chosen especially for God and by God. My forehead's really sweating tonight. I've got to take care of this. I need to get one of those Little handkerchiefs stick in my pocket. Like some preachers use to it has more of a dramatic flair to it. That's a good ministry. Yeah. That's a good ministry. The miser the misery and the tragedy of Israel's sin is um It's really a sad story. It really is, because we're all sinners, but sinning against grace, sinning against the amount of revelation that they had of God publicly, clearly manifesting over and over again his power, his mercy, his patience, his forgiveness, giving them the covenant, giving them the worship, giving them the priesthood, giving them the temple. gift after gift after gift after gift after gift and they they went to other gods. They forsook God and went to other gods. So that's the tragedy of this, the the misery of a firstborn son being treated as a slave and a homeborn servant who is under judgment for their rebellion Verses 18 through 19, you see this second domino or just something else that is related to this, a misplaced trust. Isn't it true? That when we are not putting our trust in God as our hope, we're putting it in something as our hope When we're not seeking Christ directly for a sense of peace, we're seeking a sense of peace somewhere in this world When we're not seeking God for joy, for true and lasting joy, there definitely is something else in this world that we're staking our claim, we're thinking this will be my joy. And it could be anything. It could be a hobby. It could be a sin. It could be a sinful habit, but it doesn't have to be something that's inherently sinful. It could be a hobby. It could be sports. It could be money. It could be a friendship. It could be a relationship. It could be anything. Misplaced trust, verse 18 through 19. Now, what do you gain by going to Egypt to drink the waters of the Nile? What do you gain by going to Assyria to drink the waters of the Euphrates? Your evil will chastise you, and your apostasy will reprove you, know and see that it is evil and bitter for you to forsake the Lord your God. So what are they doing? They're trying to make alliances with other nations to protect themselves against the wrath of God. It's a parallel to um idolatry. Idolatry is going to other gods to worship other gods instead of God. And here you see they're just going to other nations, to other armies, to other kings to be their help and salvation It's a misplaced trust. And whenever we are in the snare of sin, whether we're lost And just completely blinded and enslaved to sin, or whether we're saved, but just caught in a snare of some kind of vice, some kind of sin, there's always going to be a misplaced trust. Always something we'll be leaning on and depending on. And sometimes it's hard to spot. Often it's hard to spot because a lot of times it's A lot of times it's a good thing. It could be good works. It could be me trusting in my good works as my sense of security. It could be you trusting in your good works and in your ministries for your sense of spiritual fulfillment and meaning Brothers and sisters, that's idolatry. Ministry is meant to help us trust in God more. Not not trusting ourselves and our good works more. That's just one example where it it can be a good thing that's being used in an improper way. The misery of sin of this chosen and precious son, chosen by grace, set apart for God has rejected him and has forsaken him. They're under judgment, and now as those under judgment where they should be going back to God and confessing their sin and begging for mercy, where are they going? They're going to Egypt and they're going to Assyria. See the domino effect. The domino effect of sin. Verses 20 through 22 highlights the moral perversity of sin. Sin is not just doing religion wrong, and worship is not just doing religion right. There's a heart issue. There's a moral depravity, a moral degeneracy. of sin. Verses 20 through 22. For long ago I broke your yoke and burst your bonds. That just means long ago I redeemed you You were a slave, I redeemed you. You were in bondage, I saved you. I delivered you. Long ago I broke your yoke and burst your bonds, but you said, I will not serve. That's a sobering statement. Because, I mean, if you were to summarize why God saved Israel, it's so that Israel could serve him. It's so that Israel could know him. Israel could worship him. And they said, We will not. Yet, on every high hill And under every green tree you bowed down like a prostitute. So they they missed no opportunity for worshiping false gods. And engaging in the immoral sacrifices and sexual immorality that went along with those pagan worship rituals. On every high hill, under every green tree, basically every opportunity you had, you worshiped another God. And then in verse 21, Yet I planted you a choice vine, holy of pure seed. How then have you turned degenerate and become a wild vine? Well, the answer is easy. The corruption of their hearts. the stubbornness and the stiff neck of their corrupt hearts. You know, sin is such a bad thing. Sin Is the worst thing there is. Sin is the worst. And um we need to be honest and we need to listen with open ears when Scripture teaches us. About our sin. Because when we learn about the nature of sin, we more and more learn about just how much we need a Savior. And what that's supposed to do for the child of God is increase in our hearts. gratitude. And it's supposed to turn us to Christ, send us back to Christ over and over again so that we can see the magnitude of his love for us that loved us even when we were Sinners. Sin is not just messing up a little bit. Sin is having a heart. Sin is The very opposite of the character of God. It's the very opposite of, and uh it resides within us. Even as those who are saved and no longer slaves to sin, sin still resides in us. Here's your homework for tonight, Romans chapter 7. Romans 7, the battle against sin for the believer. The misery of sin, the misplaced trust that it leads to, the moral perversity that it leads to, verse 22. Though you wash yourself with lie and use much soap, the stain of your guilt is still before me, declares the Lord. Something of a symbolism there going on. But it looks like they were trying to do some kind of external rituals. Washing with lye or using much soap, or it could just be symbolic. It looks like they're trying to do something to get rid of their sin. But the stain of their guilt is still before the Lord. The stain of your guilt. That's what needs to be removed. That's why we come to the cross of Jesus. Jesus Christ. This is the value of the blood. The blood washes away the stain of our guilt. And they were turning, Israel was turning to Other things, other gods, other nations for their hope and salvation. The misery of sin, the misplaced trust, moral perversity, and then there's just this mind-numbing denial A mind-numbing denial, a blindness. Verses 23 to 25. How can you say, I am not unclean? I have not gone after the bales. This is what they were saying. Now that's not denial. I don't know what is. We're not unclean. We've not gone after the bales. Absolutely. Absolutely they went after the Baals. And they went after other gods. Absolutely they were unclean. Look at your way in the valley. Know what you have done a restless young camel running here and there, a wild donkey used to the wilderness, and her heat sniffing the wind. Who can restrain her lust None who seek her need weary themselves. In her month they will find her. Keep your feet from going unshod and your throat from thirst. But you said it is hopeless. For I've loved foreigners and after them I will go. Again, just more illustrations and more language that like they weren't into just a little bit of Idolatry. They were not into just a little bit of sexual immorality. It's not like they forsook the Lord a little bit. They were just unrestrained. Living for themselves, living for their base passions, and rebelling against the Lord. There's something in Scripture that tells us one of the purposes of this old covenant law was to show sin as utterly sinful. It was to increase the trespass. And that's exactly what we see in the history of Israel. This is why in the prophets it's so vivid. And it's page after page, paragraph after paragraph, the wickedness, the depth of their evil, their unrestrained lust and idle worship. There are people under the law, under a law covenant, and it's a uh by its very nature It intensifies and exasperates sin and shows sin and its true nature for what it really, really is. Thank God we're not under a covenant of law, but a covenant of, say it if you know it, a covenant of grace. A covenant of grace. But you do see in um in the prophets and in the history of Israel, you see that purpose of the law, one of the purposes of the law To increase the trespass. You see it borne out in Israel. And again, that's part of God's overall overall message for us in Scripture that's trying to get us to see our great, great need for a great, great Savior. This is mind-numbing denial. This is verse 23. They're saying, I am not unclean. Well w if we think back to when we were lost, we would have said something similar. I don't have a problem. Everybody messes up. Yeah, everybody sins. That's easy to say That's easy to say. Getting people to admit they're a sinner is not difficult because everyone has a conscience. God has given all people a conscience. We know there's right, we know there's wrong, we know there should be penalty for wrongdoing We may have different definitions of that because our conscience isn't perfect, but we have some semblance of some notion of right and wrong. But uh we would have said we would have said something when we were lost. I'm not unclean. I'm not unclean. I've not gone after the bells. I maybe do a few things, but I'm not Hitler. I'm not Jeffrey Dahmer This is what we do. We set the bar as low as possible. When we're lost, we set the bar as low as possible. And we say, I'm not that guy, therefore I must be right before God. That's that's insane It's a mind-numbing denial. And this is why God must come into our lives with His Word and teach us that we're sinners, that we have the stain of our guilt. Still before God, and we need a Savior, we need to be forgiven, we need the gospel, we need the blood of Christ to cleanse us of our sin, and we need Christ to give us new hearts so that we might love and truly obey God. Now we'll read verse 26 through 28. We've seen the this misery, this tragedy of sin, the firstborn son. Who's now become an object of wrath? We've seen the misplaced trust going to other things as hope and salvation. See this moral moral perversity or moral degeneracy of sin. We've seen this mind-numbing denial. We all had that, and so at some point we needed God to open our eyes. Now we see this manifest hypocrisy. These dominoes keep falling. This manifest hypocrisy. Verses 26 through 28. As a thief is shamed when caught. So the house of Israel shall be shamed, they, their kings, their officials, their priests, and their prophets. who say to a tree, you are my father, and to a stone, you gave me birth. We could have made an extra point in here called the idiocy of sin. Of making images and idols from a tree and from a stone and worshiping it as if it's a living thing. A living thing that can help us, a living thing that brought us into existence. The idiocy of sin, verse 27a. And now verse 27B, for they have turned their back to me, and not their face. But in their time, in the time of their trouble, they say, Arise and save us. There's the hypocrisy. Don't love God. Trusting in other gods, worshiping other gods. Don't want to obey God. They just want to do whatever they want to do. But now in a time of trouble. Arise and save us. That's hypocrisy. They don't really want God, they just want a good thing from God. That's not true worship. That's not crying out for salvation. Just wanting a gift from your parents doesn't mean you love your parents Just wanting money from a friend doesn't mean you love that friend. Just wanting a good gift from God doesn't mean you really love Him and really trust Him. Arise and save us. Save us from the bad thing is what they mean. Verse 28 But where are your gods that you made for yourself? Let them arise if they can save you in your time of trouble, for as many as your cities For as many as your cities are your gods, O Judah, a hypocrisy of sin. Hypocrisy of sin that doesn't want God's, but in times of trouble, will ask God to spare from bad things. And that's not what God calls us to. That's not the offer of salvation. The offer of salvation is God Himself. God offers Himself to us in love. Even though we've sinned against Him, He's shown uh infinite love, a merciful love to us. And it's to him that we come. We come to God for God. We come to Christ for Christ. And the benefits and the blessings. Of forgiveness, justification by faith, sanctification in the Spirit, the hope of eternal life, the joy of walking in Christ. All of these are side benefits of knowing God. God is the blessing of the gospel. Let's end this evening in Galatians 3. Galatians 3 where Paul talks about the nature of being a child of God under the new covenant. I don't want to end the message on this uh this tragedy, uh this darkness really of Sinners under the law, we're saved sinners under grace And as we s study through the prophets and study through Jeremiah, study and see what it's uh what it's like for people who are under the law and enslaved to sin should make us A. See our need. See our need for the Savior. And B, just be utterly grateful. Be grateful beyond words. To have a joy beyond words that we are under God's grace, under God's sovereign grace. We understand that God was not obligated to save us, right? There was no standard outside of God that God said, No, you better save these people. He's not obligated. It's by his free choice, his sovereign purpose of grace that he saved us. Galatians 3, 7 through 9. Rejoice in this. Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. So quick, for the test, this will be on the test, who are the sons of Abraham? Those of faith. What did you say? Are you messing with me? That's minus two points. Who are the sons of Abraham? Those of faith, not of blood Alright, not ethnic Jews. The sons of Abraham, which isn't about gender, it's it's about inheritance. Sons, daughters, whatever. Those rightful heirs. Rightful heirs are those of Faith. Can't understand the Bible unless we understand that. And the scripture, verse eight, the scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the justify the Gentiles by faith, preached the gospel beforehand to Abraham. saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed, along with Abraham. The man of faith. Now just for time, we're skipping down to verse 13. Verse 13, Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it is written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree, so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law. What we see in Jeremiah, Jeremiah is dealing with those who are under the curse of the law They violated God's law. They're under judgment. They're recipients of historical judgment. They're recipients of the curse of the law Objects of wrath. Thank God that He sent Christ to redeem us from the curse of the law. And how did He do that? By becoming a curse for us. For it's written, cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. It brings us back to that S-word when we talk about what happened on the cross. Substitute. Christ was our substitute. He shed his blood to redeem us from the curse of the law, so that we would not be objects of wrath. This is the gospel. He shed his blood for us. He bore our sins in his body on the tree. 1 Peter 2. 20. twenty four, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Now further down in Galatians 3, 25 through 26. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. We're no longer under the the uh administration of the laws what that means. We're no longer under the law. Now that faith has come, we're no longer under a guardian For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. That's the verse I want to end on. If you remember we began with this idea of Israel as God's chosen son. Israel as God's precious son. Under a covenant of law, however, which was a type and shadow of the new covenant kingdom But now in the new covenant era, in the new covenant kingdom, those who are of faith are sons of God. In fact, if you read the whole of Galatians 3 when you go home tonight, you'll see that Christ is the singular chosen heir. Christ is the recipient of the promises. He is the Son of God. And we are only sons of God in our union with Him It can't become an heir of the promise apart from Christ. So I'm just bringing out in the passages or the verses we looked at in Galatians 3 that through faith we're sons of God. But that's only true because that faith is faith in Christ. Christ is the heir of the promises. I want to make sure we end on a gospel note this morning. or this evening. We don't ever, ever want to minimize, minimize or or try to downplay just the tragedy and the misery and the the The vileness and perversity of sin when we come to the prophets and the reality of God's judgment against sin and the reality of God's hatred for sin. That's what helps us expand our notion of God's grace in the gospel. This great, great Savior that he's provided for us. And if we know ourselves at all, we know that left unchecked, all we would do is sin. And so praise God that he came. He sent a Savior. The Savior shed his blood for our sin. He's made a way for us to go to heaven. And praise God that he intervened, not just in human history in the past. For the Savior coming, but in our lives, in our personal experience, that God, through His providence, brought us His Word and that His Word changed our heart. And God has poured His Holy Spirit into our hearts. He has spared us from the domino effect of sin. Aren't you glad about it? Let's pray. Father, thank you for sending Jesus. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your mercy. And I pray that you continue to powerfully sanctify each and every one of us According to your will, according to your purpose. We pray that you would increase within our hearts gratitude to Christ. We pray that you would increase within our hearts a love for Christ. We pray that you would deepen in our hearts our affection and desire and zeal for Christ. And this we pray in his name. Amen.