Well, I have a fairly ambitious goal for us this evening. We're going to be, Lord willing, covering in kind of broad strokes about five chapters. So naturally, we're gonna get started by having you turn somewhere else in your Bibles. Let me invite you quickly to first turn with me to Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy chapter 17, and I want us to look briefly at verses 14 through 20. Deuteronomy chapter 17 verses 14 It's important for us as we read the history of the people of Israel under the old covenant. It's the law of God, the requirements of the covenant that God had revealed that acts is sort of the backdrop against which we read and interpret and understand what's going on in the narrative. It's how we understand whether or not Israel is acting in faithful obedience to God or in rebellion and disobedience. And what I want us to see is that this section in Deuteronomy acts as kind of a North Star text for us as we seek to make sense of the lives of these two kings that we're going to. read about in Samuel. Deuteronomy chapter seventeen, beginning in verse fourteen. When you come to the land that the Lord your God is giving you, and you possess it and dwell in it, and then say, I will set a king over me. Me, like all the nations that are around you, me. You may indeed set a king over you whom the Lord your God will choose. One from among your brothers you shall set as king over you. You may not put a foreigner over you who is not Your brother. Only he must not acquire many horses for himself, or cause the people to return to Egypt in order to acquire many horses. Since the Lord has said to you, You shall never again return that way. And he shall not acquire many wives for himself, lest his heart turn away, nor shall he acquire for himself excessive silver and gold. And when he sits on the throne of his kingdom, he shall write for himself. Himself in a book, a copy of this law, approved by the Levitical priests, and it she shall be with him, and he shall read in it all the days of his life, that he may learn to fear the Lord his God. By keeping all the words of this law and these statutes and doing them. And the main point I just want us to see from this passage is that fundamentally, Israel's king Was called to walk in the fear of the Lord. He was called to have a heart devoted to the God of Israel, dedicated to knowing his word and keeping his commandments from the heart. The king was kind of to be put forward as sort of the the model Israelite, the representative for God's people for what it would look like to live in faithful covenant relationship. with God. The king was called to embody the requirements of the covenant so that he could lead the people of God to do so. And that ideal that's held out to us here of a king in right relationship to God, embodying faithfulness to the God of Israel, that's going to be important to us as we consider what happens at the end of 1 Samuel and going into 2 Samuel. So let me invite you to turn there now. 1 Samuel chapter 28, but be prepared to turn a little bit. Hopefully you all First Samuel chapter twenty-eight is where we'll kind of be camping out though. Several weeks ago we saw that one of the main things the narrator is doing in this book of Samuel. Is he's holding up an intentional contrast. You have two kings, two hearts before the Lord, two directions of life, and ultimately two vastly different destinies. So on the one hand you have Saul, the king like the nations. And on the other hand you have David, the king after God's own nation. And if you were to kind of map it out, the basic trajectory of the book so far has been that as a result of his sin , As a result of his disobedience, as a result of his rebellion against the Lord, Saul has fallen further and further into this sort of downward spiral while David has trusted in the Lord. He's been blessed of God even in the face of hardship, and he's been continuing on this path of ascending to the throne. That's the contrast and that's the trajectory that's been held out to us. So far. And tonight, as this narrative kind of comes to this climactic point where Saul's life is going to end, and David's ascent to the throne is going to get even closer to fulfillment. That contrast is going to become even more stark. The distinctions between Saul and David are going to be held out and made even clearer, they're kind of put side by side in the narrative. In the heat of distress, in the heat of difficult circumstances, these two kings are going to show who they really are. And there's a question that I believe the narrator wants us to ask as we read this passage. Kind of the implicit question that's driving the narrative forward is this What kind of king Do God's people need? What kind of king rightly represents faithfulness to the God of Israel? And therefore, which kind of king is going to lead God's people to be faithful Faithful to him. See, more than kind of merely giving some good principles for godly leadership, what the author here is doing is he is teaching the people of God to long for a certain kind of king. And to long for a kind of king whom God was going to one day provide for his people. And you see that's kind of the main point. If you have an outline in your bulletin, the main point we're going to think about this evening is that God's people need a king who will lead them in covenant faith. The people of God need a king who will lead them in faithfulness to their God. And friends, what we're going to see this evening, thinking about our own lives, is that we have such a King. The Lord has provided for us such a King who has been perfectly faithful to the Father on our behalf, and who has in fact paid the price for our unfaithfulness to our our God, and who is now graciously shaping us into his likeness so that we might follow after him. So this evening as we walk through this narrative, we're going to consider together five questions. Five questions that help reveal the kind of king that God's people are Need. And also how God has given us such a king. And like I said, we're going to walk through this narrative in some pretty broad strokes, but I do highly recommend go back and read it. It's meant to be read as this kind of one beautifully crafted narrative together. It's written with these cohesive themes running Throughout. If I can just put forward a pitched few. Sometimes we need to read God's Word under a microscope. Sometimes we kind of need to read it like we're in an armchair and we're being told an intentionally crafted story. So that's my my pitch. Go back and read this section in more detail than we can walk through it this evening. So five questions for us. First question: where does he turn in crying? Crisis. When the heat of circumstance is turned up, where does he seek counsel? Where does he go for comfort? The author is going to give us here this stirring contrast between these two kings and where they are ultimately willing to go to seek counsel in the middle of the world. And to see this, I want us first to actually turn back. I know I said go to 1 Samuel chapter 28, keep your pinky finger there, but turn for just a moment back to 1 Samuel chapter 15. Chapter 15, and I want us to look very briefly at verses 22 through 23. 1 Samuel 15, verses 22 These are Samuel's words of rebuke to Saul after his sin and his failure to defeat the Amalekites. Samuel says this has the Lord as great delight in burnt offerings and sacrifice as in obeying the voice of the Lord? Behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to listen than the fat of ram For rebellion is as the sin of divination, and presumption is as iniquity and idolatry. Because you've rejected the word of the Lord, he also has rejected you. From being king. And what I want you to focus in on is verse 23, the beginning of verse 23. Samuel says there, for rebellion is as the sin of divination. What he's saying is he's saying rebellion against God, disobedience to what God commands, is as sinful and as heinous and as wicked as witchcraft. What we're gonna see is that in a tragic turn of events, almost like this enacted parable, Saul is going to turn to witchcraft in a moment of crisis, which is gonna to lead up to his death. You can turn back to chapter 28 of 1 Samuel. Verses 3 through 6 kind of set the stage for us. Look There with me. Now Samuel had died, and all Israel had mourned for him and buried him in Rama, his own city. The land. The Philistines assembled and came and encamped at Shunam. And Saul gathered all Israel and they encamped at Gilboa. When Saul saw the army of the Philistines, he was afraid, and his heart trembled greatly. And when Saul inquired of the Lord, the Lord did not answer him, either by dreams or by Urim or by prophets. So Samuel is dead. Saul is preparing to go into battle against the Philistines. He's fearful and trembling, and see in verse 6 that God is not answering. And once more see that this silence from God is an indication that God had rejected Saul as king. But what does Saul do in response to the silence of God? We'll see that he seeks counsel from another source. In verse 7, he tells his servants to seek out a medium, someone who uses witchcraft to speak to the dead, so that he could make use of her services. And what follows in chapter 28 is just this absolutely fascinating scene with this medium. He he goes to this woman under nightfall. They summon Samuel from the dead. There's this kind of dramatic encounter. Samuel even prophesies from the dead that Saul is going to die at the hand of the Philistines. You can read that in Verses seventeen through nineteen. But I what I want us to see here is that in a moment of crisis, Saul was willing to turn to something that the Lord detests in order to find comfort and find Counsel. He started off well by seeking the Lord, but he didn't follow through in faithfulness. He had driven the mediums and the necromancers out of the land. He had obeyed the Lord. But now he's seeking one out. See there just the tragic sort of spiral that his sin had created. And see the way that sin can train us to seek comfort in the midst of crisis in life from sources that can just never offer it, and which God himself denounces as wicked. This is contrasted with David What we're going to see is that when he's faced with a moment of crisis, he to the end seeks his comfort and his strength and his guidance from the Lord. So at this point, just to kind of get our bearings in the narrative, David has been in exile amongst the Philistines. Heard Pastor Matt preach about that last week. And in chapter 29, we're not going to read chapter 29, but in chapter 29, he's been rejected by the Philistine armies and he's been sent away. And so he comes back to Ziklag where he had been living. And he finds that it had been raided by the Amalekites. His home had been ransacked. His family had been taken captive. That's the beginning of chapter 30, verse 2 Verses 1 through 6. So he comes home to this absolutely terrifying, devastating scene. We see in verse 4 that he is moved by it. We're told there that he's weeping until he has no more strength. strength left to weep. The beginning of verse 6, we're told that he was greatly distressed. But notice that in his distress, he turns and he finds comfort in his God. In verses 7 and 8, he's gonna, well verse 6b, the end of verse 6, we're told that David strengthened strengthened He goes to his God in the midst of crisis. And then verses seven and eight we're told that he goes to Abby Athar the priest. in order to inquire of the Lord. And he asks God whether or not he should pursue this raiding band of Amalekites. And then we see at the end of verse eight that the Lord answers him. The Lord tells him, Yes, go and pursue. And once again, it's highlighting here that God is blessing David, because God had chosen him as king. God is answering David when Saul was met with silence. So you have these two kings in moments of crisis. And where do they turn? One is ultimately willing to seek counsel by speaking to the dead. The other is steadfast in turning to the Lord his God for strength And this prompts another question that I want us to consider. Where did our King, where did King Jesus turn in the midst of Crisis. In Luke chapter twenty-two, verses thirty-nine through forty-four, we have Luke's account of Jesus in the garden, about to endure the agony of the cross. Not to bear the weight of the Father's wrath for sin. He is in the crisis of crises. And where does he go? He prays to his heavenly Father. And he says, nevertheless, not my will, but yours be done. And friends, through each of these questions, I want us to see That Jesus is the true and faithful King. Jesus is the better David. He's the covenant partner who truly and perfectly turned to his Father in every Christ. And therefore, he's the only one who is able to lay his life down as a spotless lamb for sinners and to lead a redeemed people to walk in faithfulness to God in him. This prompts another question for us, which is where do we turn in our moments of crisis? As those who by faith are being shaped to be like our King, where do we turn in crisis? Are our reflexes being Trained to turn to the Lord from the missed alarm to the flat tire all the way up to the cancer diagnosis. Where do our hearts turn for comfort and guidance? Christian, recognize that the Lord Jesus has given you everything you need to look to him in the heat of life's circumstances. May we do so by his grace. May we turn to him in the midst of every crisis. So, where does the true king turn in crisis? Second question for us: what is the extent of his obedience? Obedience. Does he do everything that God calls him to do? And again, it's important for us to kind of have the whole book of Samuel in mind as we think about this point Because what's going to follow in chapter 30 is that the author is going to shine a spotlight here on what David does in contrast to something that Saul didn't do. So remember again that the great sin that sort of s marks the decisive point where Saul's rebellion and turning away from the Lord becomes this sort of nosedive. is his failure to completely destroy the Amalekites in chapter fifteen of verse Samuel. And it's this sin that looms large over the rest of his life, like this haunting shape Shadow. We're gonna see it kind of looms large over his life, even up to the point of death. In chapter 28, Samuel is even talking about it from the dead. I mean, even dead God. But what we're going to see is that what Saul failed to do David, the true king, the king after God's heart, the king that God had chosen, David accomplishes. So remember, David had inquired of the Lord as to whether or not to go after the Amalekites who had captured his family. And look what happens in verses sixteen through twenty of chapter thirty. And when he had taken him down, behold, they, that's the Amalekites, were spread abroad all over the land, eating and drinking and dancing. Because of all the great spoil they had taken from the land of the Philistines and from the land of Judah. Young men who mounted camels and fled. David recovered all that the Amalekites had taken, and David rescued his two wives. Nothing was missing, whether small or great, sons or daughters, spoiler anything that had been taken. David brought back all. David also captured all the flocks and herds, and the people drove the livestock before him and said, This is David's spoiled. So the Amalekites, they're partying. And David disrupts the party. We're told he strikes them down from twilight until the next day. We're told there in verse 17, not a man of them escaped except for 400 young men. David recovers everything. There was nothing that David didn't get back. So this group of people, the Amalekites, who should have been wiped out by Saul if he had obeyed the voice of the Lord, David goes after, David strikes down. And David recovers all that they had taken. And what we need to recognize is that this scene marks the last time in the narrative that the Amalekites as a So see that the Lord's anointed, the true king, does what the rejected king had failed To do. The author is just shining a spotlight for us here on David's obedience. David is the one that God was raising up to reign as the righteous covenant-keeping king. Look, he obeys, he succeeds, where Saul had failed. David is being put forward as the better king here, the king who fully obeys, and therefore is blessed by God. But David, of course, is pointing forward to an even better king who obeyed not just in one narrative, but in every narrative. And so again we ask, what was the extent of King Jesus obedience? Well consider Hebrews chapter 4, verses 14 through 16. There we read comforting words to us that Jesus was tempted in every single way as we are, yet without sin. He faced Satan's temptation head-on He faced all that it means to be a human, living in a world under the curse of sin and death. And he showed himself to be the better actor. Adam, the better Israel, the better David. Jesus our King has perfectly fulfilled all of God's law from the heart. And here's the thing, when we think about Jesus fulfilling the law for us, it's not just that he fulfilled kind of the ceremonial law. And he didn't, you know, wrongly boil young goats, and he didn't wear polyester shirts with mixed fabrics or things like that. No, it's that he lived at every moment with an unwavering, whole person love for his Father from the heart. There wasn't a millisecond of his life where he failed to perfectly keep the law both inside and out. And now by faith, through his death and his resurrection, friends, we benefit from what his perfect obedience has accomplished. And so, Christian, what is the We need to recognize that one of the things that Christ's saving work has accomplished for us is our obedience to Him. Consider for First Peter chapter one, verse two. We're told there that believers in Jesus Christ are those who are foreknown by God the Father in the sanctification of the Spirit for obedience to Jesus Christ. Or to score some points with Anthony Wilson. Ephesians chapter 2 verse 10. We're created in Christ Jesus for good works. We'll never be perfect in this. We're always being molded and transformed. But Jesus Christ on the cross purchased good works for us that would bring glory to his name. So, Christian, where does your heart still resist Jesus' claim to lordship? Where are you mixed in your motives or partial in your obedience? What good things do you leave half done? Look to your king and obey him in faith by the strength that he supplies. No, it's the call to look to our King and to obey in faith. To obey by his strength as he molds us into his likeness. What is the extent of the king's obedience? Third question for us. How does he treat others? How does he treat others? We're gonna see next that in the aftermath of this battle with the Amalekites, David is going to choose to bless and to build up the men who had come with him. Even those who had been too exhausted to fight, even those who hadn't contributed in the same way. And again, here what the author seems to be doing is drawing this kind of parallel and contrast Between David's actions here and Saul's actions earlier under similar circumstances. Again, David is being put forward here as the better king who serves in the fear of the Lord with truth. True humility before God and before others. So thinking back a little bit in the narrative, in chapter 14 of 1 Samuel, In the heat of the battle with the Philistines, Saul makes this kind of rash and foolish vow that nearly kills his already exhausted armies. We're told in chapter 14 that the men had been hard-pressed in battle. And in the midst of that, Saul lays this oath on the people, and he says, Cursed be the man who eats food. So there's this already difficult battle, and Saul says, Alright guys, no food, no rest until the battle's done No exceptions. Foods for winners. So no food until you've won. But if you were to go back and you were to read that chapter in that section, you see just how well that vow goes for Saul and for the armies. He he exhausts the Israelite armies. He nearly kills his own son in the process. He puts forward this kind of foolish, nonsensical test of allegiance that lays this heavy, unnecessary burden on the people following after him. him. He rules harshly. But see how Saul's choices there contrast with David's So in chapter 30, first in verses 9 and 10, we're told that David had 600 men with him, this band of warriors. But is there pursuing the Amalekites? army, two hundred of them had been too exhausted to cross the brook and continue pursuing them. And so David allows them to stay behind. He he doesn't break their backs to make them keep going. Going. And then in chapter thirty, verses twenty one through twenty two, after the battle's won, they come back to the two hundred who had stayed behind, and we're told that there's this kind of kerfuffle that arises in the camp. Verse twenty two of chapter thirty. We're told that then all the wicked and worthless fellows among the men who had gone with David said, Because they did not go with us, we will not give them any of the spoil that we have recovered, except that each man may lead away his wife and children and the There's this attempt by the army to create this sort of distinction between those who were able to go the whole way and those who were just too exhausted to keep going. And the point is, you get less if you were too weak and too wimpy to go the whole way and to fight in the battle. But see that David rejects this line of thinking. Look at what he says in verse 23. He says, You shall not do so, my brothers, with what the Lord has given us. He has preserved us and given into our hand the band that came against us Against us. Who would listen to you in this matter? For as his share is who goes down into the battle, so shall his share be who stays by the baggage. So he says, whether you were too exhausted to keep going or you fought all the way to the end, you get the same shock. And see there that David doesn't operate with this sort of brazen, unrealistic standard of perfection for his army. No, see that he's patient Here with the weak, fainting soldiers who had walked faithfully but couldn't keep going in the battle. As a general, as a commander of armies, David doesn't make unattainable perfection. The standard of faithfulness. No, he's a king who is patient and who is compassionate with weak soldiers, and who recognizes that even weak soldiers share in the victory. Because if you're in the Lord's army, it's the Lord's victory to begin with. So if you're in his army, you share in every victory. Wholesale. All the way. Well, how does our king treat others? just a few passages with me. Matthew chapter 11, verses 28 through 30. Jesus there says, Come to me, all who are labor labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. Rest to make my yoke upon you and learn from me. For I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. three, a bruised reed he will not break, and a faintly burning wick he will not quench. Well friends, our Savior is Jesus Gentle and lowly and compassionate towards sinners like you and I. He bears with us in our weakness. He's a refuge of peace and comfort. For us. He's not a frustrated tyrant who sort of rolls his eyes every time we make a mess of things once again. No, he is a king. He's a king with absolute authority, but our king exercises his authority with care and with kindness. He exercises his absolute authority in a way that blesses and that builds up his people. In a way that's for his glory, but also for our good, for our flourishing. Oh Christian, do you believe that your Savior is gentle and lowly in heart toward you? Do you believe that Jesus receives you and you Your weakness. When you feel as though you can't keep going , you believe that He is a haven of rest for you. Furthermore, as those who are being made into the image Wonder do we find ourselves sort of agreeing with the wicked and worthless fellows who have just no patience for those wimpy soldiers who had to stay behind. Do we allow our frustrations with one another to sort of quench our compassion? I wonder do we ever kind of s just marvel and frustrate at all when that person is dealing with the same sin again? Or friends, are we learning to Is the compassion that He's shown us in our sin and continues to show us shaping the kind of compassion that we showed us? others. That doesn't mean we don't deal with sin, but we deal with sin as forgiven sinners. How do we treat others? Are we looking to our King to take our cues and to be shaped into his light. The fourth question for us. Fourth question for us, what motivates His actions. Why does he do the things that he does? Back to the book of Samuel. Throughout Saul's life, we've seen this consistent Pattern of being motivated almost exclusively by external appearances, being motivated by what people thought of him rather than the glory of God. I remember just one example, his response to the people's celebration of David's victory over Goliath. His response is basically, how come David's getting the better songs? I want some nice songs. Saul in sort of his sinful love of self was consistently motivated by this desire to make himself look good to us. Other people. You read the narrative and you just see scene after scene after scene, where all that he seems to be able to think about is how he is perceived by others. And tragically, what was true of Saul in his life is going to be true of him in his death. In chapter 31, we're given the account of the Death of Saul. And what we see there is that the Philistines, they're fighting against Israel, they're overtaking them in battle. In verse 2, we're told that Jonathan was struck dead. And then in verse 3 we read that Saul was badly wounded by archers. But then in verse 4, he attempts to have his archer Armor bearer, stab him, so that he won't face the shame of dying by the hand of the Philistines. Again, see what's motivating his heart there. See the motivation of I won't let these Philistines have the last blow. I won't let them make me look bad in my death. I set the terms upon which I live and die. But his armor bearer is going to refuse to do that, and so what is he going to do? He's going to take his own sword and fall upon it. He would rather end his own life than die what he believes would be an undignified death. To the end, the king like the nations is motivated by external appearances. And that's exactly what God had said to Samuel, right? Man looks at the outside, the Lord looks at the heart. It could almost be the thesis statement. But see that there's a tragic irony to this entire scene. Because despite his best efforts, Saul is still going to be publicly shamed by the Philistines. We read in verses 8 through 10 that the next day, the Philistines, they find Saul's body and they make this sort of gruesome public display of it. They they cut off his head, they fasten his body to a wall. In uh in Chronicles, we're told that they actually put his body in the temple of the pagan god Dagon. For all his concern over appearances He can't escape public shame. He has no control over his story and his public image in the end. But there's an irony that runs even deeper than that. If you flip over one page to 2 Samuel, Chapter 1, we read in verses 5 through 10, and we discover that it's actually an Amalekites. The very people that Saul had been commanded to destroy Who deals the last blow. There, this Amalekite man recalls his story of how Saul had been leaning on his spear in the battlefield, not quite dead yet. This Amalekite walks by and Saul asks him to deal the final blow and finally end his life. This tragic, poetic Ending to Saul's life. In his death, his rebellion against God comes full circle down on him. The very people that he was tasked with driving out and then didn't It's one of them who delivers the final blow. To the end Saul was motivated by a desire to make himself look good. And to the end the narrative says, You cannot do that. If that's your motive For living, you're gonna be disappointed in the end. And again, I believe that the author intends to contrast Saul's heart here with David's. Because what has motivated David's action in the narrative up to this point. Well, consistently it's been a concern for the glory of God. And remember, as he's charging into battle against a giant It's the name of the Lord of hosts that he's zealous to defend. You can think of the two times where he spares Saul's life. It's because Saul is the Lord's anointed. In his best moments as king, David is captivated with a concern for the glory and for the will of his God. David's heart was motivated by a concern for God to be glorified. Well again, what motivated the heart of our king? Consider John chapter six, verse thirty-nine. Jesus says, I have come down not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. John chapter twelve, verse twenty-eight Where Jesus prays in agony, Father, glorify your name. In his life and in his ministry as the incarnate Son of God, our King, at every moment. was motivated by the glory and the will of his father. You and I, we've never known a perfectly pure, perfectly true motive. We're always stained by just some remnant of sin, some remnant of selfishness, some remnant of the flesh. But Jesus at every moment was motivated by a heart that truly and fully and perfectly loved his Father. That was true even as he was being put forward as a sin-bearing sacrifice to take the wrath of God on our behalf. So what motivates your heart, Christian. What gets you out of bed in the morning? What keeps you going at 307 p. m. on a Friday at the job you really can't stand Let me implore you, those moments seem trivial sometimes, but in those moments there is a kind of battle for your soul that's taking place. Because there's this question of what will motivate you to press on in faithfulness. Let me just encourage you, lesser motives are eventually going to fizzle out. Lesser motives are only going to get you so far. Christian, may you learn and may I learn to live, to glorify, and to enjoy our God in all things. It's God's will for us, and that's what Jesus is doing in our hearts as we look to Him by faith. The final question for us about the kind of king that we need as the people of God. How does he respond? To tragedy. How does he respond to tragedy? In 2 Samuel chapter 1, we see David's response to the death of Saul. And Jonathan. And there's a simple truth that I want us to see in how he responds. Sad things should make us sad. It is right, Christian, in a fallen world, to mourn over that which is sorrowful. Sometimes I think we try to be a little more spiritual than the Bible and act like it's somehow virtuous to have this kind of unaffected, indifferent response to tragedy. That's just not the picture that scripture ever ever gives us. Now see here that David is weeping over Saul and Jonathan. Even though he knows that he's destined to be King. Even though he knows and had experienced every injustice that Saul committed against him, he's moved here. He's moved to sorrow over the death of the Lord's anointed We're told in verses eleven and twelve that he tears his clothes in mourning. And then then in verses seventeen And notice in verse 18 that not only does he sing , it. But look what it says. He said that it should be taught to the people of Judah. Not only does he lament, but he leads the people To lament as well. The true king, in right relationship to God, teaches the people of God how to respond rightly to tragedy. And it's to mourn. It's to see tragedy for what it is. You can also see in David's song, we won't look at the whole thing, but you can see see that again he has this ultimate concern for the glory of God amongst the nations. You can see that especially in verses 19 and 20. Says your glory, O Israel, is slain on your high places, how the mighty has fallen. Tell it not in Gath, publish it not in the streets of Ashkelon, lest the daughters of the Philistines rejoice. In other words, the point is, if the king is defeated, then what kind of power does the god of that nation really have? David's concern there is for the glory of God, because God's anointed king, even though he was a rejected king, had died. Again, see what's gripping David's heart. He's responding to tragedy as a tragic thing. He's also once again concerned for the glory of God. Well, how do we see King Jesus responding to tragedy? Again, there are just so many passages we could go to where we see the emotional depth of our King. We need to recognize that his sinless Perfection never meant and never means a kind of cold, detached stoicism. Let me just point you to one thing. Passage though, Matthew chapter 23, verse 37. As Jesus is about to head to the cross, he's considering the unbelief of Jerusalem and their rejection of the Messiah. And he's moved by it. He he laments, he cries out, Oh Jerusalem, Jerusalem, how often I would have gathered you together. He weeps. He sees the tragedies of life in a fallen world for exactly what they are. And as those who are being shaped to be like our king by faith, how How do you respond to tragedy, Christian? We live in a world that's under the curse of sin and death, where sad things happen every day, and we need to see that it's right. To be saddened by them. Being molded into the likeness of Jesus, it's this process of learning how to respond, how he would have us respond to different realities in a complex fallen world. And that means we learn to love what he loves, we learn to hate what he hates, but we also learn to be sorrowful over what he calls sorrowful. This is an area where I believe we have room to grow. Don't try to be more spiritual than Jesus in the way that you respond to life in a fallen way. world. We must never offer kind of a glib, oh it's not so bad, sort of optimism when tragedy is staring us in the face. Now to be sure, hear me clearly, we have the most optimistic worldview possible. We're those who confess by faith, Jesus is King, Jesus will reign forever, Jesus is expanding the borders of his kingdom. Our destiny is life with him, the new heavens and the new earth. We have the most optimistic worldview possible. But our optimism Is one that can honestly handle all the sorrows of life. We don't have to pretend like they're not sorrowful. As Paul says in 2 Corinthians, we live lives as sorrowful. Yet always rejoicing. King Jesus responded to tragedy by seeing it as tragic, and he teaches us to do the same and to look to Him in faith. As we conclude this evening, the final question for us to consider is simply: who is your king? And that's not just a question of who are you going to be like. But who stands before God as your representative ruler? Oh, we need a king, friends, who was perfectly obedient to God in our our place. We need a king who offers a perfect salvation to sinners. And we need a king who has the authority to declare his people forgiven under the banner of his salvation. And the good news is that we have such a king. We come to him by faith. And by faith, our lives are now being remade into his image. The Christian life is the life of by God's grace, by faith, we confess that he is king, and now he initiates this project by his word and by his spirit. where he brings our lives in line with that confession. And more and more the stuff of our life reflects the truth of that confession that Jesus is king. So may we look to him in faith, as he does this good work in us, both as individuals, but as a whole people together in a church. Together. Let's pray. Well, Father, we thank you. Father, we thank you that you have provided for us a king who leads us in faithfulness, who has been Perfectly faithful on our behalf, who has died the death for his people that we could not die, and who rose again in victory over all of us. His enemies. Help us, Lord, to live in faithfulness to King Jesus this week. Help us, Lord, to respond to how you would have us respond to life in a fallen world. God help us to treat others how you would have us treat others. Help us to turn in every crisis to you. Lord help us to rest in our King, who is an all-sufficient Savior for us. Praise this in Jesus' name. Amen.