Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to the book of Jude. It's the second to last book in your Bible, so go to Revelation at the end, and the page before Revelation will be the book of Jude. Today we're looking at the topic of false teachers, the perversity of false teachers within the church. You know, Jude is a very short book, but it's a heavy book. There are five books in the Bible that are only one chapter, and Jude is one of those Books, but it hits us like a ton of bricks, serious, weighty, important doctrines And it centers on the danger of false teachers, the perversity of false teachers within the church. Now I'm not going to read these references that I'm going to mention in just a second, but you can glance down at the page if you're in Jews. Jude chapter one, which is the only chapter. We've already seen the purpose of Jude, which you can see in verse 3. It's to urge the church. to contend for the faith that's been once delivered to the saints. God has delivered the truth of the gospel. God has delivered sound doctrine. Two, the church, verse three, now contend for that faith. And we've seen the reason for that purpose, which you can see in verse four. Because false teachers have infiltrated and are always trying to infiltrate the church. Therefore, contend for the faith. If you don't contend for sound doctrine, you'll lose it. in a snap. You'll lose it in a snap. You'll lose it in a jiffy. Is that a good theological term? If you don't contend for sound a doctrine according to what God has revealed, it'll be gone in a So the purpose of Jude is in verse three, contend for the faith. The reason for that purpose is in verse the reason for that purpose is in verse Four false teachers have crept in, and now a large section of Jude, which I would call the Body of the letter, the bulk of the letter, the major theme of Jude, verses 8 to 19 How many verses are there? Twenty-four, twenty-seven, twenty-five, twenty-five. And from verses eight to nineteen Jude describes the multi -layered wickedness of false teachers, the multidimensional perversity of false teachers A major section. So this is hugely important. This is what the book of Jude is about. Verses 8 to 19. And we're not going to do all of that today. You know that was a temptation? Because this is not really one of the most enjoyable topics to deal with. Right? Well I would love to get up here and just Preach the joys of knowing Christ and the wonders of God's love and the blessings of salvation and the blessings of fellowship in the church. But you know, there's like any like any relationship, parenting Marriage, good friends, there's enjoyable things, but then there's tough things. There's tough topics that you have to talk about There's difficult issues that you have to work through. And this is one of those heavy issues that the temptation was, take the whole passage, get it over with, and be on to something that's a little bit more light-hearted and enjoyable. Well, I'm not going to do that Today we're going to go 8 to 11, just the beginning of this major section. The perversity of false teachers within the church. Let's go ahead and read that passage, verses 8 to 11 in the book of Jude. Yet, in like manner, these people also, relying on their dreams, defile the flesh. Reject authority and blaspheme the glorious ones. But when the archangel Michael, contending with the devil, In a battle with the devil, when the archangel Michael, contending with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses. He did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but said, the Lord rebuke you. But these people blaspheme all that they do not understand And they are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand instinctively. Woe to them, for they walked in the way of Cain, and they abandoned themselves for the sake of gain to Balaam's error. And perished in Korah's rebellion. Well, that's an easy passage to understand, right? Now you're probably some of you, I'm sure some of you are, all right, what in the world is going on with the argument or the battle between the Archangel Michael and the devil about the body of Moses? Well, it doesn't tell us what that is, and that's not laid out in Scripture, and this is just an illustration, this is just an example of the point that Jude wants to make. So we're not going to plunge ourselves into that. this morning. We'll talk about it when we get there. Quickly though, quickly though, look at verse eleven. This is just one of the things that Jude says. They walked in the way of Cain. Now listen, if there's anyone In whose way you don't want to walk in, it would be Cain. This is the category the false teachers are put into So we're not to be warm and cuddly with false teachers who are walking in the way of Cain. We need to contend against them, contend for the faith that's been once for all delivered to the saints. Verse 3 Now, the main point I'd like to be made this morning is that false teachers are smugglers. They're smugglers. They're infiltrators. They smuggle heresy. and immorality into the church. Not just heresy, which is doctrine that contradicts the word of God, but they also smuggle in immorality Which is morals, ethics, behavior that contradicts the will of God. False teachers are like snakes that slither in and bring poison into the fellowship. They smuggle heresy and immorality into the church. Now to begin our to begin our look at this, our exegesis, let's look at verse 8. Let's look at verse 8. And just to begin, just to begin All I want us to do is look at the first two things that Jude says, because he says a lot. But look at the first two things that Jude says about about these false teachers. In verse 8. Yet in like manner, these people also, number one , relying on their dreams and defiling the flesh. They're relying on their dreams and they're defiling the flesh, which is in one way or another, they're involved in sexual immorality. Public, open, unrepentant, sexual immorality They're relying on their dreams. The last thing you want is a pastor or a teacher, a Sunday school teacher for your children, relying on their dreams rather than the Word of God So that's why we must contend for the faith that God has delivered to God's church, for God's people, for God's glory. You don't need me and my ideas. I mean you can expand the you can expand the point out. This is about dreams You don't need to be in my ideas and my opinions. What you need and what I need, what the church needs, what the world needs, is the word of God put forth by open statement of the truth. So these false teachers are relying on their dreams. What would you have done if that were on my resume when I applied for your job as associate pastor in 2018? I rely on my dreams as the source of my teaching. But seriously. I hear people talking about dreams. God talking to them. And God speaking to them. God showing up to them in dreams. Sometimes I hear that testimony that came it actually came from lost people in other religions. And sometimes I've heard people give those testimonies and tell those stories, and they're more excited than that, than the gospel of Jesus Christ going forth in power. God has given us his word, a completed word, a what's a closed canon. He's given us an all-sufficient word for life and godliness and worship and evangelism and mission. The word of God, not dreams. Not dreams. Is the vein coming out of my forehead yet? Can you see it? Then he says, defile the flesh. Defile the flesh. Well, false teachers are lost people. So they don't care about doctrine. They're alienated from God. Do you think that they care about their personal morality? So, they're relying on dreams, defiling the flesh. Now, Jude's mindset. Jude's mindset What does he say in verse 11? The first thing he says in verse 11, three words. Woe to them. This is the last thing you once said. About you. It's the last thing I once said about me. Woe. Woe to them. Do you know what that means, brothers and sisters? That means may the judgment of God be upon them. Woe to them. May the curse of Almighty God fall upon them. Woe to them. Jesus pronounced judgment. In his earthly ministry, on the unbelieving leaders in Israel. Matthew 23, 13. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites. Will you shut The kingdom of heaven and people's faces, or you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. Which means at the time they're teaching against Christ, teaching against the gospel, and they're leading them away from the kingdom of God. Ministry. Luke ten, thirteen and fourteen, Jesus says, Woe to you. Woe to you, Korusin, woe to you, Beth Saida. For if the mighty works done in you had been done in Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes, but it will be more bearable in judgment in the judgment. For Tyre and Sidon, then for you. Woe, woe to these false teachers. Woe to the smugglers of heresy and immorality and to the church of the living God. Woe to them. May the judgment of God fall upon them. May the curse of God be upon them. That's what Jude says. Woe to them. Now, hopefully, in God's mercy, in God's grace, if there is a false teacher, and there are many false teachers, That they would be convicted of their sin, turn to Christ in faith, and be saved and become a true disciple and a true teacher and a true preacher of the true gospel and of the faith once delivered to the saints. But they need salvation just like I needed salvation. And brothers and sisters, just like you needed salvation. One more here from Revelation 8. 13 The woe, the woe to you describes fierce historical judgments From the throne of God. Revelation 8:13. Then I looked, and I heard an eagle crying with a loud voice as it flew directly overhead. Woe, woe, woe to those who dwell upon the land. at the blasts of the other trumpets that these three angels are about to blow. And you know what the trumpets are in Revelation. We all we all maybe have a different interpretation. There are different schools of interpretation. In the book of Revelation. But you know what the trumpets are trumpets of judgment. We all know what the trumpets are trumpets of divine judgment, historical judgment, and then ultimately final judgment. Woe, all this to say, woe, woe to you, verse eleven, these smugglers of heresy and immorality into the church. And so false teachers Are not to be counted as friends. They're enemies of God and of the kingdom of Christ. And they're not to be seen as honest, well-meaning, honest people, but they're liars. And they're not to be seen as helpful, but harmful. And they're to be given no place in the church of the Lord. They're not to be seen as holy, but they're to be seen as perverse. And that we need to contend against them to preserve the faith once for all delivered. Now, as for false teachers They try to s smuggle both heresy and immorality into the Lord's church. Jude describes their perversity in a variety of ways. For this morning we'll look at just five of those ways, the five that we see in this passage. And the first, number one, number one, they reject Scripture's authority. That's verse eight. We've already looked at it a little bit Number one, they reject Scripture's authority. Yet in like manner, these people also, relying on their dreams Defile the flesh, reject authority. Now at that time, reject authority would have meant Most importantly, rejecting the authority of the apostles, rejecting the authority of God 's appointed messengers. God's appointed prophets, God's appointed vehicles of divine truth. They would reject the authority of the apostles, and once you do that, you reject the authority of their teaching. And you come up with your own teaching, and so you end up relying on things like dreams, for example. Verse 8 Teaching from their own dreams. Two phrases later in verse eight, rejecting authority. We do not need teachers who use their own dreams as the source of their teaching. And we do not want them. Still in verse 8, right in the middle, they're living in defilement. They're rejecting Scripture's authority, not just on truth, but also Scripture's authority for behavior, for morals, for ethics. And so they're living in defilement. They defile the flesh. And actually that's the phrase where I get this idea of perverse, this word perverse, defiling the flesh. But I also got that idea from verse 2 where he says they're like unreasoning animals. They're like wild animals. Just coming in and just living by the instincts of the natural Corruption of the flesh. They're not thinking. Their minds haven't been changed. Their hearts haven't been changed. They're like unreasoning animals. They're defiling the flesh. They're relying on their dreams. Perverse. It means morally depraved. It means corrupt. It's the opposite of all that is good. And all that is holy. Now I know we live in a time of moral relativism. Why is he talking like this? Why is he talking This is because we live in an age of moral relativism where your truth is true for you and what's moral for you is moral for you moral for you And there's a person over here, their their truth is different than yours, but their truth is true for them. And their morality is different from yours, but their morality is moral for them. And you have your own standard, and I have my own standard, and he has his own standard, and we all have our own standard of what's true and right and moral and ethical. That's the age of relativism. So if you speak into that culture, into that society, and say we're all immoral and we're all wrong, only God is the standard of morality, and God is the standard of truth, well, now you're the bad guy. But that's part of our message to the world because you know why? Because it's part of Scripture's message to the world. And we can't truncate that part of the message because that part of the message, and if this happened to you You know that it's true. I mean you know that it's true because it's taught in Scripture. But if it's happened to you experientially, you know that it's true. It's the preaching of God's holiness. The preaching of God's standard of righteousness and the preaching of our sin that brings us under conviction. It shows us that we need to be saved. It shows us that we need to be forgiven. We have this guilt on our record. It needs to be erased We're on the hook. We're going to stand before God. We're going to answer for our lives. We're going to give account before God. What in the world are we going to do? We need a savior. So we can't take out of the preaching, we can't take out of the message the very things that show us that we need a savior. And this is one of those things. It's one of those things. The defilement, the corruption of mankind. Perverse. Perverse. You know, it's interesting you think of What's corrupt, what's wicked, and what's perverse. You can think of different aspects. You can think of just crime in general. Murder, rape, arson, thievery, just to name a few. But also things that are sinful, but they're not necessarily crimes. They're not considered crimes in all places Prostitution, abortion, forced slavery, pornography, just to name a few You also could think of major global problems. Human trafficking, unjust wars, corruption in government. Yes, it really exists. I know surprise. Crimes, some things that are sinful but not considered crimes, major global problems, also current cultural movements or trends. The LGBT movement In all kinds of ways trying to normalize and glorify what is sinful and immoral in God's sight. And to take the moral high ground over against those who would affirm What God defines as moral. And there's all kinds of other movements and trends connected to that. The denial of two genders Male and female, biological males, biological females, genders, designed by God, created by God, assigned by God, given by God, recognizable by man at birth. The denial of distinct roles for men and women in marriage, in life, in different aspects of society in the church. Different roles doesn't mean different dignity. Different jobs doesn't mean different worth. But you see those two things get molded together. You see the theme of perversity and current Well they're all it's all gonna be current and each age they're just gonna manifest in different ways. And I'm talking about currently for us The different themes of perversity in current cultural movements and trends is an assault on the family as designed by God, on mankind as designed by God. Family, gender, parents, marriage, you name it, any aspect of what God has designed, here comes the devil to destroy what God has designed. So that we would pursue our own way. That's what perversity. I just want us to know what perversity is. It's a really bad, really big deal. And it's all over the place. It does not discriminate The devil tries to weasel his way into all areas of life and society, which includes the church. And the main way he tries to weasel his way into the church is through false teachers. with false doctrine who to try to lead people away from biblical obedience. The goal of the false teacher Is the opposite goal of God for our lives. God's goal for our lives is to bring us just to into a deeper and greater obedience In all the various aspects and areas of our lives. The goal of false teachers is to bring us into a deeper and more widespread disobedience in all areas of our lives. And that starts internally. So all that comes from there reject Scripture's authority. I've said it before and I stand, I still stand on this. This is the first domino. Affirming Scripture's authority. If you want to get headed in the right direction on truth, on godliness, it starts with the authority of Scripture. The inspiration of Scripture is the word of God, and then you go from there. But if that domino falls, If it falls and we reject the inspiration of Scripture, we reject the authority of s of Scripture, we reject the sufficiency of Scripture, you're all that's the first domino, and it's just going to be a whole Roomful of dominoes. You ever seen one of those room full of dominoes? The domino artists, I guess. It's super cool to watch. But the last thing you want is dominoes of heresy and immorality falling in our lives. Once you reject Scripture's authority, you're off into just an enormous snowball of heresy and immorality Now why is that a big deal? Well, because that doesn't glorify God. That's why that's a big deal. That it doesn't glorify God, it doesn't help people. Now number two, and this goes with number one, so this point will be very, very short Although it's the body of Moses verses, so you probably want it to be the longest point of the morning, right? Number two, they presume their own authority. That's just the other side of the coin. They're rejecting Scripture's authority, relying on their dreams. Number two, they're presuming their own authority. Now this is verses 9 and 10. When the archangel Michael, in contention with the devil, was disputing about the body of Moses, he did not presume, that's the important point, right? right there. He did not presume to pronounce a blasphemous judgment, but said, The Lord rebuke you. But these people blaspheme all that they do not understand, and they are destroyed by all that they, like unreasoning animals, understand. understand instinctively. Understand instinctively. The Bible teaches that Michael is one of the chief princes of the angels One of the chief princes, God commissioned Michael to serve in this role. The highest, at least one of the highest ranks. Of delegated authority within God's kingdom. Would have been the archangel Michael. But Michael did not presume to take the authority of God. That's the point. Michael did not presume himself to be in the judgment seat of God that he would pronounce judgment even on the devil. Now, if there's anyone that deserves judgment And if there's anyone if it's even hypothetically possible that there's um there's a a high rank of servant In the kingdom of God, if there's anybody who maybe comes close to having the authority of pronouncing judgment over the devil, it would be an archangel. But not even an archangel has this authority to pronounce judgment. So Michael does not say I rebuke you. Michael says the Lord rebuke you. And then as we're contending For the faith and contending against heresy. We must be certain that we we must be sure, rather, that by the grace of God we do not put ourselves in the judgment seat. We do not presume to have an authority that only God has. These false teachers reject Scripture's authority. They presume their own authority. I mean, you see that really clearly in cults. Wherever you have a cult, it's always centered on a person, a personality, and it's all about the person. It's all about their personality and their teaching. And that's, of course, the the biggest red flag up front. Now, that brings us to verse eleven. Verse 11 is interesting because it's just three illustrations. Jude uses three illustrations from Old Testament Scripture to help us further understand These false teachers. So uh on your outline is number three, four, and five. First they walk in the way of Cain Second, they commit Balaam's error. And then third, they perish in Korah's rebellion. And this comes from verse 11. Woe to them, for they walked in the way of Cain. And abandoned themselves for the sake of gain to Balaam's error, and perished in Korah 's rebellion. They walked in the way of Cain. This is from Genesis 4. It's one of the most common Bible stories. What was the way of Cain? The way of Cain was false worship. Did Cain offer a sacrifice to God? Yeah. Cain went through the motions of offering sacrifice to God. So if you just look from the outside, we can't see the heart. And we look from the outside, we'll see the outward form of devotion unto God. Hebrews 11, 4 It says that Abel made his sacrifice by faith. Abel made an offering in faith. Those are the kinds of offerings that God accepts. The way of Cain is the way of false worship. You know, one of the things you'll notice about all these examples and every passage in the New Testament that's dealing with false teachings. There's always an outward show of religion. Always an outward show of devotion. Hebrews 11 4 tells us why Abel's sacrifice was acceptable. It was offered in faith. It was not acceptable because it was an animal sacrifice and Cain's was an agricultural sacrifice. The scripture never says that. In fact, throughout Scripture, God commands And accepts both agricultural sacrifices and animal sacrifices. You've read the Bible, you know that's true. God commands both kinds of sacrifices, and He accepts both kinds of sacrifices if they're offered in Faith. It's a matter of the heart. The way of Cain was the way of false worship. The way of Cain was the way of jealousy. God didn't accept his sacrifice. Cain got jealous. And then what did he do? He murdered his brother. It's the way of false worship. It's the way of jealousy. It's the way of murder. You want to put it in a general category. The way of Cain is the way of not loving your brother. The way of Cain is the way of putting yourself first over against your brother or your sister. The way of Cain. Then he says, Balaam's error. Now, on this one, this is number four, they commit Balaam's error, but it's still from verse 11. On this one, Jude tells us I mean he he summarizes, gives us a clue of Balaam's error when he says, abandon themselves for the sake of gain. For the sake of gain. Now I'm I have give you some um some cross references definitely will require some further study on your part to get this full picture on what is Balaam's error. Now the story of Balaam is Numbers 22 to 24. There you go. There's homework. Balaam was a so-called diviner, or I guess in that culture you would call it a soothsayer, in Moab. During Israel's time in the wilderness, so after the exodus from Egypt, but before entering the promised land in Joshua, they're in the wilderness. And eventually they come to the plains of Moab. So just historically, this would have been 1446, somewhere between 1446 BC to 1406. BC. 1446 was the Exodus. Fourteen oh six was crossing the Jordan into the promised land. You I know you wanted the dates, didn't you? I'm sure you did. Just to frame it out. So they're in the plains of Moab, and at that time there's A soothsayer, Balaam. Now a Moabite leader named Here you go, this is where it gets confusing because the name is similar but it's a different name. Yeah, someone said it. Balak, right? Balak. Um is a Moabite leader and he paid slash coerced At least he tried to. Uh paid and coerced Balaam to curse Israel and therefore protect Moab. And if you know the story, you know that lo and behold, God actually does come and speak to Balaam But he speaks the opposite message. He speaks an opposite message. A word of blessing and protection for Israel, not Moab. Now, if you read that story, Numbers 22-24, you'll see in the story some degree of outward obedience. Don't be fooled by that. You should know by now. We should all know by now, not to be fooled by an outward show of obedience. It's a theme from the beginning of Scripture to the end. And scripture never applauds Balaam. It never commends Balaam. It speaks a word of judgment and disapproval on Balaam. And it tells us exactly what his error was. Hold us in suspense a little bit more. I want to chase a rabbit here, if you'll be gracious to allow me to chase this rabbit, maybe even jump down the hole with it. There are all kinds of reasons to give outward obedience to God that's not true obedience from the heart. I'll give you just a few. Outward obedience. That's not true obedience from the heart. There are all kinds of reasons in the flesh why the sinful flesh would want to do that. Number one, to avoid punishment. To avoid the judgment of God. Just to avoid the speeding ticket, you won't speed. Just to avoid Getting grounded, I won't do this where mom and dad are watching. Just to avoid the judgment of God, I'll try to put together a show of outward obedience. Secondly, to look good to others. Jesus addresses this in the sermon On the mouth. You look good to others. Look spiritual. Look moral. Look impressive. Number three, to have an influence and authority over others. Boy, that's very seductive to the sinful flesh. Number four, family tradition. Keeping up family tradition, keeping up family heritage, keeping up the family identity, keeping it going. This is who we are, this is where we come from. And so we go through the motions of the outward devotion. But if it's void of heart devotion, filled by the Spirit of God, looking to Christ in faith, it's not acceptable to God. Number five, the positive emotions that come from public religion. False teachers and false churches take advantage of This and they ex exploit people in the flesh and they stir them up in different ways emotionally so that they feel good in a religious setting. And then make them feel also as if that's the essence of spirituality. What's that? Number five, number six, a sense of community and purpose. A sense of community and purpose feels really good. A lot of people are lacking. that. A lot of people feel like that's what I need in my life and you can come to church and you can join the church and you can involve yourself in the church in different ways and you feel inwardly this Great, uplifting, encouraging sense of community, sense of purpose, and sense of newfound relationships. But if you haven't been born again, it means nothing. I mean, there's all kinds of reasons to put on an outward show of devotion and religion. And number seven, and this is where Balaam comes in, here you go: cold, hard cash. Right? Cold hard cash, money, financial gain. False Christianity is a multi-trillion dollar industry on earth right now Balaam's error was enticing people to sin under the guise of religion for financial gain. That's Balaam's error And the scripture actually tells us that. I'll get to the verses in just a second, but I'll say it again. Enticing people to sin under the guise of religion for financial gain. Second Peter 2, 15 Peter also says the same thing about false teachers. He says they followed the way of Balaam, son of Beor, who loved gain from wrongdoing. He loved gain from wrongdoing. Even in our verse, in verse 11, for the sake of gain. It's for the sake of gain. It's for money. Revelation 2. 14, which is in the midst of the seven letters to the seven churches in Asia Minor, and this one's to the church at Pergamum. Revelation 2. 14, Jesus says. But I have a few things against you. You have some there who hold to the teaching of Balaam. That's who we're talking about, right? Balaam. You have some there who hold to the teaching of Balaam. Who taught Balak, listen, who taught Balak to put a stumbling block before the sons of Israel so that they might eat food sacrificed to idols? And practice sexual immorality. So Balaam had this idea. Balaam had this plan to entice the men of Israel into idolatry. And in to sexual immorality, certainly they went together, it would have been some kind of pagan cult, temple prostitution. That Balaam gave Balak this plan that he could use this to the demise of the men of Israel. And it worked. And it's known as the Baal of Peor. And I'll give you the verses for this. This is where I said earlier, give you some homework to study this out. Numbers 25, first paragraph, is the story where this happens. Numbers 25, 1 to 5. Where the enticing happens and the immorality happens and then the judgment of God comes. And then here's a very important verse. Numbers 31:16. Numbers 31, 16. Where the the account is being um retold and described, and it's said in 3116, this is Balaam. idea. He had the master plan and he went to Balak with this idea to use this enticing, rel religiously enticing Plots to draw the Israelite men into treachery, idolatry, sexual immorality, and to fall under the judgment of God. big deal because Jude is saying that's who you're dealing with. That's who's infiltrated the church. That's why you need to contend for the faith. That's who you need to stand. against. That's why you need to be in the word. That's why you need to be in prayer. That's why we all need to be growing in the grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. We need to know the real article so that when the heresy comes, we swat it away. We need to know biblical morality, biblical ethics, biblical righteousness. So when the immoral comes, when the snake of the devil comes into the church, we can stomp on it. Because this is God's church. He says, They perish in Korra's rebellion. They perish in Korah's rebellion. Number sixteen, one to forty. I mean, that's you can study that one out too. Number sixteen, one to four What do you try to give you the quickest summary I've ever given in my short life? Korah led a rebellion against Moses and Aaron, challenging their leadership and God brought a historical judgment on them. And again, it's all about authority. Isn't it? It's funny how it always comes back to this issue of authority. Alright, we're close to the end. I do want to give you some some practical application. Practical application. Grat number one, gratitude. We need to be very, very thankful that God, in his grace, in his grace Not because we're great, not because past generations were great and smart. God, by his grace, has spared our church from false teachers. Like what Jude is talking about. By God's grace. If we have any boast in that, boast in God. Gratitude. Let's be grateful. Let's be grateful and thankful. You know, when I was looking at it looking for churches to apply to, by the when I applied, this was the only one I applied for at that time, I was looking for a church that was committed to sound doctrine and where every Sunday, you know, this amazing thing happened. This n it's such a novelty. The pastor would come up and he would open the Bible And he would teach word by word, verse by verse through the Bible, with op open statement of the truth, preaching the word of God. That's what I was looking for. I think because when you work in out of church and for a church, you know you bring your family with you And you want them to be in a healthy place that's devoted to the word of God. Now, the previous pastor was not perfect. The current pastor is further from perfect than the previous pastor. The associate pastor, the apprentice, they're not perfect. Our teaching isn't perfect, there's no perfect teacher. But there is such a thing as holding fast to sound doctrine and preaching the word of God. And you don't need storytellers and you don't need jokesters. You don't need to fluff. So let's be grateful for what God has done. Number two, that does not mean we can let our guard down. We must grow in discernment. Let's keep growing in discernment. Let's keep growing in our doctrine. Let's be diligent in prayer. Number three, be diligent in prayer. And number four, be faithful in God-centered worship. Outwardly, that's probably the first thing that will go. Once the congregational worship is no longer centered on God, but maybe more centered on felt needs Maybe more centered on an emotional experience or an entertainment entertainment experience. Once once worship is no longer God centered worship, boy man, you are in big trouble. And you're going to be in really big trouble because it's still going to have the the feeling and the form outwardly of true devotion and true worship. But it is not. If it's not God centered, how could it be the worship Of God. I mean that's what worship is: is gathering around God, centering on God, coming before God, singing God's praises, hearing from God. So there's your application. Let's be grateful. Let's not let our guard down. Let's be diligent in prayer, and let's be faithful in God-centered, which is the opposite of man-centered. Worship. Faithful in worship. Don't forget that God loves his church. Don't forget that God in his church and through his church is showcasing His glory to the world. And he's showcasing his wisdom to the world. And he's showcasing his power to the world in Christ through the church. Is the glory of God revealed and made manifest to the watching world? Ephesians 5 25 says Christ loved the church and he gave himself up for her that he might sanction. Sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. Water symbolizes the life of the Spirit. Alright, cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church. The last thing he wants is smugglers of false doctrine and smugglers of sexual immorality or any kind of immorality into the Church. Now in the passage I just read from Ephesians 5 25, there's these these five words. Hopefully you caught these five Words will end on this gave himself up for her. Did you catch that? Gave himself up for her. Jesus Christ died on a cross For the church. Jesus Christ shed his blood to erase the guilt of the church, to sanctify the church. I shouldn't have read that Because now when preaching another sermon of God's love for his church and God's work in his church by his spirit and by his word, one of the things I love about that passage is the instrument of sanctification is the word. With the word by the Spirit, cleansed her by the washing of water with the Word. That's why we always want the Word of God in our lives, because God's using that to sanctify us. Anyway, anyway, let's let's say with Jude, let's say with Jude and let's stand with Jude when it says in verse three, let's contend for the faith once for all delivered to the saints. Let's contend for And brothers and sisters, let's do it passion passionately and zealously, or let's do it happily and joyfully. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. Any amount of true understanding or true doctrine that we have is it We're not smart in and of ourselves. We're not wise in and of ourselves. We're certainly not spiritual or holy in and of ourselves. Everything good we have has come comes from you, including grasp of sound doctrine, including a commitment to sound doctrine. Father, we we pray desperately that you could would continue to build us up. Up in biblical doctrine, biblical practice in the church, and biblical Christian living in all areas of life.