Well, let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to the book of 1 John. 1 John chapter 2, verses 1 through 6. We continue in our series called Confidence in Christ. And the overarching message of this series Which is a major theme in the book of 1 John, is that in Christ you can be a hundred percent confident that the guilt of your sins has been erased. And in Christ, you can be a hundred percent confidence that you've been reconciled to God, that you've been brought into a relationship with God that will never end. In Christ, if you've come to Christ in faith, if you've been united to Christ by faith, you can be a hundred percent confident, maybe a hundred 's too weak, a thousand percent confident. Yet you have the gift of eternal life. You have the gift of eternal life now while on this earth. Spiritual life in the inner self And in the age to come, you'll receive the full inheritance of the gift of eternal life. A resurrection body. It's called glorification. And you'll have a resurrection body in the presence of God forever. Christianity is not just a system of morals for this life. Of course, Christianity comes with a system of morals that's set against the system of morals out in the world. Amen? But that's not all that Christianity is. That's not the essence of Christianity. The essence of Christianity is receiving the gift of eternal life that you will experience in two stages here on earth, inwardly and in heaven In the new heavens and the new earth in a resurrection body. But the point of the series is confidence, confidence That your sins are forgiven in Christ. Confidence that you've been reconciled to God in Christ. Confidence that you are a recipient of the gift of eternal life in Christ and Christ alone. And this these blessings are offered to all. If you've not come to faith in Christ yet, and you're in this room this morning, If there's one thing, I mean there's many things I would want you to remember and want your heart to be changed by, of course, but if there's only one thing that you would take away this morning, is take away the message that There's nothing you need to go out and do first and prepare yourself to be saved. Come as you are, a guilty Sinner who needs forgiveness. Come as you are. Come as you are. One who's alienated from God, who needs to be reconciled. Come as you are. One who is in a state of spiritual death, come as you are to receive the gift of spiritual life. There's no preparatory works or preparatory goodness to do to qualify yourself or to improve your chances of coming to Christ. Come to Christ this morning. And you can have confidence. The confidence that you can have if you come to Christ this morning in faith is the same confidence that someone has who came to Christ fifty years ago in faith. It's the same confidence in Christ. Well that's the series. The message today is from chapter two, verses one through six. Let's read that passage and then we'll we'll pray before we open it up. My little children. I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But If anyone does sin, we have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. He is the propitiation for our sins. And not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And it's by this we know that we have come to know Him if we keep His commandments. Whoever says, I know him, but does not keep his commandments is a liar. And the truth is not in him. But whoever keeps his word In him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may know that we are in him. Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. Let's pray. Father, again, we come to your word, and as the one speaking I'm fully aware that only you can accomplish what needs to be accomplished during a sermon by your spirit and through your word , by your working I pray that you would deliver this word into the hearts of the hearers. And as those hearing, I pray that they also are fully aware that only you can accomplish What a sermon is meant to accomplish, both for the speaker and both for the hearer. We are all in the same boat this morning, dear Lord. We are in need of your grace. We are in need of your power. Make us hungry for your word. Give us an appetite. Give us a taste for your word. And once again we ask and we trust and fully expect that you would administer your grace to our hearts, conform us to your likeness, for your name, for your glory. In Christ we ask for your help. Amen. Your sin does not condemn you before God. Your sin does not condemn you before God if you are in Christ. Now the only way that sentence will have the impact. that it should um is if we understand God and if we understand sin What's happened in in America today is our our view of God has come way, way, way, way, way down. Our view of mankind has come way, way, way, way up, so we think there's not really that big of a deal here We're pretty good people. We just need to add on Christ and now everything's fixed. But the God of the Bible is infinitely superior to us in every way. He he has a transcendent and perfect holiness and justice and purity and we are the opposite of God. You've heard the word ungodly. We're the opposite of God. Here's God and He's holy and He's righteous and He's good. We're the ungodly. We're the wicked. We're the rebellious We're the evil. To think that we can stand before God and to think that in Christ we do stand before God Not condemned is incredible. It's the biggest blessing I mean, on your when you're counting your blessings, this is at the top. That we stand before God, uncondemned. Pretty sure that's not a word. Should be a word. Those who are worthy of being condemned are not condemned. Your sin does not condemn you before God. Let me map out the message for you. We're going to have two pieces of counsel and two pieces of comfort. Now they won't go in that order. Okay, we're going to go counsel. Comfort, comfort, counsel. Alright? Two pieces or two bits of counsel. That's the Christian living and the mindset we need to have. And then in the middle, two bits of comfort, the comfort that we must have in Christ as the foundation for Christian living. So first of all. The first bit of counsel. Sin does not condemn you in Christ. Your sin does not condemn you and cannot condemn you. But this does not mean that you don't care about sin. It does not mean that you should be unbothered by your sin. Look at verse 1. My little children, I am writing these things to you. So that you may not sin. Bring these things to you so that it would be your goal to not sin. So that it would be your desire to not sin. And that's so important for him to write, because he just got done talking about um in uh in verse 7 of chapter 1, the blood of Jesus, his son, cleanses us from all sin. And some people will take that message of forgiveness. That message of grace and misapply it. Some people will take the message of grace and abuse it. To think that When God forgives us our sins, that we can live as if, well, it doesn't matter. God's not bothered by my sin. Therefore, I'm not bothered by my sin. That's not Christian living. When God forgives us, his character doesn't change. He's still a God who hates sin. And as we become more like him by the power of his spirit, we too will learn to hate sin. So don't take the message of forgiveness and take it as a license to sin and not care about it. Sin does not, and your sin cannot condemn you before the holy throne of God. if you are in Christ. But it does not mean that you'll not care about your sin. Using grace As an excuse to disobey God is a great, great offense and defamation of God. Using grace, the very power by which God puts sin to death, using grace As an excuse to disobey God and not care about it is a great offense against God. What would you say to a child who said, Well, my parents Always forgive me. Therefore I can behave any way I want to. What would you say about an employee? Who's a great boss, a Christian boss? My boss always forgives me. I'm late once a week Take an extra long lunch break once a week and don't don't tell them about it. But my boss always forgives me, therefore it doesn't matter how I behave at work. My work ethic doesn't matter. My reliability doesn't matter. In both of those examples, it's an abuse of grace. It's not an appreciation of grace. Grace is supposed to change the heart. What about a spouse? It says, My husband always forgives me, or my wife always forgives me, therefore I'm going to go out and do whatever I want. Grace has set me free to sin. See, it's an offense. It's an offense. It's a defamation of the one who gave the grace. To use grace. So John wants to clarify. And I want to clarify, hopefully that's coming across. He's writing these things so that we do not sin. The message of grace is supposed to put to death sin and change our hearts. So that we do not use sin, or do not use forgiveness rather, as a license to sin Quickly look back up in chapter one in verse five. I want to pluck out some words just so you see really how big of a deal this is, this idea of sin. If we're afraid to talk about this, nothing else will make sense. Look at the end of verse 5. No darkness at all. Obviously, there that's a metaphor, that's a symbol. Darkness would be the opposite of God, who is light. God is light, in him there's no darkness. And then in verse 6 , those who have fellowship with God, truly have fellowship, not just say it. Don't walk in darkness. And then in verse 7, toward the end, cleanse from all sin. Then in verse 8, we say we have no sin. So darkness, darkness, sin, sin. Now verse 9. If we confess our sins, he's faithful and just to forgive our sins and to cleanse us from all unrighteousness. Verse 10, if we say we have not sinned, you see, this is a really big deal. Darkness, darkness, sin, sin, unrighteousness. It's a problem that we have that only God can deal with. Sin is the problem, though we should be bothered by it, and we should always be going to God as our help, as the remedy. Romans 6, 1 and 2. Paul writes, What shall we say then? A little bit of context. So he's basically just got done teaching on how we're made right before God. Strictly by grace through faith, not based on our obedience, not based on our goodness, not based on our good works, not based on our law-keeping. So then it's important for him to ask this question. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we who died to sin still live in it? See, when we were saved by grace through faith, our sins were forgiven, but that's not the only thing that happened. There actually was a change in our spiritual condition. There was a change in our hearts. We died to sin. The Matt, who was a slave to sin, died. Now Matt still sins. But the Mat who was a slave to sin, and the Mat who was blinded to sin, and the Mat who didn't care about sin at all, just wanted to sin it up like there's no tomorrow, that Matt died and was made new in Christ. And the you who was a slave to sin died. The you who was blinded to sin and didn't care about sin and wasn't bothered by sin. That you died. What shall we say then? Should we continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means Later in that same chapter, Romans 6, 15 to 16, Paul writes, What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law, but under grace? That's a great question. If we're not saved by law keeping, right, which we're not, we're not saved by lawkeeping. If we're not saved by lawkeeping, if we're saved by grace Can we just go and sin? Can we just go and sin unhinged and unhindered? And if we sin, sin sin, that just shows us, it just shows us How vast God's grace is, because look, God's grace covers all of this sin. No, no, that's an abuse of the message of grace. Again, grace is is the is the power, it's the very thing which puts sin to death. Being a recipient of grace, a true recipient of God's grace, does not increase within us a desire to sin. Being a recipient of grace changes our hearts, and it gives us a desire for holiness That's why we desire a closer relationship with God. And we want to know more of God because we now have a heart that desires holiness, that desires God. And we desire those things in our own hearts and lives. Paul writes in Romans 6, 15, What then are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means. Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey? Either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness. And as those in Christ were to see ourselves for what we truly are and who we truly are, servants of God, slaves of obedience. And we want, we're just desperate for God to create in our lives something we could never ever create on our own, true obedience. True obedience. This is just another reason why Christ must be put forth weekly. Christ must be preached We need to always be reminded of our great need for our great Savior. We always need God to remind us that He is merciful and that He is gracious because the soul that's sensitive to sin Needs to be reminded of God's grace that covers sin. The conscience that's bothered by sin needs to be reminded that the blood of Christ has cleansed him from all the guilt of all their sin. The child of God who has slipped into sin needs to have the gospel put forth because the gospel is the power of repentance and obedience. The believer, who is in a daily war against sin, needs to have Christ put forward. consistently as the victory over sin. And the way to experience and live out victory over sin is through Christ. And as we behold Christ through the gospel, God administers his grace to our hearts. As we see Christ in faith, Christ changes us. Hopefully your soul is sensitive to sin and not numb to sin. These are opposite conditions of the heart. To have a heart that's numb to sin. And I don't know how long ago each of you were saved, but I remember that era of my life for myself when my heart was numb to sin. But now our hearts should be sensitive to sin. Hopefully you have a conscience that's bothered by your sin. If we don't have a conscience that's bothered by our sin, we'll never go to God to confess. And we'll never go to God and ask for repentance. Have you slipped into sin? Have you slipped into a habit of disobedience? Has your heart become numb to this, that this isn't okay, that this isn't good? God does care about obedience. Are you in a daily war against indwelling sin? Well, if you are, there's part of you that's always wearied, and part of you that's wounded, and part of you that's often confused because of this battle. That we cannot fight on our own, and that's designed to always bring us back to Christ, always bring us back to the Savior, always bring us back to salvation, and the victory over sin centered on Christ's blood. You see, when John writes, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin, don't just rush over that. There's deep spiritual things going on there. Think about the magnitude of that. I'm writing these things to you so that you do not sin. Well we know man naturally Woman, naturally, what do we want to do? What do we do? Sin. If left alone, we'll just sin. And I've said it many times. Sin does not self-correct. It just gets more and more sinful. More and more proud. More and more into that spiral of despair and self-rule. Sin does not condemn you if you are in Christ, then sin cannot condemn you. But don't ever think that this means that you don't need to care about your sin. Don't ever think that it means that God doesn't care about your sin. He wants you to deal with your sin through the gospel in a biblical way, not just to try to cover it up with a bunch of external religion or cover it up with a bunch of intellectual knowledge about the Bible That's not what we're about. But come to Christ and plead your case before Christ to put sin to death in your heart. So that's the first bit of counsel Sin does not condemn you if you're in Christ, but this does not mean that you do not care about your sin. Now, the first comfort, the first bit of comfort. Sin does not condemn you if you're in Christ, and sin cannot condemn you if you're in Christ. Because, because Jesus lives As your representative before God. Here's what he says at the end of verse one. We'll just read the whole verse one again. My little children, I'm writing these things to you so that you may not sin. But if anyone does sin. We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. An advocate with the Father, an advocate who stands on your behalf. Before the throne of God. A representative. Jesus lives representing you before God. This is his ongoing ministry. Jesus stands for you before the throne of God. When we think about what kind of throne that is, we understand what great good news this is Because it's a throne of holiness. It's a throne of justice. It's a throne of righteousness. It's a throne that calls things what they really are. It's not like our judgments. It's not like the judgments of the culture around us. The throne of God, God judges things for what they really are. God's by his own holiness and righteousness obligated To punish sin, which you know is a good thing. I mean if you had a chance of living in a community with no law and no judges and no justice system and a community with a good law and good judges and a good justice system, which community would you choose? The one with law, the one with penalty, the one with threat for criminals. You've got to choose for your child for your child, for your children. One school or the other school? The one school, no principal, no rules, no disciplinarian, no penalties, the other school, rules, regulations, a principal, a disciplinarian. Which school would you choose? Chaos school of misery and ruin and violence or good school. So we know sin must be punished. Think of Jesus as the defense. I mean the the language here really is could be speaking to a courtroom scene. And he's your attorney. You're the defendant, and Christ is your attorney. He's representing you. This word for advocate is only used in two different ways in the New Testament. Jesus uses this word for advocate to talk about the ministry of the Holy Spirit. He's your help from heaven. But here John uses this word advocate to talk about Jesus' ministry in heaven. He's your helper in heaven. He's your attorney. He's your advocate before the throne of God. Now here's where it gets wonderful, if that's not wonderful enough. What case does he present to God in order to get you off? In order for the verdict to come down innocent? Does he present evidence from our lives? Is this the case that Jesus is making as he stands as our attorney and we're the defendants? What does he present before God? What evidence does he show? He shows his own righteousness. The case he makes for us is his own life. The evidence he presents that truly counts for us. It's his own obedience. Jesus Christ the righteous. We have an advocate with the Father, Jesus Christ the righteous. You can think of think of what's really at the core of our personal experience of salvation, which is our union with Christ. Our spiritual union with Christ. We've been united to Christ by grace through faith. And so his righteousness has become our righteousness. His obedience to God is counted as our obedience to God. So when Jesus is the one defending us, and the evidence that he puts forth The case he makes for us is not not our obedience, heaven forbid, but his own obedience he offers to the Father, he displays before the Father as the basis for our acceptance. There's no better news than that. This is the doctrine of justification by grace through faith, where we are declared righteous. Here's the point If we don't have Jesus as our advocate in heaven, we're not saved. We're not saved. And as we preach and we put forth salvation and we offer salvation freely to anyone who would come We're preaching, we're putting forth this living Christ, the living, reigning Christ, to be an advocate to any sinner who would come to him, to be an advocate, to present his righteousness as your righteousness. Revelation twelve, one of the things we read is that the accuser of the brethren has been cast down. He has no case to make before God to accuse us. Now you may experience in your conscience, and you should, to be bothered by your sin. But as you're experiencing that being bothered by your sin , Don't ever think, please, I'm begging you, don't ever think that that literally makes you guilty before God If you're in Christ, your sin does not condemn you. Your sin cannot condemn you. You stand uncondemned. Somebody look that up. Find out if that's a word or not, if I'm just making that up for Expediency. Jesus lives representing you before God. This this should be a great, great comfort to our hearts. And it should keep us from a mindset of works. A mindset of works righteousness. What is a mindset of works righteousness? It 's very simple. It's this mindset or it's this attitude that my works, uh works of good deeds out in the world or works in the church, having jobs and ministries within the church, a works mindset is the attitude that my my standing before God is based on my works. And so how do I get a sense of spiritual fulfillment? How do I get a sense of peace and rest in my soul? Well, in a mindset of works, just do works. Just do works. And you come. If you have that mindset, you come, and what really gets you going, what really makes you feel spiritual is doing jobs in church Or what really makes you feel accepted is doing good deeds out in the world. This is not Christianity. The thing that makes us accepted and the thing that makes it makes us feel accepted is Christ and Christ alone. So this doctrine is not just about how to get saved. It's also about how we live as saved people. And we flee the mindset of works. Always, always understanding that our relationship with God, our standing with God is based on Christ representing us and offering his righteousness as our own righteousness. Sin does not condemn you. If you're in Christ, you can come to Christ this morning, and your sin will no longer condemn you. Sin cannot condemn you before God if you are in Christ. But it does not mean that you do not care about your sin. And it's only because, only because Jesus lives representing you before God. Second comfort. Are you ready for the second comfort? Are you ready for the second comfort? I need to know you're awake when I'm preaching. I want to just preach to that back wall. Alright, the second comfort. Sin does not condemn you. If you're in Christ, your sin cannot condemn you because Jesus died to erase all the guilt of all your sin that you would ever commit. The first comfort, amen indeed. I mean, this is it. This brings us to the cross. The story of Christianity. Um, the first point, the first comfort Jesus as our advocate is a ministry of the living Christ. This second comfort is about the death of Christ, something that happened in the past. It's a once-for-all completed sacrifice. The completed, the perfect work of Christ, to die on our behalf, to erase all the guilt of all our sin we would ever commit. Look now at verse 2. He is the propitiation for our sins, and not only for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. There's something strange that happens when we sometimes when we come into church or we read the Bible and we see a big word or a word we never heard before, we can Turn it off. Don't do that. Learning new words and new concepts is a normal part of life. Little kids can go to kindergarten, they can learn letters, they can learn how to read, they can learn how to write, they can learn how to write in cursive The teenagers can go to high school and learn advanced calculus and advanced biochemistry and all kinds of things. You can learn this little itty-bitty easy word, propitiation, and you can understand. Because listen. This is what we are offering. This is the offer of the gospel. That you can have the gift of propitiation. It's the turning away of wrath. The turning away of wrath. So, as sinners , think of us before we're saved by God's grace. We're sinners under the wrath of God. I think of when you if you watch the news and you see reports of murder and rape and all kinds of abominations and you get this anger, this righteous anger in your heart against those evildoers, that's wrath. So we know what wrath is. We know what wrath is. And we affirm that it's a good thing when it's a righteous wrath. Propitiation is the turning away of wrath. So you How many syllables is that? Four syllables? Five syllables? I'm not sure. Five syllables. Thank you. Syllable counter, Becky. Um So I'm really getting to beat this drum here. Don't get turned off or think it's a side point just because it's a big word we don't use a lot. The word initiation. What does initiation mean? is starting at something. The word accumulation. So we know big words. Thank you, Vince. Accumulation. What's accumulation? Dave Gathering. Good. You guys are good on these definitions. Assimilation. What's assimilation? Yeah, to bring together, to become a part of something, right? Propitiation. Turning away of breath The turning away of God's wrath. Now, it's very closely related to this word atonement or atoning sacrifice. Some of your translations may even have here atoning sacrifice or something using the word atonement. Very closely related. The atonement is the actual sacrifice. The propitiation is the result of the sacrifice The atonement is this the sacrifice that's made as a substitute for the sinner. The atoning sacrifice, the uh the blood that makes atonement. It's sacrificed itself. The result of that atoning sacrifice is the propitiation. It's the turning away of wrath. That's why the sacrifice was made. Now think of what great news this is. Think The wrath of God toward me before I was saved literally was the barrier between me and God. This was the obstacle that kept me from God. This was the alienation. The judgment of God, the wrath of God. So the propitiation, the turning away of that wrath, what does it do? It gives me access to God. This is the offer of the gospel, propitiation, because this is the message that Christ, through his blood shed on the cross, has removed all obstacles between sinners and a holy God. Now, if we don't want God, that's of no value to us. If you don't want fellowship with God, if you don't want access to God, if we don't want the obstacles between us and God removed, who cares? Who cares about that message? But if you want God, if this thing has happened in your heart where you are desperate for God and you want a relationship with God, you want to know God, you want daily help from God, you want eternal life in the presence of God. If you want God, the message of the blood of Christ is everything to you because it removes the obstacle between you and God. This is our message for the community. And the world will scoff at this and call it folly and call it foolishness. Some will even call it wickedness and unrighteous and closed-minded, but this is the best news ever. Christ shed his blood to make a way for sinners to come into a relationship with God. And that relationship will never end. Christ makes propitiation. He is our advocate who lives in heaven on our behalf. And he is the propitiation for our sins. And he goes on to say, not for ours only, but also for the sins of the whole world. And brothers and sisters, that speaks to the attitude we should have to the world around us. It speaks to the the attitude, the mindset of outreach and evangelism that we must have. as a church. It speaks to the attitude of a zeal we should have for world missions that we must have as a local church. Don't get mad at people. And not to be mad at people because they don't know God. We're not to look down on others because they haven't been saved. Were we saved because of something good in us that made us better than other people? Thank you for shaking your head. If you started going like this, it would be the whole morning would have taken a turn. We don't know what it would have looked like. We're not s look listen, we're not smarter than anyone. We're not better than anyone. We don't deserve this gift of eternal life. We're not wiser. We're not inherently more spiritual or more geared to godly things. Get these ideas out of our head, out of the ethos. Get them out of here. We're saved by grace. And we must have a burden for others to hear this message. The message that by the blood of Christ You can come to God and you can know God. You can have all of your sins blotted out. This is really the heartbeat of the church. I mean, picture me running a race. It wouldn't be a pretty sight right now. Maybe at some point back in the day. But picture me running a race. My legs are going, my arms are going, and I'm breathing and breathing hard. Now imagine. A beast came out of the woods, ripped his claw into my body, and took out my heart. Now what's happened? I'm dead. I'm lifeless. The race is over. Well, the preaching of this gospel, the preaching of the message of Christ, of his death, this is the heart. Of the body life of the church. This is the heartbeat of the church. And that cannot be a theoretical thing. It cannot be a thing on paper. We put forth Christ. We exalt Christ. We exalt his salvation. We rejoice in Christ. We're talking and sharing and discussing the beauties and the wonders and the majesty of Christ who shed his blood so that we can know God. And always, always, always attached to this is the mindset that this is for everyone. Everyone needs to hear this. And anyone can come. Humility in our own hearts and a zeal for the lost. You see, the cross of Jesus Christ tells a story. It tells the story, first of all, of man's rejection of God. Because don't forget that the one hanging on the cross is not just a man. He is a man. He was a man. He was a man, he still is a man. But he's also God. This is God's fullest revelation of himself on earth, the person Jesus Christ. You see man's hatred for God's revealing of himself. You still see that today throughout the world, throughout culture. You know, rejecting of God's revelation of himself. You see that at the cross. It's clearly man's rejection of God. But the cross tells the story also of God 's infinite love for those who've rejected him. There's lots of things going on at the cross. You don't only see man's hatred for God, wanting to put God to death, really is the impulse of sin, but you also see it's the paradox of the gospel. It's so incredible, it's so amazing, it's so wonderful. You see God's infinite love for those very people who've rejected him and would want to get rid of any trace of God in the universe. God has a love for them. so that we could know him. The gospel tells a story that confounds human wisdom. I mean conventional wisdom, common sense, as we would call it out in the world, out in society at large, the gospel The cross tells a story that confounds and contradicts that wisdom. That the way to God is the way of suffering and death. The way God has most fully revealed his glory is through a publicly shameful, physically excruciating death. Through immense suffering. This is God's full revelation of Himself, of His purpose. This is the way to life. This is the way to God. Suffering and death. The cross tells a story that kills human pride. If this is such good news, why is it so offensive? For a very very simple reason, because it tells us that we're not good and we need a savior. That's why it's offensive The world around us, the pride within us, says, you're good, you're fine. Go do it. You feel it, do it. You want it? Get it. You're good. Don't worry about it. And everything in the in the culture around us just bolsters that message of pride within us. The gospel comes in and To give it uh uh an illustration that's so small it shouldn't even be given. But the gospel comes in and says, pump the brakes. Stop. You're not good. You need a savior. God is good. And since God is good, God has provided a savior. And you can come to him freely without paying, without working. You can come to him freely and be saved. I bid you come this very morning. Have an urgency about your soul. Have an urgency about eternity. Don't let these things week after week just come in one ear and go out the other. I bid you come to Christ and find rest for your soul. Find peace. In the inner man, come to Christ for salvation, and you will be saved. The story of the cross tells a story that kills human pride. In other words, it humbles us. But it gives life. It gives new life and joy and peace and forgiveness and rest. A true and lasting hope. Give you homework on this. Romans 8, 1 through 3. Don't turn there now, you'll just distract those around you with the with the page flap. Do you ever realize y when you're the one flipping your pages in in church, you don't realize how loud it is, but if you ever sit right in front of someone who's This is homework. I'm just trying to emphasize this is homework. Romans 8, 1 through 3. The story of the cross Is the story of how your sins have already been condemned in the body of Christ on the cross. And since God is just, he will not condemn those sins twice. This is the story of the cross. Your sins that do deserve judgment have already been condemned in the body of Christ. In our place on the cross. And so you can have confidence, confidence that when you stand before God on the day of judgment, you cannot be condemned. You cannot be condemned because God is just. He's already condemned your sins Sin cannot condemn you because Jesus died to erase all the guilt of all your sin. And see, now you're not afraid if a discussion on propitiation comes up at work this week. Okay? Propitiation is the turning away of wrath. And the second counsel. We want counsel, comfort, comfort, counsel. Sin does not condemn you. Holiness is the result of knowing God, not the cause. Talking about practical holiness, right? Holiness in your heart, holiness in your mind, holiness in your words. Holiness in your actions, holiness in your attitude. That holiness is the result of knowing God. It's not the cause of knowing God. Look at verse three, verses three through six. By this, we know that we have come to know him if we keep his commandments. So, looking at that, what came first? Knowing him or keeping his commandments? Knowing him. Knowing him is the root. And what's the fruit? Keeping his commandments. Obedience. We know him. That's the root. And the fruit is keeping his commandments. So, one of the things that can help us understand that if we know him or not is keeping his commandments. Because we know that That fruit can only come from the root of knowing him. Now verse four, whoever says I know him, sorry, just s just saying we know him doesn't make us saved. Whoever says I know him but does not keep his commandments is a liar and the truth is not in him. It's the same point, it's just making it in the in the opposite way, in the converse way. So if I if I know him, keep his commandments, right? Obedience is a fruit that grows from the root of knowing him. Therefore, if there's no obedience, if there's not the keeping of the commandment, there's no fruit, you know that root was never planted. We don't know him. Don't know him, not give me his commandments. Well, what if I say I know him? What if I really I mean I really feel I really feel like I know him You would not believe the feelings that I have at worship. And when we went to this conference, and just the feelings of God were flowing through me, feeling. Do you obey him? Is the purpose and pattern to use the phrase to steal the phrase of another preacher? The purpose and pattern of your life, the desire of your heart, obedience, keeping his commandments. Verse five Whoever keeps his word, in him truly the love of God is perfected. By this we may know we are in him. This is the same thing, using different language. Keeps his word is just another way of saying keep his commandments. Or keeps his word, what does that tell you about what's inside that person? What's happening inside that person? In him The love of God is perfected or coming to maturity. Now, what came first? The love of God inwardly or the keeping his word outwardly? The inwardly. Now, verse six. Whoever says he abides in him ought to walk in the same way in which he walked. Walk in the same way in which he walked, which would be Christ-likeness, is just another way of saying keeping his commandments, which is just another way of saying keeping his word. It's just another way of saying obedience. True Christian obedience is the result of knowing Him, of having His uh having the love of God within our hearts. And having the truth in us, end of verse four. The truth in us. The redemptive gospel truth dwelling in us is the root of Christian obedience. I'm going to close with a reading from Matthew 7, verse 16 through 20. Jesus says, you will recognize them by their fruits. Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? So Every healthy tree bears good fruit, but the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus, you will recognize them by their fruits. As imperfect as our obedience is. By the Holy Spirit. And as those who've been made true children of God, praise God that it there's a true obedience. True obedience that is a result of knowing Christ. Let's pray. Father, I first and foremost pray for those Who do not know you yet. And I pray that at the very least you've planted a seed of conviction of sin in their hearts. I pray that by your Spirit you would awaken them to their need for a Savior and to convince them and to persuade them that as they are awakened to their need for a Savior that You would encourage their conscience that this is a good thing, not a bad thing, that you're doing a a good thing in their hearts to show them their need for a savior. Father, I pray the gospel would get through. Would break up that hard and stony hearts and create obedience, create faith. Father, I pray also, I would pray also for those who do know you. I pray that you would help us in our walk. Help us to daily remember our living Christ, our representative in heaven. I hope, I pray that we'll daily remember the propitiation that has been 1,000% provided and achieved by his blood shed on a cross. Father, we pray all these things and the secret things of our heart we lay before your throne. In Christ's name. Amen.