Alright, before we get to the study, I wanted to start with another discussion question like we did last week. Now there's different ways you could answer this question. You could even give it a one-word answer, but we're not looking for one word. We're looking for complete thoughts. Sentences, all right? With subjects, verbs, maybe even direct objects. Express your thoughts, explain. All right. Because you could give a one-word answer to this. But I just want to get us talking, want to get us thinking. um about the relevancy of the gospel and ultimately the power of the gospel and why it's so important. But if the gospel of Jesus Is good news, if it's the best news, if it's the best thing offered, why is it so offensive to people? Does the question make sense before we start getting? Alright, we're getting nods. Okay. So what do you think? If it's such good news, if it's the best news ever, why is it offensive to people? Yeah. People want to go their own way, not God's way. God's way. I remember that about myself. Vividly when I was lost. The only thing my mind was set on was what I wanted to do. Excellent answer. Thank you. People don't like to be called wrong. Yeah. In fact that was the word when I was saying earlier there's a one word answer that you could give, that was the word I was thinking, pride. I mean it comes down to pride. Um wanna be right, don't want to admit that I need help. I'm fine the way I am. Yeah. Well that pride is a demon. It is it is uh it is a stronghold of the heart and um there has to be humility to be saved. Any other thoughts or answers or supplements? Yeah, Wayne. Yeah, great answer, yeah. It I love the way you said that. It illuminates man's sin, yeah. It shines a light on our sin and shows us what it really is. And to come to terms with that and admit that about myself is tough. It uh it's humbling. Yeah, great. What else? In today's culture you would have to Which means I'd run the risk of the world turning against me rather than embracing me, which can be embarrassing. It could even be dangerous. Yeah, you have to um I love the phrase you used, I think you used this, you have to change your mindset, which is a great answer. That accepting Christ is not just adding Jesus on to my worldview and my mindset. The rest of I I remain the same, I just add Jesus on. That's not what being saved is. It's a completely new mindset. That's right, he's the one who does it. Um But the fact remains, even though the gospel is offensive to natural man, um the gospel is the only thing that can change natural There's no other strategy. It is the power of God to change the sinful heart. We're in this room today because the gospel changed our hearts and turned us from rebels against God. uh who are proud and self-righteous to friends of God, who love God and know God and want to want to worship Him and serve Him and honor Him and go His way, not our way. Back to what you said, Meg. So we um we do not shrink back from preaching or sharing or talking about the gospel because this gospel is the thing that can change the sinner's life. Heart and embrace it for what it truly is. Brings to mind uh if you if you were to read through 1st and 2nd Corinthians and Just hone in on when Paul's talking about the way he teaches and preaches, you'll see repeatedly that he says things like Presenting the truth straightforward. Presenting the truth clear. Not with eloquent words. According to worldly wisdom, just straightforward, clear presentation of the truth. And that's how he commends himself to the conscience of people. And he knows he has to be clear about the truth of the gospel. Because it's the truth of the gospel that can save sinners. Well, we come to Matthew chapter 2, some well-known stories. That we see in Matthew chapter 2. More about the Christ. First, let's look at verses 1 through 12, that he's the king who conquers. Verse 1. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men, literally Magi, the Magioi, the Magi. Wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose. There was a star that they saw that signified that the king of the Jews had been born. And have come to worship him, worship him, uh adore him, give him praise, give him tribute. King of the Jews. Now verse three when Herod the king heard this he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And uh of course we know he was troubled he didn't understand the kind of kingdom that Christ came to establish. He didn't understand the kind of king that Jesus was, but from his perspective, if he's thinking of a powerful military leader, king of the Jews, he's worried about his position and his reign. And not losing his earthly authority. Verse 4, assembling the chief priests and scribes of the people He inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. See, this is a different way of saying it. Verse 2: been born king of the Jews. And then in verse 4, where the Christ was to be born, Christ means anointed. It's basically Christ and King are essentially synonyms The Christ is the anointed king of God. He's anointed by God with the Spirit of God specifically to reign as King. Verse 5, they told him in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophets. This is from the prophet Micah. And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler, again, synonymous with king, who will shepherd my people Israel. Okay, we're getting the theme here: King Christ. Ruler, shepherd, verse seven. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared, and he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child, and when you found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. Of course you know the story, you've heard this before. He is what's called lying, scheming, plotting. Verse 9, after listening To the king, they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts, gold, and frankincense, and myrrh. And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. See, God sovereign over these events, looking out for them, protecting them, and and um sending warning to them in a dream. So they did not go back to Herod, but they went back to their own country. Okay. He's the king who conquers Let's just talk about that theme a little bit before we get into some of the fulfillment, some of the uh the prophecies behind what's being fulfilled. There's one from Numbers, there's one from Micah, and then there's the gold frankincense and myrrh. We'll look at three different verses. Those are more illusions with some Old Testament Testament significance, not specific quotations or references of passages. But there is an Old Testament background to that. Jesus is the king who conquers. And the first thing we need to remember, even though the passage is not about this explicitly, we remember that Jesus' kingdom is not of this World. It's not a worldly kingdom. It's not a worldly nation. It's not a geopolitical entity. It's a heavenly kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom. So when we think of Jesus conquering his enemies We don't go em we shouldn't go immediately in our thoughts to his second coming and bringing his enemies to final judgment and final destruction. That's part of his rule, that's part of his conquering. But he conquers his enemies in this age. in a spiritual conquest, not like Joshua's conquest of the Promised Land, which was not a spiritual conquest. There's a spiritual element to it because it was their obedience and their covenant faithfulness to God. But it was military conquest. It was warfare. It was destruction. It was blood. Jesus' conquest on earth is a conquest of salvation, of gospel, advancing a spiritual kingdom, creating a spiritual people. One ways that Christ conquers his enemies in this age is by making them his friends, which we call salvation. Romans chapter 5 talks about it's talking about Christians. We used to be enemies with God. God used to be our enemy. We were under his judgment. And in that condition, Christ died for us and shed his blood for us. And if we are born again through faith, we're made into friends of God. And thank God he didn't leave us to be his enemies forever, but he conquered our stubborn hearts and he gave us new hearts. This is the joy of redemption. One of the ways he subdues his enemies is by saving them, making them his friends. Friends. Are you glad about that? Happy about that today? That's why we're here. This is why we have a future. This is why we have a hope. We're talking about before class. Um, as you read through the Old Testament, well not just as you read through, as anybody reads through the Old Testament. We quickly see this storyline of enemies of God on earth, leaders, world leaders and kings who set themselves against God and his purposes nations who set themselves against God and his purposes. And how tragic and how sad that even his chosen nation, Israel, set themselves against God and his purposes to go the way of idolatry and wickedness. So another way in this age that Christ subdues his enemies is when there are world leaders who set themselves Against God and against his purposes, they cannot snuff out the work of Christ on earth. They cannot stop the gospel from having an impact, from saving souls. World leaders who set themselves against Christ cannot stop Christ from accomplishing his purpose. The gates of Hades will not stand against the conquest of the gospel on earth. Another way is not just leaders, but entire nations, nations who have given themselves to idolatry, to false religions, to myths. cannot stop Christ from, through missions, from bringing his gospel into their nations and establishing biblical churches. Christ is subduing his enemies and creating for himself a global people, a spiritual people. He's the conquering king. John, can I ask you to go to Jeremiah 23. 5? In a second, I'll call on you to read that. And then uh Jason, can you go to Jeremiah 30 verse 9? And then Denise, can you go to Zechariah 9:9 just to give us a little a little taste, a little sampling of some Old Testament prophecies? about the kingship of Christ. So whenever you're ready, you could go ahead with that. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when I will raise up of David who blends his strength. And you shall reign as king and deal wisely, and shall execute justice and righteousness in the land. That's great. And one of the things I love about that verse, uh, it sets Jesus in contrast from the wicked kings, wicked kings of Israel. He reigns in justice, he reigns in righteousness. Yeah. And then uh the thirty verse nine one. But they shall serve the Lord their God and David their king, whom I will raise up for them. Yeah, David there 's used symbolically referring to the coming seed of David. Of course, David isn't doesn't return in the last days to be killed. Jesus fulfills that prophecy. It's very similar to the prophecy about John the Baptist, is a prophecy that who will return. Elijah will return, and it's John the Baptist who fulfills that. There are also prophecies that David will return and reign, and this is one of them, but it's Jesus who fulfills that prophecy. So the promise or the prophecy is giving in the symbolic form. form in the form of the typological kingdom, but it's fulfilled in that uh that last days figure of first John the Baptist and then Christ. And then Denise the Zechariah 991, you you all know this one already. Rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion, shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Behold your king is coming. Isn't it incredible? It's kind of a model for what our attitude should be. When we think about our role in in the world, we do have the message of salvation. Um what we come humbly. We come humbly. Let's look at this star. Verse 2, back in Matthew, verse 2. Thank you for reading those. They're looking for the one who has been born king of the Jews, for we saw his star when it rose. Now There may be other interpretations or other understandings of what this is the fulfillment of. The only thing I've seen from any scholar or heard from any pastor is that this is a fulfillment of Numbers twenty-four verse seventeen. Let's turn back to Numbers 2417. This would be one of Balaam's prophecies. If you want a little bit of the context, later on tonight you can look at the beginning of chapter 22, which is not the whole context, but a good summary. Israel is camped out on the plains of Moab. They're beyond the Jordan. Right on the other side of Jericho, the other side of the Jordan, right around the area of Jericho, and the other nations, some surrounding nations are kind of afraid of Jerusalem. Numbers 24, really plucking this out of the context. If you look at, if you just glance at 23 and 24 and you see all of these indentations, sort of the poetic formatting. This is all a prophecy and Balaam's oracles. Just to see this significance of the star will pluck out Numbers 24, 17 through 19, where it's Balaam's final oracle, his climactic oracle, and he's looking far off into the future for a coming Ruler, I verse 17, I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. So there's some revelation that he's receiving. Some vision that he's seeing from God that has to do with the future. I see him, but not now. I behold him, but not near. A star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. Who holds the scepter? A king. So this is a prophecy of a coming king, signified by a star. In some way, one way or another. It and it says, it shall crush the forehead of Moab and break down all the sons of Sheath. Edom shall be dispossessed, Sair also his enemies shall be dispossessed. Israel is doing valiantly, and one from Jacob shall exercise dominion and destroy the survivors of the cities. So of course, um it's a conquering king. It's a king who exercises dominion over the enemies of God, therefore over the enemies of God's people on On earth. A ruler from Jacob with a scepter coming out of Israel signified by a star. If you find another interpretation of this This uh this mindset or this belief of the magi that there's a s this unique star that signifies the birth of The king of the Jews. Share it with me. I'd like to hear. Um it's pretty rare. Most cases, most Bible verses or fulfilled prophecies, you'll it's usually a few different interpretations of it, but not that this one. Now verse five, the second prophecy is the prophecy about Bethlehem. Bethlehem. Where he'd come from, where he'd be born. So back in Matthew 2, verse 5, or verse um verse 4. Herod assembles the chief priests and the scribes of the people. He inquired of them where the Christ was to be born, right? Because now he heard about the king being born. So now it's not the Magi asking Herod, it's Herod asking the people who are supposed to know the scriptures. He wants to know where the Christ is, so why? So he can kill him. Where the crisis to be born and they actually know is one of the things they get right. How about that They told him in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet, and you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people, Israel. Let's flip backward to Micah 5, because I'd like us to read verses 2 through 6. That comes from Micah Five Two The historical context is salvation from Assyrian oppression, but the eschatological fulfillment comes in Christ, delivering us from sin and death Chapter 5 and Micah verse 2, but you, O Bethlehem, Ephratha, who are too little to be among the clans of Judah. From you shall come forth for me, one who is to be ruler in Israel, whose coming forth is from old, from ancient days. Therefore, he shall give them up until the time when she who is in labor has given birth. That's Israel pictured there as a birthing mother, which is not all too rare in scripture. I mean you see that in Revelation, Revelation 12. Then the rest of his brothers shall return to the people of Israel, and he shall stand. And shepherd his flock in the strength of the Lord. Neat little way to summarize the ministry of Christ. He shepherds his flock in the strength of the Lord, in the majesty of the name of the Lord his God. And they shall dwell secure, for now he shall be great to the ends of the earth. World missions. Great commission, the unstoppable conquest of the gospel. And verse 5, I love the ver the first part of verse 5, and he shall be their peace. Is Christ your peace this evening? Is Christ your only source of true and lasting peace? Peace with a capital P. Peace that cannot be taken away. When the Assyrian comes into our land and treads in our places, then we will raise against him seven shepherds and eight princes of men. Men. They shall shepherd the land of Assyria with the sword and the land of Nimrod at its entrances, and he shall deliver us from the Assyrian You know, every time we get into these prophecies that are fulfilled in Christ, almost always it comes up. I know Neil, I think you brought it up maybe twice, definitely once, and others have brought it up too, that there's Most of the time there's a short-term fulfillment within Old Covenant Israel, but then there's a long-term, there's an ultimate fulfillment in the new covenant in Christ. And that short-term fulfillment basically functions as a pledge, as a token that the ultimate fulfillment is coming and certainly will happen. All right. Let's go back to Matthew two Let's talk gold frankincense and myrrh. See if I can persuade you that this is an allusion to some things in the Old Testament Israel, and then we'll stop for questions and discussion. What you try to do something that's impossible. Try to get into the mind of the of the magi. Well, in one sense we can. We know that they believe the prophesied and promised king of the Jews has been born So whatever they're going to do, they're going to do something proper. They're going to do something fitting for this coming king. They understood. That the king of the Jews has been born and they're they want to worship him, so they're going to do something with significance, not just some arbitrary thing. In some way, they're people of the word. They understand what's going on. Um, so in verse 11, they fell down and worshipped him, they opening their treasures. They offered him gifts, gold, and frankincense and myrrh. It would have been a normal thing to do if you go to visit a king to bring tribute, to bring honor. So that's all that's what they're doing. They're bringing tribute to the king. They're bringing gifts to the king. It's not an abnormality in the culture and times. So, Vince, can you go please to Isaiah 60, verse 6? Lorna, do you feel like doing one? Exodus 30. You get the biggest one. Well, yeah, you do. Exodus 30, 22 to 25. I should be doing people in the back so everyone can hear. I'm sorry. I'm sorry. Dave, can you do one? Can you do Psalm 45? No we'll keep we'll keep Psalm forty five the whole thing. No, just kidding. Psalm forty five, six to eight. Now you guys have to project. I don't want you just to read. I want you to declare the verses. Uh so just wan just so there's some old there's some significance in the culture and times and in Old Testament scriptures to gold frankincense and myrrh, keeping this general theme in mind of bringing tribute to a king. This is the proper thing to do. Um Vince, do you have the Isaiah sixty verse six? Go ahead. The multitude of camels shall cover your Yes, you see basically you just have Gentile rulers, Gentiles coming, bringing gold and incense to the king to sing the praises of the Lord. And that's what they're doing. And Lorna, the uh the Exodus thirty-one, this is a long this is kind of a longer one. The th thirty. The Exodus thirty Verse 22 through 25. Then the Lord said to Moses, take the following finds So the sacred anointing oil, over and over again, it's sacred, sacred, sacred. You're consecrating, you're marking it as holy, you're marking this as holy, you're marking That is holy, and how are you doing it? You're anointing it with oil. And I don't know if you called it at the very beginning of that passage. One of the key ingredients of this holy oil, this anointing oil, was Myrrh. So the myrrh is an oil, the frankincense is an incense, and the gold obviously is gold. It was treasure. So they're not there are different kinds of things that have a different significance. But the the holy anointing oil was very, very important to mark off this is set apart for the Lord. This is not of common use. This is not of common purse purpose. This has been set apart, anointed with oil. It's different than other things. So there's an idea of the sacred anointing oil. In combination with Gentile leaders coming, bringing tribute, singing the praises of the God of Israel, and then Dave, Psalm 45, 6 through 8. Your throne, O God, is forever. Thank you. So it's just one part of the symbolism here. It's rich symbolism of um God's king being set apart and being honored. One part of it is the anointing oil. And he set apart to reign as king. And the Magi know something about this. They know something about God 's king has come, and they're coming to give worship and pay tribute Very popular story around Christmas time. But there's a lot more than going on here than just kind of a cute scene. It's theologically significant, it's historically significant that um wise men from the east, magi from the east, recognize that God has sent his king. And they're coming. And it's there's even prophecy, it's a prophetic element to that, as that points forward to this whole church age where Gentiles are coming to God to worship him as king. through Christ. That's what we do when we're saved, right? We come to Christ to worship Him as our Lord and Savior. And we are Gentiles. I think everyone in here is I don't know if anyone in here is a blood descendant of Abraham or not. Um, but technically we pay tribute to our to our king as well. Well. Alright, now any questions or comments on anything magi related? Or on the idea of Jesus as King. By the way, where does Jesus I don't know how to ask it without giving it away the answer. Where where does he reign as king? Does he re does he reign in Jerusalem? Uh Vince is pointing up. Right. Uh great answer. Everywhere, because his he is ranged over all things, sovereign authority over all things, but specifically bodily, at the right hand of God in heaven Absolutely. No, that's real. There's a real revelation of God's throne in the heavenly realm, the centerpiece of his self-revelation. And at his right hand is the incarnate and exalted Christ, reigning with the authority of God. He came God as a man. He now reigns a man with the authority of God over all things. He is the king. And so when we use the phrase, uh come to Christ as Lord and Savior, or make Christ your Lord, we want to know what his lordship is. That he's Lord over all things, all things in the heavenly realm, all things in the earthly realm. He reigns at the right hand of God. Right. The kingship of Christ. All authority, yes, Amen. All authority has been given to him. Authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. You see, those two things are linked, his authority and our commission. to disciple the nations. Any other uh we're gonna go to verse 13 to 18 back in Matthew 2. Any other questions or comments before we go there Alright, Matthew 2, 13 to 18, focusing on this idea of Jesus as a faithful son. Faithful son. Now, when they had departed, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared to Joseph in a dream, and said, Rise. Take the child and his mother and flee to Egypt and remain there until I tell you, for Herod is about to search for the child to destroy him. A lot of irony there, right? Because in the Old Testament, I mean, like the enemy of enemies that you needed to be redeemed from was Pharaoh in Egypt. This is this is the redemptive story. This is redemption. In the Old Testament, being redeemed from Pharaoh's oppression and wickedness out of Egypt into the promised land, we're now And God sends an angel to tell Joseph to get Jesus and Mary and flee to Egypt to get away from the wicked king. Now Egypt is the place of safety for God's son. And he rose and took the child and his mother by night and departed to Egypt and remained there until the death of Herod. This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son. So thinking cap, turn it way up The first thing that might come to our mind is that the return of Christ from Egypt to Israel would be out of Egypt, I called my son. I think that's plausible. Says he remained there until the death of Herod. But then it doesn't say anything about the it doesn't specifically say anything about the return. It says This was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet. Out of Egypt I called my son. So it's plausible it's plausible, it's possible that the out of Egypt Is Christ returning from Egypt. But another interpretation, which I think is plausible, and it's the one I lean more toward, probably ninety-four percent believing this. Um how's that for conviction, Vince? Um I think it's part of the irony that Israel is uh is apostate and Israel's leaders, I mean you see this If you see anything else played out in the gospel narratives, that's the unbelief and the self-righteousness and the wickedness of the leaders of the Sanhedrin of Israel. that um the out of Egypt is referring to coming out of Israel And in fact, in the book of Revelation , Jerusalem is called symbolically Sodom and Egypt. So it's out of Egypt, which would be a po symbolic for apostate Israel This is the irony. This is the play on words here. He calls his true son. Now part of this is that in the Old Testament, Israel was God's Son. Um Exodus four twenty-two and this is this is we'll look at two of them. Exodus 4. 22. We'll look at the one that's actually quoted here in Matthew 2, but just for background, Exodus 4. 22. Then you shall say to Pharaoh, Thus says the Lord, Israel is my firstborn son. And I say to you, let my son go, that he may serve me. That's what the son of God is supposed to do. He's supposed to serve God. He's supposed to represent God, serve God faithfully. If you refuse to let him go, I'll kill your firstborn son. Israel is his firstborn son. And in the this redemption, in this exodus, Israel, God's son, was taken out of Egypt. And Hosea 11, 1, this is where Matthew is referencing from specifically When Israel was a child, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. This uh now you see this, remember what book this is in Hosea, which the theme of Hosea is Israel's uh adultery against God. Israel's unfaithfulness against God, but God's persevering and long suffering mercy. So when you see You see, uh uh chapter eleven s starts talking about God's love and his unfailing love for Israel, even though they've Forsaken him and go in the way of idols. This is when uh when Israel was a child I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son You can even look at verse two to get a get a taste. The more they were called, the more they went away. They kept sacrificing to the bales and burning offerings to idols. That's incredible. That'd that would be like us worshiping Jesus on Sunday and then go and then going out Tuesday s to some other house of worship and worship to false gods. Or participate in some other false religion or pray to other beings, something like that. They kept sacrificing to the bales and burning offerings to idols. Go look at verse 8. See, God now God does come in judgment against the nation, but never fully. He always preserves the nation, preserves a remnant. For the sake of his purpose and glory. And verse 8, how can I give you up, O Ephraim? How can I hand you over, O Israel? How can I make you like Adma? How can I treat you like Zeboim? My heart recoils within me. My compassion grows warm and tender. His compassion grows warm and tender to those who've rejected him generation after generation. Anyway, back in Matthew, that verse is fulfilled. Hosea eleven: one, out of Egypt I called my son. Is fulfilled in this incidence of Joseph fleeing from Israel to Egypt to save Christ and then to bring him back. Because he says this was to fulfill what the Lord had spoken by the prophet out of Egypt I called my sons of Jesus will be the true and greater son. That sonship that was typified in Israel as a nation is fulfilled in true substance and true form in the person of Christ. He's the Son, Son of God. Um, which also, just theologically speaking, it should make us think of a second Exodus. There's a first Exodus from Egypt from slavery under Pharaoh to the promised land, there's a second exodus in Christ, from slavery to sin to freedom in Christ Freedom from sin. Verse seven or verse sixteen. Then Herod, when he saw that he'd been tricked by the wise men, Don't mess with the wise men. Well the wise men had help. But they're wise men for a reason too. Became furious and he sent and killed all the male children in Bethlehem. What wickedness is this? What treachery is this? this in in all that region those who were two years old or under, according to the time that he had ascertained from the wise men. Then was fulfilled what was spoken by the prophet Jeremiah. So in this slaughter of the innocents, as it's been called, is also the fulfillment of prophecy from Jeremiah. A voice was heard in Ramah, weeping in loud lamentation. Rachel weeping for her children. She refused to be comforted because they are no more. What tragedy. What horrible, horrible Wickedness in the heart of Herod. Did you get a good contrast of the uh the wicked kingdoms of men? And Christ and God and what he's about. Of course you see that all throughout Daniel with those progressive kingdoms of wickedness and pride and uh oppression and luxury and immorality and idolatry and killing, murderousness, spreading, spreading and sprawling on the earth, and then God will come and set up his kingdom. It will be a kingdom of peace and righteousness and salvation. It'll be a different kingdom. Well you see that in Matthew too. We see that a whole New Testament. You Rome and Rome's rulers and Israel and Israel's rulers waging war against Christ and his church. And that's the story of the New Testament. Well, we do have about fourteen minutes to talk about verses nineteen through twenty-three And I have passages on this. We'll use the people in the back for these. You guys warm up your vocal cords, that back row. I'm looking at you now. We'll go that way. Um Verse 19. But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord. The angels are very active. Do you notice this? Angels are God's ministering spirits to the people of God. But when Herod died, behold, an angel of the Lord appeared in a dream to Joseph in Egypt, saying, Rise, take the child and his mother, and go to the land of Israel, for those who sought the child's life are dead. Well, if there's any ironic statement in the gospel, that's it. Because what's going to happen for the rest of the story? The more and more more the more and more good he does, the more and more people want to kill him. That's right. And he rose and took the child and his mother and went to the land of Israel. But when he heard that Archilius was reigning over Judea in place of his father Herod. He was afraid to go there. And being warned in a dream, obviously by an angel, he withdrew to the district of Galilee, and he went and lived in a city called Nazareth. So that what was spoken by the prophets might be fulfilled, that he was, that he would be called a Nazarene Uh in that culture, in that time, a Nazarene was was lowly and despised as a place and people who were from there, it was just something that was looked down upon. It wasn't a place of of prominence or High society that was people looked up to and really looked forward to going, visiting visiting Nazareth. So Nazarene is kind of a slur. It's not a nice thing you would say. Well Matthew in this chapter has dealt with the fulfillment of A star in the sky where the baby will be born, and then the place where the baby will be born. And then what's going to happen with that baby? He'll be taken into Egypt. And then what'll happen in the fulfillment of what will happen in response to that, the slaughter of the innocents, and now coming back to Israel, there's a fulfillment of where he'll settle. Which is not where he was born. There's really this whole thing, not just a baby in general, is the fulfillment of prophecy. Every aspect of it has been prophesied And he Matthew, it's like he's writing a research paper. It's just kind of going through chronologically, well this was pr this happened, well this was prophesied, and then this happened, this was prophesied. And then this happened, this was prophesied. Now you came to where he settled in Nazareth, so that by the prophets might be fulfilled He'd be called a Nazarene. Now there's no specific verse that says the Christ will be called a Nazarene, but that's why it says spoken by the prophets Plural. It's just a general speaking of a general theme in the prophets about the Christ. Right? A general theme in the prophets. About one of the characteristics of the Christ, that he would be lowly and despised and hated by men. So let's look at some of those. That's what so in verse 17, the prophet Jeremiah And um even at verse 5 where he doesn't say Micah, he says written by the prophets. This is just by the prophets. It's a general theme in the prophets. Um let's see. Let's go this. Let's get us back. Wayne, are you willing to do one? Alright. Isaiah 49, 6 through 8. And then next would be Isaiah 53 , 3. And then next would be Psalm 22 , 6 And then next would be Mark nine twelve And then, Mike, are you willing to do one? You got the best one, dude. Jeremiah 31 , 15 to 20. You're really going to bring us home with that. That's prophecy of the new covenant. Because all of this, all of this is just part of this complex of God promised a new covenant. These are all just subcategories and details. Okay, Wayne, go ahead. He says there's too light. And that last verse that Wayne read, which was verse eight, is Referenced in Second Corinthians six if you want to look that up. Well I love that passage. Did you hear all the elements of that passage? It's God's chosen servant. He'll be a light to the nations, he'll bring salvation to the world, he'll be despised by the world, and yet, and yet he'll subdue kings. And kings will turn to him and worship him also. He cannot be stopped, but he is despised as just one aspect of the way the world sees him. And then Isaiah 53, 3, uh a very famous verse here. He was despised and forsaken of men, a man of sorrow and acquainted with grief, and like one from whom men hide their face, he was despised despised and we did not esteem them. Yeah. Classic verse. He was despised. He was not esteemed. He was not esteemed. And this that verse is another reminder that sorrow is not sin. Jesus was a man of sorrows. He was troubled because of all of the persecution and hatred that he endured, and yet he sinned not. And then Psalm 22, 6 Yeah, Umberto, is that you? Yes. Yeah, no, we're going down that row. Psalm twenty-two, six. We can come back to you. Do you have the Mark 912 one? Elijah does not come to the first time. Yeah, and I would encourage you this. Go to that Mark 9 12 one at some point this week and then go to your marginal references or go to your study notes because this is part of Jesus' teaching. As he gets into this after his Galilean ministry and he starts talking explicitly about his coming rejection and coming death and coming resurrection. He's always saying that it's the Old Testament prophesied and said that he would have to suffer and be rejected. It's part of Jesus' hermeneutics that this was prophesied, that he would be despised and rejected. Now, Psalm 22, 6. But I am a worm and not a man, scorned by mankind and despised by the people. He's a worm. Read it again. He's a worm and not a man. Scorned by mankind Mankind despised by despise. Scorned and despised. And Psalm twenty-two is fulfilled in Christ. It's where the words come from that are very, very well known to you. My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? And this he's referencing that whole psalm of the one who is forsaken by God for the salvation of his people, and he's despised and he's scorned. Um that shouldn't be shocking to us. All throughout the Bible, God is despised and scorned. by man. Amen? Right? Unless he changes the heart by his grace and favor. So it's not a surprise that when the full revelation of God comes to earth, that he's what? That he's despised and screwed Scorned by men, unless the heart is changed by his grace and favor. Mike, take us home with this uh Jeremiah 31, 15 through 20. Is that what I said? Okay. But stay in that chapter. Did you recognize how that passage began? A voice was heard in Rama. This is what Matthew is referencing. And this voice heard in Rama of weeping and great suffering is a sign that the restoration has come. That's what that passage is about. This voice heard in Rama That we see in Matthew at the slaughter of the innocents marks the promised restoration. Now, in the same chapter, in the same context, could you also read 31 through 33? Verses 31 through 33. Look, the days are coming. This is the Lord's. It's a great and so important passage. The promised new covenant. Did he say that it's going to be like the old covenant or not like the old covenant? Not like the old covenant, which was a covenant of law. This would be a covenant of grace. Not a covenant of law. Externally external commandments written in stone and r but the law written on our hearts by the Holy Spirit. Second Corinthians 2 and 3 would be a great study on Well, that's pretty much our time. Any questions or thoughts? John? So I'm just I'm just Yeah, Savior of the world. That's right. God so loved the world. Not just not just the old covenant nation Israel. So these promises of restoration and salvation and the king there you go Do go to Israel as a nation, they're fulfilled in the in with a faithful remnant which forms the foundation of the church And then Gentiles are grafted into this to make one people of God. The Church of Christ, the new covenant people. Um salvation comes first to the Jew and then to the Greek, right? Then to the Gentile. Um Let's pray.