Well, let me invite you, church, to open with me to Colossians chapter 2. Colossians chapter 2 will be primarily looking at verses 6 and 7 this morning. Colossians 2, 6 and 7. Well, this past Thursday, we celebrated what is by far my favorite holiday, and I would argue the greatest holiday of our calendar year. To me, I think it's undoubtedly a good thing that we see fit culturally every year to set aside a day where we reflect on the good things that God has given us Where we express our gratitude and our thanks to God for them, and appropriately we feast in celebration of God's good gifts. Of course, then we follow it up the very next day by trampling over one another in Walmart in order to get the best deals on TVs and air fryers. It's pretty incredible how quickly we're able to swing culturally from gratitude one day to consumerism the next. And it's not even really the next day, because think about it, while you're watching football on Thursday afternoon, every five minutes or so you're being bombarded with advertisements trying to convince you that stuff is going to make you happy and you do not have enough of it. There's a cultural dissonance there. And what this reveals to us is that culturally we have a deficient view of Thanksgiving. And I don't just mean the holiday, I mean the disposition of heart and the expression of gratitude. Instead of Thanksgiving being kind of like a warm fire that we continually go back to. We tend to treat it more like a trinket on a shelf. Something we dust off maybe once a year, but that we put down at our earliest convenience to get back to the real stuff of life. And it's not just culturally that we have this deficient view of Thanksgiving. Consider how the Christian church can devalue the importance of gratitude. Friends, how easy is it for our conversations to focus on everything that's wrong with the world? All that we perceive to be wrong in the world and in the church? How natural can complaining and grumbling feel to us? Without even realizing it sometimes, we can fall into a spirit of negativity, of cynicism. and of grumbling that can shape our entire lives and our entire outlook. As we look this morning, though, at Paul's letter to the Colossians What we're going to see is that God's will, his desire, and his design for his people is that we would be marked by abundant thanksgiving As those who have been redeemed by the blood of Christ and who are growing by God's grace in Christ, our walk as a people together must overflow with thankfulness to God. Paul is writing this letter to a church in Colossae that was a faithful body of believers. Paul thanked God for them. He says that their faith in Christ and their love for the saints was evident. This was a faithful body of believers. It was also, though, a church that was being threatened by false teaching. In Colossae, there were these false teachers that were infiltrating the church, and what they were teaching was that, sure, Jesus is great, Jesus is wonderful, but if you really want to be spiritual. You need to follow these certain external regulations. You need to eat or not eat these certain foods. You need to observe these certain special days or offer worship to angels Paul is writing this letter to the Colossians to combat this false teaching, and the way he does so is by arguing that faith in Jesus is not only the entry point for the Christian life, it's the entirety of the Christian life. Just as our salvation is in Christ alone, so our growth and our maturity and our daily faithfulness is in Christ alone. And therefore, because it is all founded upon the grace of God in Christ, the entire Christian life must be characterized by abundant thanksgiving. That's really the main point that I intend for us to see from the text this morning. As those who have been reconciled to God in Christ, we are called to be a people marked by abundant, ongoing thanksgiving. Let's look now to Colossians chapter 2, beginning in verse 6. Paul writes, under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, therefore As you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught. Abounding in thanksgiving. As we walk through this text together this morning, there are three realities that we're going to see about this call to abundant thanksgiving. So if you're taking notes, these are going to be your three points, three realities about our call to Thanksgiving. We're going to see first that the cross of Christ is the ground of abundant thanksgiving. Say the foundation. Secondly, we're going to see that the Christian walk is the domain of abundant thanksgiving. And then finally, gospel faithfulness is the effect of abundant thanksgiving So we have the ground, the cross of Christ, the domain, Christian walk, and the effects, gospel, faithfulness. Well, we look first to consider the fact that the cross of Christ is the ground, it is the foundation of abundant thanksgiving. You might ask the question, why must we abound in thanksgiving? Well, the fundamental reason I want you to see from the text is because we have received the gift of salvation in Jesus Christ. It's the reality of the gospel, the good news of salvation that has come to us in Christ that gives shape and gives meaning to all our thanksgiving to God. Paul begins in verse 6 by saying, therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord. The next question we should ask, of course, is, well, what does it mean that we've received Christ Jesus? This is really the main topic that Paul has taken up thus far in his letter to the Colossians, and he's labored to make it clear. The therefore that begins this section makes sense because he's connecting what he's about to exhort them in with what he's already established and labored to make clear in the beginning of this letter. So when Paul says that we, that is Christians, have received Christ Jesus the Lord, he is referring to this incredible truth. That we have been delivered out of our sins. We have been transferred into Christ's kingdom. And we have been reconciled to God, actually truly made right with Him. solely on the basis of Christ Jesus' death and resurrection for sinners. Friends, this is the central reality of the Christian faith And it's this truth that grounds, that provides a foundation for our thanksgiving to God. Paul describes this reality in a lot of different ways in the beginning of the book of Colossians. And sort of like refractions of light on a diamond from different angles, they all work together to highlight for us the beauty and the glory and the majesty of God's saving work. Turn back with me just a page or maybe not even a page in your Bibles. I want you to see some of the ways that Paul describes This great salvation that we have received in Christ Jesus. Colossians chapter 1, verse 13. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. And transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son. Friends, recognize that we were God's enemies. We were citizens of a rival kingdom destined for destruction. But our kingdom allegiance has been transferred. We are now delivered out of a kingdom doomed to destruction, and we have been brought under the banner of God's saving reign in Christ Jesus. Not through anything we have done, but solely by God's grace in Christ. Look down one more verse to verse 14. In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. We've been purchased out of slavery to sin. It's the meaning of the word redemption. It's actually an economic term. Our sin has incurred a debt to God that we could never repay. But the good news of the gospel is that Christ has paid it at the cross. And by looking to him in faith, we receive forgiveness, not just for a time, not just partially, but fully and freely. We are no longer treated by God based on what our sin has earned, but on what his son has accomplished in his life and in his death and in his resurrection. Friends, we have been redeemed by the cross of Christ. Look at Colossians 1, verses 21 through 22. And you, who once were alienated and hostile in mind, doing evil deeds, he is now reconciled in his body of flesh by his death. in order to present you holy and blameless and above reproach before Him. We were alienated and hostile to God, cut off, guilty before Him. But a reconciliation, a restoration of the relationship has taken place. The cross overcomes at once our hostility to God, because we are by nature sinners, and it overcomes God's just and righteous wrath poured out upon sinners. And so now in Christ, instead of God looking at us and ba and treating us on the basis of what our sin deserves , Instead of us entering into God's presence like guilty criminals on a courtroom who must be sentenced to death, Jesus Christ presents us to the Father holy. Blameless and above reproach. Above reproach. Not a single charge can be legitimately brought against you because you are clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Well, if this is what we have received from the hand of God, despite our sin, despite our worthiness of eternal condemnation. then abundant thanksgiving is the right response of the hearts. We who were guilty of treason before God, who were destined for destruction, we have been pardoned. We've been redeemed. We've been reconciled. We've been made spiritually alive, and we've been received into the presence of God. Friends, not on the basis of anything worthy in us. But solely by God's grace in the cross of Christ. The right response to this reality is to say, thanks be to God. And if we as a church desire to be an abundantly thankful people, we must start here and we must stay here. The cross of Christ grounds our thanksgiving. It's the foundation of our thanksgiving because it is the central and earth-shattering and life-altering gift that actually makes us right with God. If you're here this morning and you have not put your faith in Christ, let me implore you to trust in him. Turn to him. Look to him in faith. and receive the gift of eternal life. Your sin has incurred a debt before God that you cannot repay by good works Your sin before God warrants God's just and righteous condemnation. Turn to Christ and receive the gift of salvation. Receive the gift of eternal life Look to him and believe. So the cross of Christ is the ground of our thanksgiving. It's the means, it's the way that we receive Christ Jesus. Notice also, though, in verse 6, that as we receive Christ Jesus as the Savior who brings us to God, back in Colossians 2 now. As we receive Christ Jesus as the Savior who brings us to God, we also confess in the same breath that He is Lord. So Paul says here in verse 6: as you received Christ Jesus, the Lord. The death and resurrection of Jesus, our salvation, our being brought into the kingdom of the beloved Son. means that we also confess and are brought under the Lordship, the saving reign of Jesus Christ. This reality calls us to confess that he is king over all, that he is today seated at the right hand of the Father And that he, as we are taught in Matthew chapter 28, has supreme authority in heaven and on earth. There's nothing in the entire universe that falls outside of the authoritative reign of Christ Jesus. He rules and reigns over all things. Another place that we see this language vividly is Colossians chapter 1, verses 15 through 20. We won't turn there, but I encourage you to read that passage. Just think about the vivid language of the reality that Christ Jesus is the preeminent one, the one above all things who rules and who reigns is Lord. Well friends, this truth, that Jesus reigns as king over all should be like a guillotine to our grumbling. Because no matter what we observe out in the world, no matter what news headlines we read, no matter what disappointments we face, no matter how we suffer, Day to day. No matter how we might see sin running rampant, and make no mistake, friends, that it does, none of it can undo the Lordship of Jesus Christ. He reigns now as king. And we confess by faith that his kingdom is advancing as the gospel continues to be proclaimed. And we confess by faith that one day we will see all things in subjection under him. So let me encourage you as a people to be marked by abundant thanksgiving, to trust in the sovereign reign of your Lord. No matter what you are walking through, no matter what you see out in the world, the risen Lord Jesus Christ is on his throne and nothing can unfeat him. Now this calls for faith. It calls for us to be in the Word and to trust in the promises of God's Word more than we're looking at news headlines. But it's this truth of the Lordship of Jesus Christ that holds us fast and that equips us as a people to be marked by abundant thanksgiving. Even in the darkest of moments in our own life or in the world around us. So we see that the cross of Christ, which reveals to us both the gift of salvation and then the certainty of his lordship over all things. It's the ground, the foundation of our thanksgiving. And Paul's broad point in Colossians is to establish that just as our salvation is in Christ alone, So our growth and our discipleship and our Christian living in the daily stuff of life is in Christ alone. Christ's work is the foundation of our salvation and of Christian living. And therefore, our walk in Christ on a daily basis is to be marked by abundant thanksgiving to God. This brings us to point number two, that the Christian walk is the domain of abundant Thanksgiving. It's the arena where Thanksgiving takes place on a daily basis. In verse 6 of Colossians 2, Paul turns from the reality of receiving Christ Jesus to the call, the exhortation to walk in him. As you receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. When we get down to the end of verse 7 and see this phrase abounding in thanksgiving. That phrase is connecting back to and describing how we are to walk in Christ. It's describing what our walk is to look like, what it's to be characterized by. Abundant, ongoing thanksgiving to God is to be like a prevailing note, a pervasive flavor of the Christian walk in Christ. Well, it's right to ask the question, what does it mean to walk in him? What does that actually mean to walk in Christ? Well, this is a metaphor, it's one we often use to describe the way we actually live our lives as followers of Jesus Christ. It's the reality of our daily growth, of our obedience, of our discipleship, of our faithfulness. It's the ongoing continuous reality of living the Christian life under the Lordship of Jesus. You can think perhaps of John Bunyan's classic work, Pilgrim's Progress, where He describes the entirety of the Christian life as one long journey to the celestial city. The call to walk in Christ is the call to live our whole lives under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. But notice there's an irony here. There's an irony in the text here because at the end of verse 6, Paul calls the Colossians to walk in Christ. But then in the beginning of verse 7, he describes what it means to walk in him by using images of two things that don't walk. He calls them to be rooted and built up in Christ. Like a tree or like a house. In my experience, trees and houses don't do a ton of walking. If they do, there's usually a problem. I know enough about construction to say that. But this contrasting of images here is actually exactly the point that Paul is trying to make. Because our Christian walk Our daily obedience to Jesus, our growth in grace, is all a matter of being grounded in Christ. Just as our salvation is a matter of looking to Christ by faith, so our growth and our obedience is all a matter of looking to Christ by faith. We need to recognize, friends, that we don't graduate from the gospel. The faith that saves us is the faith that grows us and that enables us to walk in obedience. It's the faith that we are established in, he says in verse 7. That we've received from the Word of God and from the teaching of the apostles. That's the point of just as you were taught in verse 7. And this is precisely the point that Paul is making in Colossians. It's not as though we're saved by faith in Jesus, but then we grow spiritually through something else. That was basically the false teaching that was being spread and was infiltrated in the Colossian Church. There were those who said that if you really want to grow spiritually You need to follow these food laws. You need to observe certain festivals and days and sabbaths. You need to pursue these visions. Do these secret spiritual things. But Paul says to the Colossians that those things can't actually make you grow. They can't make you more spiritual. He says later in chapter 2 that they have an appearance of wisdom. But they can't actually cause you to hate your sin and love your God. So the point he is making is that from beginning to end, from our sanctific from our salvation to our sanctification to our glorification. The Christian life is entirely rooted in Christ Jesus. See then how this truth is what fuels abundant thanksgiving to God in all of life All our growth, all our sanctification, all our victory over sin, all our obedience is all ultimately a gift of God's grace to us in Christ. There is nothing that we can ultimately claim as our own. Nothing that we can ultimately take credit for as though it were our work. So we thank God for all of it. Because all of it ultimately comes from his hand. Wonder if we're tempted sometimes to Give God 99 % of the credit for our growth and for our maturity and for our discipleship. But hold on to 1% of it as though it's our own. It is God's grace in Christ, the work of the Holy Spirit, that fuels all of our growth, all of our walk in Christ Jesus. My uh almost three-year-old loves to color right now. Or more accurately, she loves to write the letters of her name over and over again like she's practicing ransom notes or something. It's a little strange. But if I were to give her as a gift a new box of crayons, she could thank me for the gift. But not really for the art that she makes with it. Because that's her own work. And sometimes we can be tempted to think of our own obedience to Christ this way. Like God just kind of gives us the tools in the gospel, but then we're left all on our own to put the work in all by ourselves. That's not the image that Scripture gives us, though. In Christ, our salvation and our growth is a gift of God's grace. Now to be sure, we are called to real obedience. There are real imperatives. The call to walk in Christ is a real call for your life, for you to obey today. But it's always God's Spirit that's at work in us. It's always God by his grace working these things out in our hearts and in our lives. There's never an ounce of spiritual maturity or growth or victory over your sin that you can ultimately take the credit for. And therefore, the Christian walk is the domain of abundant thanksgiving. Because, friends, it's all a gift of God's grace in Christ. We should also see that if we are rooted and built up in Christ, our Christian walk will also abound in thanksgiving. Because the gospel enables us and opens our eyes to see all the other blessings that we've received from the hand of God. The gospel is, to be sure, the central blessing for which we always must give thanks to God, but it's also the lens that opens our eyes to see all the other ways that God is good to us on a daily basis in ways that we do not deserve. In Romans chapter 1, verse 21, those who suppress God's truth are those who refuse to give thanks to Him for the good things that He gives. But in Christ we are given new spiritual eyes to see all the innumerable ways that God has been and continues to be good to us. It's the gospel that opens our eyes to see the blessings we have of physical life, of breath in our lungs. Of family, of shelter, of jobs, of food on the table, of laughter, pleasures, enjoyments, friends, leisure time. For me, even good coffee. We understand that all of these temporal blessings of life are good gifts that we don't deserve, that we receive from the hand of God. And it's the gospel that opens our eyes to see them and to give thanks. for them to God. It's the gospel that frees us from idolatry and treating these gifts like they are the central thing in life. And it's also the gospel that frees us from a sort of legalism and asceticism. That causes us to think that we have to deny ourselves these good gifts in order to be spiritual. The gospel actually sets us to rightly, and I would argue more fully enjoy the good temporal blessings of life. This is why feasting is appropriate in the Christian life. Because we can enjoy God's good gifts with thanksgiving. We see that the Christian walk in the entirety of the Christian walk is the domain of abundant thanksgiving. Friends, it should be more than a once-per-year ritual. Glad-hearted, thankful praise to God should be an overflowing, ongoing reality of our life. Because the entirety of the Christian life is a gift of God's grace. Well, this heart posture, this habit of thanksgiving in the Christian life, I want you to see, produces fruit. It ought to have an effect on your soul. And I want you to see from this passage that the effect is that abundant thanksgiving helps to keep us grounded in the gospel. This brings us to point number three, gospel faithfulness. Is the effect, the result of ongoing abundant thanksgiving So under point number one that our thanksgiving is grounded in the gospel. Well, here we need to see that it also has the ongoing effect of reinforcing our gospel identity in Christ. There's a cyclical pattern to gratitude, really to all of worship. Gratitude is just a subset of worship to God. We see what we've received in Christ. We erupt in praise and thanksgiving to God And that process of praising and thanking God actually in our hearts enlarges the beauty and the glory of the gifts. And therefore we result and erupt in praise and thanksgiving all the more. And on and on the cycle goes. See, thanksgiving is an act of praise to God, and it's that act of praise that God uses as a means of grace to bear the fruit of gospel faithfulness. I want you to see that gratitude is both a result of the gospel in our lives, and it also is used by God to help us stay rooted in the gospel. Well, there are two places I want you to see this in the text. Look back first of all to chapter 1 of Colossians verses 11 and 12. Paul here is relaying all the different ways that he prays for the Colossian believers, and he says this: being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might. For all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. So thanksgiving here to God the Father is held up right alongside this prayer for strength and for endurance as ways that God equips and enables his people to walk faithfully as followers of Jesus in all of life. Thanksgiving is one of the means by which Christ Jesus preserves his church. It's not only a signal shooting out, but like all worship and all praise. That expression of praise is also an essential aspect of how God intends to grow us, both as individuals and as a body. So do you want to endure in your Christian life through hardship and through trials? Be a person of thanksgiving. Perhaps you're suffering through a trial right now. Perhaps it seems impossible to keep going. Brothers and sisters, fight to give thanks for what you have in Christ. That's not to minimize for one moment the suffering and the pain and the hardships that we walk through in this life. Those are real. But Christ knows us. He's a great and merciful high priest, and even in the darkest moments of life, Christ Jesus holds us fast. So may we endure faithfully by giving thanks to God. Secondly, in chapter 2, notice the transition from verse 7 to verse 8. He goes right from this call to walk in Christ, to be rooted and built up in him. and to abound in thanksgiving, he goes straight from that to a warning not to be taken in by false teaching. He says in verse 8, see to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ. It seems kind of like an abrupt transition to us, doesn't it? We don't often think about thanksgiving when we think about defending the faith and refuting false teaching. So what's the connection here? Well part of it I believe that is that if we, as we walk in Christ, are continually giving thanks to God for all that we've received in the gospel. for all the daily gifts of God's goodness to us. If we are regularly setting these things before our hearts and thanking God for them, we won't be tempted to drift away to something else. We won't buy into the lie that maybe there's something better out there. That maybe Christ Jesus isn't quite satisfying enough. See what gospel gratitude and thanksgiving does is it helps us to see false teaching not only as untrue, but as undesirable. If we're really grasping, church, what we have in Christ, the eternal life that is ours, if we are in God's word, if we are encouraging one another to see those things regularly, we won't want something else. We won't think we need something else. Thanklessness, a lack of gratitude, is often one of the roots of the temptation to embrace false teaching. Because lack of gratitude over time erodes our view of God. The thankless person doesn't see God rightly as the loving Father who gives good gifts to his children. But a lack of thanksgiving over time and a stumbling into negativity and grumbling causes us to see God as a deity that's unkind, that's unloving, that's withholding. This is the temptation that Adam and Eve faced all the way back in the garden. The serpent looked to convince them that God was withholding something from them. That God didn't love them enough to let them be like him, knowing good and evil. Friends, an ungrateful heart will be tempted to look elsewhere. For the joy and the satisfaction that can only be found in Christ Jesus. The ungrateful heart will carve out a God or a path to God that it somehow believes is better than the real thing. So if we as individuals, and if we as a body of believers together want to be rooted in biblical truth And want to stand firmly on the true gospel, then we must be a people of thanksgiving. We must abound in it. Do you want to defend the faith, church? Do you want to encourage others in their walk with Christ? Cultivate thanksgiving in your own heart. Thank God regularly in your private prayers. Share with one another where you're seeing evidence of God's grace. Write things down. Set the truths of God's word and God's promises before your heart regularly through the Word and through prayer and through fellowship with the body of believers. Thanksgiving guards our hearts against the temptation to embrace false teaching. Well, not only does giving thanks to God guard us against false teaching, finally we need to see that it guards us against a false mindset. It guards us against a false disposition in the Christian life. I mentioned at the beginning just how easy it can be for us to fall into a grumbling. a cynicism, a a just pervasive negativity, focusing only on the things that are wrong in the world or that we perceive as wrong in the church. Let me confess, this is a personal temptation I often face. I hope, though, as we've looked in Colossians at the astounding and glorious reality of what we've received in Christ. You can see that a spirit of grumbling and a spirit of negativity is out of step. It doesn't align with what's true of us in Christ It doesn't align with what's true about Christ's lordship and Christ's kingdom today, not just in the future, but today, church. See, what grumbling does is it communicates that the temporary things of this life Are actually more powerful than the eternal life and the eternal victory that's ours in Christ. Because those are the things that actually have the power to set our attitude and set our mood and set our mindset on a daily basis. I enjoy quite a bit reading uh epic fantasy literature and movies. I'm a special fan of Lord of the Rings. I want you to imagine with me a scene of victory and of feasting after a great, fantastic battle. You can think the dragon has been slain, the evil army has been defeated, and we're now in the hall of the king together. We're feasting and we're celebrating the victory of our kingdom. It's this scene of triumph and of joy. But you can't bring yourself to be happy at this great celebration. Because your plate's a little bit chipped. Or because maybe somebody else got a better seat at the table than you. Or because your boots got just a little too muddy on the battlefield. Friends, that's what grumbling is like in the Christian life. We are heirs of eternal victory in Christ. To allow ourselves to slip into a habit of grumbling and complaining. is to act as though those things weren't really true, or as though that truth weren't as powerful as it actually is. This disposition doesn't match the truth of who we are in Christ. And oh, how we need God's grace in this. Oh, how I need God's grace daily in this. So as we strive by God's grace to be a church that faithfully proclaims God's word. And that faithfully stands on God's gospel, friends, we must be a people of thanksgiving. We cannot be like the Israelites complaining about how much better the food was back in Egypt. Instead, may we see the great salvation that is ours, the daily care, the daily provision that God gives us. And may we appropriately give thanks to him. And may we see, friends, that as we give thanks to God, God is glorified, and our hearts, our souls are satisfied in him. As we conclude, let me just briefly invite you to turn with me to Revelation chapter 7. Revelation chapter 7. I'm going to read verses 9 through 12. Revelation 7, verses 9 through 12. We have this glimpse into the heavenly throne room. We see God's people from every nation, from every tribe, from every tongue. Along with all these angelic hosts offering up praise and thanksgiving to God. John writes, After this I looked, and behold, a great multitude that no one could number From every tribe and nation and all tribes and peoples and languages, standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, with palm branches in their hands. And crying out with a loud voice, salvation belongs to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb And all the angels were standing around the throne, and around the elders, and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God forever and ever. Amen. What we need to see here, Church, is that thanksgiving is part of our eternal work of praising God. See that God is worthy of all our praise, all blessing, all thanksgiving, all honor, all glory. And friends, our thanksgiving now, our gratitude now, is partaking in this heavenly reality of giving God praise. And giving thanks to God now wets our appetites for the thanksgiving and the praise in which we will partake joyfully for all eternity. So by God's grace. And through the gospel of Jesus Christ, church, may we be a people of thanksgiving. Let's pray together. Well, Father, we thank you. We thank you for the great salvation that has come to us in Christ Jesus. God, may we never move on from the gospel. May we never be tempted to seek satisfaction somewhere else. But God, may we see what is ours in Christ, and may we rejoice. Lord, guard us by your grace and by your spirit against a heart and a spirit of negativity. Guard us, Lord, against grumbling, both as individuals, but as a people, as a church, as a community of believers. Help us, God, to be convinced of Christ's Lordship and to encourage one another with that reality daily. As we gather together each week, God , may thanksgiving be at the heart of our praises because we have received much from you. In Jesus' name I pray.