Well, you can be turning to Matthew chapter three. That's where we'll be with a few places we'll be uh moving around to. I did give you some of the references we're gonna turn to. We won't Turn to every single one on your outline, but a few of those we will. Keep your fingers nice and nimble this evening. In the fall of 2019, take you back on a little personal history of Jason Manry. I worked at a barista at a coffee shop uh right in the middle of downtown Louisville. It's actually one of my favorite jobs I've ever had. But right across from our shop on 4th Street where I worked in downtown Louisville was a very famous landmark, the famous Sealbach Hotel. It's actually, if you've ever read F. Scott Fitzgerald 's novel, The Great Gatsby. took inspiration for some of um the scenes in that novel from this very famous hotel. Al Capone was also a frequent guest there. Um so this is a very well-known landmark and a lot of uh significant events would take place there. Well one day, as I was coming to work, I was told that the President of the United States was actually Scheduled to appear and speak at an event being held at the Sealbach. On this particular day, I personally didn't see the president, and I didn't see his motorcade drive past my window. But from the very moment I arrived at work that morning around 5 30 in the morning, it was clear that something very significant was about to take place. Because as I worked in the shop. And looked out my window, the entire day I saw preparation happening. I saw streets being cleared. I saw parked cars being towed. I saw uh roadways cleared. The sidewalks were being swept. I saw roads being blocked off and blockades being put up. Security being set in place. As I walked out, it was an eerie thing to see the streets that usually are so filled with cars and pedestrian traffic kind of empty and to see some uh Some men dressed in black with uh some very large guns posted on the rooftops. What was clear though, as I looked out my window, was that a work of preparation was taking place. For the arrival of someone significant. As we look at Matthew chapter 3 this evening, we're going to see something very similar. We're going to see in the ministry of John the Baptist. A work of preparation for the glorious arrival and ministry of King Jesus. You have been with Pastor Matt walking through Matthew's gospel, and Matthew's central point in writing this gospel is to proclaim that Jesus of Nazareth is the Christ. The son of David, the son of Abraham. Matthew wrote to prove that Jesus is the messianic king who had come in the fulfillment of God's plan of redemption. To rescue a people for himself and to establish his eternal kingdom. Well, in the eternal plan of God, as we will see through prophetic witness , The coming of King Jesus was to be heralded, it was to be anticipated by a forerunner. There was one who would come before the king arrived to announce his coming. To prepare the way, to prepare the hearts of the people of God to behold the Son of God. To tell what this king would be like and what his kingdom would consist of. Well, as we see in Matthew three to This evening, John the Baptist was this forerunner. He was the last prophet to minister under the old covenant, and he came to announce the arrival, the coming of King Jesus. As this chapter unfolds, we're going to see not only the announcement of the king, but in a wonderful, wonderful narrative starting in verse 13, we're going to see the arrival of the king himself. Who at his baptism is publicly anointed and proclaimed and affirmed as the beloved Son of God, who ministers according to the power of the Holy Spirit. Well, the manner of preparation for someone's arrival tells us something about the person themselves, tells us about the person who's coming. In fact, just for a moment to my vantage point in downtown Louisville on a fall day in 2019, it was clear as I looked out my window that the person who was scheduled to arrive was significant. Was someone that a lot of money was being invested in protecting. But I also saw that the person who was coming was not someone accessible to me. I wouldn't have been on that day able to just go up to the president and invite him to sit down for a cup of coffee. There were clear signs in place from the preparation for his arrival that he was inaccessible to me or to anybody else on the street. As we look tonight at the ministry of John the Baptist and the baptism of King Jesus, what I want us to do is consider from these events, from these acts of preparation. What they teach us about the kingdom of God and the king that John the Baptist had come to announce. So what do these acts of preparation, this ministry of heralding, what do they teach us about this long-awaited kingdom and this Anointed King. I'm going to read all of John 3 for us, and then we will walk through this outline together. John, or Matthew, excuse me, Matthew chapter 3. Beginning in verse one. In those days John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said, The voice of one crying in the wilderness: prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. Now John wore a garment of camel's hair, and a leather belt around his waist, and his food was locusts and wild honey. Then Jerusalem and all Judea and all the region about the Jordan were going out to him, and they were baptized by him in the Jordan And river, confessing their sins. But when he saw many of the Pharisees and Sadducees coming to his baptism, he said to them, You brood of vipers, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. And do not presume to say to yourselves, We have Abraham as our father. For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. I baptize you with water for repentance. But he who is coming after me is mightier than I, whose sandals I am not worthy to carry. He will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn. But the chaff he will burn with unquenchable fire. A qu unquenchable fire. Then Jesus came from Galilee to the Jordan to John to be baptized by him. John would have prevented him, saying, I need to be baptized by you, and do you come to me But Jesus answered him, Let it be so now, for thus it is fitting for us to fulfill all righteousness. Then he consented And when Jesus was baptized, immediately he went up from the water, and behold, the heavens were open to him, and he saw the Spirit of God descending like a dove and coming to rest on him. And behold, a voice from heaven said, This is my beloved Son So seven realities, seven points about the nature of this long-awaited kingdom and the glorious king. First, see that this is a kingdom of prophetic fulfillment. A kingdom of prophetic fulfillment. So in verse 1, the scene is set for us. John the Baptist is preaching in the wilderness of Judea, and he's announcing that the kingdom of heaven is at hand. And what we see Matthew establishing from the very outset is that this ministry, this heralding, this work of the forerunner, is a work of prophetic fulfillment in announcing. the coming of Christ's kingdom. It was anticipated by years and years of prophetic witness throughout the history of God's people. This one point that Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of prophetic fulfillment really could summarize just about the entire chapter and just about all of Matthew and has Pastor Matt has gone to reference after reference and after reference from the prophets and elsewhere. I hope this has bought become clear to you as we've been studying the book Book of Matthew. For our purposes, I just want us to see three specific ways in which we see prophetic fulfillment in the announcement of Christ's kingdom. Three specific First, we see John the Baptist identified as the voice of one crying out in the wilderness. In verse 3, Matthew says, This, John the Baptist, is he who is spoken of by the prophet Isaiah when he said the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. This is a quotation from Isaiah chapter forty. I actually want us to turn there. Isaiah chapter forty, verses one through five. Isaiah is prophesying amidst prophecies of judgment, amidst calling out God's people for their unfaithfulness and their breaking of the covenant. Isaiah also speaks of a day of restoration and comfort for the people of God. Isaiah chapter 40, beginning in verse 1, Isaiah Speaks and writes, Comfort, comfort my people, says your God. Speak tenderly to Jerusalem and cry to her that her warfare is ended, and her iniquity is pardoned, that she has received from the Lord's hand double for all her sins A voice cries, In the wilderness prepare the way of the Lord. Make straight in the desert a highway for our God. Every valley shall be lifted up, and every mountain and hill be made low. The uneven ground shall become level, and the rough places a plain And the glory of the Lord shall be revealed, and all flesh shall see it together. For the mouth of the Lord has spoken. Isaiah in his time and his day was prophet. Prophesying, looking forward to a future day of restoration and pardon for the people of God, of an end to exile And a time of ultimate, eternal, lasting deliverance for God's people. And there's this image of one crying out in the wilderness announcing This is really magnificent language of calling on the people To prepare a road where there is no road, for valleys to be lifted up, for mountains to be made laid low, for rough places to become a highway for the triumphal entry. Of, and this is what's so incredible, not just another prophet to speak to the people, not just another human king to act as a good and wise king, but for the Arrival of God Himself to deliver His people. So what we see in verse 5 of Isaiah chapter 40: the glory of the Lord shall be revealed in this day that Isaiah is prophesying of. God himself, Isaiah prophesied, was going to come to deliver his People. And Matthew is telling us that John the Baptist had come as the one who was to announce this very thing. Oh, this is glorious God Himself came, entered into the pages of human history to deliver his people and to reveal his glory to his people. John's ministry of announcing the kingdom is a ministry of prophetic fulfillment because he is identified as this Voice crying out in the wilderness, announcing the arrival of God Himself to redeem his people and establish his kingdom, and preparing the hearts of the people to redeem So we see John's ministry and the kingdom he came to announce as a kingdom of prophetic fulfillment in the way John is identified as this voice crying out in the wilderness. Secondly, I want us to see it in the setting. The setting. Any good student of literature will tell you that where you set your story matters. And this historical narrative is no different. In verse 1, we're told that John the Baptist was preaching in the wilderness of Judea. And then in verses 5 and 6, we're told that he was in the region around the Jordan River, and that he was baptizing in the Jordan River. Class. Let's put on our Bible history hats for a moment. What's significant about the Jordan River? Yeah, it marks the entry of God's people crossing into the promised land. You can read about this very thing in Joshua chapters 3 and 4. God's people at the Jordan River were by a miraculous act of God's providence brought out of the wilderness and into the land of Israel. Canaan into the land of promise to take it, to conquest it, and to live as God's people in God's land. Well, as John is ministering by the Jordan River, he's Preaching an entrance into an even greater kingdom. He is preaching an entrance into an eternal kingdom, one that you do not go into by a physical crossing. And one that is not expanded through physical violent conquest, but one that is entered by repentance and faith. John was preaching near the Jordan River, and it's almost as though Matthew in his gospel is uh Bringing all of these things out almost to act as sort of a recapitulation of Israel's history and showing how ultimately it is all about an eternal kingdom. That's not about the land of Canaan, but about the one to come. So we see prophetic fulfillment in the setting. Appearance. In verse 4, we get a bit of a bizarre description of John's appearance and his eating habits. We're told that he wore a garment of camel's hair and a leather belt around his waist, and he Eight locusts and wild honey. Noelle's uh children's bible that we read to her or try to read to her quite often um has a great, great picture of John the Baptist in it. That just is the only thing that can come into my head now. When I think of this. Mark, in his gospel account, gives us this exact same description of John the Baptist and his appearance and the things he liked to consume. It's significant and it matters because it ties John the Baptist to the prophet Elijah. We're not going to turn there, but in 2 Kings chapter 1. Verse 8, the prophet Elijah is described with strikingly similar language. And that connection is intended because God, as the uh Old Testament was closing, the last prophet to prophesy under the Old Covenant before John the Baptist, Malachi. Had told God's people that God was going to send an Elijah-like forerunner before the day of the Lord came. Turn over just a few pages in your Bible to the book of Malachi, chapter four. Malachi chapter four verses five and six Malachi writes under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit, Behold, I will send you Elijah the prophet before the great and awesome day of the Lord comes. And he will turn the hearts of fathers to their children, and the hearts of children John, we're told explicitly in Matthew chapter eleven, verses ten through fifteen, you have that reference there, is this Elijah figure who was to come. He was the one that God had sent before the coming of King Jesus to announce and prepare the hearts of the The overarching point for us to see is that John came as a forerunner to announce the kingdom of God being inaugurated in the coming of Jesus Christ. He fulfilled prophetic expectations and he announced Christ's coming. And what we should see is that Christ's kingdom is no plan B. The kingdom that John the Baptist was announcing has always been God's plan from before the foundations of the world were laid. Practically, this should give us great confidence in what God has accomplished through Christ and in how God is working today as He expands His kingdom. So Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of prophetic fulfillment. Secondly, see that Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of proclamation. Kingdom of proclamation. I promise they're not all keywords. I uh I'm not so Baptist that I must make everything alliterate, but Two's good. John 's ministry of preparation was also a ministry of proclamation. In verse 1, this is what we're told he came and did. He came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. And the central theological truth, the central idea of his preaching was that the kingdom of heaven was at hand. So Matthew summarizes the main point of his preaching. Ministry. He came as this forerunner, anticipating the coming of God's kingdom and proclaiming that it was coming. Proclaiming that it was at hand. We see looking down in verse eleven of Matthew 3 that he told, he proclaimed of the greatness of the one to come. He told the people about who this coming Messiah King was, and he was not ambiguous at all about his greatness. One of my favorite uh instances of this is in John chapter 1, verse 29, where John the Baptist sees Jesus. Jesus coming from a distance, and he proclaims and cries out, Behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Jesus and the inauguration of the kingdom was a work of proclaiming, with spirit-empowered words, the message of the kingdom. What I want us to see practically from this is that the means by which the kingdom was announced in John the Baptist ministry. Is the same way by which it expands today. We are to be a people of kingdom proclamation. Our message is no different John was looking forward to Christ's coming. We now look back on it and announce that he is king. We proclaim all that he did in his life, death, and resurrection. We proclaim that he is the risen king who is seated at the right hand of the Father and who is reigning now. This is the very task we see Jesus giving to his church at the very end of Matthew's gospel. Words we know very well from Matthew chapter. Chapter 28, verses 18 through 20, where Jesus commissions his people to go and to make disciples. Well, the question is: how do we make disciples? By proclaiming the gospel. And by then teaching the people of God to observe all that Christ has commanded Friends, the task of proclaiming God's Word, of proclaiming the kingdom through the preaching and teaching of the Word, is the me. The way that God works to expand the borders of His kingdom. Practically this means for us that the teaching And preaching of God's word must be the lifeblood of every faithful church. What I want us to see, though, is that this has always been the case. This wasn't just something that We came up with one day. This was John the Baptist's task in proclaiming the kingdom. And it's our task as citizens of the kingdom. We must trust that Christ intends to build his church through the proclamation of the gospel. Our confidence can't rest in anything else. We must trust that the Spirit works through our proclamation. And this isn't just a task for teachers and preachers. This is a task for every Christian to be about the ministry of the word, to be about telling our friends and our neighbors and our co-workers who Christ is and what he has accomplished. And then to live lives consistently with what we proclaim. Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of proclamation. Thirdly, Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of repentance. A kingdom of repentance. The central theological truth, the main big picture idea of John's message, John's preaching, was that the kingdom of heaven was at hand. That's the big picture idea. Well, the central application of that truth, what people were to do in light of that truth, is the very first word he speaks in verse 2 of Matthew. Matthew 3. Repent. Repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. John's ministry of preparation was all about calling people to repentance. To turn away from wickedness, to turn away from the sin that had characterized the people of Israel for generations and generations, to turn away from it and to turn to the Lord from the heart. John 's baptism, he says explicitly in verse 11, was a baptism of repentance. It's worth noting that his baptism is different in ways from Christian baptism. It was under the old covenant, but it's similar to it, and it points forward and anticipates. But it was a baptism of outwardly expressing an inward commitment to repudiate sin and to turn and walk in faithfulness to God. It was an admission also of the need to be purified from sin and to walk in faithfulness to God. See in verse 6 that those who came to John and were baptized by him in the Jordan River. Confessed their sins. They recognized that they had not lived faithfully as the people of God and that they needed to be purified. And this scene looks forward to the one who would come and would accomplish that purification from sin through his death and through his shed blood. Well, the point is clear. Those who will be citizens of Christ's kingdom are those who will be marked by repentance. Friends, recognizing Jesus as King means turning to him in repentance. It means turning away from any trust in our own righteousness. From any trust in our own cleverness, our own ability to see the options before us and choose Christ. It means turning away from any confidence in self. And it means turning to Him and finding our true joy, our true purpose in Him alone. Notice in chapter 4 of Matthew, verse 17. seventeen, this same call to repentance in light of the coming of Christ's kingdom, these are the same words that mark Jesus' initial public ministry of the Word. These are the same things that Matthew records Jesus saying at the beginning of his public ministry. You could flip forward, we won't do it now, but If you flip forward to Acts 2 and Peter's sermon at the day of Pentecost, that was the same call he issued to those who heard and asked, What shall we do? He said, Repent and be baptized. Which is a summary way of saying, believe, trust in Christ. Repentance, friends, is the clear call of the Christian faith. It's both the initial step of turning away from sin and looking to Christ by faith, which we should note is itself an act of God's grace. We do not initiate our own repentance, it is God's gracious intervention. In our dead hearts that accomplishes this. And repentance is an ongoing process as we daily do battle with sin. Sin friends, we must be a people characterized by repentance. Very practically, we need to be a people willing to admit Where we're wrong, where our motives or our actions are out of step with what God has commanded for us, both as individuals, but as a church We need to be willing, and we need to joyfully embrace this identity of confessing sin one to another. And turning by God's grace, by the Spirit, and by all the means of grace that God has given us, turning in faithfulness to Christ. And we must, as we go out and proclaim the gospel, which hopefully we see is not ours. Optional for us. We must preach repentance as we share the gospel. A gospel that does not call for repentance, that does not call for a turning away from sin, is a gospel without power. It's a gospel that we don't really expect to change our hearts and our lives. But that's not the message of the gospel. Christ has come to fundamentally change us by his shed blood and by the work of his spirit. Uniting us to him. God's kingdom is a kingdom composed of those who, by his grace, are a people of repentance. It's composed of those who know their own wickedness and who humbly and desperately turn to him and look to him in faith. See next that Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of judgment. So it's a kingdom of prophetic fulfillment, it's a kingdom of proclamation, it's a kingdom of It is also though, and these words should sober us, a kingdom of judgment The right response to coming to the coming of God's kingdom is to humbly repent and turn from sin and look to Him. But for those who do not repent, what's clear in this text And what's clear all throughout Scripture is that there is an awaiting eternal judgment. In verse 7, John sees the Pharisees and the Sadducees. Coming to his baptism, and he cries out, You brood of vipers, literally saying, You sons of snakes, who warned you to flee from the wrath to come? Though the Pharisees and the Sadducees were those who held tremendous religious and political power in Israel, and though the people of Israel look would have looked to them as authorities on all things spiritual, John identifies them not with the people of God, but with the seed of the serpent from all the way back in Genesis chapter 3, verse 15, whose head will be crushed in judgment. Now, just a bit of uh history here, it's worth noting that the Pharisees and the Sadducees were a bit of an odd couple pairing. Because they really didn't have a lot in common. The Pharisees were these strict legalists who were known for their very rigid adherence to the ceremonial law. They built up these man-made traditions. Around the law of Moses, just to be sure that they weren't accidentally violating any laws. The Sadducees, on the other hand, were this group who denied the supernatural in many ways. They denied the resurrection. They denied Deny the existence of angels. the In some ways, they effectively were like deists almost. So they're this kind of odd couple pairing, but John lumps them together Because ultimately, at the root of it, they were exactly the same. Because they didn't know God. At the root of it, they refused to acknowledge their sin and their wickedness. And turn to obey God from the heart. Though they were seen as spiritual leaders, they were ultimately teaching with venomous teaching. Their influence was leading people Astray. And John says that for these who do not bear the fruit of repentance, there is a coming judgment and a coming wrath. In verses ten and verse twelve, we get these vivid images of a certain and a final judgment for those who do not repent. In verse ten, John says, even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. It's this image of someone holding an axe. They're not just going out to the field to see if there's a tree that needs cutting down. The axe is right there, ready to be swung. At the dead tree that does not bear fruit. There's this immediacy and urgency to the judgment in this image John says that the tree that does not bear fruit, which means the tree that is dead, that's not alive, is cut down. And is thrown into the fire. And it often seems like judgment is this far-off, distant thing. But the immediacy of the image here is important for us to see because when eternity is our backdrop, judgment is very near indeed. If we're thinking about things from the perspective of eternity and God's eternal plan, the reality of judgment is very near indeed. There's then a very similar image in verse 12, where Jesus, the one to come, is depicted by John as the one who will separate the The wheat in the chaff, and there's this image of a farmer taking a winnowing fork and sticking it into a pile of hay, throwing it up The wheat that falls down is put into the barn, but the chaff that's just caught up into the air floats away and then is gathered up and burned in We should note this word, unquenchable fire. Now don't miss the note of comfort here as well, because those who are gods eternally are eternally in the barn. The wheat that's in the barn. There's no question about whether or not they're going to stay in the barn. And we see that clearly in other parts of Scripture. Those who are Christ's are eternally his. But the chaff that's blown away is then gathered up and it's burned with unquenchable fire. Not only is the judgment to come final, it is eternal. The fire is unquenchable. The reality that we see consistently in Scripture, and that we see as John prepares the way for the coming of Christ. Is that those who do not look to Christ by faith, those who do not enter into his kingdom through repentance and faith, will be judged as traitors to the kingdom. There are only two possibilities. Either we are citizens of Christ's kingdom, or we are still under the domain of darkness, which means that we're enemies Enemies of God. And John is clear in his preaching that those who do not bear the fruit of repentance will experience the judgment of God. This should sober us. This should also cause us to marvel at God's mercy, shouldn't it? And this should spur us to faithfully proclaim the message of God. of the kingdom. Because Christ is coming. He comes as Savior, but he also comes as judge. Any thoughts or questions as we uh have gone through four points? There's not a natural halfway point, but any thoughts or questions, things on your mind circulating as we consider these thoughts and consider these This also functions as a nice water break. uh what the pastor Matt has been saying on occasion is and kind of meanly is that uh we're saved we're saved by the gospel and we live by the gospel, saved from sin and now delivered daily from sin, confessed once to be saved and then repented and now on a daily basis like you just said it's a kind of theme keeps coming around confess throughout the day you just use the words uh I like that it's uh daily sin battle. Yeah. Confession turning to him. I think it's really a good theme in this soul. Um yeah Paving the way. It's like a a team deliverance on a daily basis. Your homework tonight will be to read the entire book of Colossians like we As a young adult small group, because basically the entire book of Colossians, the point is that we are saved by the grace of God in Christ, and we also grow through the grace of God in Christ, not through adding other things to Our spirituality. Really, your homework would be to read the entire Bible. But need a little more than one night to do that unless you're a really great speed reader. Well, we'll continue on. Another uh thing that we see in John's rebuke of the Pharisees and the Sadducees. From verse 9 is that Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of spiritual, not physical descent. A kingdom of spiritual, not physical descent. In verse eight John the Baptist calls the Pharisees and the Sadducees to bear fruit in keeping with repentance, to turn. And to yield the fruit that would come about as a result of repenting, humbly, confessing sin, and turning to faithfulness in God. And then in verse 9, he issues this strong warning. And we should see it as strong. He says, Do not presume to say to yourselves. We have Abraham as our father. For I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Abraham. He warns them against finding security before God in their ethnic identity as the children of Abraham. Their status as physical descendants of Abraham, as Israelites, as Jews, did not and could not and could never make them right before God. And if you were a Jew reading this in the first century, those to whom Matthew originally wrote, this would be somewhat of a startling thought. That you could physically be Abraham's children, physically be part of the old covenant people of God, but inwardly and eternally be children of Satan. This is the very point that Jesus makes in John chapter 8. John the Baptist here does not pull his punches. One bit. He says that God can raise up from a pile of stones children for Abraham. So he does not need you, physical descendants of Abraham. In other words, what John was saying is that God can take dead, lifeless stones, and from them raise up a better representative of what it truly means to be a son of Abraham. The Israelite blood coursing through the veins of these Pharisees and Sadducees could not justify them before God. Ironically, if we know our Bibles well, we know that every time someone comes to faith in Christ, God is raising up from dead stones children for Abraham. Him. God is raising up dead sinners, removing their stony hearts, and making them alive with Christ. Friends, God's kingdom is not a matter of physical descent. It's a matter of faith. It's about spiritual life, not physical lineage. And this uh is a question and an idea that we are familiar with. But it was a question that the early church had to wrestle with, and we see this in the book of Acts. They had to wrestle with this idea of do followers of Jesus have to physically become Jews? In order to be his followers. The overwhelming testimony we see in Scripture, though, is that true sons of Abraham are those who share Abraham's faith. Turn just briefly to Galatians chapter three. Galatians three. We'll read verse seven. Galatians chapter 3, verse 7, know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. Those who share Abraham's faith, then, are those who will bear fruit in keeping with repentance, because they have looked in faith to the one who raises them from the dead. Their lives will outwardly reflect the inner reality of regeneration. Those who are citizens of Christ's kingdom are those who will bear spiritual fruit in a spiritual Now, this one point has so many massive implications that we're not going to bear out all of them in this brief hour. But understanding that Christ's kingdom is spiritual in nature and not physical is utterly important as we think about what it means to be. a church. So many contemporary issues of our day. Uh art. It's just utterly important that we bring into the conversation this understanding that Christ's kingdom is spiritual in nature. It is not physical and it is not established through physical means. It's not established by governments. I any notion of so-called Christian nationalism, which is unfortunately this idea that is growing, I think dies at this point. Christ's kingdom is spiritual and it's advanced by spiritual means, not fit through physical means. Now we ought to be thankful for laws that administer justice, but we should never put gospel hope in those laws or those means of administering justice. Christ's kingdom is spiritual and it is advanced through the preaching of the gospel. Where are we? Number six Oh, we're we're making better time than I expected. When I when I had saw that I had seven points, I thought, Oh Lord, you're gonna need to either help me speak very fast or uh help me summarize. Number six, we see that Christ's kingdom is a kingdom of the Holy Spirit. A kingdom of the Holy Spirit. In verse 11, John the Baptist sets up this contrast between his ministry and the ministry of the one to come, the ministry of King Jesus. John says in verse 11 that his baptism was a baptism with water for repentance. It was a preparatory baptism. But the one who is coming is mightier than I, John says. The one who was to come is categorically greater, John the Baptist is proclaiming. It's as though he's almost anticipating That some people would look at his ministry wrongly and think that he himself was the Messiah. And he is quick to say, no, he is not the Messiah. Someone greater is coming. Someone so much greater, in fact, that John doesn't even consider himself worthy to carry his sandals. The most like menial, lowly job he can think of. And sandal carrying in those days with those kinds of roads would uh not be a particularly clean job. Having lived in a uh large city in the Middle East where animals shared roads with cars, I Can understand something of what that might be like. And John doesn't even consider himself worthy to do that. John 's baptism was a preparatory work of repentance in light of the one who is to come. John is saying that the one to come would baptize, he says, with the Holy Spirit and with fire. Kingdom, all without distinction, have the very Spirit of God dwelling inside of them. That's Startling. That's incredible. That the very Spirit of God would dwell inside of once dead sinners. But this is exactly what Christ came to do and through his death and resurrection has accomplished and is accomplishing is the gospel. The Holy Spirit is the one who awakens and regenerates spiritually dead hearts. Gives us new life. The Holy Spirit is the one who is present with us to comfort us, to encourage us, and to mold us into the likeness of Christ as we look to Christ by faith. He's the one who empowers us to live faithfully as kingdom citizens. The power to live faithfully as a follower of Jesus Christ, Christian, does not come from anything within you. It comes from the Spirit of God in whom we have been immersed because of the work of Christ. We also see here that uh John says the one to come, Jesus, would baptize with fire. This refers, I think Pastor Matt even mentioned this in uh His gospel reading on Sunday morning. This refers to Christ's work of final judgment. We can see this kind of through the uh the images that we saw in verse 10. In verse 12, fire is used as an image of final judgment. Christ comes to give the Holy Spirit to those who are his. But to those who are not, is he comes in judgment. Now it's worth noting that uh some interpret this and fire differently. Some uh see it as referring to the purifying work that the Holy Spirit accomplishes within our hearts. And to be quite honest, as I was working through this and preparing I kind of went back and forth as to which interpretation I thought better fit the text. Regardless, what's clear is that the arrival of the kingdom of God is a mighty Glorious, sober reality. It will result in the judgment of God's enemies, and it's only by an act of God's free grace that we are not included in that judgment. And it's only by an act of God's free grace that He gives the Holy Spirit to us who regenerates us and makes us alive when we were spiritually. Well we should see in this promise of the coming baptism of the Holy Spirit Through Christ, fulfillment of prophecy. I gave you several references. We're just going to turn to the first one, Ezekiel chapter 3. It's just a wonderful promise that God's people under the new covenant would be those who have the very Spirit of God dwelling within them. Ezekiel chapter 3 36 I'm actually going to start in verse 26. And I will give you a new heart, God says, and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes, and be careful to obey my rules. The Spirit of God Himself, Ezekiel prophesied, will dwell within God's people, will remove their stony hearts, and will give them spiritually living hearts Causing them to obey and follow God from the heart. This is what the Spirit does within us. Just briefly, I'll mention Joel chapter 2, verses 28. The coming day of the Lord, this climactic day of redemption and judgment. Joel prophesied that it would be accompanied by a powerful outpouring of the Spirit. Which would then ultimately result in many calling upon the name of the Lord and being saved from judgment. Well, we see in Acts 2 that this prophecy is fulfilled at the day of Pentecost. When the Spirit is poured out on Christ's followers in a miraculous outpouring, equipping them to powerfully and boldly proclaim the gospel At the inauguration, the start of the church age. Well, this promise that we see in Matthew's gospel that Jesus Christ baptizes us with the Holy Spirit Spirit is glorious. It's monumental. It marks a change and a shift in how God dwells with his people, not through a physical temple, but through and in his people by his spirit. This is glorious, but it's also incredibly practical. Friends, as we daily struggle against sin, we fight as those who are indwelt by the Spirit of God. As we speak and share God's word to a world that is truly a spiritual graveyard, it's God's Spirit who works to awaken dead sinners to the reality of God. The gospel. When we struggle with doubt, it's the Spirit of God that gives us assurance that we are his children by fixing our eyes on what we have in Christ. When we think about who we should affirm as members within this local church, it's those who can give a credible profession of having been born again and bearing the fruit of the Spirit of God. God's kingdom is comprised of those who have been baptized with the Holy Spirit, who have been brought from death to life. Well, in five minutes, we're going to cover the baptism of Jesus, one of the most monumental moments in the earthly ministry of Jesus. No pressure to do it in five minutes. Minutes. But by way of summary, we see in this account an obedient, humble, and anointed king. An obedient John the Baptist, the forerunner, has proclaimed the coming kingdom of heaven. He's called for repentance. And now the king arrives on the scene in verse 3. And what I want us to see is that this scene really functions as Jesus' public anointing ceremony, where he is marked as the true Son of David, the true and final and eternal messianic king. Well, John the Baptist is hesitant, saying that he is the one who needs to be baptized by Jesus. He sees himself as unworthy, and in some ways his hesitancy is like a theologically correct impulse. Of course, he's lesser, and of course, Jesus is greater. But what's incredible here is that Jesus, the eternal King, the second person of the Trinity, who became incarnate as a man. In his baptism, in undergoing this baptism , identifies with his people. Jesus says to John in verse 15 , That his baptism was fitting to fulfill all righteousness. Now, that's not to say that there was any unrighteousness in Jesus that had to be added to his account through baptism. Rather, that this was part of the perfect obedience that Jesus had come to accomplish, that had been planned from before the foundations of the world. It was fulfill fitting to fulfill all righteousness in that it was part of the Father's plan for the Son, and Jesus perfectly obeyed the will of the Father. So though Jesus had no sin of his own of which he needed to repent, he underwent a baptism of repentance to identify with those who would be his people. Repentance Sinners. The one who created all things, in whom the entire universe holds together, became like us. And in his death, which this event points forward to, he would not only identify with sinners, but would take on their sins and bury them. The weight of God's wrath. This scene at the Jordan River reveals to us something incredible about Christ's kingship, which is that He is not Not a distant king. He is not someone to whom we have no access. He is the king who identifies with his people. He is He's the king who is near to the lowly and to the sinner. He welcomes the weary and the heavy laden to find rest in him. He's a merciful high priest who is with us. in our weakness. Jesus identified humbly with sinners who were repentant. As if there were any doubt about who Jesus is in Matthew's gospel, when Jesus is baptized and comes up out of the water, all doubt is removed. Because we see in this scene the three persons of the Trinity together affirming the kingship of Jesus Jesus the Son. So see first that the Spirit of God descends on Jesus like a dove. This scene is, I think, intentionally reminiscent of first Samuel chapter. 16 verse 13, which is David's anointing ceremony, where he is marked as the one who would be the king of Israel. In that scene, the Spirit of God rushes on David, and David then ministers and lives in the power of the Spirit. But we're told that Jesus As the true Son of David, ministered on earth by the power of the Holy Spirit. We see also that the voice of the Father speaks from heaven and says, This is my beloved Son. with whom I am well pleased. The Father affirms Jesus' identity here as the divine beloved Son. If you were a Jew reading this, your mind would probably go to Psalm chapter 2, verse 7. And I want us to turn there just so briefly because I want us to see that. This and see again the fulfillment of prophecy and the ultimate fulfillment in Christ's kingship of God's plan of redemption. Anticipated throughout all of Scripture. Psalm chapter 2, I'm going to read verses 7 through 9. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son Today I have begotten you. Ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession. You shall break them with a rod of iron, and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel There was this anticipation of a coming king who would reign for eternity, who would be affirmed as God's true son, who would inherit the nations. And the voice of the Father here proclaims that this is the one. This is the true Son. And I can't help but just point you forward to chapter 4. Because these two themes run all throughout Matthew's gospel that Jesus is the son of David and the son of Abraham. We see here Jesus being proclaimed as the true son of David, the true anointed king. And in chapter 4, as Jesus goes out into the wilderness for forty days and forty nights and is tempted by Satan and overcomes that temptation, we see that he's the true son of Abraham who succeeded. Where Israel failed. Son of David, son of Abraham, may we look to him and see him rightly for who he is, and may we live by the power of his spirit as faithful citizens in his Kingdom. Let's pray together. life. Oh Father, we thank you. We thank you for Jesus. We thank you that He is King, reigning now. We thank you that our salvation is secure in God Christ. God, would you be glorified in our lives as we seek to submit ourselves to King Jesus and live faithfully As his citizens. O Lord, be glorified in us, and may we live faithfully this week, and may we joyfully anticipate joining together to worship as your people. This coming Sunday. Amen.