Words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Galatians chapter 3, verses 1 through 9. Galatians chapter 3. The title of the sermon is Born and Living by Faith. As we've gone through this letter the last few weeks, uh Paul has been intentionally laying out the foundations that we have been redeemed through faith in Christ alone. We've been redeemed through faith in Christ alone, over and over again. It's not by works, it's not by fulfilling the law, it's not by you achieving something. He's speaking to the Galatians here. It's by faith in Christ alone. Yes, and amen, right? And here we're going to see this transition. Not a transition that's something other than faith to learn, but what he's going to drive home, starting here and through the the next l section of this letter, is that not only have you been redeemed by faith. But you are also living as a Christian by faith. May we never fall for the lie that okay you've been redeemed by faith, by the grace of God, and now it's time for you to get to work. Now it's your duty, it's your job, it's your accomplishments that sustain you and keep you as a Christian. Friends, may we see the beauty That our very lives as Christians is through the grace of our Lord, as he gives us faith in him. So let us read Galatians chapter 3, starting in verse 1. One of my favorite lines in all scripture. Oh foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly betrayed as crucified. Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you still foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain. Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do Do so by works of the law or by hearing with faith. Just as Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Know then that it is those of faith who are the sons of Abraham. And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles by faith, preach the gospel beforehand. beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall all the nations be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed, along with Abraham, the man of faith. May the Lord bless the reading of His Word. Friends, as we dive into this, I hope it just stood out to you. Paul's seriousness. in this text. This is not just a light topic. This isn't just something that Paul thought, oh let me I should you know I have a a a thousand word count as I'm writing this letter and I just need to add some more words to it. No, this is This is possibly the the key argument of the letter. This is the the passion of Paul's coming out in this letter. Oh foolish Galatians It's a bit harsh, isn't it? I I hope if any of you ever write uh a little note to me, John, you don't start with old foolish pastors. But if it is, uh if you would write that, I would hope there was something serious behind it. Oh foolish pastors, you have you've gone away from scripture. Oh foolish pastors, you have you have followed after lies of the world. Notice that this language is so strong and sharp and it probably hurt the people hearing it in Galatia. Could you imagine the pastor getting up there and saying, our beloved brother Paul has written us a letter and he started unfolding it, and then right in the middle says, Oh, foolish Galatians. You would have perked up a little bit. What seriousness is Paul writing about? J. P. Phillips , if you're familiar with him, he was alive and living in London during World War II. And uh when the bombings would happen over London, he would go down into the bunkers and he had determined that he was going to write uh a translation, his own translation of the New Testament and he did accomplish that in his life. But listen to how he words it and it's it's maybe uh more common language and it's why I like it a lot. He says this, O you dear idiots of Galatia Who saw Jesus Christ the crucified so plainly? Who has been casting a spell over you? So friends, may we set up this passage, may we understand what we're getting into is an extremely serious topic And Paul is severely concerned for the very souls of the brothers and sisters in the church. So what's the issue here? What's the concern of Paul's? Well, it's that they have fallen for a lie. They have fallen for the lie that their growth as a Christian Is that the works of their hands, that the growth of a Christian, their sustainment in the life of Christ, is based off of fulfilling the law. And as we examine this tonight, we'll see how serious of an issue this is. Thomas Vinson said this, and you see it on your uh handout there. Always quote an old dead person. This is the safest bet. If you quote someone dead, you probably already know all the foolish things they said, so it's a little safer. But he says this Sanctification is the work of God's free grace. whereby we, Christians, we are renewed in the whole man after the image of God and are a and are enabled more and more to die unto sin and live unto righteousness. Notice the two things that happen within sanctification. We're dying to sin, we hate sin more, and we're living unto righteousness. We're walking in obedience more. So simply put, this is my working definition tonight for sanctification. Sanctification is a process through the free grace of God where we are hating like God and we are loving like God. God. Where we are hating like God and we are loving like God. Meaning we're hating our sin. We're hating the death and destruction of the world that God has given us We're hating the temptation and the the the lust of our of our pride and our our our flesh. But it's not only just getting rid of something, but it's also putting on something. Are we loving like God? Are we loving God more? Are we loving our neighbors more? Are we loving His Word, His commun His community that He's given us? Are we loving Him more and more? Are we loving walking in obedience? More and more. It's not that we we we check off the box and make sure we walk in obedience, and that's how we are sanctified. It's that God is growing the love we have of obedience. And then naturally, you're walking in obedience as well. So I have these three truths of the gospel. These three truths from this text should root us and ground us. and understanding God's work in the life of a Christian. From birth, the new birth, John 3 To the first death. And friends, as we walk in this path, we get to rejoice that we won't ever face the second death. That we'll be in glory with our Lord and Savior, in perfection of his image. So what's the three truths that we must rest upon? Well the first one is that the gospel of Christ is simple. The gospel of Christ is simple. Now what do I mean by that? Well, let's look at verse 1 of chapter 3. Oh foolish Galatians! Who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. So Paul's drawing their attention that Christ was publicly betrayed. And this language here of him saying, who has bewitched you? He's trying to draw out that that if you have come to faith in Christ and now you're following after some other gospel, quote unquote gospel. Some gospel of works, some some keeping your faith by uh by keeping the law perfectly. If you've fallen for that lie, obviously there is a wicked and evil spirit at work Notice that Paul's saying, if you have fallen for this, he's questioning. If you have fallen for this, well then someone has bewitched you, someone has tricked you, some evil spirit is at work amongst you. Now it's it's arguable to say that Paul didn't actually believe that there was an evil spirit at work, but what he was doing was he was using language to show them how foolish their actions are and to show them how wicked it is. To follow after another gospel. How wicked it is to come to faith in Christ and then to walk by works of the law. to keep your Christianity, keep your salvation by works of the law. He's saying if you think that's the way it is, you have been tricked by an evil spirit. You've been you've you've had a spell cast upon you. You've fallen for the lie. And the reason that he believes this is because the gospel of Christ is so simple. Simple. Notice what I'm saying there is simple. I'm not saying it's easy. I'm not saying it's it's natural within our flesh, but what I am saying is it's simple What do I mean in the simplicity of the gospel? Is that it's Christ crucified for sinners. Christ crucified, dying in the place of sinners. Oh beloved, I hope that's the gospel that you have fallen in love with. I hope that's the gospel that you recognize your identity in Christ. Is that while you were a sinner, Christ died in your place. Christ paid the penalty for your sins. On the cross, Christ who had lived a perfect life, totally God, totally man, uh uh uh had no blemish. Died on the cross, taking on the sin that you and I have committed. Isn't that simple? And isn't that beautiful? Notice that the gospel of which Paul is calling them to and which we believe is not a gospel about, okay, we must recognize that uh that Christ died on the cross for us. Alright, and then we've got to understand, we've got to have a timeline of of everything perfectly in Scripture. And then to be a Christian, you also must have a uh a definition and understanding of pre or post-Lapsarianism, right? We all have that figured out, right? Or we all we have to understand the distinct No, the w stop trying to draw out all these extra things. Some of you are still trying to figure out the word I said. It's probably because I didn't pronounce it correctly. It may be the problem. I did it! First big word, more than four syllables I said correctly. But that's not what the gospel 's about. And I hope we're not preaching a gospel like that to our friends and our family and to the world. The gospel is this. You're a sinner. There's no hope in yourself. But the true hope, the only hope, is in Christ Jesus who died on the cross for you. Now turn from your sin and turn to your victorious Lord. and Savior. Look with me in First Corinthians chapter fifteen 1 Corinthians chapter 15, starting in verse 3, I believe, lays out the gospel in a very concrete and simple form. First Corinthians 153 says, For I delivered to you as of first importance what I also received Alright, so the first importance. Notice what the first importance is. That Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scripture. Praise God. It wasn't about church structure. What's the policy of the church? It wasn't about how many times we take the Lord's Supper The first importance wasn't about making sure that our eschatology is all figured out. Praise God, right? Praise God. We don't have to have that all figured out. The first importance is this is that Christ died for our sins in accordance with the scripture. Verse 4 continues, that he was buried. Brothers and sisters, here's the victory. That he was raised on the thor third day in accordance with the scriptures And that he appeared to Cephas, then to the twelve, then he appeared to more than five hundred brothers at one time, most of whom are still alive, though some have fallen asleep. So, what is the gospel? What's the simplicity of the gospel? Is that Christ has died for sinners. Christ has died for our sins according to the scriptures. He's dead, buried, and rose on the third day, now having victory over sin and death. That's the gospel we're preaching. That's the gospel we're preaching And Paul wants them to recognize that that's the simplicity of the gospel. And the moment that you try to make it more complex, the moment you try to add something onto it, it's that plus anything else. You've now appeared to be bewitched. It appears as though an evil spirit is at work. Why? Is because that is the gospel. It's faith in Christ. That's why Paul labored for two chapters. Laying out the foundation, faith in Christ, faith in Christ, faith in Christ, over and over again. So that then when he gets here, he's built that foundation, I bet As they were hearing this letter read aloud in church, they were going, yes, amen. Come on, Paul, bring it. Keep going. And then he got here And they then recognized that Paul had brought them in, drawn them in, and said, here's the foundation you believe, and here's where you have departed from the truth of the gospel. So the first truth that we must hold on to is that the gospel of Christ is simple. It's simple. We must rejoice in that truth. Now, how do we continue walking? How do we rest in our assurance that we live by faith? The second truth is we're reminded that one is born again and sustained in Christ by faith. You're born again and sustained in Christ by faith. Meaning, you don't keep your salvation by how obedient to the law you are. You don't keep your salvation according to your scripture reading plan. You don't keep your salvation according to how many good works you did throughout your life. Your salvation, your identity as a Christian was purchased and rooted in faith in Christ. That's what you were born into. And it's what sustains you in that. Let's look at verse 2. Through six. He says, Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? I love Paul's rhetoric here. Uh he's uh He's he's a master with logic. Right? Think about how good of a teacher he is right here. Because what he's doing is he's throwing out a softball question. one that already you already know the answer to, right? And he's saying, let me ask you this, only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with f faith? And and if I went around the room right now, we could all say, no, I've sinned. There's no way that I have been saved from my sins by my works, because I fail at my works. I fail in obedience to the law. I fail. Let's just take the Ten Commandments. If we just start working through that and and applying the the principles Jesus gave us on the Sermon of the Mount, all of us are guilty and have broken the law. So there's no hope here. So Paul knows the answer and he knows that you and I know the answer as well when he asks this question. So did you receive it? Receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing of faith? So were you born by works or by faith? We all stay with joy by faith. Good. Okay, so what Paul's doing now is he's driving us into this. He he's he's really he's fishing us in. Like he's He's he's cast the line, we're hooked on it, and now he's rearing reeling us in that we're going to understand the faults of our ways if we're following after works. And we're following after the Judaizers. So then in verse 3 he says, are you so foolish? Ah He's going to turn it on us here. Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, yes and amen, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Christian, are you thinking that you are so smart and you are so strong that yeah you needed God to save you, but after that you were good. You really think that's the case? That sure you couldn't save yourself, but but now you're perfected, right? Now you've got it all figured out. Now that was that was the one missing piece, you know, if you were building a Lego. uh said. It was just that one piece you needed. And then once God put in that one tiny little piece, you're so great and so grand that you're gonna accomplish it all on your own. That you can sustain yourself. That now all you gotta do is Keep the law and and you're gonna be with God in heaven. And Paul's pointing out that you're quite foolish if you're falling for that. Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Brothers and sisters, we aren't perfected by our works. If we could have been perfected by our works, we wouldn't have needed to be saved in the first place. So why then do we think that now we've been saved by the Spirit, we are born of a Spirit, now we can start working and walking and living by the flesh again? Paul loves this phrase. By no means should we fall for such a lie. We are alive in the Spirit, and we are made new in the Spirit, and we should be living by the Spirit. Verse 4 continues, Did you suffer so many things in vain? If indeed it was in vain, does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Just as Abraham believed, and it was counted to him as righteousness. So Paul just keeps asking these rhetorical questions. He knows the answer, and he knows that they know the answer. Well why is Paul doing this? Come on, Paul, be be a little bit nicer to the Galatians. Those poor guys, you know, they're just they're just trying to live their lives and and and and and be good Christians, right? That's really the issue we're dealing with here. Is that the Galatians are trying to be Christians. And they've allowed false teachers to come into their church and tell them that to be a real Christian, to be the extra holy, and spiritual Christian, now you must fulfill the law. It i it's such a a a sneaky attack of the enemy is because what it's doing is it's it's using good things and it's using good language And it's trying to build us up saying, okay, now you're going to be extra good. You're going to be extra holy. This is the pinnacle of Christianity, is you fulfilling the law. This group that had come into the church is known as the Judaizers. We've talked about this. Essentially what they were doing was they came in and they said, good, you guys have Christ. You've come to Christ. Good. Now Now this is the this is the true this is the true religion. Paul didn't give you all the details. Paul was withholding something from you. The true religion is that you have Christ and now you go back to the old law and you must fulfill the law. All the way down to the point that they were calling for the Gentiles to be physically circumcised. They're saying if you really want to be a Christian, if you really want to be extra holy, you gotta do this. You gotta be circumcised. You've got to keep the Sabbath perfectly. You've got to fulfill the law, you gotta do the feasts and the festivals. Friends, may we recognize and may we see the lie of the enemy there. May we see how small it may sound and appealing it is to you and I. That lie is appealing. That lie is appealing to me. Is it not? The idea that okay, I I have faith in Christ, I can I can I recognize that, I'm baptized in that, and now it's my turn. Now I gotta do something. The lie is working off of our pride. The lie is working off of the flesh nature that we must battle against every single day. The lie that if you just work hard enough, you'll make God more happy and you will keep your salvation The lie that if you break any aspect of the law, if you're not circumcised, if you don't keep the Sabbath, if you don't keep the feast, if you don't look just like Israel does. Then you're going to die and never be in the presence of God. Sure you had Jesus, but that wasn't enough, apparently. That lie can be very tempting to you and I. It it relies on our pride. It relies on the man-centric worship that we grew up in before our our souls were radically born again in Christ and his spirit. That lie is drawing all the way back to the garden where Adam and Eve f uh fell and sinned against the holy God. Is it not? Isn't it just a small tweak? Did he really say, don't you recognize that if you just eat of the fruit, you'll be more like God? Don't we all want to be more like God? This sounds good. This is the lie of the enemy. It's it's taking truth and twisting them just slightly that if you're not attentive, if you're not ready for it I if if you're not trusting the Lord and His Word and you're trusting systems and man and and the world around you, it's so easy to fall for that lie. And Paul is very concerned for the Galatians. He wants them to recognize that such a lie. If you think that you're keeping your salvation, if you think you are being sanctified by your own strength, Your own works. You are a fool. You've been bewitched. Friends, why is this good news for us Why is it good news that we are born again and sustained in Christ by faith? It's because it causes us to rely on our Lord and Savior more and more. If it if it was based off of our works, each and every single day you and I would lose lose our salvation. Every morning we would wake up and we'd have to re go through this process of having faith in Christ and then opening up the law and and going through the checklist of being obedient and then when we went to bed we'd probably lay in bed and go, I'm not too sure if I'm being sanctified because I'm not sure if I kept the law Perfectly. Friends, this should actually be encouraging to us that our growth as Christians, our maturing in the Lord, is based off of His work and His Spirit within us. Now, what's a caution I need to give here? And Paul gives this caution in Romans. Does this mean. If we are saved by faith and we are sustained by faith, does this then mean that it doesn't matter what we do here in this life? Keep sinning. Keep going on however you want. What does Paul say? By no means. Absolutely not. So now here's where we must wrestle with this, and it it shouldn't take much wrestling. It's the flesh we have to fight back. We are sustained and sanctified by the grace of God through his Spirit. Yet In our understanding in this world around us, the physical world we live in, we are being obedient to God. Alright, so there is an obedience to God that we have in the Christian life. That's why sanctification is the hating what God hates and loving what God loves. So, should you uh not murder your neighbor? This is an easy one. Should you murder your neighbor? Yes or no? No. Why The law of God. I like how you guys were very confident. Everyone else was a little, well, maybe, you know, maybe we could. No! We don't murder our neighbors. It's the law of God. So we walk in obedience. Now that one's maybe easy. That's you're going everyone follows that. Well, not everyone. But even the ungodly believe such a thing. Should we gather together with saints and worship the triune God? Yes or no? Yes. Oh, this is the catch, Anthony. See, that's works. You're doing that because you're trying to work and keep God's great pleasure. No. Why do we gather together and worship the Lord? It's because we recognize that we are born again and we are deeply, deeply in love with God, and He deserves our worship. And there's nothing more we can do. We come joyfully worshiping him. Should we read the Bible? Yes. Thank you, John. Yes, absolutely. Is this by works? Are you doing this so that you can get to heaven and say, God will let me in? I've read the entire Bible 30, 40, 50, 60 times. God just keeps you alive longer so you can read it more times, right? Isn't that the case? No. Once again, it's because we love God We're not reading. We don't pray. We don't serve the needy, help the poor, out of some some logical argument that we do this, then God's happy, and then He'll let us in and we can keep our salvation. And then we'll grow in Him if we do this? We do all these things which are good things because we are born again. And it's through faith We trust and we know that He is good. We trust and we know that He is our Father. We trust and know that Jesus has redeemed sinners like you and I. And now we live out this truth. You live it out. It's not by works, it's by faith. Brothers and sisters, if you think you can wake up tomorrow morning and live as a Christian by your own works, you're going to fail by about 9. 30. Give me a call. I promise you it may not even be that long. Some of you wake up by 9 15, so it'll be 9 20 by the time you call me It we can't do it. We must trust the Lord. And this gives us joy. This should give us passion when we wake up in the morning. is that I can live as a Christian. I can love my spouse. I can work with my coworkers. I can love my enemies. I can worship the Lord, I can read the Bible because of Christ's work on my behalf, because Christ has fulfilled the law, because of Christ's death on the cross, because of Christ's resurrection from the grave. Because of the spirit that Christ has given you and I. That's how we can do it. Not because of some greatness that we are, but because of the greatness of our Lord and Savior. This is the joy we have as Christians. Because of God, we then can live. Because of God, we will be like Christ. So don't allow it to be a conflict in your mind of works and faith. Have faith in God, and he will sanctify you to hate sin, hate his enemies, hate the things that he hates. And he will cause you to love him, love his works, love his commandments more and more. The third truth of the gospel that should encourage us to walk in faith each and every day is that man's identity is according to one's faith. Man's identity is according to one's faith. Now one of the things these Judaizers were doing when they were coming in They were preaching this false gospel. Alright, you have Christ plus you keep the law. Right? You have Christ plus you get circumcised, plus you keep the Sabbath, plus you keep this. And then you can trace your lineage through through a family tree, right? You've got to make sure your bloodline is somehow connected to Abraham You've got to make sure your bloodline is somehow connected to to ethnic Israel. And and if that's the case, I I know I have no hope, and I'm not sure if any of us have any hope. If our salvation that 's what Matt has two percent. Twenty-five percent. I'm pretty sure we're not supposed to boast in this. That's what I'm trying to preach through right now. But if our identity as Christian is based off of our blood type and our ethnicity, well friends, that's a narrow gospel, is it not? We we hate racism, don't we? And I hope you I hope you do. We would never we would never preach a gospel uh of well it's just for the white man. Right? This is this is one of the the travesties that we've seen throughout history that that certain groups have been said you are the group and and Christianity is just for you and then other groups are said nope you can't because of your skin tone because of the the land of which your forefathers grew up on. Well then why would we do it here with Israel? What Paul is drawing us to understand is who the true Jew is. What Paul wants us to understand That he has given God has given Abraham a great promise and God keeps his promises. Yes and amen. God keeps his promises. And he actually goes above and beyond what any one of us could comprehend that promise being. So when God promised Abraham that he would be the father of many sons, many sons had Father Abraham. I was one of them. So were you, right? We're getting our arms swinging now. Abraham was thinking in a very linear way that it's his bloodline. But praise be to God that through the blood of Christ Our genetic blood has no meaning on our salvation. And it never has had any meaning. Paul shows us that Abraham was mistaken if he thought that his salvation and his lineage was based off of blood alone. The only blood that matters is the blood of Christ, and we see that salvation, the identity of God's people, is not based off of ethnicity, but rather off of faith. So join me in verse 7 of Galatians 3. No Then that it is those of what? Blood? Faith. Who are the sons of Abraham? And the Scripture, foreseeing that God would justify the Gentiles. That's you and I, by faith, preach the gospel beforehand to Abraham, saying, In you shall how many nations? All All. All the nations be blessed. So then those who are of faith are blessed along with Abraham, the man of faith. This is why I read that section in Hebrews. I want us to understand that this isn't a radical change in God's plan. It's not like God had this plan A And then the garden failed. So then he went to plan B and then involved Israel and then that failed and now he moved on to plan C and it's it's by faith. No, God hasn't failed a single time in all of history. This has always been the plan. It's the promise God gave Abraham is that all the nations would be blessed through him. It's the promise that the Gentiles would come to him by faith And we recognize that the only way that Abraham is called righteous is by his faith. It was never about the works. It was never about obedience to the law. The law is a tutor showing us our problem. The law shows us our brokenness. The law points to our sinfulness. But it was never about accomplishment of the law. It has always been about faith in a holy God. Abraham is praised for having faith. And he is called the man of faith. Look with me in Romans chapter 2. Paul, once again, is driving home this understanding that it is the true Jew. The true children of God is those of faith. How can Paul do such a thing? It's because by human standards By Jewish standards, Paul was the poster child. He was the perfect image. He was the perfect Jewish man. He was going to be the perfect Jewish leader. But here, Paul, radically changed by the gospel, radically changed by experiencing Christ, by being born again, has come to faith in Christ, and now he wants everyone. As they say in the army, lati dadi, everybody to recognize that it is by faith alone. The true children of God is not based off of a physical sign or a physical bloodline, but through blood in Christ. So Romans chapter two, starting in verse twenty-five. For circumcision indeed is of value if you obey the law. But if you break the law, your circumcision becomes uncircumcision. So here's our first problem. No one has not broken the law. So now the physical circumcision is of no value to anyone. Verse 26. So if a man who is uncircumcised keep The precepts of the law, will not his uncircumcision be regarded as circumcision? Then he who is physically uncircumcised but keeps the law will condemn you who have the written code and circumcision but break the law. So Paul's trying to show the the conflict that Israel must wrestle with with the uncircumcised Gentiles, but what if they keep the law perfectly? But they aren't circumcised. And what if you are circumcised but you break the law? He's drawing out the issue here. Verse 28 For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly. And circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man but from God Verse 29, let me just read it again. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit. So how do you become a child of God? It's not by keeping the law. It's by the circumcision of the hearts. That the Spirit indwells us, rips out our heart of stone, and gives us a new and circumcised heart. Well, friends, your heart is of great value in your body if you did not know that. All of you are sitting in here with a beating heart. Some of you are sitting in here with a beating heart that has an extra device to give a little pump and a little juice to it, but all of us have a heart that is pumping. And moving. And the moment your heart stops, and it stops for a long time, that is the definition of being dead. Well, likewise, the spirit, our spiritual lives, our identity as Christians is the same. You have a new life in Christ, and you have a new heart, a new spirit. And that new spirit is what is pumping in your bodies. It's the very thing that is pumping and has given you life as a Christian. It's the very thing that keeps you alive and dwelling. It's the very thing that keeps you moving and functioning as a Christian. So friends, brothers, sisters, beloved. Recognize that your identity as a child of God is not based off of ethnicity or bloodline, but it's based off of the blood of Christ, your faith in him has given you a new heart. And why is this good news for us? Why must we remember this truth? is because now you live as a child of God. We don't need to do ancestry. com and figure out your genealogy. That's fun to do, but that has nothing to do with your identity in Christ We don't need to pull out books and I don't need to go through your journals and see what are all your deepest and darkest thoughts and make sure that you've perfected the law. No, that's not how we live as Christians. I don't need to s hand you a test of a hundred multiple choice questions and then fifty uh essay questions and and go through a theological debate and argument to make sure you have everything lined up just perfectly. No, brothers and sisters, this is the beauty of this gospel. That the gospel of Christ is simple. We are born and sustained by faith in Christ alone And our identity as Christians, our identity as children of God is based off of our faith alone. Let's enjoy this. Let's live happy lives in this. Let us seek to grow and understand this identity of faith and who this God is more and more. But may we rest assured that we have been saved by our Lord and Savior. We will be sustained by the power of the Spirit, and we will enter into glory to worship and dwell with the triune and living God into Eternity. Let's go before Him in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of the gospel. A gospel that has saved sinners like us. Lord, may we never lose sight of this. May we never try to make it about works. May we never Try to base our identity as Christians off of our good deeds and our good works, but may we rest in our identity in Christ alone. And Lord, may we recognize this new spirit. May we see the new creation that we are. May it drive us and motivate us to live as Christians in every aspect of our lives. And may we give you glory Every morning, every night, and every time in between. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.