Welcome. Glad to see you. Let's begin with a prayer, okay? Father, we ask that you would teach us your word this evening. Help us to grow in our understanding. Help us to grow in the grace of Jesus Christ. And Father, we pray by your Spirit and by the truth that you've given us that you'd further strengthen us in our faith, further sanctify us in holiness, and further prepare us. for the work at hand, that we may serve you well, serve you faithfully, serve you joyfully, serve you with excellence and dedication. Father, we pray use us For your purposes, for your kingdom, for your name, for your glory in this world, Father, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, we're talking about Israel and the kingdom of God. Okay? Israel and the kingdom of God. Lots to say for introduction. When I say Israel, what I mean just baseline reference to Israel as a nation under the old covenant. Okay? And I'll expand on that definition in in A few moments. And the kingdom of God, what I'm referring to, is the church age. Believers who are Under and in the new covenant in Christ. So Israel and the church. Let's begin with John 1, 11 through 13. Just as a starting point, John one, eleven through thirteen, he, Jesus, came to his own And his own people did not receive him. Now it's referring to Israel. But now that should intrigue you a bit because the first believers were Within Israel, there were Jewish believers, his first disciples. So it's not absolute in what it's saying here. He's not saying that no one in all of Israel received him. But in general, he came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him , Then he defines what that means. Who believed in his name? He gave the right to become children of God. And see now that's the issue. Who is a child of God? And the answer is Those who believe in Jesus Christ. He gave the right to become children of God who were born not of blood. nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. It's not in earthly categories It's not by any category of the flesh, a physical heir of Abraham does not make one a child of God. Being a ethnic Jew, it an Israelite in terms of the nation does not make you a child of God. You must believe in Jesus Christ, who were born not of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man. Salvation is Something that is given to us, but it is not it does not arise From within our own power and strength and wisdom. It's a gift given to us, but of God. But of God. And so just in general terms, you have Israel Not receiving Christ, but we know that some did receive Christ, and all who received Christ by faith, those are the children of God. So, this uh topic that we we were on last week, the kingdom of God or the kingdom of heaven, and we're we're on it again this week. And I had intended for this to be the last class on the kingdom of God, but I w I would like, and I probably will do one more, a survey through the Gospel of Matthew. And um I'm not sure about that yet. But this is so important, and the reason I want to spend so much time on it and look at it from s for from some different angles is it's the most important thing going on in the world. It's the most exciting thing going on in the world. Is Jesus Christ as King of redemption? King of heaven who is advancing his kingdom through local churches and you and I get to have a part in that, in our local church here. And it's much more tell me if this is an understatement, it's much more exciting than movies. It's much more exciting than sports, than television, than good food, than good desserts. And you know me, I love good desserts. But all of these uh other things out in the world, the lobby for our attention and for our affections and for our energy and for our schedule, the kingdom of God we must seek first, the kingdom of God. And God's righteousness. And God will take care of everything else. And so this is practical, and it needs to be practical. We're not just talking about some abstract philosophy. We're talking about what God is doing, the reign of God. He's brought us into his kingdom. He's given us a kingdom. He's pleased to give us a kingdom. And it is not in its final form of glory yet, but the kingdom of God has come So, I hope you will hear these things and apply them to your heart and apply them to your life as I try to do as best as I can for my own account Okay, Israel and the kingdom of God. Kingdom of God, summary definition. See if you remember this. God's saving reign in Christ Okay, God's saving reign in Christ. In Genesis 3:15, after the fall into sin and corruption and death, God promised a redeemer He promised a Savior. The rest of the Bible is the story of how God develops and works out and ultimately fulfills that promise of a Savior. in Christ. I wanted to read one more passage by way of introduction for the kingdom of God, and then we'll talk about a more specific definition of Israel. And that is 1 Corinthians 15, 22 through 26. 1 Corinthians 15, 22 through 26. For as in Adam all die, so also in Christ shall all be made alive. And that's talking about the final resurrection. But each in his own order. See, Paul's talking about the order of things. Christ, the first fruits, he's already been resurrected, and then at his coming, those who belong to Christ But when he comes, those who belong to Christ will come to partake in the glory of bodily resurrection. Christ the first fruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ. Then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom of God The king when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power, for he must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. When he comes, and upon the resurrection, when the end comes, is when Christ delivers the completed kingdom over to the Father. And the reason I keep going back to this passage to highlight it is just to highlight the the fact, the historical reality that the kingdom of God exists Now. Christ is advancing his kingdom now. He's subduing his enemies now. And he'll continue to do that until the end. So that's the kingdom of God, God's saving reign in Christ. And every time a sinner gets saved, that's Christ expanding his kingdom. Israel. Israel, right? Because that's our topic. Israel and the kingdom of God. I already said uh earlier that the baseline definition for How I'm referring to Israel right now is the nation of Israel under the old covenant given at Sinai. Let me expand upon that just a little bit. Israel we can call a nation, a geopolitical nation. It was a theocracy. God was the king. A nation chosen by God. Created by God to be heirs of, to be stewards of the promises of God's kingdom And now there's one more part to this definition, then it's very important, and this is a long definite definition. I'll read it again, but it's so important Here's the last part of it, okay? A nation chosen and created by God to be heirs of the promises of the kingdom, to be stewards of the promises of the kingdom, and through which God will establish his kingdom on earth. It's through the nation of Israel that the promised Redeemer will come. It's in the nation of Israel that the promised Redeemer will come. The saving reign of God in Christ is established from the Redeemer coming in and through Israel, and he establishes the kingdom, and then that kingdom expands and spreads to the Gentiles. That's the story of Scripture. So Israel, a nation chosen and created by God, to be to be the heirs , recipients, to receive The promises of God's kingdom established by a Redeemer, to uh be the stewards of those promises Having the oracles of God, having the temple ministry in all the different ways God established Um establish them as a people under the old covenant. And then through this nation, Israel, God is going to establish his kingdom on earth, and he does that in and through Christ. This is why we celebrate Christmas. Because Israel's Savior had come. And that Savior was a savior not just of Israel, but of the world, the Gentile nations as well. And so, yes, it was fitting that angels filled the sky and sang hymns to God and his glory, celebrating the good news. So we're thinking timeline, generally speaking, when we when we talk about Israel as a nation under the old covenant from the Exodus to the the coming of Christ. Generally speaking, okay, there's some historical details at the beginning of that and the end of that. But if you just want the general picture, this is from the Exodus when God brings the people of Israel out of Egypt. They're no longer slaves. They're an independent people. They're not yet in their land. But they this is when God begins to make them into a nation. And then Christ comes. So, Israel and the kingdom of God. Now, what we're focusing on tonight is the relationship between Israel, the nation, and the kingdom fulfilled in the church age. So, we have these two items, right? Israel and the kingdom of God. The focus is the relationship between Israel, the nation, and the kingdom fulfilled in the church age. And I'll say some things, just principles, and then what I have for us is three did I add one at the end? Well Four points with passages to look at. There's going to be a lot of passages to look at. We have to see the passages. We can get the overarching picture of this relationship between Old Covenant Israel and New Covenant Church here in the kingdom age. So the first principle is this. There's going to be continuity and also discontinuity. Continuity means it's not a completely new story that's happening in the church. It's this it's a new phase of the same story. There's a connection. There's continuity, but there's also discontinuity. There are real changes This is the next level of progression of God's purpose and plan of redemption. There's continuity and discontinuity. And the way we can think about it is it m history, the the history of redemption moves from promise to fulfillment. Promise under the old covenant to fulfillment in the new covenant. It moves from types and shadows that prefigured Christ types and shadows that foreshadowed Christ, that's why they're called shadows, to the reality and the substance in Christ. So continuity, but also discontinuity. It's the same story, but there's real change. The story unfolds. The story progresses. The story uh advances. From promise to fulfillment and from types and shadows to reality and substance in Christ. It is not the church age, God's saving reign in Christ as we know it It's not the beginning of a new story, of a new plan, of a new purpose. It's the fulfillment, it's the culmination, it's the climax of the same story. That's been building, that had been building all throughout scripture, all throughout history. Okay, now let's be specific and we're going to Give these major headings and then again look at passages. Okay, so be ready to flip. Does that sound good? Alright, it's not enough To say that Israel rejected their Messiah. It's not enough to say that Israel rejected their Messiah. Now, um you've read the story, and I've read the story, and we just that's why we began with the verse in John 1, 11 through 13. In some sense they did. In some sense they did. But it's not that's not the only thing that happens in the New Testament. It's not that's not enough to say that Unbelievers in Israel rejected their Messiah. Believers in Israel received their Messiah The critical distinction is between unbelievers who reject the Messiah who has come and believers who receive the Messiah who has come. That's the conflict and tension in the gospel narratives. John 1, 11 through 13 He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. See, we have to say that. Scripture says that. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Who were born not of blood, not of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. There's the uh uh uh an important word in the Old Testament in prophecy That starts with an R. Pastor John and I were talking about it this morning. It's called the remnant. There's a remnant in Israel. A remnant Chosen by God. A remnant chosen by God's grace, a remnant representing believers within Israel. And so unbelievers in Israel. did not receive Christ as the fulfillment of God's promise of a Savior. But believers did. Those who were circumcised in their heart did receive him. Not all citizens In Israel as a nation were true children of God. Romans 2, 28 and 29. Romans 2 Twenty eight and twenty-nine Now you help me with this if this isn't quite clear enough for us. Romans 2, 28. For no one is a Jew who is merely one. outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart. By the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. Now, there are other passages that we're going to look at, but let's pause and read over that verse again. Let your eyes wander to the surrounding context if you'd like. But this is why it's not enough to say that Israel rejected their Messiah, because within outward Israel, and that's what he says outward , Within outward Israel is a remnant of believing Israel. A true Jew is one who is inwardly circumcised. It's a it's a heart matter, it's a matter of the spirit, and it's an inward matter. He says all of those things in this very brief passage. And so when we talk about things things being fulfilled in the church as spiritual realities, we're not taking the principle from outside the scripture and and then um Spiritualizing things. No, it's just what the scripture teaches. This is a spiritual reality that's in view And of course it's very simple, those who believe in Christ and receive him as cr as as Savior, as their Messiah. So one is not a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. That's interesting because if We were to ask, what's the nature of circumcision? We'd think that's outward, that's physical. No, but that's only representing uh a greater reality, an inward circumcision, circumcision of the heart. Now flip over two pages to Romans 4. Eleven and twelve. Romans four, eleven and twelve, talking about Abraham and Abraham's Faith and salvation and conversion. He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness he had by faith While he was still uncircumcised. So he had faith before he was circumcised. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe without being circumcised. So that the righteousness would be counted to them as well. So now uh he's the father of all who believe Without even if they're not circumcised, without being circumcised. And, verse 12, and to make him the father of the circumcised. Who are not merely circumcised, there's that word merely again, not merely circumcised, but who also walk in the footsteps of faith. That our Abraham had before he was circumcised. Now, this is important because this is Abraham is is before or after Israel as a nation. It's before. So these principles are, again, continuity throughout as the story progresses and develops in different stages or different eras. But the key the key point and the central point is easy and it's um It's easy and it's obvious and it's this. Faith. Faith in Christ from the heart. Faith in Christ from the heart. And so circumcision is an outward sign and seal of an inward reality. And Romans 9, 6 to 8 Romans nine six to eight Sometimes we think that in the Old Testament or under the Old Covenant, people were saved by works, or at least halfway saved by works. Or saved by religion, or halfway saved by religion. That has never been the case. Works have never contributed to the grace of God to help save a sinner. Religion has never contributed to help save a sinner. Salvation has always been a matter of the heart, always been a matter of faith in the promises of God. Faith in God. Romans 9. 6 through 8. But it is not as though the word of God has failed. Here's an important statement. This is an underlying principle, underlying fact of everything else that Paul is saying in this In this section of Scripture, not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. Not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. So some are only some only belong to Israel outwardly, but not inwardly. Right? Some only have circumcision outwardly, but not inwardly. Not all who are descended from Israel, belong to Israel. Now everyone who is a citizen of a of that nation is a believer in Christ. And that's why it's not enough to say Israel rejected their Messiah. Unbelieving Israelites rejected the Messiah. But as you as we continue through the New Testament, we find out that they are not true spiritual Israelites. They're unbelievers. Um Galatians six five. Galatians six five Now Galatians is shorter than Romans, and if you're wanting a primer on this topic by going to Scripture first, Galatians is Probably your best place to go. Not the only place to go, but you in terms of getting the whole book of of Galatians and a really concise treatment of this, you can start there and follow your marginal references. Galatians No, I must have been copying my notes too quickly. What's that? Yeah, I'm that's what I'm checking now. It should be earlier. I mean it should be somewhere in the end of Should be somewhere in three and four. Let's find it. Yeah, five six. Did I just write it backwards? Let me correct this on my notes. Five six. Thank you. In Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor circumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. So it's not the outward Signs, it's not the outward old covenant, shadows and types, it's the inward reality of faith that then expresses itself and works through love. Let's go to John 8. John Eight, thirty nine John 8 39 They answered him. Now these are the Jews that are answering Jesus. They answered him. Abraham is our father. And Jesus said to them, if you were Abraham's children, which implies what? They're not Abraham's children. So Jesus is agreeing with them or disagreeing with them when they said Abraham's their father. He's disagreeing with them. If you were Abraham's children, you would be doing the works Abraham did, which were works that came out of a saving faith. Right? Not works that saves him, works that were expressions of a saving faith. You would be doing the works of that Abraham did, but now you seek to kill me. A man who has told you the truth that I heard from God. This is not what Abraham did. You are doing the works Your father did. And they said to him, we were not born of sexual immorality. So a slander against Christ. We have one father, even God. So first they said Abraham's their father. Jesus said no, he's not. Now they're saying God is their father. Jesus said to them, If God were your father, which implies what? God is not their father, you would love me. For I came from God and I am here. I came because you cannot bear to hear my word. You are of your father. Now it's been building to this. Because they think they know who their father is, who their spiritual allegiance is to. And they were wrong. You're of your father, the devil. And your will is to do your father's desires. He was a murderer from the beginning and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. But because I tell you the truth, you do not believe me. Which one of you convicts me of sin? And then it it goes the uh exchange goes on. Ultimately, this is where Jesus says, before Abraham was, I am. Okay. But you see that there Their heritage, their lineage, their citizenship in Israel as a geopolitical nation means nothing when it comes to their relationship with God. They must have faith in the heart. That should that should not be controversial for us. That should not shock us. That should be that should be so well known and accepted that it should almost be a a Boring, dull point to hear that. Well, of course they have to have faith. Of course, you can't be saved just by Being a physical descendant of Abraham, or by being a citizen of Israel as a nation. You must believe in Christ. You must receive Christ. And that's still true today, and it was true even before this day when Jesus said it to them in their present presence. You must have faith in Christ. And so Actually I'm going to pause for questions if you have a relevant question so I can wet my whistle. But to conclude this section That it's not enough to say that Israel rejected their Messiah because uh unbelievers in Israel rejected the Messiah, but believers Israelite believers received their Messiah and believed in him. Some were saved. And Jesus does not come Try to fulfill the promises of God, but fails and has to take a left turn. He does not come and try to establish the kingdom that was promised to and through Israel. But fails and has to come up with the plan B. That is not what happens. He comes, he fulfills the promises of God, he establishes the kingdom of God. And true children of God, believers in the Lord Jesus Christ, are those who comprise that kingdom. Any questions? All right, we'll press on. So, secondly There's another R word that's important that Pastor John and I chatted a little bit about today. It's the word replace. Sometimes the word replace gets used. When we talk about the relationship between church the church and Israel, and we have to clarify the truth, the biblical truth on this point as best we can. It's not that the church replaces Israel. All right. Believing, here's the case. Believing Israelites receive the promised kingdom. They receive it in Christ. They receive it in salvation. The believing Israelites receive the promised kingdom, and then Gentiles are brought in as co-heirs with them. Co -heirs is the operative word. Believing Israelites received Christ, they received the promised kingdom, they received the promised salvation, and then Gentiles are brought in as co-heirs with them. Now I have um a bunch of passages That teach this. So it's it's not sufficient either to say that the church replaces Israel. That's not what happens. Some specific things about the new covenant in the old and compared to the old covenant There is a replacement that happens. For instance, the organization and arrangement of the kingdom. A geopolitical nation as the manifestation of God's kingdom is replaced with local churches scattered all over the world organization. of the kingdom on earth. So that's but that's a specific thing. When we're talking about the people who make up the kingdom, the word replace does not tell it's it's not adequate. It's not the right word because believing Israelites received the kingdom that God had promised to them, and Christ comes and brings that kingdom And then Gentiles are brought in as co-heirs. Now, Ephesians 2 is a good passage on this. Ephesians 2, 11 through 22, a lengthy passage. Ephesians two, beginning in verse eleven. Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh Called the uncircumcision by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hand. So just notice that he's talking to Gentiles. Right? Gentiles in the flesh. At one time. Remember, verse 12, that you were at one time separated from Christ Alienated from the Commonwealth of, everyone say it aloud, Israel, one time alienated from that nation, from that commonwealth, and strangers to the what? Covenants of promise, strangers. One time they were strangers and and therefore having no hope and without God in the world. But now, see now, here 's the change. You at one time this, at one time this, at one time this But now in Christ Jesus, in Christ Jesus, you who are once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace. He has made us both one. Who's the both? Jew and Gentile. Jew and Gentile, he has made us both one. You, Gentiles in the flesh, you once were far off, but he's now made you one with believing Israel, true Israel, in Christ. He's made us both one, and he's broken down in his flesh Alluding to the death of Christ , the dividing wall of hostility By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that's referring to the old covenant that was given to Israel. Israel was consecrated, they were set apart, they were chosen. They were unique. They were God's special people, one nation in the midst of other nations. But that dividing wall of hostility has been destroyed. That barrier has been destroyed by Christ. That he might that he might create in himself one new man in the place of the two, so making peace. I'll stop on that one too. What vivid imagery is this? You start with two, Jew and Gentile, but Christ now has created one new man out of the two. The two have been made one. And verse 16, and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. Well, that should be clear to us what's happening here. Christ comes, he saves Jew and Gentile alike, reconciling them together in one body, in one man. Reconciling us to God as one man. Alright, let me see. Uh I'd like to read through twenty-two. I'll try to go more quickly. For through him we both have access in one spirit to the Father. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens, fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God, built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, Christ Jesus himself being the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord, that's the church. The holy temple in the Lord is the church. comprised of Jew and Gentile, believing Jew and believing Gentile, brought together in Christ, the household of God on earth. In him you are also being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. So that paragraph is so wonderful because it starts with the situation of the Gentile as as still alienated from the promises, alienated from Israel, alienated from God, no hope in the world. strangers to the covenants, but then in Christ brought in and made fellow heirs of the covenant promises. With believing Jews. And then and then he ends with this, and that's the church. That's the church. This is the church age This is the kingdom of God. Jew and Gentile, heirs of God's promise of redemption. Now, let's go to our next passage, John 10. Oh, back to John. John 10, you should know, as the chapter where Jesus says, I am the Good shepherd. That's the Good Shepherd one. John ten. Now that's not all he says in John chapter ten. John ten plucking fourteen through sixteen out He says, I'm the good shepherd, I know my own, and my own know me, just as the Father knows me, and I know the Father, and I lay my life down for the sheep. And I have other sheep that are not of this fold. This fold is Israel, believing Israel, and other sheep be the Gentiles. I must bring them also. They will listen to my voice. So there will be one flock and one shepherd. One flock and one shepherd. For this reason the Father loves me, because I lay down my life that I may take it up again. And that's exactly what he did. He laid down his life to make atonement. He took it up again. Of course he had to be risen. He had to be risen. He could not be abandoned to the grave because he was righteous. And what is God's what is God's promise under the law? Disobedience leads to death. Obedience and righteousness leads to life. So he could not be left in the grave. He was righteous and he was holy and he received the reward and he shares that reward with Jew and Gentile to all who would come to him through faith and repentance. Uh Roman let's go back to Romans now. Okay. This is one of the most controversial you always have to say this whenever you go to anywhere in Romans 9 through 11, all right? You have to give a disclaimer And I don't think it's inappropriate. Give you a little bit of banter as we get there. Romans 11, 1 and 2 first. And we'll look at a few different passages from there. From this uh chapter. But it's a difficult section of scripture. There's lots of controversy, lots of debate, lots of different views. So we cannot talk about everything. But there's uh some things we have to talk about. We already looked at a passage in Romans nine, six to eight, where it says not who not all who are from Israel are actual Israelites. And we know Paul had argued that early in Romans in chapter two. Chapter 4, a true Jew is one who is a Jew inwardly circumcised of the heart. And so he returns to this topic in the in a more explicit and detailed way. In Romans 11, 1 through 2, I ask then, has God rejected his people? That's a relevant question. Has God rejected his people? What's implied there is this: has he rejected Israel and saved the Gentiles? By no means. By no means. I myself am an Israelite, a descendant of Abraham, a member of the tribe of Benjamin. God has not rejected his people whom he foreknew. Do you not know? What the scripture says of Elijah, how he appeals to God against Israel. Lord, they have killed your prophets. They demolish your altars, and I alone am left, and they seek my life. But what what was God's reply to him? I have kept for myself. So who did the keeping? Who did the keeping, the nation or the God of the nation? The God of the nation. I have kept for myself seven thousand men who have not bowed the knee to Baal, so too at the present time there is a remnant chosen by grace. God has not rejected his people, whom he has foreknown. Now I'll go to verse seven. And I implore you to go back and read 9 through 11 carefully on your own for a one-hour class trying to look at different things we don't have time to look at at all. Verse 7, what then? What then? Israel failed to obtain what it was seeking. The elect obtained it, but the rest were hardened. They were hardened in their heart. So I was making earlier the distinction between believing Israelites who did receive their Messiah, who were born of God, and unbelieving Israelites who rejected the Messiah, who were not born of God. Here you have those who are elect and obtained what was promised, a remnant chosen by grace, and you have those who were hardened in their hearts and rejected Christ. Also look at verse eleven. So I ask, did they stumble in order that they might fall? So is the is does that mean that there's no hope? For any Israelite who would have been a believer, an unbeliever at that time, or an Israelite who's an unbeliever today. By no means. Through their trespass, salvation has come to the Gentiles, so as to make Israel jealous. Now, if their trespass means riches for the world, the salvation going to all the nations is riches. And if their failure means riches for the Gentiles, how much more were will their full inclusion mean? So there are still Israelites repenting, coming to Christ, being saved. Gaining that full inclusion in the kingdom of God. And our final passage here is verses 16 16 through 18. We looked at those metaphors in Ephesians 2, the one new man in Christ, one body in Christ. Here the illustration will be an olive tree. Okay? An olive tree. Verse 16. If the dough offered as first fruits is holy, So is the whole lump. Uh I don't have time to f uh e expound on that, but the dough offered as first fruits is referring to the patriarchs who originally were set apart for God and given the promises of a kingdom, the promises of salvation. So think Abraham, Isaac, Jacob, the dough offered as first fruits, so is the whole lump. Right, the nation of Israel, and all who would inherit those promises throughout the ages. If the root is holy, so are the branches. So you have root and branches. A holy root and a ho and holy branches. But if some branches were broken off, okay, so you have some branches broken off. Think unbelieving Israelites who rejected the Messiah broken off. And you, and as Jesus would say to them in the gospels, therefore the kingdom is being taken away from you. Okay? Broken off, and you, although a wild olive shoot Gentiles were grafted in among the others, and now share in the nourishing root of the olive tree. Share In the nourishing roots of the olive tree, share in the nourishing root, share in the covenant promises of salvation and of God's kingdom. Gentiles are are grafted into the olive tree of true Israel. It's not a different tree. Unbelieving branches are broken off. Believing Gentiles are grafted in. So there's one man, one body, Ephesians 2, Romans 11, one tree. And he goes on to say, verse 18, we're not to be arrogant toward those branches who are cut off. If you are, remember, it's not you who support the root, but the root who supports you. Bran uh the and branches representing unbelieving Israelites can be grafted back in. But only in Christ, only in Christ. That's always, always the issue. This is not about geopolitical issues. This is about finding salvation in Christ. This is the kingdom of God. This is our message. This is what we're about. We have a gospel call for everyone. For everyone. Jew, Gentile, alike. Final passage on this point. It's not that the church replaces Israel, but that believing Israelites receive the promised kingdom and Gentiles are brought in as co-heirs. Co- hyphen airs. Matthew eight, ten through twelve. Matthew eight, ten through twelve It's a Roman Centurion who comes and asks for a miracle. This is at the end of that story. Uh when when Jesus is make gonna make a comment, going to make a comment about his faith, when Jesus heard this He marveled and said to those who followed him, Truly I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith. I tell you, many will come from east and west and recline. At table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven While the sons of the kingdom, sons of the kingdom, will be thrown into the outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. And so just notice a few things. He's it's an amazing faith that God has given to this Gentile man, this Roman Centurion. Jesus does not say that um Uh that there's no faith in Israel. He's uh emphasizing the strength and the depth and the wonder. Of this man's faith, though he is a Gentile, in comparison to that which And then he says in verse 11 Many will come from east and west, uh representing Gentiles from everywhere, and recline At the table with. So think uh think of that illustration from Romans 11. The first fruits are holy, the root is holy. These are the patriarchs. And those who come from the east and west and come into the kingdom of God in Christ are at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. And we touched on this last week. Remember the kingdom of heaven is a present reality that's already established, but it's not yet in its full and final form. And I believe this here is previewing and looking forward to the kingdom, the eternal kingdom, in its full and final form. But you still have the same point that I'm trying to emphasize tonight. It's one kingdom, one table, one set of promises, one salvation, in one Christ. There's one people of God created and comprised of Jew and Gentile. And then this is amazing, sons of the kingdom thrown into outer darkness. That's referring to unbelieving Israelites So they're sons of the kingdom outwardly. I'll step back and Then maybe we can picture a few different major eras, not the only eras, because we're because the Bible doesn't begin with Israel as a nation, right? That's That comes some sometime into the Bible. But when we begin with the nation of Israel is the way God organized and arranged his kingdom under the old covenant. Just being a citizen in that nation, I mean read the bot, read the Old Testament, it's on every page. Just being a citizen of that nation did not make you a believer. He could have been a believer, but it would have been by faith in God's promise in God's promises of a redeemer, in God's mercy. It would not have been just by going through the motions of religion or just by being an ethnic descendant of Abraham. So that's the way the kingdom was organized under the old covenant, a nation, a geopolitical nation. But when Christ comes And he comes in and through Israel as a under the law, born under the law, a citizen of Israel, a faithful Jew. He establishes the kingdom, and it's now arranged in local churches, spread all over the globe, comprised of Jew and Gentile, the kingdom of God. So there is a change that happens. But there's continuity and there's discontinuity. And the kingdom of God is not yet in its full and final glorious form, but it one day will be Alright, next major point. And I'm just going to give you the cross-references on these, and then you can look them up on your own. Alright? Does that sound good? Is that fair And it's on record, so if you don't have to write them down, you can just go on the computer, go on the website, go on sermon audio, go on Facebook, and if you don't write all these down, you'll have the cross references. So the church Which is comprised of believers from all nations, all nations, the church is the spiritual Fulfillment, and it's the end time fulfillment, the spiritual fulfillment of what Israel, the nation Foreshadowed and prefigured. The church, the kingdoms, the kingdom as it's organized now is the spiritual fulfillment of what Israel, the nation, foreshadowed and prefigured. We have to think in terms of promise and fulfillment, in terms of shadows and types, and then the reality and the substance coming to fruition in Christ. And I'm going to give you four cross-references here. Really helpful cross-references to understand how the church is the spiritual fulfillment. of what Israel as a geopolitical nation foreshadowed and prefigured. So letter A , the New Testament calls the church the Israel of God. The Israel of God, Galatians 6. 16. And then your secondary references will be Galatians 3. 7. And three nine and three twenty-nine and thirty, but Galatians six 15 and 16 is where that phrase is used. The Israel of God. Letter B. The church is the temple of God. It is the temple of God. The old covenant temple. Foreshadowed the New Covenant Temple, just as the Old Covenant Kingdom foreshadowed the New Covenant Kingdom. Shadow fulfillment. 1 Corinthians 3, 16 and following. Let us see. Oh, we're going to this one. Hebrews 12, 22. Hebrews 12, 22. The church is. Actually we're going to both on this one. We have the time. Even if we didn't I think you can see it on my face that we're going to look at these two cross references, if there's anything else we do today. And the first one is Hebrews 12, 22. The church is the new Jerusalem and has come to the mountain of God, the new mountain of God. Now, currently, presently. Hebrews twelve 22, but you have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem. That is a church reality. Spiritual Mount Zion. So Mount Zion Foreshadowed Mount Zion was uh representative of the mountain of God, the dwelling place of God, where the city of God was, where God was, where his people assembled. But that is fulfilled spiritually in the church. You've come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem And to innumerable angels and festival gathering, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. You see this? Heaven, heavenly And to God, to the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than that of Abel. So spiritual realities in the kingdom under the New Covenant fulfill Old Covenant typological realities. And that's why the New Testament uses This language. The church is the Israel of God. The church is the temple of God. The church is the new Jerusalem. The church has come to the new Mount Zion. You are a heavenly assembly. And finally, letter D, the church is the new priesthood of God. 1 Peter 2. 9. 1 Peter 2. 9, the church is the new priesthood of God. And um I wanted to read a second cross-reference on church as New Jerusalem. Galatians four twenty six It's so hard to pick out the passages for all of these points tonight because they're all over the New Testament in different ways from different angles. I'm just trying to pick the most explicit ones and the ones that are easiest to get at. Galatians four twenty -six But the Jerusalem above is free And she is our mother. The Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. And you'll have to Go back and read this section from 21 through 31, but he's talking about two covenants, the old covenant under the law and the new covenant in Christ. And the church corresponds to the new covenant and is referred to as the Jerusalem above, the heavenly Jerusalem, the New Jerusalem. He's talking about the church. The old covenant, organization, and arrangement of the kingdom in a nation is fulfilled. in the New Covenant, arrangement and organization in local churches spread all over the earth comprised of Jew and Gentile, with no difference between the two. And so when you think of it in that terms, it's pretty simple. Old covenant organization and arrangement, nation, new covenant fulfillment. Uh arrangement, organization, local churches. I keep repeating this because it's so important. And this is this is what we're about here. We're about local churches. Spread all over the earth, and they'll they're comprised of Jew and Gentile, people from all tribes, languages, nations Number four, Christ, here's what I want us to in our hearts grasp and find joy and hope in and security in this. Christ did fulfill God's promises of salvation for both Jew and Gentile. Christ Did bring the kingdom of heaven to earth, not yet in its final form, but really and truly If you read, I'll give you this challenge. Read Luke 1 and 2 and all the different songs and prayers of Zechariah and Simeon and Mary. And you'll see this theme of they're so happy. That God has come in fulfillment of his promises to Israel to bring them salvation, to establish his kingdom. And also you'll see that he's brought that salvation and kingdom for Gentiles as well. So Luke 1 and 2, and I'll close this with a reading from Galatians 3, 15, and 16. Galatians 3 Fifteen and sixteen. To give a human example, brothers, even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. Now the promises, the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring, promises of a kingdom, promises of redemption. It does not say unto offsprings, referring to many, but referring to one, and to your offspring, who is Christ? Christ is the is the true Israel. Christ establishes the kingdom. Christ receives the promise Of life. And Christ is the one who brings Jew and Gentile into God's eternal kingdom. This is how the New Testament begins, Matthew 1. 1. uh uh the genealogy of Jesus, the Christ, the son of Abraham, the son of David. He's the heir to the promises of Abraham, he's the heir to the promises of David. Those promises are about redemption, those promises are about the kingdom of God. He establishes that kingdom, he receives that kingdom and all of its glorious resurrection, life, and benefits, and he shares that kingdom with anyone who would come to him in faith and repentance. The dividing wall has been destroyed. And God has brought Jew and Gentile together in one man, in one body, in one olive tree, sitting at one table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for salvation. Thank you for Jesus Christ. Help us to seek first your kingdom and your righteousness. Anything else you uh add to us or take away from us, we're trusting in you. Father, we give our lives to you. Help us to give our lives to you. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.