Well, let's go ahead and take our Bibles and go to the book of 1 John, chapter 2. This morning we're looking at 1 John 2, 7 through 11. Remember this series is confidence in Christ, looking at this theme throughout 1 John of confidence in Christ. And what does that mean? It means that if you've come to Christ in faith, you can have a hundred percent confidence That all of your sins have been forgiven. And it means if you've come to Christ in faith, you can have confidence that you have a relationship with God that can never be taken away from you. Praise God, brothers and sisters. for this confidence in Christ. It means if you have come to Christ in faith, you can have a hundred percent confidence that you have received The gift of eternal life. You've received the gift of eternal life, the greatest gift you could ever receive, to be experienced in two stages. You have already possessed eternal life inwardly. And in the age to come, you'll experience and possess the full blessings, the full heavenly riches of eternal life with the resurrection body in the presence of God forever. When we say confidence in Christ, we're not saying that you'll always feel that confidence in Christ the way you ought. But that you'll know that when you're doubting, you can come back to Christ as the basis for your confidence And when you're despairing, you can come back to Christ as the basis of your confidence. If we're lacking in our confidence, if we're not experiencing that confidence that we have in Christ, we're doubting or we're lacking assurance. We don't try harder to have confidence. We don't try harder to have assurance. We come back to the promises of Jesus Christ. In him we have forgiveness, a relationship with God, and the gift of eternal life. There's no aspect of Christian living that we live out perfectly. And our confidence in Christ is on that list. But when we're lacking, we come back to the foundation. We come back to the cornerstone of Christ. 1 John 2 7 through 11. We must love each other. There you go. How's that for a summary to the message? Brothers and sisters, we must love each other. Love is a requirement in the Church of God. 1 John 2 1 through 7, or 1 John 2, 7 through 11, rather, and then I'll pray for us. Here's what John writes. Beloved. I am writing you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard. At the same time, it is a new commandment that I am writing to you, which is true in him and in you, because The darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. Whoever says he is in the light and hates his brother is still in the darkness. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light. And in him there's no cause for stumbling. But whoever hates his brother is in the darkness, and walks in the darkness, and does not know where he is going, because the darkness has blinded his eyes. Whoever loves his brother, verse 10, whoever loves his brother abides in the light. Let's pray together. Father, once again we come to your word, and I pray you would stir our hearts up to receive your word with faith. With humility, with joy and gratitude, with a great desperation, even, with a great, with a massive dependence on you As you tell us to love , we know deep within our heart of hearts that we cannot do it apart from your help. We cannot do it apart from your spirit. We trust that you will, because we trust in your power, and we trust in your goodness, and we trust in your word, and we trust in your spirit Father, help us to love each other. As for the preaching, I pray that you would help me. I pray that you would help those who hear, that I would preach in faith, that they would hear in faith, and that for all the details. That our hearts would be fixed on one great central reality this morning, that Christ reigns in heaven as our Lord and Savior. It's for him that we preach. It's for him that we listen. It's for him we exist and live and breathe. Father, help us now as we come to your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, if it didn't come out, we must love each other. Loving each other is walking in the light. Hating each other is walking in the darkness. Even if we say we love each other, if we're hating each other, We are in the darkness. We're walking according to the darkness, which is a summary summary way of Satan, according to the kingdom of Satan. According to the ethics and the ways of evil and Satan, that's walking in the darkness. We must love each other. Look at verse 7, one more time. Beloved, I'm writing you no new commandment, but an old commandment that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard. So the w one word at least that should stand out to us, that should really pop right off the bat is this word, commandment. This is something God demands of us. He's not calling a meeting about this. It's decided. God requires love. God commands love. And then verse 10 is where we see that word love. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light. That's the command. Husbands are not called just to make money and do chores around the house. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church. Parents, we're not called just to provide shelter and food for our children, providing the external necessities of life, but parents, we must love our children And show compassion and show patience and teach and discipline and love. Not just doing the externals Quickly turn to chapter 3. It should be just one page over. Chapter 3, verse 11, maybe two pages for you. First John three, eleven, and twelve, for this is the message that you have heard from the beginning: that we should love one another. We should not be like Cain. I've always thought that'd be a good sermon title. We should not be like Cain. We should not be like Cain, who was of the evil one. And murdered his brother. And why did he murder him? Because his own deeds were evil and his brothers righteous. He was jealous. His murder, his hatred , the manifestation of his jealousy and his unrighteousness. Now that's the example that John gives in verse 12, but he gives it after this very basic Christian commandment in verse 11. This is the message that you have heard from the beginning. We should love one another. Back to our passage, chapter two, verse seven through eleven. And first of all, let's just talk about that love is an old commandment. Hopefully you saw that word in here. Love is an old commandment. This is our first point if we're taking notes. Well, even if you're not taking notes, this is the first point. Love is an old commandment. Look at verse 7. Beloved, I'm writing you no new commandment, but an old commandment. that you had from the beginning. The old commandment is the word that you have heard. Love is an old commandment. Meaning God has always required love. God has always required love. God's commandments are A reflection of God. God 's commands, God's moral and ethical requirements are a reflection of His holy character And since God is love, always has been, always will be, God is love, he has always required that creatures made in his image love one another Now on planet Earth, where you see that, where you should see that happening in its proper form and fashion is the local church Redeemed men, redeemed women, recipients of the Holy Spirit, saved by the blood of the Lamb, loving each other. This is an old commandment. God has always required love. Matthew 22, verses 35 through 40. And one of them, a lawyer, which means Literally, it means an expert and a teacher of the law, one who practices law. One of them, a lawyer, asked Jesus a question to test him. Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? And he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart And with all your soul, and with all your minds. That's the first great commandment. Love God with all that you are, with all of your heart, and all of life. Love God as your supreme love. Love God more than sports. And love God more than hobbies. Love God more than money. And more than popularity, and more than things. Love God most. But that's not the end of what Jesus says. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind. This is the great and first commandment, and a second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. Now what do we do naturally speaking? Naturally speaking, as fallen creatures, corrupt by sin, naturally we seek our own good at the expense of others. But God's requirement is the opposite. Seek the good of others, even at expense to yourself. This is love. Love your neighbor as yourself. On and then he says verse forty, Matthew twenty-two, still now verse forty. On all these on these two commandments Depend all the law and the prophets. Now, brothers and sisters, that's saying a lot. And that's one of the ways to summarize the whole Old Testament. There are other ways to summarize the whole Old Testament. But he's basically saying the whole thing, the whole thing rests on this. Love God with all of your heart, soul, and mind. Love others as yourself. Love is an old commandment. It's not new. It's not new. It's not like in the Old Testament God wanted people to look out for themselves, and now in the New Testament he's inaugurated a new ethic for the people of God. Now we love each other. No, this is old. Love is an old commandment. We're to love each other because God is love. To love each other. Don't we want to be reflecting? the character of God in the way we talk about each other? Don't we want to be reflecting the character of God to each other and how we talk to each other, the things we do for each other, the attitude we have in our heart as we're coming, as we're interacting with one another. Don't we want to reflect The character of God, not the character of the selfish pride that dwells within us, not the character of the fallen culture around us. This is why love is an old commandment, because God has always been love and he's always required love. Leviticus 19, 18 You in the law. Leviticus 19, 18. You shall not take vengeance. Are you awake this morning, church? You shall not take vengeance. Or bear a grudge against the sons of your own people, but rather you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. Isn't that a good verse? Now it doesn't give every example of the opposite of love, but it gives us two pretty good ones, two common ones. Taking revenge on others. Well they did this, I'm gonna do that. Well they did this, I'm not gonna talk to them for I'm not gonna talk to them anymore. Well they did this, I'm not Going over there. I'm not going to support that ministry Vengeance, and he says don't bear a grudge. Don't hold a grudge. Don't hold a grudge. That's just basically another way of a refusal to forgive. I've received infinite grace from God for all of my sins ever, and yet I refuse to show you grace. That is walking in darkness. Brothers and sisters, that is not love. God has always required this is an old commandment. This is an old commandment Let's talk about what love is just pointedly so we make sure we understand what love is. Now there's different kinds of love, and so we can't Talk about all the details of all the different kinds of love. You have to love everyone with the same love, the same kind of love the same degree. Husbands, you love your wives with a unique love. You don't love other women the way you love your wife. Parents, you love your children in a unique way. Love other children, yes, but not the way you love your own children. There's a unique love within the body of Christ. Love each other in the body of Christ. First of all, love is a sincere desire for the well-being of each other. Are you with me on this? It's a heart. felt desire for the well-being of each other, for the good of each other. You could call that affection We have an affection for each other where it's really this abiding concern in our hearts. for the each other's well-being, that each other would be cared for and welcomed and shown compassion And spoken the truth to, a sincere desire for the well-being of each of each other. But then it's literally outwardly seeking the well-being of each other. Right? Seeking and pursuing the good of each other, even at cost to self. You could call this kindness. Or you could call it sacrificial kindness. So there's this aspect of affection that we have for each other. We truly desire and pray for the well-being of each other, and that with our words And with our prayers and with our hands and feet, and with our time and with our energy, sometimes with our money and sometimes with our resources, actually seeking out and pursuing each other's good and well-being. So it's affection and it's a sacrificial kindness. That makes sense? Nod to me if it does. That's what love is. Let's understand what love is. John 15, 13, Jesus said that no one can have a greater love than this, to lay down his life. For his friends. Well, that would be the ultimate sacrificial kindness. That would be the ultimate seeking the well-being of another, which came from the ultimate divine affection for the well-being of others. Not only laying his life down for friends, but he's treating enemies as friends, treating sinners as friends, laying his life down. We've got to know what love is in these general terms of the desire for the well-being of each other and uh actually seeking the well-being of each other because the world has all kinds of definitions for love. Are you with me, church? You go out into the world and say, what's the definition of love? Who knows what you'll come back with? I mean probably the overarching definition of love in our culture is your love for me means that you affirm and even celebrate All of my passions and all of my desires, no matter what, condone everything about me. That's your way of loving me. That's the culture's definition of love. That's not love. To affirm and condone and celebrate all of my base passions and desire is hate, not love, because love speaks the truth. Love does not rejoice in error. Love does not rejoice in wickedness. Love, if I'm to love you, and you're in rebellion in this area of your life, I do not come in and celebrate that rebellion with you. So we've got to know what love is so that we're not duped by the culture's lies, really Satan's lies manifested in the culture. Brothers and sisters, let's not think that we're immune to being duped. That's why we always come back to the word in your personal studies. In the church, being grounded in the Word. And one of these ways we must be grounded is knowing what love is. Otherwise, how can we love each other? If we don't know what God says is love, how can we love each other? Well, we'll just join the world. Love is an old commandment. Have I gotten this point across? Love is old. Love is old. Secondly. Secondly, love is a new commandment. Look at verse eight. Verse eight. At the same time. That's a uh interesting phrase. Wants us to think about one thing in two different ways, right? You're thinking about it this way, but at the same time, think about it this way At the same time, it is a new commandment that I'm writing to you. Here's a key phrase. Oh, it's new. It's true in him and in you. Now the true in him is referring to Christ. True in him This is the newness of love as we know it. It's true in Him, and it's true in us. Because we've been united to Christ, because the Spirit of Christ is living within us. And so the love we have for each other is a manifestation of Christ's love, or it's a working of Christ's love in us and through us to each other. It is new. It's true in him and in you, because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. With the ministry of Christ and with the atoning sacrifice of Christ for sinners Love has been exemplified, and love has been shared in a whole new way, not previously known on earth This is the historical climactic revelation of what love is. This is love. This is God's love. fully manifest. This is God's love fully, publicly, universally displayed, sending Christ to die in the place of sinners. This is the newness. This is the newness. It hadn't happened before. Christ came at a particular point in history for a specific climactic revelation of God, a new revelation of his kingdom, a new revelation of his power, a new revelation of his Love. And the center point of that is the cross. It's a new and climactic expression of God's love, Christ's sacrifice for sinners We want to be preachers of God's love. We don't, it's not the message, God loves you, therefore live however you want. To preach God's love is the same exact thing as preaching the gospel. To preach God's love is just talking about Jesus dying on a cross for sinners. This is God's love, brothers and sisters. This is God's love in its climactic historical revelation. God sent Jesus. So there's a newness to our understanding of what love is. Therefore, there's a newness to our understanding of how to love each other. See how Christ laid down his life for your benefit? Therefore, brothers and sisters, we lay down our lives for each other's benefit. This is love. There's a newness. to this love. Turn with me to John thirteen, please. John thirteen Beginning in verse twelve. We will not be able to read the whole episode, but it's the scene of Jesus washing The feet of his followers. So you have the greater becoming a servant of the lesser. Setting an example of love. John 13, beginning in verse 12. And we'll read, first of all, we'll read down to verse 17. When he had washed their feet, and put on his outer garments, and resumed his place, he said to them, Do you understand what I have done to you? You call me teacher and lord, and you're right, for so I am. If I, then, your Lord and teacher, have washed your feet, you also ought to wash one another's feet. For I have given you an example that you also should do, just as I have done to you. Truly, truly I say to you, a servant is not greater than his master Nor is a messenger greater than the one who sent him. If you know these things, blessed are you if you do them. Let's just pause right there. The blessing is not just in knowing these things The blessing is in knowing them and doing them. Christian truth is always to be experiential. Christian doctrine is always to be lived out doctrine. The truths of God are meant to change us. How we think, how we feel, how we live, how we speak. Jesus has set an example. The teacher serving the students, the master Serving his followers, God, Savior, serving sinners Created beings who've rebelled against God, Jesus is serving them. And then he says To his followers, this is an example for you. I've served you, you serve each other. I've lowered myself and humbled myself for your benefit. Lower yourself and humble yourselves for each other's benefit. Love each other, serve each other. Now later in the chapter, still John 13, later in the chapter, scan all the way down to verse 33. Little children, yet a little while I am with you. You will seek me And just as I said to the Jews, so now also I say to you, where I am going, you cannot come. Basically saying, you can't come to heaven with me now. You will later, but where I'm going, you cannot come. Now verse 34. Ready for this? Verse 34. A new commandment I give to you, that you love one another just as I have loved you. You also are to love one another. By this all people will know that you are my disciples if you have love for one another. Loving each other is not the only way people will know that we're followers of Christ, but it certainly is one way people will know that we're followers of Christ. We're talking about love, but not treating each other well. Then we're not manifesting Christ in this one particular area. We may be speaking some things that are true But we're not loving each other. What what about this? By this all people will know that you are my followers if you have love for one another. So clearly, clearly, one of the markers of being true followers of Christ is what? It's love for each other. It's love for each other. One of my basketball coaches, the beginning of every season, before the first practice Would line us up in the hallway outside the gym. And he would point to the doorway. We'd all be gathered up right before the doorway to enter into the gym And he would always say, now we're going to do it right now. We're going to check our egos at the door. Check your egos at the door. If you're here just for yourself. And for your accomplishments, leave it in the hallway. Because when we come in, we're to be a team, support each other, have the common goal, the common good as the desire of our hearts. I think there's a parallel there. When we come to Christ, we're to be humbled. We're to check our ego at the door. We're not coming here just for what we want, just to do what makes us feel good. Here to come here and serve each other and love each other. It's a new commandment, exemplified and revealed in Christ and his sacrificial death in a grand way. The greatest love is to lay down life for your friends. Romans 5. 8. Romans 5. 8. But God shows his love for us in that while we were sinners. Christ died for us. Throughout human history, God has manifested his goodness to human beings. And human beings have manifestly rejected God and his goodness and have sought after other things as our supreme joy and hope and peace for meeting in life. We've rejected the Creator and his goodness to us and his benevolence to us, and instead we've worshipped created things. And what does God do in response? He sends us a Savior. What love is this? What gracious, merciful love is this that overlooks offenses? Brothers and sisters, part of loving each other, the essential part of loving each other in Christ. Is to overlook offenses and to forgive offenses. Let's not be a people with vengeance. Let's not be a people With jealousy. Let's not be a people with bickering and grumbling and complaining. And Brothers and sisters, let's not be a people who hold grudges, but who overlook offenses. Love covers a multitude. of sins. So let's love each other. It's a new commandment. Love is an old commandment. And brothers and sisters, love is a new commandment because of its new and climactic revelation in Christ and his ministry and his death. Number three, love shines the light of Christ in the world. Love shines the light of Christ in the world. Now the John 13 passage alluded to this, but it's in our passage also. Love shines the light of Christ in the world. First of all, we're back in 1 John 2 now. Look at the beginning of verse 8. Or just look at all of verse 8. At the same time, it's a new commandment that I'm writing to you, which is true in him and in you. Because the darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. Well, in the context, one of the ways the true light is shining is the love of Christ. Within the people of Christ. The darkness is passing away, and the true light is already shining. We'll come back to that in just a second. But quickly look at uh look at verse 10. Look at verse ten. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there's no cause for stumbling. And then in verse eleven, the one who is um is in hate is walking in the darkness. He's not walking in the light, he's walking in the darkness. So now back to this phrase in verse 8. The darkness is passing away and the true light is already shining. What in the world does that mean? Well When you think of darkness, just think of the reign of sin and the reign of death and the reign of Satan over all the world Now, what's light? Light is the reign of redemption in Christ. Light is the kingdom of God. Light is the transforming power of the Holy Spirit that takes sinners out of the kingdom of darkness and transfers them into the kingdom of Christ, out of darkness into light. Think of the planet. Think of the world. Think of the spiritual condition of the world as a whole. Darkness is the reign of sin and death and Satan. Satan's kingdom, the kingdom of darkness. Light is the reign of redemption in Christ. Light is the kingdom of God on earth. It's the new creation that's been inaugurated in Christ. So as we are citizens , the kingdom of light, we're partakers of light in Christ. The way that one way, one way, not the only way, but one way, that that's shown in the darkness is love. That's why you have this contrast. Here's the kingdom of darkness, Those in the kingdom of darkness walk in hate. Here's the kingdom of light, the kingdom of redemption. Those who walk in the light of God walk in love. The darkness is passing away. The light is already shining. That's the light of Christ and the kingdom of redemption. Some cross-references here to maybe bolster this point. Since we are those who belong to God. We belong to God. We're his children. We must walk in the light. Ephesians 5. 8. Paul writes, at one time you were darkness. That's this powerful to me. He doesn't say you were in the darkness, although we were. At one time you were darkness. Because when when we're in the kingdom of darkness, we're partakers of that spiritual principle of rebellion. Ephesians 5a, at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. So walk as children of light, equally vivid, equally powerful. You are light in the Lord. You are partaker of redemption. You are a participant in the Holy Spirit's reign of redemption and love. We belong to God. Therefore We must walk as children of light. Now obviously if we belong to God, that means we've been redeemed by God. Colossians 1, 13-14. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness, transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. We belong to God because we've been redeemed by God, and since those two things are true, we are also, friends, we're messengers of God. Messengers of God. 1 Peter 2, 9. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possessions so that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who calls you out of darkness into his marvelous light. We're to be messengers, we're to be preachers, we're to be sharers, ambassadors of God. We belong to God, we've been redeemed by God, we are messengers of God, and finally we're to be living testimonies of God's Power, living testimonies of God's power. Though we used to be darkness, we now are light and our love is to shine the light of Christ, living as testimonies of God's power. Philippians 2, 15. Philippians 2, 15. Paul writes that you may be blameless and innocent. Children of God without blemish, in the midst, in the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, among whom you shine as lights in the world. That's a clear picture. In the midst of a crooked and twisted generation, do we live in the midst of a generation like that? Now here's what is here's your role. Ready? Among whom you shine as lights in the world. In Matthew 5, 14 through 16, on the same point as we're living testimonies of God's power. Matthew 5, 14 through 16. As soon as I start reading this, you're gonna it's gonna click. You're gonna know exactly what this is. Jesus says, You are the light of the world. That's right. A city on a hill cannot be hidden. Brothers and sisters, don't hide yourself away. Don't hide your Christian faith away. That's the lie of secularism where Where the world wants you to keep everything private and be silent about everything. God wants you to shine like the light of the world. Like a city on a hill. A city on a hill cannot be hidden. Nor do people light a lamp and then put it under a basket. But on a stand and it gives light to all in the house. You wouldn't do that to the lights in your house, would you? Oh, it's really dark on here. Let's turn some lights on And then let's throw some blankets over them so we can't see anything. It's a contradiction. It's a contradiction to light a lamp and then cover it up. It's a contradiction to be saved by Christ and not shine like the light of the world. To be living, walking, breathing. That's what living is, walking, breathing. Testimonies of God's transforming power in our lives. He 's transferred us out of the kingdom of darkness. Transferred us into the kingdom of light, and our whole life is now governed by a new principle. Faith, hope, and love. Verse 16, still Matthew 5. Verse 16. In the same way, let your light shine before others so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Our good works are not the gospel, and our good works cannot save people, but God can use our good works, He can use our obedience as a way to help bring others under conviction. Before you go to Christ as a Savior, you have to see your need for a Savior. You have to come under conviction to see that you are a sinner. You have to come under conviction, you have to be convicted by God's word. That you're guilty before God and need forgiveness. That you're alienated from God and need to be reconciled. That you're only headed for death and need the gift of eternal life. You have to come under conviction. And then, as one who sees his or her need for a savior, God puts before you Jesus Christ, your Savior, an all-sufficient. Savior. A Savior for who is for anyone who would come and believe. Anyone who would turn and believe in Christ as Savior and in believing is saved. Our good works are not the gospel. Our good works is not like a living example of the gospel that saves, but our our good works can be used by God. To stir people up, to start to think about spiritual things, to help bring people under conviction for their sin. That's why he says, let your light shine before others. Don't rob the world of the light of God inside you and in your life. Don't throw a blanket over the light. Let your light shine before others so they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. Our fourth point. First of all, love is old. Second of all, love is new. Third, our love shines the light of Christ in the world and to each other. Fourth and finally, love proves our testimony. Love proves our testimony. Now, our testimony is that Christ is Lord and Savior. We've been saved by Christ. He is our testimony. But there's an outward evidence of that testimony. Verse 9, 1 John 2, verse 9. Whoever says he is in the light And hates his brother, is still in the darkness. So, what's his testimony? His testimony is: I am in the light. But his testimony is disproved by his hate. You say you're in the light and hate your brother, you're still in darkness. And then verse 11: whoever hates his brother is in the darkness. And walks in the darkness, which means he doesn't know Christ. The love of Christ does not abide in him. He does not have the Holy Spirit. He has not been changed by the gospel. Whoever hates his brother is in the darkness and walks in the darkness, he does not know where he is going. That's why he's deceived about it. Because he says he's in the light. But he's actually in the darkness. He has no clue. He's blinded to his sin, or she's blinded to her sin. He does not know where he's going because the darkness has blinded his eyes. Not literal eyes, spiritual eyes. He doesn't know what's up and doesn't know what's down, doesn't know what's right, doesn't know what' Fluff doesn't know his own heart Words are not enough, brothers and sisters. Words are not enough. But transformed lives. Here's where we're going to close the sermon. First Corinthians 13. Please turn with me to 1 Corinthians 13. We've given a general understanding of Christian love, which would be first of all, affection for one another, sincerely wanting and desiring and praying for the well-being of each other, not just our own good, but the good of each other. And then of sacrificial kindness modeled in the death of Christ. The sacrificial kindness that with hands and feet, nuts to bolts, rubber meets the road, actually pursues the well-being and the good of each other. But let's let's throw some more specifics out there before we wrap this thing up. First Corinthians thirteen, verses one through three, highlight the irrefutable necessity of love to where if we do not have love for one another, nothing else we do matters. It's all a lie. If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, there's great spiritual gifts there. But have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal. If I have prophetic powers and understand all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have faith so as to remove mountains, but Have not love. Say it with me. I am nothing. And if I give away all I have. And if I were to deliver up my body to be burned, which means to be martyred, to be martyred. To be executed by the civil authorities because of my profession of faith in Christ. Give away all I have. If I'm to be burned But have not love, I gain nothing. I gain nothing. Irrefutable necessity of love. Now verses four through seven The sacrificial nature of love. It's amazing. Four through seven. And there's short verses too. There's short verses, but fifteen. Fifteen. Essential attributes of love, the sacrificial nature of love. And fathers, you listen to this as fathers. Mothers, you listen to this as mothers. And husbands, listen to this as husbands, and wives listen to this as wives. Church members, let's listen to this as church members. Apply it to your heart. Love is patient and kind. Love does not envy, which means not jealous. Not jealous is you got to do this. When am I going to get to do that? Love does not boast, it is not arrogant. It doesn't look down on other people. It's not rude. It doesn't doesn't treat other people with disrespect. That's what rude means. It does not insist on its own way. Has the Holy Spirit put that to death in you yet? It is not irritable. Nice short views. It's not resentful. Always begrudging. Well, I gotta do this again. Does not rejoice at wrongdoing. But rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things. Which means it never gives up. It's patient. It's long-suffering. It bears all things. Love believes all things. Love hopes all things. Love endures all things. Let's endure all things. Brothers and sisters, as imperfect as our love is. Let's love each other and let's not give up on each other. Uh one application of that love believes all things. Sometimes that can be a little too theoretical Um what does that mean? Believes all things. Believe the best in somebody. That's what that means. Don't pigeonhole someone into where they are now. Don't pigeonhole someone and define someone based on past mistakes. Believe someone's going to mature Believe that someone's going to do better. Believe that someone's going to learn. Believe all things. We don't pigeonhole each other based on sins, mistakes, or past errors, but we believe all things. Well, hearing this about love and how it's required of us, two things that should make us Thankful for beyond words. It should make us thankful, first of all, for the blood of Christ. Can you imagine if our standing with God is based on our ability to love each other? There's no hope. Zero hope in that. Be thankful for the blood of Christ. Second of all, be thankful for the gift. Of the Holy Spirit. Without the gift of the Holy Spirit in our hearts, it's not only that we wouldn't be able to love each other at all, but we wouldn't even think about it. We wouldn't even care about it. We wouldn't want to love each other. The blood of Christ and the gift of the Holy Spirit has made it possible for us. As forgiven sinners, to love each other. Love is required in the Church of God. Brothers and sisters, love is required. Whatever else we do, whatever other ministries, whatever other events, whatever else we do, the clarion call is this. Let's love each other with the love of Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word and we pray and fully expect that you'll work this work in us that we cannot work on our own. Thank you for Christ. Thank you for the forgiveness of sins. And we thank you, Lord. We thank you for the gift of the Holy Spirit. May you be glorified and honored in our hearts, minds, words, and life. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.