The words we'll examine tonight come out of 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 1 through 12. 1 Peter chapter 2 verses 1 through twelve. This may be the longest section of Peter we'll cover in one sitting, just to be aware. Um and ha and how the section goes is it's intertwined with the same same idea and thought throughout and it was It was hard to break it up, but it's it's a very important piece and uh theological understanding we need to have as we dive into the rest of this letter. Because as we move on, you'll see in midway through chapter 2, into chapter 3, and so on, we're talking a lot about how then shall we live? If we are Christians, if we have been redeemed by Christ, how should we live? And tonight we've got to lay that groundwork, which we've been doing for a while now, but let us root our identity in our Lord and Savior. Let us root, hear that. Let us root our identity in our Lord and Savior. Because when we do that correctly and well. It then changes and influences and makes everything we do, how we live, how we talk to one another, how we care for one another, how we deal with problems, all of that is rooted in our identity in Christ Jesus. So if we don't have our identity figured out, we can't then talk about how then shall we live. But once we understand our identity in Christ, it then gives us the direction, it gives us the ability to live for Jesus. Parents, teachers, how many times have you said something like this to your children, to a child, in the Wilson household? We don't talk like that Now obviously they didn't say Wilson, he said mannery. Uh uh Fortunado. In the Fortunato household. It's like in the Fortunado household We eat pizza every week. Like there's we d we don't cut that out. But parents, how often have you said something like that? In this household, this is how we do things. In this household, we don't do those types of things. Kids, how often have you heard your parents say that? In this household, we take off our shoes before we run around the house. Right? We say these types of things and this idea is it makes uh perfect sense to us uh in within our own houses Like within our households, within the way we live our lives, we have certain standards and ways of doing things as parents. You know, our families, your families have unique traditions and ways of doing things that aren't the normal in other people's families. You ever go and spend like a uh just a a weekend with another family. You may love them, you're really close, but you start to realize like, you guys wash your dishes in that order And you put the silverware in that drawer and you you do things that way, you watch those shows like we have these things that are normal to us, but if someone comes in it's very strange. That's the idea that we're working with here. Before Christ, we were living in the world. We were following after our own passions. We were doing whatever brought us pleasure. We love sin. We love the feeling that sin would give us. And now radically we were ripped out of our old nature and brought into the kingdom of God. And we're in a new household. And we have to understand that the rules in this household are different than how they were before. And notice and we'll see that these rules are better. We should be happy with these new rules. We should we should love and cherish that that because we've been redeemed out of the darkness and into light, the new life we have is much better. But it does take time and effort for us to learn. What does it mean to be a Christian? In this household, you know, in in God's household we live this way. Well we gotta learn that. In this household we do these things. In God's household we do these things. Well, we've got to cherish those more and more. So, beloved, as we examine 1 Peter chapter 2 tonight, may we see our identity in Christ. And we see our newness, and then may we start to think about how then shall we live and how should we understand and grow in how we are living in this New kingdom. So join me as we read first Peter chapter two starting in verse one. So put away all malice and all deceit. And hypocrisy, and envy, and all slander, like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation If indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good, as you come to Him, a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture: Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense They stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined to do. But you are a chosen race. a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for whose own for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvellous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. So that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Let us zoom in to verses nine and ten before we get to the rest of this passage. The reason I want us to zoom in here is because I want us to understand the family that we belong to. What family do you belong to? And as I said, this is the groundwork to understand when we have the r the commandments to abstain from certain sins. We understand it's because we belong to this family. When we hear the commands of to live this way , we understand it's because we're part of this family. And I'm okay if we spend all evening in this section because I want us to be built up in our identity. With joy, may we recognize what has happened to us. With joy may we see who we are I believe in today's society, one of the biggest issues facing the world, I'm talking about the world, I'm not just talking about the church, but facing the world is that people lack identity. We have a lack of identity in society. People are trying to figure out, well, who am I? And teenagers, you can testify to this. Probably better than any of us, even though we all once were teenagers and we all walked in similar uh situations that you walked in. But who are we? People are always seeking that, and that's what so many quarrels and fighting is over of who we are and figuring out our identity and And then we see all the sins of the world, the temptations of the world is to try to find your perfect identity in this foreign concept. Try to find your identity in the sexual pleasures of the world. Try to find your identity in your career, in your job. Try to find your identity in the grades you get in school. And constantly there's all this pressure coming to us and trying to rip us out and try to figure out who are you? Beloved, I want to ground us that we belong to God. We belong to God. This is one of the most important things we can understand as believers is that we are God. We are baptized in his name. Everything about that? Jesus' instructions to the disciples is to baptize in the name of The Father, the Son, and Holy Spirit. The triune God. You're not and here, you're not getting baptized in the in the name of North Hartford Baptist Church. It's too many words. You're not, we don't get baptized and say you're baptized into Christianity. We don't baptize and say you're baptized In anything other than our Lord and Savior, the triune God, the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And that baptism is the symbolism, it's the mark of who you are. It's the mark of what has happened within you. It has brought you new life. And the reason we baptize in the name of the Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Is because that is your new identity. You belong to God. You are in his family. He looks at you and says, This is my child. You are mine. You are my people. And beloved, the more we dwell on this, the more we think about this, the more joy we will have in our identity, the more joy we will have in the reality of our Christian life. And the more joy we will have in walking in obedience to God. Because in this house we do it this way. In this house, we don't participate and do these things. In this house we love this way. And that's why I want us to be rooted in our identity in Christ. So look with me in verse 9. I know it's a little out of place, but verse 9, the family you belong to. The first identity piece that Peter gives us is that, but you, let it be personal here, but you Are a chosen race. A chosen race. When we hear this word and race gets all tangled up in our minds and our modern culture and We start to divide, you have different ethnicities and and colors of skin, and we try to divide it up. Stop. What we need to see here Is when we talk about being a chosen race, what's being said is that God's this is God's work of salvation, that He has brought you out of the dark kingdom, He's brought you out of darkness. and brought you into the light. He's given you a new identity. He has chosen you out of that darkness. And what's so important about this, and some some work needs to be done here, is that we should recognize it's his glorious work on our behalf It is the work of God. That's why that little word there, chosen, is settled in this section, is to get us out of thinking, we have it figured out. That your identity is not based off of you having the books of the Bible memorized. Your identity isn't based off of you were so smart. You figured out this whole issue of sin and you figured out this whole thing about Jesus and you figured it all out and then you worked it out and you got your salvation But what we see here, it is God's work within your life. May we rejoice in this regularly. May we think about this often. That it's God's work. It's his work. It's his choosing. It's his function that has brought us out of darkness and into his kingdom. It's his work, it's his function, it's his victory to have that Christ has died on the cross, forgiven us of our sins, and brought us new life It's his work, it's his function that the Holy Spirit has indwelled us and made us anew. Beloved, it is God's work that we are his. We should rejoice in this. It should bring us hope. It should bring us confidence. That it wasn't based off of us. Because if it was based off of us, we would mess it up very quickly. Maybe I'm just speaking for myself. If I did it, I'm gonna mess up my salvation probably 30 seconds after I got my salvation. But that's not the case. It's God's work, his choosing and bringing. But you are a chosen race. Notice God's love in this language as well. God's deep love for you. That while you were a sinner, while you were dead in your sins and your trespasses His love was so grand that he sent his son, who loved us so much that he died on the cross for our sins. May we give all glory to God when we recognize and understand that our identity is based off of his work within our lives. But then he continues on. He says, But you are a chosen race. And then right here, a royal priesthood. A royal priesthood. Anyone here, king or queen? Anyone here yeah that all right Mattheus. So make sure you get him the crown that he deserves. Right? This royal priesthood. So there's actually two wonderful words here. You have the the royal identity and the priesthood identity. The royal is the majesty, the kingdom. May we value and cherish that we are part of God's kingdom. We who doesn't want to be living in the castle with the king? Who doesn't want the king to walk by them? This is back in the medieval days, the king walk by them with his crown and all his treasures And he calls you son or daughter. What a beautiful imagery that we have here is that we are part of the royal family. I'm not talking about those British royals. I have issues with them. No, we're talking about a heavenly royalty. We're talking about the king that created the universe We're talking about the king that has redeemed the sinners. We're talking about the king that has taken and will have victory over all of his enemies. That's the family that you and I are part of when we have faith in Jesus. That's the family and the identity that we hold so tightly to. But the second piece there is the priesthood. We've got to go back into the Old Testament to understand the priesthood. But essentially the priests were those that went into the tabernacle or temple, and th they were the men that conducted the worship of God. And then you had the high priest. He was the one that went into the Holy of Holies. He entered into the presence of Yahweh. And here, what does Peter tell us? Is that we're the royal priesthood. Oh beloved, we are the ones that go into the tabernacle and the temples and worship God. We don't have a a sect. You know, we don't we don't have uh all right, here's the the Christian uh men the in North Harper Baptist Church, we have this group of men, only the deacons are the ones that worship God. No, no, what's it said here is that all of us, because of faith in Christ and what he has accomplished, has made us part of the priesthood. We are all priests, meaning we all go before the Lord in worship. How is this possible? How is this possible that sinners like you and I can enter into the presence of Yahweh and worship the Father? Is because we have a great mediator, Christ Jesus. standing before the Father on our behalf. So that when the Father looks at us, he doesn't see, oh, there's those sinners. There's that sinner Anthony. who's trying to come and speak to me. He looks at me and says, there is the saint, the priest Anthony, who has been washed by the blood of Christ. Enter in my child and let's commune together. Let's talk. You are mine. This identity of the royalness, the kingdom we live in, and the priesthood, the reality that we have the open door to enter into the presence of Yahweh should blow our minds. Should blow our minds. We should be rejoicing in this. And beloved, this was one of the great battles of the Reformation. This is one of the diverse differences between the Protestant Church and the Catholic Church. The understanding that we don't have to go before any mere man. to go before God on our behalf. We don't have to confess our sins to a a mere human that he then will take it before the Lord and he will give us some instructions of how to restore ourselves. We don't rely on a mere man. To give us the word of God to speak on God's behalf. We rely on the fully God and fully man Jesus Christ. The one that mediates our sins. He's forgiven, brought the forgiveness of our sins to us. He's revealed the triune God that we worship. With joy, we should recognize that we are part of the royal priesthood. Should bolster our confidence. Maybe it changes our prayer life just a little bit Maybe we're a little bit we're a little bit more confident as we go into the world and proclaim that Jesus is King, because we're part of this royal priesthood. The next identity he gives is the the holy nation. A holy nation. Now once again this language of race and nation are very similar in many ways, but The uniqueness here is that it's a holy nation. It's one that's set apart. It's relying heavily on the Old Testament. Israel, the holy nation, God has chosen Israel. Out of all the nations, we read that in our first reading. Wasn't because Israel was powerful, wasn't because Israel was the most wealthy. God chose them and then he gave them instructions to live a holy life, to look different than the world around them. Beloved, we have that same identity. You are the holy nation of God. You are his people. You're in Christ. You're his people. And he's called us to look different than the world. What a meaningless identity it would be if God said, Okay, you are mine, right? You're mine, and you can live and look just like the pagans. You can live and function just like the Buddhists. Cool. So then what's what's so special about being gods? We see that's not what happens. He is he has purchased us out of the darkness and brought us into the light and he's called us to unique identity. In Christ. So we have the chosen race, the royal priesthood, the holy nation. Oh, may we rejoice in this next title: a people for his own possession. A people for his own possession. If I may be so bold to paint this picture this way. Picture you're a slave being sold at a slave market. Alright, we can picture the the terribleness of this. And the richest, wealthiest, kindest man purchases you off of that slave block. And he doesn't put you out into the field to work, he doesn't uh cause you, he doesn't beat you, he doesn't break you down as all the other people trying to buy slaves would have done But what does he do is he brings you into his house, he dresses you in his clothes, he gives you a room in his mansion, and he says, You are my possession. No one's flinching at that identity. Hey, sure, you purchased me. But you treat me as your child? You call me yours? Love it, this is what has happened to us Christ's death on the cross was the great price that was paid to purchase us and bring us into his family. We belong to God. We are his. And if we are his, that means he is ours. Not in the same possession. We don't own him, but he is ours. We have access to him. Parents, once again, we're going to go back to the parent analogy. Your children are yours. Amen? You pay for braces. You pay for the broken legs, you pay for food, all the goldfish that you can possibly buy if you have a toddler. But your children are yours But likewise, doesn't your child look at you and say, Oh, there's there's my there's my mama, there's my daddy, that's my parents. When they're lost in the mall, if there's still malls that exist. They're lost out there. Who do they call for? They call for their aunt or their uncle? Do they call for some stranger? No, it's mom, you know, you get scared. Dad, where are you at? And you know your child's voice, and you call out to them. They know your voice. We belong. God is our great heavenly Father. And He has looked at us and said, We are His possession. This should bring us joy. We should rejoice in this identity. It continues on. He says that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into the marvelous light. I've been using that phrase a lot, that this identity is vital for us together. That outside of Christ we're living in the darkness, the kingdom of darkness, the kingdom of sin. We're enjoying it, we love it, but ultimately it will bring death. and destruction to us. And what has happened, he has purchased us out of it. He has ripped us out of the darkness and brought us into the kingdom of light. Light or darkness, that's your two options. Which sounds better? Being able to see the world around you Being able to enjoy God's creation or living in the darkness, bumping around, stubbing your toes. No, it's the light. And we see this beautiful understanding that he has brought us out of the darkness into his marvelous light. Notice it's all about him. It's him who called you. It's God who calls you. It's his work that has brought us victory. It's his kingdom that we are living in. And we belong to him. Verse 10 continues on and says, Once you were not a people. But now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Do you see this identity? We need to have that comparison in our minds. Beloved, if you lived a life or a long life before Christ, don't forget it. Don't cherish it, but don't forget it. We often need to look back at how things used to be before Christ. We need to think about our identity outside of Christ. Because when we compare that, it brings us great joy. It reminds us of the sweetness of our new identity. It brings us hope to continue to live and honor God with all that we do. So our identity must be rooted in God and seeing that we are his people. Not because of what we have done, not because of what we have accomplished, but because of the victory of Christ Jesus. So how are you to live in this family? Everyone good, you understand we have a family, and our Father is God, and we're part of his family, so then how should you live? What's those commandments as we enter into the kingdom that we need to hear? In this family, we don't do this. In this family, we don't jump on the furniture. What is it that God has to tell us? Look with me in verse 1. You'll see some of them very evidently. It says, so put away all malice, all deceit, and hypocrisy, and envy, and all slander. That's a good list. This may be something we go through in our minds. Alright, if I'm a Christian, am I doing any of these things? And the answer is Sometimes. Right? Sometimes. A lot of times. Sometimes. So why do we have to be told this? is because this is, remember, you are you are purchased, you have been brought out of the darkness, and in the darkness, this was our love language. That's our love language. That's how we spoke. It's how we operated. Now who were we loving in that? Was ourselves. It was ourselves when we talked malice and deceit and hypocrisy and envy and slander. It was all about us. And now we've been brought into this new kingdom. And we have to break some old habits. We have to learn and grow and see that in this family we don't do this. Let's work out some of these words here. The first one is malice. Simply put, and by simply I mean the dictionary definition, is it's ill will, its intention to do evil. And right now some of you are going through that that index in your mind of times that you have ill will towards others, you've intended to do evil, you know it's wrong, you know it's wicked, and you've gone through and done it. What's Peter say? Put it away. Put it away. Put it in that put it all the way back in your spiritual closet. Put it all the way in the back of the room and lock the door. It's not something that okay I'm gonna I'm gonna put it um in the pantry and luckily it's right next to the Oreos which I eat every night and so every time I'll grab a little Oreo I don't. I I'm very good. I don't because after i living in Italy I don't like the taste of American Oreos. I know that's really uh pontio to say. But it's in this imagery that you're going and every night you're grabbing something good, but also then right there's that malice and and you jump right back into it. Put it away. Burn it. Destroy it. Get it as far away from you as possible. So malice is that ill intent, that intention to do evil. Deceit. Deceit is a fancy word of saying lie. Get rid of it. The lying tongue, that's how we operated, that's how we spoke before Christ. Beloved, we are still tempted to do it. Are we not? We're still tempted, okay? The boss is coming down pretty hard on me. If I can just uh pass the buck chuck and move it off to the side, it won't be so bad. It's a little lie, right? Who's who's really offended? The boss makes a million a year, he won't care if I I lost fifty dollars. So I'm gonna lie and cheat my way out of it. That deceit is there. It's it's always trying to get out of us. It's our natural language when we lived in the darkness. Hypocrisy. Hypocrisy is very similar to lying, but it's a fake way of living. That mask we all put on as we enter into church. We always say, Oh, I love you. You're great. You're the best. And then the moment we get in the car, we just unload on our spouse. You won't believe what so-and-so just said just said to me. You won't believe how how he talked. It's that fakeness we put on, or this fake righteousness. Oh no, I r I I read every book of the Bible every morning before I go to work. Aren't I holy? Oh my prayer life. Twelve, thirteen hours of prayer? Just nonstop. It's it's so good. Right? This is that hypo the hypocrisy that we put on. It's it's a fake way of living. And Peter saw us, get rid of it. Put it away. It's not the way, it's not how we operate. It's not how we live in this household, in God's kingdom. Envy? Another fancy word for jealousy. Are you jealous of what others have? I mean let's let's be honest, social media has corrupted our minds and on what we think is, oh, so-and-so is doing so good. Look how great their life is, and I want that life. If God would have just given me a better whatever, I would have had that life. You know what happens within our jealousy, in our envy, is we're saying that God didn't do something right. When we're jealous of others, we're saying, God, why did you give so-and-so that that I want so bad and not give it to me? Should have done it a little differently. That envy and that jealousy is an offense against the brother, but it's also an offense against God. And we see Peter say, get rid of it. It's going to destroy your life. Notice that all these things are the things that ruin and destroy the church. Think about some of the biggest church splits. Stealing money, right? Uh gossiping and slandering one another, which is what we'll get to, slandering. Lying, uh just a world of lies. Think about how this destroys relationships and the church. And Peter is saying, get rid of it. It's not how we function in this kingdom. So we have envy and then slander. Slander is the speaking bad about someone. That's the speaking bad about someone. Oh, so-and-so did this. I don't like them. They have this problem. This is their issue. Often this comes out in prayer request. Right? Hey, be praying for my brother. Man, he has just been mistreating me and uh he is he is uh uh uh a record he's just a mess, his life is uh like we we lay this out in a very spiritual way, but ultimately we're slandering one another. We're we're speaking ill and bad about someone. This is this destroys the family that God has brought us into. And Peter's telling us get rid of it. Look with me in verse 11 and 12. We'll see some more things that we are to abstain from or get rid of. Verse 11, beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. So as we are putting off malice and deceit and hypocrisy and envy and slander, we are also abstaining from, getting rid of, and not participating in the former passions of the flesh. The way you used to live in the darkness is not how you live in the light. Abstain from it. Don't participate. Now what's so challenging we know is that it's still near to us. Your pride is still very close to you. Your jealousy is still very close to you. Do not be trapped into it. Don't be tempted into it. There's a wonderful sermon I heard this morning talking about how sin deceives us. Tricks us. It causes us all this problem and frustration within our lives. But when we see it up front, it looks really nice. And the passions of the flesh look really nice to us when we're thinking the old way. But when we're thinking about our new identity in Christ, when we're thinking about how God has redeemed us and brought us into the marvelous light. We start to hate those things like God hates it. We start to be disgusted by the passions of the flesh, like God is disgusted by it. So that's the things we we put off and we're not to participate. But in God's kingdom, it's not just a bunch of rules of don't, but there's some great do's in it. There's great dues. These are what we do do in the kingdom of God. Kids, you will remember that. We do do in the kingdom of God. Verse 12: keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. Honorable. Now we're not going to unpack this word tonight because the rest of chapter 2 and chapter 3 is all about honorable. But Be thinking about is your life honorable? Are you conducting yourself in an honorable way within the world? So that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your what? Good deeds. And glorify God on the day of visitation. So we are to live an honorable life, and somehow we see this, Peter saying, You have good deeds that the Gentiles see, meaning the world sees it. It's not just good deeds that we're just high-fiving back and forth within the pew, but that the world is seeing it. And how we conduct ourselves in the world is honorable and righteous. The world sees God when they see us living. The world sees God when they see us living when we are recognizing our identity in the kingdom of God. Righteous living is honorable to God, and we do that through the working of the Spirit within us So we put off malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, slander. We abstain from the passions of the flesh, and we put on honorable living, which we'll unpack in the weeks to come, and good deeds. So there's that's how are we to live in this family? It's putting off those things and putting on what God has given us Essentially, we can we can boil it down to two laws. I'm just going to cite our Lord and Savior when I say this. We should love God and love our neighbor. We should love God. We should seek His wisdom. We should seek to honor Him with everything we do and to love our neighbor. That's the new identity, and that's the way we live in the kingdom of God. So, point number three, and finally, how do you know and grow in this family? You're rooted in your identity in Christ, you're in God's kingdom, you've seen what you're supposed to put off, and what you're supposed to put on. And and I believe most of us are sitting in here going, I'm not perfect. Fair to say? Fair to say? You can say about me. Anthony, you're not perfect You're right. I'm going to be pointing back at you. So how are we to grow in this? I thought I'm already in the kingdom. Why am I not perfect? Well we see that the working of the Spirit within our lives is what grows and matures us. But not only that, we must be reminded of our identity, and we must see Christ for who he truly is. We must see Christ for who He truly is. Look with me back in verse 2. I know we jumped around, but hopefully this concept is making sense. How are we to live? Verse 1 said, put off these things. So then how shall we live? Verse 2, like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into civil into salvation. If indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good. This is a great question to ask yourself. Have you tasted and seen that the Lord is good? You don't have to answer that out loud. If so, are you fighting against malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, and slander? That's a good or at least when you do slander someone, it eats you up inside. And then you repent of it. Is that happening in your life? Beloved, if it's not , if you just go online , it's no big deal. You have you your conscious isn't burdened by it uh lying and and having ill will towards others and your conscience has no it's not bearing anything on you you should then examine who you truly are Because verse three tells us if indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good go back to two, if you've done that, then like newborn infants, you long for the f pure spiritual milk that by it you may grow up into salvation. So, if you've been redeemed, you desire the spiritual milk, you desire the working of the Holy Spirit within your life, you desire to live a different way because the Holy Spirit has made you new. And then you start fighting against all those things. You start to want to understand the rules and way of living in the kingdom of God. So the first thing of how do we know and grow in this family is by the Spirit. If you have been born again in Christ, your faith in Christ, and you have been born again, then you are in this kingdom, and your newness, your new identity. Will drive you, it's changed your passions, your wants, your desires, it will drive you to follow after God. But the second thing is that we must know That we are living for the Father, through the Son, by the Spirit. We know this. This is actually how we grow. It's how we we grow in this family, is that we know that we are living for the Father through the Son. And by the Spirit. Look with me in verse four. As you come to him, a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Now, how are we to grow in this family? Is to first recognize who you're living for, who has given you life It's the Father. Do you see that in the in the end of verse 5? To offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God, to the Father. So we understand who our Father is in heaven. We're living for him. Now, how are we able to do this? Is through Jesus Christ. Acceptable, spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. And how what is all that? How do we do all that? Is by the Spirit living within us. us by the regeneration of the Spirit. When we hold the the understanding of who our God is and how He's functioning. and how he is moving within our lives and our purpose for living, it builds us up, it grows our confidence of living within his kingdom. We start to realize we're not living for ourselves. We're not doing this on our own strength, on our own wisdom. We're not living in this kingdom and honoring God just because we felt good this morning and and thought it would be fun. We're doing it. We're honoring God in our way of living, the Father. We're doing this because of what the Son has accomplished on our behalf. He's our mediator to the Father, and we are functioning and living because we have been indwelled by the Holy Spirit. This is the God that has redeemed you and given you life. Of course we're going to live. Of course we're gonna function. Of course we're gonna hate sin. Of course we're gonna seek to do good, to love our neighbor, to love God This is the naturalness of who we are when we have been purchased, brought into the kingdom of God, and born again. The last thing. How are we to grow and know in this family? So we must remember the foundation that we are standing on. Jeremiah can come up and give us an understanding of how houses are built. But we all know the song, The Wise Man Didn't Build His House Upon the Sand, right? Foolish man did. Because what happens when you if you try to build a skyscraper on the sand, what's going to happen at probably the second, third story? Leaning Tower of Pisa, is it is it leaning because they thought it was cool, so they they had a nice foundation? No, it's leaning because Italian soil is just not good. It started to collapse. Our foundation, our growth is founded on the cornerstone of Christ, the keystone. I'm from Pennsylvania, I'm going to use the word keystone. The keystone of Christ, the very foundation that we grow and mature in, is based off of Christ. This brings us joy, this brings us hope. It's not based off of your wisdom, your strength, your ability, but it's based off of Christ. So we see in verse 6, for it stands in Scripture, Behold, I am laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Here's the trivia. Who is the cornerstone that Peter is writing about and the Old Testament is writing about? Jesus. Yes So he is the cornerstone, and whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So there's the foundation. How are you brought into the kingdom? Is belief in Christ. Faith in Jesus Christ, belief that he died on the cross for a wretched sinner like you, and has his work brings forgiveness from the Father, and that you then enter into his kingdom. That's our base. That's the foundation of everything we do. It's the foundation of how we grow and are being sanctified. That must be our base, beloved. And we see this, verse 7. So the honor is for you who believe, but for those who do not believe. So notice, before we get to those who don't believe, the honor is for you who believe. The honor is for you. The work of Christ. Him being the cornerstone is for you. I want to be very personal there. It's individualistic. It's also corporate, but there's an individualisticness there that his work is for you and you and you and you and you and me and then all of us And when he looks at his church, he says, You, my bride. We must recognize that his work is specific and it brings it is for our benefit. So if he's our cornerstone, it's that solid foundation, we're then growing off of that. But notice the uniqueness here. This this bolsters our identity. Our identity grows and it strengthens us and it causes us to grow more, is when we recognize that this is unique It's not like Christ came and died, and then all of creation, all of humanity is now building off of this foundation. Because we see what happens. This verse seven said the honors for you who believe, but for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone And a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. They stumble because they do, excuse me, because they disobey the word as they were destined to do. This is a unique identity. You being brought into the kingdom of God, you being part of his family is a unique identity that God has accomplished on your behalf, and he is growing you off of that foundation. And the last way that we grow is the same way that they stumble. In the end of it, it says they stumble because they disobey the word. How do we grow? Is that we we Are thirsting after the spiritual milk, we know who we are living for, through, and by. Christ is our foundation, and then we seek to know his word and obey it. Not disobey it, but obey it, cherish it, desire it, want to live by it, ask questions, wrestle with it. The word of God is It's the mechanism and the one of the tools God uses to grow and to sanctify us. Beloved, as we dive into the rest of this letter, we're going to have some very hard conversations. We're going to have to talk about submission to the government. It's the hardest conversation I can have. We're going to have conversations about the relationship between wives and husbands. Slaves and masters, suffering. All these are very difficult conversations. But if we're rooted, that we are his We belong to God. He's given us new life and we are to live in this new life. This conversation is going to be a little bit easier and we're going to see the beauty of God's calling in our lives. Let's go before our Heavenly Father in prayer once more. Heavenly Father, we rejoice that you have redeemed us. We rejoice that you have sent your Son to live, to die , to resurrect, to ascend to his heavenly throne. His work has brought us to victory. His work has brought us forgiveness of sins. His work in the sending of the Spirit has brought us new life. And Lord, we rejoice in this. May we recognize our new identity. May we recognize how you have caused us and brought us new life, and that we are to live in this new life. And may we glorify you with all that we do, we say, we think, and everything we have, and everything we do, may we glorify you. We pray this in the name of Jesus. Amen.