Let's take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter one. We are in the same passage we were in last week. Ephesians 1, 15 to 23, remembering each other in prayer. I guess we would call this part two. It's a passage where Paul is praying for the Ephesians. And it made me think in my preparations, well, that's something I need to be reminded of. I need to be praying for you. But then it made me think of our church that we need to be praying for each other. Remember that Ephesians is a prison epistle. So it's written by Paul when he's in prison at Rome, in Rome, in the years 60 to 62. And the four prison epistles are Philemon, Ephesians, Philippians, and Colossians. I guess you can remember that as Pepsi. C. Philemon, Ephesians, Philippians, and then the C, Colossians, the four prison epistles. So Paul's imprisoned. There's not a lot that he can do for the Christians In Ephesus, when he's imprisoned in Rome, right? But he can do a lot for them through prayer. And we can do a lot for each other through prayer. And that's what we're still on this topic, remembering each other in prayer. Let's read the whole passage again and then launch into the message. For this reason, because I have heard of your faith in the Lord Jesus and your love toward all the saints, I do not cease to give thanks for you. Remembering you in my prayers, that the God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the Father of glory, may give you the spirit of wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him Having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in this Saints, and what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might, that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead, And seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places, far above, all rule Authority, power, and dominion, and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come And he put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body. The fullness of Him who fills all in all. Last week we preached about remembering each other in prayers of thanks And in prayers of petition. In other words, we, like Paul in this passage, we go to God and we thank God for his work in each other's lives. And the two particular points were we thank God for each other's faith in Christ, and we thank God for each other's love in the Holy Spirit. Spirit. And we also go to God with prayers of petition. So just as we thank God for his work In each other's lives. We also petition God for his ongoing work in each other's lives. Because, beloved, God is not done with us God is not done with you. I know he is certainly not done with me. There's just so much learning. So much growing, so much repenting, so much maturing that needs to take place in my life. God is not done with us. But we need to pray We need to petition God, call upon the name of the Almighty for his ongoing work in each other's lives. And that's the portion we're finishing today, petitioning God for each other in prayer. And today we petition God for each other to have enlightened hearts That grasp the power of Christ. Alright? We petition God that we all would have enlightened hearts That grasp the power of Christ. Do you want that kind of heart? Do you want all the people sitting around you to have that kind of heart? Hearts that are enlightened, truly enlightened, that grasp the power of Christ. Now, as for the practical application, Why would we want that? Why would I want that for myself, for my family? Why would we want that for each other to have enlightened hearts, grasping the power of Christ? Because That is going to strengthen our faith and increase our zeal for worship. It will strengthen our faith. It will boost, it will magnify, it will deepen, it will increase our zeal to worship God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ and the Holy Spirit whom He has poured into our hearts. Don't want this to come across as just we need to know these bullet point facts. We need to have this intellectual knowledge. No. We need to have these facts, and we need to internalize this knowledge in such a way that strengthens our faith and increases our zeal for worship. And so without further introduction, let's Launch into the exposition of the text. Number one, talking about enlightened hearts. All right, number one, enlightened hearts This comes from the beginning of verse 18. Now it's not the beginning of the sentence, it's in the middle of the sentence. Remember, these are Paul's petitions. For the Ephesians. So these are our petitions for each other. So 18, one of the things he's petitioning God for is For the Ephesians is having the eyes of your hearts enlightened. I'll just leave it right there The eyes of their hearts enlightened. Now, isn't that a neat picture? That's our first point. And that's where I got this idea from enlightened hearts, from this phrase to have the eyes of their hearts enlightened. Now you know what are the eyes of your face. And you know what kind of things the eyes of your face can see. Physical things, earthly things. But what are the eyes of your heart? And what kind of things do the eyes of your heart see? Spiritual things, heavenly things, invisible things , eternal things. And so it's great if we have eyes on the face to see what's around us, but we absolutely must have the eyes of our hearts enlightened to see what Christ 's and to believe in Him, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened to have a spiritual site. And then what Paul does is he gives Three aspects of what that looks like. In other words, he wants the eyes of our hearts to be enlightened. To see this, this, and this. There's going to be three aspects. You see A, B, and C. And that's what it looks like to have the eyes of our hearts enlightened. And let's read this now. Verse 18, having the eyes of your hearts enlightened, that, number one, that you may know what is the hope to which he has called you. Number two, what are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints? And number three, what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe? Three things, eyes of our hearts enlightened, to see this, this, and this, to see A, B, and C. Number one, to see hope. The hope that we have in Christ. Number two, to see God's inheritance. And number three, to see his power. All right, hope, inheritance, power. Now it's more than that. It's a w- I'm trying to boil this down because there's a lot of words here and phrases I understand. But hope, inheritance, power. Have the eyes of our hearts enlightened to see this hope, to see this inheritance, and to see this power. Does that make sense? Alright, so three things. And we're just gonna we'll call them A, B, and C. I'm pretty sure that's how it shows up on your outline. Letter A Paul wants our hearts enlightened to know our hope in God. To know The hope that is ours in Christ. Verse 18: be that you may know what is the hope to which He has called you. You may know the hope. To what you guys call it. Think of hope like a finish line. You're running a race. And what's your goal? Where are you headed? Where do you want to arrive? The finish line. The future. That which lies beyond, that's our hope. Our hope. Certain future promised by God. But we need to have the eyes of our hearts enlightened to know this hope, to hold it firmly, to truly grasp it. So you're running a race, and your goal is the finish line, but imagine if one of the other, you can pick for the illustration. Imagine you either close your eyes Or imagine you just turn your head and try to look behind you while you're running. You are pretty much done. You can get injured badly or go off course and get disqualified or something bad What God wants is for us to stay on course, to have the eyes of our hearts open , not closed. Fixed on our hope, not looking backward, not looking to the side, not distracted by the things of this world, not distracted by earthly concerns Now, there are things we need to be concerned about. There are responsibilities, real duties on earth. I'm not saying neglect those. I'm saying in the midst of those, keep your eyes on Christ. Keep this hope in your sights. I can promise to take you to lunch. But only God can promise heaven when you die. You can promise your family to take them on a nice vacation. But only God can promise you resurrection body when Christ returns. You see, our hope that we're in Christ. So God has promised us certain things will be ours in the future. And when your body breathes its last breath, your soul will depart and be made perfect, and you'll be free of the sinful flesh. You'll be free of sin, and your soul Will enter the presence of God in heaven. And then, beyond that, when Christ returns, you'll receive a resurrection body. You will live forever in the new heavens and the new earth Hope. You see, we can promise small things to each other in this life. But God promises us eternal perfection, resurrection, glory in His presence Psalm 130, verse 7: O Israel, hope in the Lord. For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption And I exhort you this morning, church, North Harford Baptist Church, and anyone else who's here, hope in the Lord. For with the Lord there is steadfast love, and with him is plentiful redemption. Back to the illustration of the runner. Thank God for his presence and power in our lives. Because apart from God, we would run off course in a second. Apart from God's word, apart from God's Spirit living inside of us, Apart from God's providence and power in our lives, we would close our eyes, turn our heads, get distracted, and fall. Slumped over in a ball somewhere. But we're not running alone. You are not running alone. And it is not your power that will preserve you to the end. It is not my power that will preserve me to the end. It's not our strength and wisdom that gets us to the finish line. Brothers and sisters, God gets us to the finish line. And also from our perspective, from a human perspective, from practical application, we need to receive this word. We need to embrace this duty. It is our duty, it is our calling to keep our eyes fixed on our hope in Christ. And we should not be ashamed to do that. The eyes of our hearts enlightened that we may know our hope in Christ. It's a glorious hope. It is a certain future promised by God, and I pray that this will strengthen our faith, and I pray that this will increase our zeal to worship the God of heaven. Letter B. The eyes of our hearts enlightened to know God's inheritance in us. To know God's inheritance in us. This starts in The end toward the end of eighteen, so technically this would be verse eighteen C, which means the third phrase or the third portion of it. What are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the sea? Saints. What are the riches of his glorious inheritance in the saints? Now listen, this is not our inheritance. It says it says his inheritance, what belongs to him What does he have ownership of? His glorious inheritance In the saints, in the church. Have we forgotten that we belong to God? That God owns the church, that God created the church to be his special people, to belong to him, to represent him, Christ. Purchased us with his blood to make us into the people of God, his treasured possession. What is God's inheritance? You The church, the believer, you might inherit property Which would be nice, right? I guess it depends on the property. You might inherit a set of fine china You might inherit $5,000, which today would last you about a week and a half. You might inherit $5 million And if you inherit five million dollars, I hope you have the Holy Spirit working in your life to use it in a proper way and keep you humble and keep you on God's path. But what does God inherit? What does he receive at the end of all things? What is his glorious inheritance? The church. The gathered and glorified church. And we don't have time to flesh this out, but that includes includes believers from all ages. But we don't live in all ages. We live right now. We live in the church era. And God, right now, we just sang about it, through his word, he's building the church. He will continue to build the church. Spread his glory to the ends of the earth. And at the end of all things, he will gather his church. He will glorify his church. And that is God's inheritance. Christ died to procure our souls that we might be saved. And Meshed together with that, not a different point, just the same point from a different aspect, Christ died to procure a glorious inheritance for the Father, and that glorious inheritance is redeemed. Sinners. That's the way God has chosen to manifest his glory, to showcase his glory, by doing good to unworthy sinners by redeeming sinners and church, bringing them together, building the church, gathering the church, glorifying the church, and presenting that To the Father, his inheritance. We need to know the inheritance of God, namely, you are it. We are it. The church is God's treasured possession purchased by Christ that God will enjoy forever. Think about how much a materialist Loves his possessions. Have you ever met a materialist, someone who's just living for things? Isn't there a little materialist living inside each one of us in the flesh? Think about how much the materialist loves his possessions, how much a selfish toddler loves his toys. Did you ever see a toddler grab? And hits and bites and scream and throw a fit. They love their toys. That's mine. I was playing with that. Think about how much a selfish adult loves his own comfort, prioritizes himself over others, and loves his own money I can't use it for the welfare of others. Improper loves. But As much as the materialist loves possessions and the toddler loves toys and the selfish adult loves his own comfort and money at the expense of others, infinitely more does God love the church. Infinitely more is God's love for you, beloved of God, believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Titus 2. 14 calls the church a people for his own possession. 1 Peter 2. 9 calls the church a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. 1 Corinthians 6 says, our bodies are a temple of the Holy Spirit. And 1 Corinthians 6, end of 19, says, you are not your own And verse 20 says, you were bought with a price, therefore glorify God in your body. Ephesians 5, 25 says, husbands, love your wives. As Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor, without spot or wrinkle, or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. And that's God's inheritance. The church that Christ redeems and cleanses and perfects Do we have enlightened hearts? Are the eyes of our hearts open to the hope that is ours in Christ and to God 's glorious inheritance in the saints? I pray that this will strengthen our faith and increase our zeal for worship. And let us see. Let us see to have the eyes of our hearts enlightened, or to have enlightened hearts, to know God's power toward us. To know God's power toward us. And this is verse 19. And what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe? Is immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe. Immeasurable. Cannot be measured. Greatness of what? Of God's power. And look at the exegesis. Where is that power directed? Toward us who believe. If you want to experience The grace and power of God in your life, there's one thing you need. Believe in Jesus. You see, the flesh and the world, the way of the world, will say that you need lots of good works. To get there. You need external religion and the feelings and the emotions Of exciting or entertaining religion to get you there. And it's all a lie. It's all playing religion and playing spirituality. Every sinner needs one thing for the life-transforming power of God in their lives. Faith in Jesus Christ. That is what Scripture offers. That is what, as a church and as a preacher, we put forth this. All you need is Christ. All you need is Christ to have the guilt of your sins erased. All you need is Christ to be reconciled to God forever. All you need is Christ to receive the Holy Spirit. And to be sanctified into the likeness of God, all you need is Christ. He is God and He is man. He is the only mediator between God and man. He lived a righteous life that we could never live. He died a sacrificial death, taking our sins as his own, so that we could go free. He rose to eternal life. He ascended on high. And from the right hand of God in heaven, he saves sinners by his grace and power. Look to Jesus and believe. Look to Jesus and believe. And you will know God's power. And here's why it's worth it. Immeasurable greatness of his power Child of God, I hope every morning you wake up, you remember that you are not alone. I hope you remember that you're not alone in the struggles that you're going through, but God is with you and God can help you. That you're not alone in battling temptation and going in the other direction. But God is with you. And He can and He will help you to flee from Satan's. Lores. You are not alone to put sin to death. You are not alone to live a holy life We are not alone to strengthen our own faith. We are not alone to increase our own zeal for worship. But God is with us. God does those things. And so, what kind of people do we need to be? We need to be a people who are always looking to God and always crying out to God and always trusting in God and always Resting in Jesus Christ. That's what God wants for you. For your soul to be at rest in knowing Christ. Jesus promised if you come to him, he will give you rest. To know, to know, to know the hope that is ours in Christ And to know God's glorious inheritance in the saints, in the church, and to know the immeasurably great power of God. in our lives toward us. I can't get over that phrase. All week. Power of God toward me. Toward us, immeasurably great power of the creator of the universe, directed toward us, that's what we need And we receive it, and we we grow in the experience of it one way and only one way: faith in Christ. Faith in Christ. Paul writes in Second Corinthians seven four In all our affliction, I am overflowing with joy. Isn't that something? In our affliction, in our troubles, and our suffering and our anguish. Paul says, I'm overflowing with joy. Not because Paul was greater than us or greater than you or smarter than me, but because Paul had faith in Christ. Did you think it was going to be something else? Paul was looking to Christ in faith. And Christ was filling Paul's heart with joy in the midst of all of his afflictions. And what Paul was unable to do, and what we are unable to do, God is able to do. Enlightened hearts That know our hope, that know God's inheritance, that know the power of God toward us to strengthen our faith, to increase our zeal and worship. Now we cannot know the power of God toward us unless we know the power and the authority of the Lord Jesus Christ. And that's the rest of the message. So number two, the power of Christ. Verse 19a And it's still continuing the same prayer. You see, it's not the beginning of a new sentence. He's just going to flesh out exactly what that power looks like. All right, immeasurably great power. What does that look like? Is that solar power? Is that electrical power? What kind of power is this? It's a specific power of the living Lord Jesus Christ. And so verse nineteen, what is the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe? According to The working of his great might that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead. So let's take, let's take this piece by piece, bite by bite That we might have enlightened hearts that grasp the power of Christ. First of all, the power of Christ is the power of resurrection life. Resurrection life. Look at that again. Verse 19 into verse 20, according to the working of his great might, that he worked in Christ When he raised him from the dead. And so he worked this power in Christ when he raised him from the dead. And it's according to that power that God now has immeasurably great power toward you. The power of resurrection life. Do you love God today? Would you raise your hand or nod or say amen or wink at me or do something? That's because inside of you is resurrection life from Jesus Do you hate sin? Are you striving to turn from sin? Are you longing to be rid of sin? Will you raise your hand, nod your head, say amen, or wink at me? Why is that? Are you naturally a holy person? No. It's because you have inside of you, in your soul, you possess resurrection life from Jesus. This is what Christian living is about. The experience of resurrection power In this life, partially and imperfectly and provisionally, but in the life to come, perfectly And ultimately and eternally in fellowship with God. She has to feel the difference. On one side, just living for the world and living for this life and living for things, and on the other side, living for God and eternity and heaven and resurrection, the glory. Of Jesus Christ. You see, you can't have a foot in both worlds. You have to repent from that. There is no fence. With the leg on both sides. You're either living alienated from God, living for the world, or you're living in communion with God Possessing resurrection power and striving for his glory and for eternity. We need a great revival of this mindset today. A great revival. Christ's resurrection. Christ's resurrection. Now before his resurrection, praise the Lord, he died to save us from sin. And if you believe in Christ and you believe in his crucifixion that he died for your sin, he died to erase your guilt, he died to receive the judgment you deserve. If you believe in him, you're saved. And now resurrection power is yours. He died to save us from sin, but he rose to save us from eternal death. So the power of Christ is the power of resurrection. The power of Christ, let her be. This is the authority of his enthronement. His enthronement Christ was risen, yes, but he didn't stay on earth indefinitely. He stayed for forty days teaching his disciples, but then he ascended to heaven and was seated at the right hand of God. Now this is the next part of verse 20. So look with me at the next part of verse 20. He raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Now on resurrection Sunday, Jesus rose from the dead, but he wasn't in the heavenly places. Where was he? He was on the earth. He was in Jerusalem. And he taught the disciples for 40 more days, and then he ascended into heaven. He ascended into the heavenly places. And he's not just up there twiddling his thumb and playing tic-tac-toe with angels. No, he's seated at the right hand of God to govern the universe. To oversee the affairs of everything in the invisible realm and the visible realm. All authority in heaven and earth had been given to him, and he ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of God. Jesus Christ, risen but enthroned, and the eyes of our hearts Need to daily see his resurrection power at work in us. And the eyes of our hearts need to daily see that Jesus is a living Savior reigning in heaven from the throne of God And let her see the eyes of our hearts need to see his authority. From that seat, the throne of God in heaven, the authority of Christ, let her see Verses 21 into 22. He's far above all rule, authority, power, dominion, and above every name that is named that has to do with like different offices of leadership. The name represents the person and the dignity and the office. He's above all rule, authority, power, dominion, every name that is named. Not only in this age, but also in the age to come, which the keen listener and the keen reader will see. We're not waiting for a day for Christ to be exalted above all authorities This is the day where Christ is exalted over all authorities, but it's not only true in this age, but it also will be true in the age to come. Christ is top. Christ is supreme. He is over all authorities, authority structures in the end of the angelic hosts He has more authority and more power over all the demonic forces, forces of evil, Satan himself and all of his minions. There is an authority structure in the home and positions of authority in the family. Christ's authority is greater There's authority structure in church, in places of authority and leadership in church, but Christ's authority is greater. There are authority structures and And offices and names of authority and tribes and nations and kingdoms and governments and government structures. But Christ's authority and Christ's power is greater than all of them and always will be. That's why we can sing songs with such faith, with such conviction that the Word will build the church. successfully, that the Great Commission will be fulfilled, that the kingdom of God will successfully spread to all nations. Because Christ cannot be stopped. He cannot be defeated. He has the highest authority. He has the highest power. Who is going to thwart the purposes of God in Christ? Nobody. Nobody. So there are authority structures. The destiny of the world, brothers and sisters, is not up for grabs. The future is in God's hands. For your study on this, I'll appoint you in your devotions tonight to read Matthew 28, verses 18 and following, the Great Commission. Where it connects Christ's authority with the Great Commission to spread the gospel and bring salvation to the whole world. And then I would point you to Psalm 22, verse 27, and following. Psalm 22, 27, and following. It's a messianic psalm that begins prophesying the crucifixion. But then as you get to the end of the Psalm, you see the results or the fruit of the crucifixion in history. So Matthew 28, 18, and following, Psalm 22, 27 and following, the power of Christ to have our enlightened hearts that see The power of his resurrection, the authority of his enthronement, the supremacy of his authority over all other rules, dominions, names, whatever Christ is over them all, and letter D finally To see the power of Christ, we need to understand Christ's body, which is the church. The end of verse 22, into verse 23. Alright. I guess we'll just we'll just read the whole verse 22. And he put all things under his feet and gave him. Let's stop right there just for a second. It's a picture of the Father giving the Son. Reminiscent, not the same, but it's reminiscent of John 3:16, where God so loved the world, he gave his only son. But the picture is good because it's the idea of the Father giving a gift. And so here it says He put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church. God gave Christ to the church. God appointed Christ as the supreme authority over all things. Right? And also, he gives Christ as a gift to the church. Verse 23. Verse 23, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all Think about the best gift that you've ever received, or your favorite gift that you've ever received. It's probably changed over the years. What that is, what kind of gifts you're looking for. Think about the most expensive gifts that you've ever given, or maybe the uh the most thoughtful gift that you've ever given. What is God's gift? What is God's gift to you? But in this passage, what is God's gift to the church? Jesus. Jesus. He appointed Jesus as the supreme leader of the universe, the head honcho. The highest authority over all things in all ages, everything under his feet. So think about this: God's gift to you is first of all a person It's a person, Jesus Christ, who is the source of eternal salvation. Hebrews 5. 9, the source of eternal salvation. God has given you a person, Jesus Christ, who is the source of eternal salvation. He's infinite in love, mercy, grace, compassion. Right? And he's the supreme authority in the universe whose purposes for you and for his church and for the world cannot be stopped. So let me ask you, are you in a good position or a bad position? I mean you've got it all going on If you have Christ, you have everything that you need. You're headed in the right direction. Are the eyes of our hearts enlightened? To grasp these truths. I mean really to understand them, to internalize them in such a way that they redirect and reorient and reshape our lives and everything about us. Because that's what discipleship is. The discipleship exam is not a scantron. Who remembers a scantron test? A multiple choice test? You have a pencil Jerry's giving a nice big wave. Uh is a principal for elementary school, so you've seen more scantrons than you know what to do with And you have a little pencil and you fill in the little oval. You fill in the little oval. If you know the information, you get the answer. But the Christian life is not like that. You can know all the information, you can fill in all the right ovals, but not be living in the daily experience of the grace and power of God. You see, you there's this version of Christianity that can be widespread of just head knowledge And that's not God's will for us. He wants our hearts, he wants our lives, he wants us to experience his love and his grace and his power. That's why he wants the eyes of our hearts enlightened. He doesn't start on the outside. He goes right to the inside. He goes to the heart. Let's purpose afresh, brothers and sisters. To give our hearts to Christ. Let's purpose afresh to have our faith daily strengthened by looking to Christ. Let's purpose afresh to have our zeal for worshiping God boosted and increased. By looking to Christ, look to Christ in faith, and you will not fail. Let's cry. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Christ. For his power, his authority, his presence with us, his Holy Spirit in us, his word to us, his church, your inheritance. What can we say, God? We're unworthy people, and yet you've given us everything. We tried to run away, but you sought us and you found us and you brought us back. We were lost in sin and yet you came in grace and mercy and incomparable love. You've made us your own. Father, we thank you. We love you, Lord. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.