Tonight we continue our study in Joel chapter 2, verses 12 through 17. Joel chapter 2, 12 through 17. This is a bit of a turning point in our series. I don't know if for some of you, if your Bible has become like mine, since we've been in Joel so much, it kinda It's just naturally opening a little bit easier there. Whereas before I had to maybe look up at the index or flip, flip, flip. I'd miss it, have to go back. But now we've been in this for a while and um We see the constant call of sin bringing judgment. Sin bringing judgment. Sin bringing judgment. And tonight we're t making a turn within the book. We've seen what's in front of us, we've seen the issue of sin, we've seen the coming judgment of God, the day of the Lord, and now we're going to see the turn. What do we do? What is our hope? What do we do? And as you can see in the title, let's return to the Lord. Remember, as we're studying this, we're talking about Judah, most likely. We're talking about Judah, so it's God's people, historical people, in the Old Testament. And he's been pouring out his judgment upon them, and he's proclaiming that there's going to be a coming judgment for their sin. And now he's calling them to return. And likewise, as we're thinking about ourselves, he's calling his children who are in sin to return to him, to come back to him. So this is for the believer tonight. This is for the believer. If you are a believer in Christ You have faith in Christ, you believe He's died for your sins on the cross, yet you find yourself in sin. Maybe tonight, maybe it's in the future. The call is the same. What's the answer when you are in sin? Return to the Lord. Come back to the Father who's forgiven you. through his son Jesus. And likewise, that's what we hear being cried out to the Israelites, to Judah. Think about this before we dive in. Think about this. This this letter, this prophet has he's been prophesying kind of I I think of artillery, I don't know what's a normal uh uh imagery to use here, but could you imagine being on the battlefield and artillery, the enemy's artillery, hitting all around you. And every every time it explodes, it shakes the earth and your ears are ringing. It's kicking up dust into your face and and you're kind of disoriented. Right, there's you you don't even know which direction is north, you don't know which way to go, you can't find whose friend, whose foe, and you're just kind of dizzy. What's what's happening here? Their sins are being called out. God's judgment's being poured out upon them. There's just a dizziness in their lives. There's got to be a sense where they're a little unstable on their feet. What do we do? Have you been in that situation? Has sin just hammered you in your life? Have you have you committed sins and and the effects of sin have just polluted your life and and and you've Kind of barely can get out of bed in the morning and go, I don't know what I'm doing or where to go. The answer's simple. Return This is this moment when our ears are ringing, when our eyes are burning, when our legs are shaky, what do we do? Return to the Lord. Let's read as Joel prophesies what the Lord tells them. So Joel chapter 2, verse 12 Yet even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning, and rend your hearts and not your garments. Return to the Lord your God. For he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love. And he relents over disaster. Who knows whether he will not turn and relent and leave a blessing behind him, a grain offering and a drink offering for the Lord your God. Blow the trumpet in Zion. Consecrate a fest. Call a solemn assembly. Gather the people. Consecrate the congregation. Assemble the elders. Gather the children. Even nursing infants. Let the bridegroom leave his room and the bride her chamber. Between the vestival and the altar, let the priests, the ministers of the Lord, weep, and say, Spare your people, O Lord. And make not your heritage a reproach, a byword among the nations. Why should they say among the peoples, Where is their God? Brothers and sisters, notice the turn here. As we talk about this, as we think about what does it mean to return to the Lord, this word should be forefront in your mind. It's another R-word. Repentance. Yeah, I tried to give it away, the very first line on your your outline there. Repentance. What is repentance? Simply put, repentance is a complete change of the heart away from sin and toward God. A complete change of heart, how you feel, how you see it, your passion towards the sin, and back to God, toward God. It cannot just be one way. The temptation is, we see that sin's a problem, and the temptation is I'm going to turn away from sin. Alright, let's say, let's say my sin's here, my sin is lust. So I'm going to turn away from sin. and go to drinking and getting drunk. I'm not lusting anymore, right? I've solved that sin issue. But now what do I do? I got another issue, right? This is common. I if anyone's ever uh struggled with being addicted to nicotine, you know this struggle. I'm gonna quit smoking cigarettes. So I'm gonna dip a can of Copenhagen. I'm gonna quit dipping, so then I'm going to start wearing a patch of nicotine And and then I'm going to quit the patch of nicotine by smoking cigarettes. And it's this loop that continues on. Because we're not actually turning away from our sins to something righteous. We're turning away from our sin. We're turning away from our passions. And just putting them onto something else. Repentance is the complete change of heart away from the sin. We see the disgustingness of it, and we turn and face God. We go towards God. We look at God And we see here, that's what the call is tonight. That's what Joel is announcing to his people. Number one, God calls the sinner to return. God calls the sinner to return. I love how Joel and well how God speaks through Joel in verse 12. Yet even now. I I wish we could have just sat in this uh in the sanctuary together for for three or four hours and and had all the sermons of one through two up to this point all in one sitting. I know maybe you guys don't wish that, but what you would have felt is the pounding effects of sin and judgment. You would have felt it a little differently than us breaking it up, giving you a week to to digest it, but could you imagine hearing this for the first time, Joel's prophecy And it's just hitting you over your head, over and over and over again. The sin and judgment of God. And that's where I'm saying this is this moment where your legs are weak, and here God says, yet even now. How sinful? How great of a sin? How far away have they fled from God and His Word? How deep engraves and enthralled are the in their passions are they? It really doesn't matter It doesn't matter how big the sin, how much it has you entangled, how long you've been committing it, how long you've rejected God's law, God says, yet, even now. Return to me with all your heart. We see God's call is for the sinner to return to Him. Regardless of the sin, regardless of what has happened in the past, he's saying, now, now is the time to return to me. Hate your sin, see the disgustingness of it, and see the glory of God. See how devastating sin is. See the judgment of your sin and turn to go towards God and see the forgiveness found in Him So what does this repentance look like? What does this turning to God look like in our lives? Well A mourn over the sin. We see right away there in twelve. Return to me with all your heart, with fasting, with weeping, and with mourning, and rend your hearts and not your garments. Notice here that we must recognize how disgusting our sin is. We can't just say, oh, that's bad. That's a problem. God doesn't like it. We must see it as God sees it. He hates it. He despises it. He's pouring out his judgment upon it. God is just in putting us to death because of that sin. So how disgusting is it really? Really? It's terrible. We see that we're called here to fast, so give up eating, crying out to the Lord in prayer, weeping, crying. Crying over our sins. And mourning. This idea of mourning actually comes with the imagery you would see it in a funeral. Mourning, the the agony and the pain of death that people feel. That's the kind of mourning that happens, the kind of sadness that happens. Are we doing that over our sins? I'll be honest, I don't day to day my my mourning over sin is not that deep I don't feel the pain of it sometimes. I fail to recognize how terrible it is, how destructive it is, how how it is driving me away from God. But we must start and recognize that until we mourn over our sin because of how terrible it is, we won't recognize how to turn to God. Until we recognize how terrible it is, we won't have any passion to turn away from it. We can be honest and say that most of the sins we commit feel good to us in the moment. Right? Most of the sins we commit feel good to us in the moment. But until we see how terrible they are, and we're disgusted by them, we mourn over it like we would the passing of a loved one because we recognize that our death, our lives are on the line there, that our sins could bring us death justly from God. And we cry out. We feel the pain and the agony of that. We won't truly return to the Lord. We won't turn away from our sins and turn to the Lord. So the first thing we must do is mourn over our sins. See how terrible it is. Letter B, this is one of my favorite lines in scripture that I found in the last few weeks. Is found there in verse 13. But letter B is repentance is of the heart. I love this language here, and we actually see it echoed throughout Scripture in verse 13, and rend your hearts and not your garments. Rend your hearts and not your garments. Some translations may see re-tear your your hearts and not your garments. Rip apart your heart and not your garments. This idea is that the repentance, the hating of the sin, the turning back to the Lord is not just an external thing. Or you're caught up in sin. You feel the effects of it, so your church attendance starts going up. You feel the effects of your sin, so you start loving your spouse and buying her flowers and getting him gifts. And doing the dishes more. These things are good. That's not true repentance. That's not true hating of the sin and turning to the Lord Recognize that the the definition I give there is the repentance is a complete change of the heart. Because out of our heart, when our hearts repent, when we turn our hearts from our sin and to the Lord, then the external thing. Then we start to repent exportly, outwardly. We start to function differently. We start to actually avoid those sin and the temptation that drew us into sin. We start to go to the places that are gathering with the saints. And in building us up. But it first must start in the heart. If our only repentance is ex outwardly and we want the people to see our repentance, make it look as though we're clean, we're just following after the pharaoh. We're just following after the Pharisees. We look good on the outside, but our hearts are disgusting. Our hearts are still uh in love with sin. Our hearts are still following after our flesh and our desires. We must start at the heart. Romans 2. You can just write this down. Romans 2, 28 and 29. Paul is defining who's the true Jew. He's using the imagery and the understanding of circumcision. And he's not saying the outward circumcision is the mark of the true Jew. It's the circumcised heart that is the mark of the true Jew. Brothers and sisters, that's good news for you and I. We are part of God's family. We are the true Jew, and our hearts have been transformed by the gospel, when we have been born again. By the Holy Spirit, our faith is in Christ. We now have circumcised hearts. This is important. Jeremiah 4:4 has similar language. God is circumcising the heart. Isn't it beautiful that God has given us an example such as tearing our garments in mourning, such as circumcision in a physical sense, to show us What truth really is, to show us what's happening inwardly. Because if we didn't have these marks, if we didn't have the outward expressions of things, we wouldn't understand what's happening inwardly. We had that example this morning of baptism. Isn't it a beautiful thing that we see an outward expression of what going down in death and coming up in life looks like? That's not the final death in life. Just so you know, like I didn't kill Eric up in the baptismal last night or this morning. He is alive. He always was alive physically. But it's showing what happens inwardly within us. Well, likewise, this is what we see here. Our hearts must be what is being what we are repenting. We're we're turning our hearts away from sin. And then to the Lord. Like I say, that's gonna happen inwardly first, and then we're going to see the outward effects of that as well. Let us see. Our returning to the Lord, our calling out in confessing our sins and returning to the Lord, there is no delay. There's no delay. That's why Joel has hammered us, has fired the artillery shells of God's judgment for us to see, to call out and say, the day of the Lord is here. There's no delay. If you're breathing right now and you have sin, now is the time to return to the Lord. Because you don't know tomorrow you may not wake up. The call to repentance, the call of returning to the Lord is now. There's no delay in it. Look at verse 15 with me. Blow the trumpet in Zion, consecrate a fast, call solemn assembly assembly. Now now recognize here this call this trumpet blow was just used uh not too far earlier in Joel, because the physical enemies were coming into the land. The physical enemies enemies were jumping over the walls and coming in to kill and destroy in a physical sense And there was a call of the horn. Call, blow the trumpets, get the men ready for battle. The enemy's attacking, get the men ready for battle. That's what that's what the trumpet uh blow is. It's calling the people to battle, getting them ready. But notice this isn't a physical battle here. The blowing the trumpet in Zion here in verse 15 is to our hearts again. Send your inwards. Call now. Don't worry about the physical battle, because if you're spiritually dead, that physical battle, that means nothing The call is immediate. The trumpet blast is to perk up the people, to get their attention, to call them together. But it continues on. Verse 16, gather the people, consecrate the congregation, assemble the elders. Gather the children, even nursing infants. Let the bridegroom leave his room and the bride her chamber. This end here should magnify the the brevity we should have in our return to the Lord. When we recognize sin in our lives, There should not be a moment of a sigh. There should not be a moment of a breath. It should be an immediate return to the Lord. We're convicted of sin. We recognize it. Don't think about what the answer is. Return to the Lord. Gather the children, even nursing infants. I don't know if you've heard a hungry infant recently There's a lot crying. There's a lot of crying all the time with some infants, but especially the hungry ones. This this imagery here is is I I believe both a physical, like really this is true. Go get the mothers and their infants. Because they need to gather together as well. But also to symbolize the intensity of this. There's nothing that should be holding the people back from gathering together and repenting What about this? Let the bridegroom leave his room and the bride her chamber. This is the moment. This imagery right here is the moments before in our day they're going to walk down the aisle. and get married. You know when you're waiting back in that the the back rooms right before the music starts playing, your heart's pounding, and this is the moment you've been living for. This is it, you're gonna get married. Things happen after marriage, and then you're all excited. Call those people out of the room. Say your your wedding should be held off for this There's sin in your life. You rebelled against God, hold off whatever you think is the most important moment in your life to return to the Lord. There's nothing that should take precedence in our lives in returning to the Lord. Lord. The call's clear. Joel's Joel's making it very clear. There's nothing holding us back. There's no event greater, grander, more important. than returning to the Lord. Now how beautiful it is for us living today, recognizing the work of Christ on the cross. And let's say you're driving into work and and the Spirit just springs up in you a sin you've committed. How glorious it is that in that moment you can cry out to the Lord. Confess your sins to her and return to him. You don't need to turn around, come to the church, meet with Pastor Matt and I. Do it then. There's nothing stopping you. It's a beautiful reality we have of the gospel that we can go to the Lord immediately when we recognize sin. There is no delay in our returning to the Lord. Letter D. Sinners call out to God for salvation. Sinners call out to God for salvation. As we see this unfolding here, we we've heard of the locusts uh ravaging the fields. We've heard of the the foreign nations coming to devour Judah and take over the nation. And the judgment of God is coming in a physical sense. So what's the temptation of the man? It's to call out to the invading army. Hey hey hey, please stop. Stop it right there. Don't jump over our walls. We're sorry. We're sorry. And what's that army going to do? Thanks for your apology. Now give us your gold. Now give us your city. Notice that the call is not to cry out to the judgment to to beg for the the armies to stop advancing, to go whisper into the the ears of grasshoppers. I don't know how they hear That's not what we're calling out to. We're calling out to the Lord. Salvation comes from the Lord. The judgment is coming from the Lord. It's throughout this entire section here. Yet even now return to me with all your heart. Return to the Lord in verse 13. Return to the Lord your God. Notice that the call of salvation is only to the Lord. As humans, we are tempted when we're we're in trials and and we have judgment upon us. We want to deal with the judgment, we want to deal with the physical situation in front of us instead of going to the Lord. Salvation is in God. We call out to the Lord. The return is not a tradition. You know, we see the problems in the world and and s the temptation maybe for some of us is that if we just we see all the issues of the culture and of America and we just return back to nineteen seventy When Ronald Reagan was president, everything would be solved, right? Well, no, it wouldn't be. The call is not well maybe okay. Oh, if we could just get back to Martin Luther in the 1500s when he's nailing the 95 C C onto the door. And the Catholic Church is mad. That's where we've got to get back to. That's where we've got to get back to. Then all these cultural issues, all the problems in our lives will be gone. Well maybe that's not far enough. Maybe if we could just go back, maybe if we could just go back to the year thirty-five, like just two years after Jesus' ascension Maybe that's when we need to get back. But notice, we're trying to solve the problems, we're trying to solve the judgment of God by just escaping He put us here in 2024 in Jarrett'sville for a purpose. We don't know what that is. But there's no reason for us to desire and to flee and thinking if we just get away from the situation, if we could just get away from the shear, if we could just get away from this politics Then our problems would be solved. No, our problems will be solved when we turn to the Lord and look to Him for salvation and nowhere else. Nothing else is going to solve our problems except for our Savior God Alright, so let's look at number two here, the purpose of repentance. You see God's call for us to return, but what's the purpose of repentance? Ultimately, repentance is to restore the relationship between God and His people. He said it again. Repentance is to restore the relationship between God and his people. That's what it's all about. He's calling his people back to him. They've sinned, they've rebelled against him, they've gone uh um uh pe on through down the line chasing after their own passion. and flesh, and is calling them back to him, restoring that relationship back to him. He's the one that restores it, but it through repentance is how he accomplishes that. Well, let's see what happens within repentance. Let's see some of the outworking that happens in our repentance. Literally, it magnifies the character of God As our relationship with God is restored, as we're fleeing from our sin and turning to God, it will magnify the character of God. Remember, I started this whole series off by talking about how we It's the double knowledge. We must recognize our sin and depravity and how bad it really is, and this will magnify the glory of God and how great He really is, which will then magnify how terrible our sin really is. And this chasm will grow and grow and grow every time we study either one of those. And as that chasm between God and sinful man grows and grows and grows, it then magnifies the work of Christ. The cross grows and grows and grows and it becomes bigger. So as we see our sin, as we mourn over our sin, as our hearts repent, we see the character of God magnified before us. Look at verse 13. So we return to the Lord your God. First off, the idea that he is the Lord your God. He's your sovereign. He's in control. He's in charge. He's the one you follow. That's a characteristic of God. The Lord. Lord is a characteristic of God. Yahweh He's in charge. No one should have more authority in your life than him. It's another characteristic of a God. He's gracious. He's gracious. He's pouring out blessings upon us. He's pouring out kindness upon us. What else is he? Merciful. Merciful. He sees our pitiful state and he reaches down to bring salvation. He pours out his judgment, disciplining his children And he's gonna pull back. And we're gonna see throughout the rest of Joel, he pulls back his judgment that was just, and he starts to pour out blessings that we don't deserve, that Judah doesn't deserve. His mercies are clear. Slow to anger. Oh Lord, if we could all learn to be a little bit more like God in his characteristics, slow to anger. We think as he's pouring out his judgment, well obviously God's just an angry God. Have you heard that? That the Old Testament's the the angry God and then the New Testament's the not as angry God with Jesus. That's foolishness. It's the same God throughout the Old and the New Testament, throughout all of history, from when He created everything to when He returns with His bride. We see here. He's not angry unjustly, he's not just wrathfully, he could have just he could have wiped us all off of the earth. He could have destroyed all all of Judah. But notice the slow in angry that he's willing to pour out judgments upon his people so that they learn of their sin and return to him. We've talked a lot about Exodus in this uh study as well because we're also doing Sunday school. But God has poured out ten plagues upon Egypt. Instead of just wiping them off the earth and and liberating Israel, he's demonstrating his patience with sinners. Brothers and sisters, may we rejoice in his patience with sinners. His patience has been upon you and I. The moment we sin the very first time , He could have put us to death and been just of it. He could have separated us for eternity and did just for that. His patience In the due time of history, he sent his son in the due time of history. He resurrected him from the grave in the due time of history. He set him on the throne in heaven. In the due time of history, he's called you to faith in him. Recognize the patience of our Lord in that. And continues abounding in steadfast love. Abounding Just just overflowing instead fat love. His love is not changing depending on uh what you do this morning. His love for his children is the same. That's why he's pouring out his judgment upon them. He wants his children to be in a right relationship with him. I must move on. I can't continue on with the character of God. But we recognize that our repentance magnifies that, and Joel is calling that out. That as we return to the Lord, we should see that He is the Lord. That he's gracious, merciful, slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love. Oh, and relents over disaster. He pulls back his judgments. Beautiful imagery of who our God is. Let her be. It turns God's just discipline away. Or just judgment. You could put discipline or judgment there Verse 14, who knows whether he will not turn and relent and leave a blessing behind him, a grain offering and drink offering for the Lord your God. This language here in four fourteen can be a bit confusing at face value, but when w when we recognize it's it's a common literary phrase or terminology we would use, but this idea of who knows whether he will not turn. It's kind of being ambiguous, like, oh, maybe God's not going to do it. Like maybe we're going to cry out to Him. We're going to turn away from our sin and we're going to turn to the Lord. And He's going to look at us and go, Nah. Good try. You you you tore your hearts, you rend your hearts, and and you genuinely came to me in faith, but I'm not. No, no, let's not let's not see it that way. Uh Some translations may say suppose or possibly the Lord. We don't need to look at it that way. But notice here It's this it's this idea of drawing us in. When pain is really hitting us, when when we're shocked by the world, when we're shocked by sin, when we're shocked by the judgment of God and we're unsure It's this friend coming up to you and goes, Hey, what else, what do you have to lose? What do you have to lose? Go to the Lord. What else is there? Go to the Lord. What what if He forgives you? What if it actually works? It's placing our hope in the right place. It's for that believer who's struggling to have hope. It's to that believer that's that's weak in their faith right now. And it's that friend coming up and saying, Do it. What what if the doubts you have are wrong What the doubts you have about God and his ability to forgive is wrong. And we'll deal with that a little bit later in in number three. But it's this language of lifting up our hearts and our heads to God And saying actually we should place our hope in him, in him alone. We can look to him with confidence. He will pull back his judgment. He does forgive the sinner. And there's great hope found in this. Letter C, the purpose of repentance. We see here that when we return to the Lord, blessings bless the I'm sorry, the repentance blesses God's people. Blesses God's people. What is the purpose of repentance? It blesses God's people. Verse 14. We see that while he will pull back his judgments upon them, the discipline upon the people. What's the other side of this? It's the it's the negative of taking away something, but then there's also the positive of pouring out the blessings Look with me in the middle of fourteen and leaving a blessing behind him, a grain offering, a drink offering to the Lord your God. We're actually going to see in the rest of chapter two that there's more blessings being poured out upon the repentant people. There's more blessings when we return from our sins and we turn to the Lord. There's blessings that are poured out upon his people. And next week, two weeks, sorry, next week we're we have Memorial Eve, but the following week we're gonna unpack those blessings It's more than just forgiveness. Forgiveness is probably number one. It's the peak. It's the restoration of that relationship with God. But there's so much more to come. From our God. There's so much more blessings He pours out upon us. So we'll study that later. But letter D, it glorifies God. What's the purpose of repentance? It glorifies God. Just as it magnifies the character of God, it also glorifies our God. Look back in verse 17. Between the vestibule and the altar, let the priest and the ministers of the Lord weep And say, Spare your people, O Lord, and make not your heritage a reproach, a byword among the nations. Why would they say among the peoples, Where is their God? We must understand here that as Joel is prophesying to Judah in that time in history, the nations around them are mocking them. They're saying, Where's your God? I thought you were this special people. I thought you had this great God that that saved you out of the hand of Egypt. I thought you had this great God that gave you this land. And here we are taking it over from you. Here you are. You're starving because the locust has taken your fields. How great are you? Big deal. Looks like your God's really not that powerful. We see a similar idea in the New Testament. You know, we see as Jesus hangs on the cross, people coming up and mocking him. Oh Jesus, if you're so great, if you're the King of the Jews, if you're the Son of God, why don't you call down the angels to come rescue you? This is the temptation Satan's giving Jesus while he's in the wilderness. He's giving promises that are true promises, but he's tempting Jesus to get the promise in some foreign and ungodly way. What happens when we return to the Lord? The nations have nothing to mock over The world cannot look at God's people who are repentant, who have confessed their sins, returned to the Lord, and are following after him. There's nothing to be mocked of. There's nothing to be ashamed of. There's nothing that we need to hide from the world. With boldness, with joy, with pride, we pronounce, we announce that we are sinners. That are forgiven by a holy God. We see the people are called this, that they're called to this repentance, and it will glorify God We will see this more in the second part of chapter 2, but we'll see that the nations, and chapter 3 as well, that the nations will be put to shame because of Judah's return to the Lord. And sinners repent and return to the Lord. The mockers, the oppressors, will be put to shame. And God will be glorified. People will see that God is the one that has redeemed his people. The nations will see that God is the one pouring out his blessings. The nations will see that God is the one that saves and redeems his people. This is good and beautiful, and we must be reminded that our repentance glorifies God. It restores the relationship between God and His people. Number three, and this is a bit of a thought exercise I want us to work through tonight. You know, i if we recognize how terrible sin is, and we recognize that we have forgiveness in God Then why aren't we returning to the Lord? What's holding us back? Why do we delay in returning to the Lord? And I have three options here. I think there's probably more. And as I'm thinking about this and as I wanted to to draw this out, I I I was thinking once again, another army analogy. Sorry, that's all I have tonight. But every Wednesday well every day of the week we'd work out and then every Wednesday we would fight because That's what you would do. And I was not good at fighting, just so you know. Long arms that don't do well. And I would get in a position where I'm losing oxygen because I'm getting choked out. And what I'm going to do is I'm going to tap to make them stop, right? But if I was really, uh, you know, I thought I had some bravado, I wanted to be a a real manly man, I would I would not tap and think maybe I could get out of it And I would get out of it because I would fall asleep and they would have to let me go. I'd pass out. But it's similar to here. I think there's a sense of like the the judgment of God is choking us out It's choking us. We feel the pressure upon us. And we feel the life of us being squashed out. We feel our breath going away. But there's something in us that thinks maybe we can get out of this. In some way. Liter A, I think, is that we do not believe our sin is that bad. We don't think that chokehold is really gonna take the breath out of us We don't think that God's judgment is really that severe, and we don't think that God really will judge that sin because it's not that bad I don't have time, but you can look at Luke 13, 1 through 5, and it's a bit of a unique place to take you, but that's where Jesus is talking about those that had been uh murdered. And and then their blood was mixed with the sacrifice and people are asking like whose sin is at fault here? And Jesus says, don't worry about their sin, but if you don't repent of your sins, you will be like them. And then he goes into the next story, the next current event of a tower falling on thirteen people, and he's saying, like they died, if you don't turn from your sin, you will die like them He's just pointing that that if you think your sin isn't that bad and that someone else's sin is worse, then you're missing the point. How often do we want to do that? How often do we want to say, it's not that bad. You don't know my brother. You don't know the guy that sits next to me in the pew at church. He's the real problem. His sins are really that bad. No, we must recognize that all sin is an offense against God. All sin is rebellion against our Lord. Mark these down as well, Psalm 5. 4. Psalm 5. 4. And Isaiah 59. 2. It it helps us paint the picture of how terrible sin is. Psalm 5. 4. For you are not a God who delights in wickedness. Evil may not dwell with you. What is that? That that evil, wickedness, rebellion against him can't even dwell in the presence of God. And Isaiah fifty-nine two has a very similar language, the hatred God has toward sin. And I I said that correctly. He hates sin. I know your mom said not to use that word, because it's a harsh word, and your mom's correct. And that's why I'm using it. God hates Sin. If he hates sin so much that he's putting man to death for it, then why do we think that our sin's not that bad? Why do we think that maybe we can just we we can fight off the punishment. That that we can withhold it and we can actually keep the sin and not deal with it and return to the Lord. Letter B, what's the other thing that's delaying our return to the Lord? We try to fix ourselves up first. Does that chokehold around you? You think you have the perfect move to get out of it? You never do. You never will get out of it. Judgment of God, you will never escape it. He sees your sins. He's pouring out there's no solution that you can accomplish to resolve this issue You can mark this down as well, Luke 1821. This idea of maybe there's a way that we can get out of this. Luke Luke 18, um in that section, that's the rich young ruler coming to Jesus and He's he's asking, how do I get into the kingdom of of heaven? And and in that time, Jesus tells him, he lists off some some laws uh of the Old Testament. I'm sure many of you are familiar with that story. And the rich young ruler looks at him and says, and and he says, All these I have kept from my youth. He's just trying to say, Look, I'm good. I'm good, God. I'm good, Jesus. I've followed the law. I've solved this problem. So what else do I need to do? And we see in twenty two when Jesus heard this, he said to him, One thing you still lack. See all that you have and distribute to the poor, and you ha will have treasure in heaven, and come follow me. But when he heard these things He became very sad for he was extremely rich. So the last we see of that young man. And and what we see happening here is that this young man thought he had it all figured out. He could solve all the problems and he was going to get himself in the heaven, but once Jesus pointed out that he wasn't going to get himself into heaven, that there was still something lacking, and he still needed to follow him. man was done. How often have you talked with someone and and and they're in the trials, they're they're struggling, and they say, well you know once I once I get my finances squared away, I'm gonna start coming to church. Then I can take Sundays off and I can get back from the church. Or once I fix this relationship with my spouse and and once my children are can sit still for a little bit more, then I will come worship with you Or someone uh this is a common phrase I heard a lot was, uh, well, no, I could never go to church. You don't know how sinful I am. Yes I do. Goodbye to the sinner. Forgiven by the grace of God. That's what we're proclaiming. But there's always this temptation of men to try to fix themselves The song Come Ye Sinners is one of my favorite hymns. You'll be singing at my funeral whenever that is. But one of the lines in there is if you tarry till you're better You will never come at all. If you wait, you know, Terry's an old word, we don't use, if you wait till you're better, you will never come at all If if you're sick and you say, once I get better, then I'm going to go to the doctors to see what my problem is, you're going to die of your sickness because you're not going to get the help you need. The provider, the healer, the fixer, the solver, the redeemer is God. It's in Christ. We can't solve this problem ourselves Stop delaying your return to the Lord because you think you need to get better before you go. Come in your broken state. That's why he announces yet even now. How broken are you? I don't care. Go now. How many problems do you have? How great is your sin? I don't care. Go now to the Lord. There's nothing holding us back. Nonetheless, let us see. We doubt we can truly be forgiven. We doubt that we can truly be forgiven. My sins that bad My sin is that disgusting. My sin, I love my sin so much I can't give it up Is that what's holding us back? Is that we doubt that it can actually be forgiven? We doubt that we can actually give it up We doubt that God can actually heal and restore. We doubt that God can actually forgive. We doubt that God can make better. We doubt God can make us stop. We doubt God can help us fight it. We doubt God can put us to death. Whatever we're doubting, God can't do. Is a lie. God forgives. He's faithful and just. We have that promise. God can give you the strength and the ability to fight against your sin. We have that promise. We see the God man, Jesus, fighting against temptation. We're born new, we have the Spirit of God, we too can fight against temptation. Brothers and sisters, never fall for the devil's lie that your sins are too great to be forgiven. The only sin that won't be forgiven is the rejection of God as the forgiver. The rejection that Jesus died on the cross for your sins. The rejection that you are redeemed by Christ in Christ alone. That's just being of the old nature. Not having the new birth in the Holy Spirit. Brothers, turn to the Lord. Your sins in front of you. You've been a Christian forty years, fifty years, sixty years, seventy years Whatever that time frame is, and you think, how could I be a Christian this long and have this sin? I can't no, no, return to the Lord now. Maybe you're sitting in here tonight and you're going, Well You know, I I actually have never turned to the Lord, so I can't return to the Lord. Do it tonight. Join the team that gets to return to the Lord when we sin. Join with us. Recognize that if you place your faith in Christ, when the Spirit has made you new, you are a child of God. You are forgiven. Not just today, not just tomorrow, but into glory. Brothers and sisters, may we return to the Lord with our hearts. May we never be held back by sin, with joy, with hope for the future Turn to the Lord and live his forgiveness. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the truth of forgiveness found in you alone. We thank you that while we are sinners, while we rebelled against you, you sent your son to die on the cross for us. Forgiveness is found in his perfect work in our place. Redemption is found in his resurrection from the dead, giving us hope. Lord, if any of us don't recognize that tonight, pierce our hearts. Cut us open and reveal the truth. Let the gospel ring in our hearts and our ears tonight. Lord, for us that have been living in this reality, no matter how many years, let that truth ring in our ears and hearts as well. May no sin appear to be too strong. May no sin break our relationship with you. May the Spirit convict us of our sin and turn us back. to you. May we feel the sting and the pain of sin. Find forgiveness and the healing in you. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen.