Alright, let's turn to the book of Jude. We're still in Jude. Jude verses twelve to thirteen. Verses twelve to thirteen. Six illustrations for false teachers. Judah's been talking a lot about false teachers and the dangers of false teachers. He's told us the purpose of why he's writing in verse three. I was eager to write to you about our common salvation, but I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the Saints. That's the reason he's writing. And then in verse four, Jude tells us the context of why he's writing about that. condemnation, ungodly people who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Jesus Christ. Yes. Those that kind of people has infiltrated the church and smuggled in heresy and smuggled in immorality. And they're lobbying for a power and influence in the church. So yes. Contend for the faith that's once for all deliver. Today in verses twelve to thirteen we come to six illustrations for false teachers, and I'll try as best I can to give some modern examples of false teachings uh that really where you could see what these illustrations are getting at. It's an interesting paragraph It's an interesting passage. Usually you have the truth and then you have to come up with the illustrations. Well here in this passage you have the illustrations and then you have to go behind them and get to the truth. Which is what we'll try to do. Pretty interesting exercise. Now let's pray for the Lord's blessing and then we'll leap into it. Father, I pray that you would open our hearts to your word. I pray that first of all you would show us your holiness. Through your law, through your commandments, through your holy character. And by way of contrast, show us our sin. Show us our weakness. Uh for this very reason that we might turn to you and lean upon you for grace through Christ. Whatever it takes to get our eyes off of ourselves and onto Christ, we pray that you would do it by your word and spirit. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. The main point today is that false teachers must be identified and they must be dealt with with. They must be identified. They must be dealt with. As John will write in 1 John 4 1, beloved, do not believe Every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world. We must be able to identify false teaching. We must be able to call it what it is. We must be able to deal with it. There is no spiritual-mindedness apart from being doctrinally minded. Doctrinally minded. And doctrine just means teaching. To be spiritually minded is to be doctrinally minded. To want to know what is the teaching of the Bible. What does God teach? What is the truth? We have to be doctrinally minded men and doctrinally minded women so that we can be doctrinally minded, spiritually minded friends. Church members, husbands, wives, mothers, fathers, there's no spirituality apart from being committed to the truth of God To be doctrinally minded. Let's read the passage, and then after we read the passage, we'll look at six illustrations for false teachers that Jude gives to us. Verse twelve, these are hidden reefs at your love feasts Some of your translations say blemishes are spots. We'll get to that when we when we talk about it. These are hidden reefs at your love feasts, as they feast with you without fear. Shepherds feeding themselves. Waterless clouds swept along by winds, fruitless trees in late autumn, twice dead, uprooted. Wild waves of the sea, casting up the foam of their own shame, wandering stars. For whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. False teachers must be identified And false teachers must be dealt with because they are, number one, destructive. Number one, they are destructive. And this comes from the first part of verse 12, which is the first illustration that Jude gives, and he says, These are hidden reefs at your love feasts. Hidden reefs at your love feasts. Now some translations do say blemishes or spots, but the Greek word is for reef or rocks. Now the Greek word for rocks, which also could be uh a reef, in the Greek word for blemishes or spots Sounds the same and pretty much looks the same, except that there's well in the English would be an A is an O and the O is an A. They're very, very, very similar words, but the word is reefs or it could be rocks, and the idea is it's a reef or some kind of rock that's under the surface of the water that you cannot see And that means absolutely nothing unless you're the captain of a ship and you're heading into these waters to make land and your ship hits the reef or hits the rock that you didn't see and sinks your ship. If that's the who you are, and that's the situation a hidden reef or a hidden rock is a huge deal. I don't care about hidden reefs or hidden rocks. You probably don't. But in that culture And the seafaring culture, and if you're the captain of a ship, or if you're if you're a tradesman and you're waiting for your shipment to come in, this is a big deal. The idea is a hidden danger. A hidden danger. It's a destructive force that you don't see right away. And it's to take great discernment, it'll take a particular knowledge to spot this danger so that you can what? So that you can avoid the danger. That's the false teacher. That's the first illustration for the false teachers. Hidden reefs. And it says hidden reef at the love feast. So just picture one of the earliest Versions of a fellowship meal, the church getting together to enjoy Christian fellowship together and to enjoy a meal together, a meal that in a particular way gives thanks to God. And probably in conjunction with this, celebrating the Lord's Supper together. And here at the Love Feast, you have this just under the surface, but very, very deadly, hidden reef or hidden rock formation. Their false teachers in the fellowship meal, in the fellowship of the church, a destructive presence that's right under their nose. And it has to be dealt with. You know it's there, then you can deal with it. A hidden reef is uh a teaching or an influence That's unexpectedly and tragically harmful to people and not helpful. That's what it is. A modern example and one that I grew up with would be the works-based salvation of the Roman Catholic Church. Now the official on-paper doctrine of the Roman Catholic Church is that salvation by faith alone in Christ. Is a heresy. Yes, it's true, I'll say this. And if you want the reference in the Council of Trent, I'll give it to you. Salvation by faith alone is heresy. And the official doctrine is that anyone who believes in salvation by faith alone is to be condemned as a heretic and is to be accursed of God. That's the on-paper official doctrine. Salvation by faith alone is heresy. Now just let that sink in. Let that sink in. Salvation by faith alone in Christ alone is heresy. And if you believe that, you're to be counted as a heretic and disfellowship. From the church. Romans 3. 28 says, We hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. And that's what we teach here, and that's what we preach here. That's what we believe as a church. That 's what the Bible teaches. And we're to embrace that. We're not to get upset at that truth. We're not to disagree with the truth of God Romans 5. 1, therefore, since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Do you have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ? Have you been justified by faith alone in Christ? Are you trusting in Christ plus your good works to be saved? Or are you trusting in Christ alone? Am I trusting in Christ alone to be saved, or am I trusting in Christ plus the things I do outwardly to serve Him? Am I trusting in Christ alone to be justified before God? That's the question. If you can answer that question, you answer the question whether you have a saving faith or not. Do you trust Christ alone as the source of your salvation? I hope that you do. I hope with all of my heart that you do, because the Bible teaches that is the only way to be reconciled to God. Faith alone, through Christ alone, is the only way to be saved and to be made right in the eyes of God. Brothers and sisters, I would Exhort you to not be ashamed of what the Bible teaches on this matter. This is the heart of the gospel. This is the essence of the Christian faith. God wants you to know it, and God wants you to believe it, and God certainly doesn't want you to be ashamed of it. John 3 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. To believe in Christ is to escape the perishing. To believe in Christ is to have eternal life You know, I've heard similar false teachings in the Baptist context. I've heard Baptist pastors and Baptist preachers, Baptist believers say that you're saved through prayer. You're saved through prayer. First you have faith, but now once you say this prayer, now you're saved. You're saved through this prayer. The Bible doesn't teach that. The Bible teaches that if you have faith in your heart, you are reconciled to God. If you have faith in your heart, all of your sins are forgiven. There's nothing you need to do after that to complete your salvation. Are we awake this morning, church? This is what we stand on, salvation in Christ alone through faith alone, on the basis of his sacrifice. You're not saved through a prayer. There's two people sitting next to each other, hearing the gospel. One has faith in their heart, and the other doesn't have faith in their heart. Of the one who has faith in their heart, is he saved yet, or does he still need to do something else? I hope you would say with scripture, I hope I would say with scripture, he is saved. He has faith in Christ. Faith in Christ saves. Christ is a sufficient savior. That's really what it comes down to, church. Do we believe that Christ is an all-sufficient Savior, or is there some deficiency in his salvation that we need to add our good works to it? So it's not just in the Catholic context, it's also in the Baptist context. We see it in other groups as well. We always want to smuggle our good works into it so that we get some of the glory. But that's not the biblical picture of salvation. The biblical picture of salvation is that salvation is by faith apart from works of the law. And what about the guy who was sitting here? This guy had faith. He didn't need to do anything additional to be saved. Well, the guy sitting next to him didn't have faith. Now, what if within the next five minutes he's stirred up emotionally and he has some kind of desire to want to go to heaven? Of course, the flesh always desires something that's better for itself. He has some kind of desire to go to heaven because heaven is better than what? Heaven is better than hell. Right? But he's he doesn't have faith in Christ. But since he wants to go to heaven And he stirred up emotionally, he says a prayer, he follows after the preacher. When the preacher says a prayer, pray this prayer, pray after me, you pray in your heart, I'll pray out loud. Is he now saved that he said that prayer? Even though he doesn't have faith in his heart? No way, Jose. He's no different than when he first stepped into that building. And if there's a Jose in the room today, I'm sorry I wasn't singling you out. It's just a Destructive, destructive, destructive And that's why we need to be zealous about the truth of God. Brothers and sisters, salvation is based on truth. Salvation is always based on truth. It's never based on a lie. I challenge you to read Galatians chapter 1 and the first half of chapter 2 within the next That makes it a false gospel, but it's what you told those people to do in order to receive the gospel. That makes it a false gospel. Number two, not only are must false teachers be identified and dealt with because they're dangerous, But number two they're devious. They're devious. Then this comes from the second illustration that Jude gives us. This comes from verse twelve of the second part. What's your shepherd's job? Slaughter the sheep and have a barbecue? Make sure he's fed? Make sure he gets all that he wants? Just feed the sheep. You take care of the sheep. You guide the sheep. Make sure the sheep are fed. That's your job. Look out for the sheep. Jesus told Peter, Feed my sheep, feed my sheep, tend to my lambs. It's not only the pastor who should be feeding the church with the word of God. Church, feed each other with the word of God. Feed yourself with the word of God. Let's be nourished up in the things of God. But there's shepherds Feeding them shells. They're there for themselves. They're for their own pockets. They're for their own glory. They're for their own fame. You know, a lot of people like leadership just to be in charge. A lot of people like leadership just because of the public eye. But that's not true shepherds of God. They're there to feed others. And what does it mean to feast without fear? Because it doesn't just say they're shepherds feeding themselves. What else does it say? It says they're feasting without fear. So they're In the fellowship supper. They're celebrating apparently the Lord's Supper with the church. They're in the fellowship of the church and they're feasting without fear. I believe it primarily means Two things. If you have something else on this, just let me know. Number one, I think it means that they've come to the point where they're not worried about being held accountable at all. They just don't care. They're not afraid that someone else in the church is going to come up to them and hold them accountable for their immorality or for their deceitful, erroneous doctrines. And you can get to that part. You can get to that point where you're just hardened. And when there's a lack of accountability, guys like this just have free reign. And they won't self-correct. False teachers won't self-correct Just like when I was lost, I was never gonna self-correct. I was never gonna hop on to the path to heaven on my own. I needed God To intervene in my life, to bring me his word, to bring me his gospel, and by his spirit to change my heart, pluck me up from one road, the road of darkness, and drop me on the other road, the road to heaven, in fellowship with Christ. I'm glad he did it But before that, I wouldn't have been glad about it. It's not in the mindset of the lost, depraved sinner to self-correct. So you have the devious so-called shepherds, but they're feeding themselves, not worried about being held accountable. The second idea I think this is more basic here on what it means that they're feasting without fear is they simply just don't have the fear of God in their hearts. They don't have the fear of God. And that was earlier in Jude, where this group of people has no respect for God 's authority. They do not respect authority. They reject the authority structure. That God has put in place, and they assume themselves to have this great authority that God has never given them. And that is the opposite of walking in the fear of the Lord. When you acknowledge and when you sense the authority that God has over you, and you're willing by the Spirit, you're willing to submit to God's authority. These self-feeding, self-absorbed, self-serving, so-called shepherds do not walk in the fear of the Lord. And so they're spiritually abusing the local church. Devious. They're destructive, but they're devious. Now there are some other examples out here. Now, one will be Kenneth Copeland. It's reported that his net worth is $300 million And um some reports even put his net worth over $600 million million dollars, but he denies the true gospel. He preaches what's called the health and wealth gospel. It's called the prosperity gospel. That Jesus died and Jesus rose again to procure for you all the earthly riches that you could want. If you have enough faith, based on the promises of God and the gospel, you can get all the wealth, all the stuff that you've ever wanted. That's the health and wealth gospel. It is a false gospel. That is not the true gospel. Christ died and rose again to procure for you eternal, spiritual, heavenly blessings that you could never lose. And by the way, it wouldn't matter if his net worth is a hundred dollars or a billion dollars. If you're teaching a false gospel, we don't want to have anything to do with it. But the net worth, I only bring that up to emphasize this shepherds feeding themselves part of the verse. And also it speaks to the incredible influence that false teachers can have. People pay a lot of money to have their ears tickled. False teachers are some of the wealthiest people in the world, brothers and sisters. I'm not talking about leaders of other religions. Yeah, maybe that too. I'm talking about within professing Christianity Well, when a false gospel comes your way, bat it away. Another one would be Joel Osteen. His reported net worth is a hundred over a hundred million, although there it's always changing. Same as above. He denies the true gospel, preaches the health and wealth gospel, and he has publicly denied That salvation is only found in Christ. He's publicly denied that salvation is only found in Christ. Now, can you imagine that? If you saw me on some some news, some Baltimore News channel, some random interview for something that was going on in the community, They just happen to ask what we believe, whether we believe, what we believe about salvation. And can you imagine if your pastor publicly denied that salvation is only found in Christ? Well hopefully, hopefully that would be enough to muster a group and and confront me and have me removed from office because that would disqualify me from being a biblical preacher in a biblical church. Yes, I would still be able to repent, but I would have been disqualified at that time from being a preacher. Benny Hinn, also, tens of millions of dollars, very popular. denies the Trinity. Benny Hinn has taught, and he's never recanted to my knowledge, that there's actually a nine-person Godhead. A nine person Godhead because of the importance of three, because of the mysterious power of three. So you have Father, Son and Spirit, but also Father has a threeness of persons and Son has a threeness of persons and Holy Spirit has a threeness of persons. T. D. Jakes. Again, tens of millions of dollars. T. D. Jakes denies the Trinity. He believes the heresy called modalism Well and the heresy the heresy of modalism denies that there are three distinct persons in God. That's what the Bible teaches, that's what we preach, teach. There's no drama connected to this. This is just basic Historical, orthodox biblical teaching. God is one in essence, but three in persons. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, three distinct, co-divine, co-equal, co-eternal persons. T. D. Jakes to say that's not true. You have one God that changes in the modes that he expresses himself. Sometimes he expresses himself as a father, but then they'll change from the mode of the father to the mode of the son, and then express himself in the form of the Son. And then sometimes he'll change to another form, the form of the Spirit. Stephen Furdock has also preached this and to my knowledge has not not repanted. Stephen Furtick preached from the Farewell Discourse in John, where Jesus says, I'm going away. He says that doesn't mean he's going away. He only means he's changing forms. That's modalism. It denies the very essence of the being of God. Have we forgotten that God is a real being, not just an idea? Have we? This is serious, serious stuff. They're destructive, they're devious, and three, they're deceptive. Well, that should go without saying. They're deceptive. This is right in the middle of verse 12 And this is the third illustration that Jude uses, and he says, waterless clouds swept along by the winds. It looks like the promise of something good, but then it just goes with the wind. Now if you're living an agricultural or an agrarian society or you're a farmer and you need water, especially in the Middle East, there's lots of desert and you're depending on crops for survival for your well being You get excited when you see clouds coming that look like it's going to rain. But sometimes there's just waterless clouds that they look like they're coming, they look like they're coming, and they're just swept away by the wind. Promise something it doesn't deliver. Promise of spirituality, but doesn't deliver true spirituality. Waterless clouds swept along by the winds. You know, there's so much we could say about how God's enemies war against God and how God's enemies war against God's people, right? And you know this, they tried to divide us They try to discourage us, they try to accuse us and bury us in the guilt and shame of our past. But of all the things we could say about the The modus operandi of God's enemies, definitely two things we can say. Number one, the enemies of God come only to bring harm to God's people. Satan doesn't want to help you. He doesn't want to build you up in the faith. He doesn't want you to know sound doctrine. If you know it, he doesn't want you to take a stand on sound doctrine. He wants you to be ashamed to speak sound doctrine Satan and all the enemies of God come only to bring harm. John 10, 10 and 11, Jesus said, The thief comes only to steal and to kill and to destroy, but I came that they may have life and have it abundantly. I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. Enemies of God come only to bring harm. Secondly, one thing we definitely know about God's enemies Is God's enemies disguise themselves as God's friends? God's enemies disguise themselves as true, humble servants of Him That's how they wiggle and weasel and slither their way into the biblical church to try to deform and defame what God is doing in his church Which is the bride of Christ, his beloved bride. Second Corinthians eleven, thirteen to fifteen is a classic passage on this. Second Corinthians eleven, thirteen to fifteen. For such men are false apostles, deceitful workmen, disguising themselves as apostles of Christ. And no wonder, for even Satan disguises himself as an angel of light So it is no surprise if his servants also disguise themselves as servants of righteousness, and their end will correspond to their deeds. Their deeds he's just described, disguising themselves as servants of righteousness, only to increase wickedness through their own deceit, and their end that corresponds to their deeds is the judgment of God. One more on Stephen Furtick. And by the way, if you don't if you don't know any of these references, uh I'm just trying to give some representative examples If you have any questions about them, just email me or contact me. Trying to hit some of the big names just to show the influence that false teachers have. And there are many who have little influence scattered all over the place, and there are some who have huge influence Stephen Furtick preached that on the cross of Jesus Christ, where Jesus laid down his life for the salvation of sinners, He said that when that was happening, God the Father broke the law for the sake of his love. Now think about this. God broke the law for love, is what he said. In pouring out his judgment on Jesus, God broke the law. What's another way of saying broke the law? What's another biblical word for breaking God's law? It's called sin. It's called transgression. The transgression of the law is sin against God. It is a wicked act. It is crime against God. It is a violation of the will of God. It's a violation of the character of God. God did not break the law for love. In fact, the death of Christ is a central revelation of God's righteousness. Romans 3, we just read that in one of our readings. The cross of Christ was a grand revelation of God's love. Absolutely, 1 John chapter 3. for. But the cross of Christ was also a grand revelation of God's righteousness. You see, Christ is one with his people. Christ is a representative of his people. He has the right. He has the authority and the ability to die in our place on the cross. He is a covenant representative. There's a good note for you Covenant representative. He is one with his people. He truly represents his people. If Christ did not truly represent his people, are you with me on this? At least you need to know if you're tracking. If Christ did not truly represent his people, and then on the basis of a sacrifice we are forgiven, then that would be breaking the law. Then that would be breaking the law. But if Christ is one with his people, and if he truly represents all of his people on the cross, if he's truly representing us. Then our sins are forgiven after God pours out his judgment on the Son for our sins, and God remains righteous. What did Romans 3 say in our earlier reading? Romans 3 21 through 26. It says he is both just and the justifier. He didn't give up being just so that he could be justified. He did not break the law for the sake of love. Now that may sound spiritual and stir up some kind of emotional thing when you hear a provocative statement like break the law for love. That's heresy. And again, to my knowledge, he's not repented of that And that mangles the essence of what happened on the cross. And brothers and sisters, you know this. If anything is important for our doctrine, it's the doctrine of what happened when Jesus died on the cross. Amen? What happened on that cross? Did God break the law? Was that an act of sin? Was the greatest act of God a sin? Public sin? It's a big deal. Tens of thousands. It's probably too small a number to say the amount of people who flock to that teacher, Stephen Furtick , modalism, doesn't understand the cross, but he's so popular, he's so influential. Deceptive. Deceptive. Disguising as servants of God. But mangling the truth of God. False teachers must be identified and dealt with because they're destructive, they're devious, they're deceptive. Number four, they're dead. This is the last phrase of verse twelve. Fruitless trees in late autumn, twice dead twice dead uprooted. That's I was gonna say first of all I was gonna say it's a symbol of it's being spiritually unhealthy. Now being a fruitless tree sometimes can be spiritually unhealthy, but more than not it's spiritually Spiritually dead. Fruitless trees in late autumn. Now it's late autumn. You should have had a couple crops, a couple yields by now. That's why it says twice dead. We didn't get anything in the spring. We didn't get anything in the autumn. Cut it down. Get the axe to that thing. Get it out. It's twice dead. There's no fruit. It is dead. Spiritually dead. That's the picture here If we had more time, I would give you some examples of how a fruitful tree is common biblical imagery for spiritual health. To bear fruit unto God as a result of God's grace. So a fruitless tree in late autumn, twice dead, uprooted. It's just saying that these people are spiritually dead. They're lost people, these false teachers. Destructive, devious, deceptive, dead, number five, depraved, depraved. First phrase of verse 13, wild ways of the sea. Casting up the foam of their own shame. Have you ever seen the foam on the ocean? The foam of the waves, the white foam, the bubbles, I guess, is what it comes from. I don't know all the science of it, but the foam of the wild crashing waves. And here, Jude tells us a little bit about what he's getting at, what that foam represents. It's their shame. What they're doing is shameful. They should be ashamed of it. They should be grieved over it. They should be repenting from it. They should be crying out for mercy for this. But they're oblivious to it. And they're just ca they're crashing all over the place, foaming up, foaming up. What are they foaming up? Things that honor God? No, they're foaming up shameful things This is to their shame. It doesn't matter how many people believe them, it doesn't matter how um rich or glorious they could appear from an earthly perspective. They're shameful before God. I'll give another I'll give a modern example of a shameful doctrine. It's the one that I grew up with. I'm trying to hit ones that I've experienced And had to deal with. Try to balance it out, be an equal opportunity calling heresies. We've done some I've seen in the Baptist, some we've seen in just evangelicalism, some in the Catholic. This is a Catholic doctrine of purgatory. I grew up learning that after you die, you go to a place called purgatory, and in purgatory, you finish paying for your sins so that you can finally deserve to be in the presence of God. You finish paying for your sins. Now what does that imply about the work of Christ? Inadequate, insufficient, he didn't do enough. His sacrifice isn't enough. You see how if you can just come underneath the surface. Come underneath the surface, we see how absurd and how destructive. But that's the doctrine of purgatory. And there's not only you in there finish paying for your sins, but people on earth and also people who've already died, saints in heaven, can make offerings to God, and their offerings to God can also help get you out of that place So at the end of it all, who's getting glory? Well, Jesus is getting some of the glory. You're getting some of the glory. Saints in heaven are getting some of the glory. Saints on earth are getting some of the glory. Be Is all of us together We got all of us together, and we all worked together to earn this great salvation to get you into heaven. Heresy. Heresy. And there's no hope in that. Brothers and sisters, our hope is that when we die, we're going straight to heaven. You're going straight to the presence of God. All your sins are paid for. Now, is that a better message or a worse message? When I say you put your faith in Christ and all your sins are paid for. Better hope or worse hope? Do you want to go somewhere and finish paying for your sins? Depraved. Depraved. Shameful. Shameful. Shameful. Isaiah 53, 5. He was pierced for our transgressions. He was crushed for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. Brought us peace And the peace that we have is that we are children of God. The peace that we have is that our salvation is 100% accomplished. We don't need to add to it at all to help earn our salvation. As we said earlier, salvation is by grace through faith in Christ alone. And quickly the last one They're destructive, devious, deceptive, dead, depraved, or shameful. Number six, they're damned. They're damned. This is the end of verse 13 where Jude says they're wandering stars for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. The star, I believe, symbolizes one who's been exiled from the favor of God. Think Cain. Cain was exiled and he became a wat on the earth. He became a wanderer, apart from the covenantal blessings of God in that community of faith. And so these are wandering stars. And if you're a wandering star, you're in utter darkness. That's the worst place to be wandering. That's the illustration. They're a wandering star. Alienated, as far alienated from the favor and blessedness of God that you could be, for whom the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved forever. The worst possible human experience that you could ever experience is the gloom of utter darkness, the worst sadness, the deepest anger Now, this is not a side issue in Jude, and obviously we don't have time to look here, but uh this issue of their condemnation and destruction is there in verse 4, verse 5, verse 6, verse 7, verse 11, and then verse 13. And why? Because Jude wants us to be urgent. And Jude wants us to be zealous. And when Jude says you have to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered, he means it. You're going to have to fight for this, you're going to fight for sound doctrine. Want to stand for sound doctrine? Verse 3. Just a preview where we'll be heading toward the end of Jude. This is also for the sake of our sanctification, verse 20. It's also for the sake of our perseverance, verse 21, and some other things. This is connected to our spiritual growth. These are not side issues. This is connected to our spiritual growth because spiritual growth, first of all, salvation, and then spiritual growth, brothers and sisters, it is according to truth. And it comes into our lives by the truth of God. We can never set aside the truth of God and say it doesn't matter, just give me a religious experience The truth of God, the truth of God, the truth of God. Let us contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. And brothers and sisters, let us not be ashamed of it. Right All glory and honor be to you for your grace. All glory and honor be to you for your love, for your perfect love, for your perfect mercy. All glory and honor be to you for your kindness that you have expressed to us in Christ. Father, thank you for Jesus and for his all-sufficient salvation. For pathetic sinners like me and like us and like the whole world. Thank you for the Savior of the world. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.