Calling the class The Need for a New Heart, the passage in Jeremiah 4 Will be our launching point for this. So first Jeremiah four, one through four, looking at the need for a new heart. And the point is the only way of salvation is A new heart from God. The only way I could have ever been saved, and the only way you could have ever been saved, this is the way we were saved, is that God gave us new hearts through the gospel of Jesus Christ. Received by faith, God poured the Holy Spirit into our hearts. The only way of salvation is a new heart from God Himself. Jeremiah 4, 1 through 4, and then we'll pray. If you return, O Israel, declares the Lord, to me you should return. If you remove your detestable things from my presence, do not waver. And if you swear as the Lord lives, in truth. In justice and in righteousness, the nations shall bless themselves in him, and in him shall they glory. For thus says the Lord to the men of Judah and Jerusalem, Break up your fallow ground, and sow not among thorns. Circumcise yourselves to the Lord. Remove the foreskin of your hearts, O men of Judah and inhabitants of Jerusalem Lest my wrath go forth like fire and burn with none to quench it, because of the evil of your deeds. The circumcision of the heart is a symbolism for a new birth. It's a symbolism for true repentance. Israel is called to repent. Verse 1, if you return, O Israel, declares the Lord to me, you should return. If you remove your detestable things from my presence, that's repentance. They're called to repentance. But you see that they're called to an inner repentance. Circumcise yourselves to the Lord. Remove the foreskin of your hearts. It's interesting that you see this in Scripture where sinners are commanded to do things that they cannot do. They don't have the power to circumcise their hearts any more than we have the power to circumcise our hearts. But we can look to the Lord in faith, and God can circumcise our hearts. We can believe in God's mercy for the sinner. We can depend upon God as a gracious and mighty Savior, and he'll circumcise our hearts, so that there's an inner repentance that leads to a true repentance in life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for saving us. And as we think about this week of outreach coming up, I pray that you work mightily to save the lost, the young, the old. Any age, we pray, Father, that your word would get through to the heart, that the sinner would be stirred. By your word and by your spirit, by the example and witness of your children, we pray, Father, for you to work a mighty work, sowing seeds. of gospel truth. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen. The only way of salvation is a new heart from God Himself. And before we work our way through this study, I want to say a few things about outreach. And evangelism and the spirit that we should have, really the mindset we should have. I'm so nervous, I'm gonna trip over this. Let's move it over there. I was going to perch up on it. Pastor John Mannery style during Sunday school. He would have his little perch and teach. That's what I was going to do. But uh a lot of times that's too restricting for me. Anyway, stools out of the way. We have an outreach coming up. The purpose is that outreach leads to evangelism personal evangelism or just evangelism that would happen in the midst of the ministries of the church. The mindset that we should have is one, first of all, of urgency. God wants people to be saved. God has a burden for the lost. We should have a burden for the lost. We should want people to be saved. We should have an urgency And second, we should have an expectancy. We should expect God to work. We should expect God to awaken sinners to their need. We should expect that the gospel will change hearts We should have an urgency, we should have an expectancy, but third, what something we should not have, we should not have anxiety We should not have anxiety as if it depends on us. It's not our job to get inside the soul of a man or a woman and change the heart. We cannot save anyone We do not trust in our own efforts. We do not trust in how much we do. We do not trust in how well we do it. We do not trust in how exciting it can be from in from an earthly measure. But we're trusting in God, in his sovereignty, in his providence, and the power of his word, the work of his spirit. We do not Worship a dead God. We do not worship a slumbering God. We do not worship a lazy God. We do not worship a faithless God who's forgotten his purpose. We worship a God who saves Sinners and he will continue to save sinners till the moment Christ returns. So we must have an urgency because God is the God who's seeking the loss. We must be a people who are joining him in that work of seeking the loss. And we should have an expectancy, expecting that God will use his word to save the lost. He saved us. He saved me. He saved you. Well we should not have an anxiety as if the effectiveness of our evangelism depends on us. It does not depend on us. That is not our job. God has not delegated that job to us. It's the Holy Spirit who will change hearts for God. Fourth, we should strive for a consistency A consistency. In other words, outreach and evangelism is never never ever something that we move on from. It's never something that we move on. It should be a regular part of the body life of the church. Always in our prayers, always on our hearts, always on our minds. The need for a new heart persists in the world. In fact, it's the greatest need in the world: a new heart. Because the only way of salvation is a new heart from God Himself. Well, I told you we'd use this Jeremiah passage as a launching point for looking um Looking at our topic today. So as we're about to launch off of it, just look real quickly again at verse 4. Jeremiah 4. 4. Circumcise your heart circumcise yourselves to the Lord. Remove the foreskin of your hearts. So that's the image. A heart circumcised. It's a spiritual circumcision. It's a metaphor. Now look at Romans 2, 28 and 29. I put this on your sheet for you No one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly. That would have been outward conformity to the Mosaic law. Circumcision would have been the uh the central thing for a male, uh celebrating the Sabbath. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. That's a crazy phrase, isn't it? Nor is circumcision outward and physical. If circumcision isn't outward and physical, then what in the world is outward and physical? It's talking about the spiritual meaning that circumcision points to is not outward and physical. Verse 29, for a Jew is one inwardly. And circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. A Jew is one inwardly. That means spiritually. And he's one inwardly because of a circumcision of the heart. Circumcision is a matter of the heart. And then it tells Paul tells us how? By the Spirit. The Spirit Circumcises the heart, not the letter, which is again referring to Mosaic law, mosaic legislation. The law cannot circumcise the heart. The law cannot save. The law cannot sanctify. Only the Spirit working through the gospel can do that. So where does the circumcision of the heart, this inward spiritual transformation How does that take place? It takes place by the Holy Spirit of God. And it's the only hope for any sinner to ever know God. Think about that. This is the only way you can know God truly. It is to be circumcised in heart by the work of the Holy Spirit. The only way of salvation is a new heart from God Himself Now you see on your sheet two major sections. You see old covenant background and then new covenant fulfillment Bible is Old Testament and New Testament, two major sections. The Old Testament tells the background and the history Of Israel, a nation under the old covenant. And the New Testament tells the story of the church, a spiritual nation under the new covenant. Did I say that right? Old covenant, new covenant. So we're contrasting the two covenants, and that's because this is what happens later on in the book of Jeremiah. Jeremiah promises a new covenant. And the the central blessing of the new covenant is the new hearts. So the new heart that God commands is also the new heart that God provides by way of a new covenant. Old covenant background Israel, a physical nation under law. Let's look at this. Exodus 19, 4 through 6. You're in the section of Exodus where God is giving the law to Israel through Moses. Which begins in chapter twenty with the giving of the Ten Commandments and the giving of the rest of the laws and statutes and give the giving of the full book of the covenant. Exodus 19, 4 through 6 tells us the kind of covenant that the Mosaic covenant is. Chapter 19, verse 4. You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians, and how I bore you on eagle's wings, and brought you to myself. Now therefore, if, circle the word if, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant You shall be my treasured possession among all peoples, for all the earth is mine, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the people of Israel. Verse 4, You've seen what I did to the Egyptians and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Give me one second here. Sometimes Alright, we'll see how that works. So their redemption was not a spiritual redemption for every Israelite. It was a national redemption. The nation was redeemed from Egypt. But not every Israelite was saved. It was not a spiritual redemption. It was a natural or a national redemption. And what kind of covenant is God entering into with Israel? It is a legal covenant. It is a law covenant. It is a conditional covenant, which means the future blessing is based on their obedience. It's conditioned on their obedience. And that's what is said in verse 5. If you obey and if you keep the covenant, then you shall be a treasured possession among all peoples. And then you shall be to me a kingdom of priests, and then you shall be a holy nation. But if they would not obey And if they would not keep the covenant, what will happen? Well, if you know the story of the Old Testament, you know exactly what would happen God would bring judgment against them and send them into exile, driving them out of the promised land that He so graciously gave them as a nation. Israel was a physical nation under law, a law covenant. Now Let's look at the blood of the old covenant. Exodus 24 Verse 3 to 11. Really cool passage. Doesn't get a lot of press, and I just do not know why. It's part of the background of the Lord's Supper Part of the background of the Lord's Supper is Passover. The Lord's Supper was instituted during Passover. But the other half of the Old Testament background of communion or the Lord's Supper is the blood of the covenant. And this is what we have in Exodus 24, 3 through 11, the blood of the old of the Old Covenant. Moses came and told the people all the words of the Lord and all the rules. That's the law, okay? The law of God. And all the people answered with one voice and said. All the words that the Lord has spoken, we will do. And Moses wrote down all the words of the Lord. He rose in the morning. Let's stop there. See the picture. It's the laws and the rules and the commandments coming from God through Moses to Israel. Moses is the mediator of this covenant. God's appointed prophet is appointed mediator, Moses. In the morning and built an altar, middle of verse 4. He built an altar at the foot of the mountain. Remember this? He built an altar at the foot of the mountain after receiving the law, and twelve pillars, according to the twelve tribes of Israel. And he sent young men of the people of Israel who offered burnt offerings and sacrificed peace offerings of oxen to the Lord. And Moses took half of the blood and put it in basins, and half of the blood he threw against the altar. And what is he going to do with that with the blood in the basin? Alright, so he threw half of the blood against the altar. What is he going to do with the rest of that blood? Verse 7. Then he took the book of the covenant and read it in the hearing of the people. And they said, All that the Lord has spoken, we will do, and we will be obedient. Verse 7 is such a key verse. Because the whole book of the law, book of the covenant, is read to the people, and then the people respond, Lord, what you've spoken We will obey. So you have God speaking the word of his covenant, speaking the law of his covenant, and the people speaking back, pledging their obedience to their God, the God of the covenant. Verse 8, and Moses took the blood, remember that blood on the basins, the leftover blood Moses took the blood and threw it on the people and said, Behold, the blood of the covenant. That the Lord has made with you in accordance with all these words. The blood of the old covenant was the blood of animals. And a blood literally physically sprinkled on the people. Now you know about the blood of the new covenant, don't you? It's a different blood. It's a better blood. And the sprinkling is not physical and literal. The sprinkling of the blood of Christ is spiritual and invisible, as his blood washes away our sins for all eternity. Now verse 9. I really didn't need to include this paragraph, but this also is really, really cool. instance uh that happens here. After the blood of the covenant is sprinkled on the altar and on the people. Verse 9 then Moses And Aaron, Nadab, and Abaihu, and 70 of the elders of Israel went up, which is pretty amazing in the story that it's more than Moses just going up the mountain. And they saw the God of Israel. Remember that? They saw the God of Israel. There was under his feet, as it were, a pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven for clearness. And he did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of Israel. They beheld God and ate and drank. Right after the blood of the covenant is shed and sprinkled on the people to seal and to inaugurate this covenant relationship between God and Israel. You have a celebratory feast on the mountain between God and leaders. of the people. It's a covenant meal that follows right after The sprinkling of the blood of the covenant. But remember what kind of covenant it is. It's a covenant of law. They are duty bound to obey God and will be blessed, conditioned on their obedience And if they disobey and if they break his covenant and transgress his law, they're on the hook for their own guilt and for their own sins. Section three or point three, the promise of a new heart through a new covenant Jeremiah 31. Turn to Jeremiah 31. I'm trying to link together this idea of a new heart. with a new covenant. And I'm really wanted to con make this contrast that Scripture makes, the contrast between the old covenant of law, a nation under law, versus A new covenant, a spiritual nation under the grace of God. The promise of a new heart through a new covenant. Jeremiah 31, and we'll look at 31 to 34. Is that confusing? It's chapter 31 and then starting in verse 31, going through verse 34. Behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord. When I will make a new covenant with the house of Israel and the house of Judah. And if you know your Bible, You know also that Gentiles will share in that covenant and be grafted in to the one true spiritual people of God But that promise is fulfilled in and through Israel and to Israel first. Salvation is first to the Jew and then to the Gentile. So this new covenant is made with The house of Israel and the house of Judah, but not exclusively. Verse thirty-two. The first two words of verse thirty-two are critical. And if you're an underliner, underline, and if you're a highlighter, highlight, if you're a circle or circle or if you're just a memorizer, just a memorize, the first two words of verse 32, not like Not like. The new covenant, not like the covenant that I made with their fathers on the day when I took them by the hand to bring them out of the land of Egypt, my covenant that they broke. Though I was their husband, declares the Lord. The reason the new covenant can save us is because it's not like the Mosaic Covenant The reason the new covenant changes our hearts is because it's not like the old covenant. It's a new covenant, a new kind of covenant. It's not like the old covenant. made with the nation of Israel. Verse twenty verse thirty-three. Verse thirty-three, what Jeremiah does is give the answer, how? How is it not like? Here's what he says. This is God speaking through Jeremiah. For this is the covenant that I will make with the house of Israel after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my law within them, and I will write it on their hearts, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And no longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they shall all know me, from the least of them to the greatest, declares the Lord. For I will forgive their iniquity, and I will remember their sin no more. Now he says that bit about forgiveness lasts, but that's the foundation of those other blessings. God forgives our sins through the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. Forgiveness is the basis of being a member of the new covenant community of God. If our sins are not taken away. We can't enter this covenant. In fact, it's by forgiving us that God brings us into the new covenant, kingdom of God. Let's spend a little bit of time looking at verse 33. Looking at verse 33. He says, This is the covenant that I'll make with the house of Israel after those days. I'll put my law within them and write it on their hearts. Now remember. That new covenant is not like the old covenant. The old covenant, the law, just by the covenant itself, we're not saying that there weren't saved people in Israel. There were saved people before Israel was made into a nation. But the salvation is not mediated through law. Salvation is not mediated through mosaic legislation, but by God's promise of redemption, always and everywhere. Where God has promised mercy, where God has promised salvation. Faith in God's promise is what saves. We're not saying that there weren't saved people in Israel. Of course there were. But that salvation did not come by way of law. Law does not save. So this new covenant is not like the old covenant. The old covenant, the law, was written on stone. It was written On stone tablets and written in a book, the law of God was. Mosaic legislation. But here, the promise is that the law will be written within And it will be written on the heart. That's a changed heart. That's a heart. It's a very simple concept. It's so simple. That a four-year-old could grasp what that means. Maybe a three-year-old I have any takers, but a three-year-old can understand this. It means it's a heart that wants to obey God. That's all that means. It's a heart that wants to obey God. The new covenant in Christ's blood provides that heart. Do you have a heart that wants to obey God? That's because God gave you a new heart. That's not the heart that's natural to man. God will write his law within. He'll write his law within the heart. The mosaic Law, the covenant that God made with Israel did not accomplish that. The law did not accomplish that ever in any situation for any individual. Only the new covenant, only in the new covenant does God internalize his law and give a true desire to obey him. For a lost person living in Israel under the law, everybody in Israel was under the law. Whether you were saved or whether you were lost, you were under the law of God You didn't need to be a true believer to be a citizen of Israel. Everybody was under the law. The best an unbeliever could have done to muster up some semblance of obedience would have been external conformity to the law out of fear of punishment, out of fear of penalty. That's not gospel obedience. Gospel obedience is we love God, we want to obey him. It's not out of fear of penalty, it's not out of fear of death that we muster up an external conformity to God's law. But it's because God has written his law on our hearts that we have a true desire to obey him. He says, I'll put my law within them and I'll write it on their hearts. Brothers and sisters, that did not happen at Mount Sinai. The law was written externally. A great study for you on this would be 2 Corinthians chapter 3 and 2 Corinthians chapter 4. Where Paul contrasts the old covenant and what it did versus the new covenant and what it does. The old covenant was a was called a ministry of death. And brought guilt and brought condemnation. The new covenant is completely different. It brings life, it brings justification, it brings righteousness, it brings freedom. Freedom from that external law. Verse 33, still on verse 33, he says, I will be their God, and they shall be my people. That's stated in the indicative. That's stated as a certainty. That's stated as a promise. That is an unconditional promise. Attached to the new covenant, I will be their God, and they shall be my people. Every single person who Who comes to faith in God is a true child of God. That was not true under the Mosaic law. That was not true under the Mosaic Law. Israel was a mixed nation. There were many unbelievers and a few believers. But in the new covenant, this unconditional promise is true for everyone. I'll be their God and they'll They shall be my people. Remember the conditionality of that one passage in Exodus? If you obey, if you keep the covenant, then you'll receive the blessing. Do this and you'll live is the law. But if you do not obey, it brings death. The promise of a new heart through a new covenant. Well, there's more to read on this. Verse thirty four No longer shall each one teach his neighbor, and each his brother, saying, Know the Lord, for they'll all know me, from the least of them to the greatest. declares the Lord. Everyone in the New Covenant is a child of God. Everyone in the New Covenant has a heart that wants to obey God Everyone under this covenant of grace has a new heart by the Spirit of God. Everyone under the new covenant who's received the new covenant blessings in Christ. Has had their heart circumcised by the power of the Holy Spirit. Different covenant with these great, great blessings. And then I've said this before. The end of verse 34 talks about the basis of how that's possible. I'll forgive their iniquity and I'll remember their sin no more. Forgiveness. Forgiveness is the basis of the new covenant. First, Jesus dies on the cross, paying the penalty for our sin, providing the basis for our forgiveness, and then he's buried, risen, ascended into heaven, and from heaven he gives us the Holy Spirit. So he provides forgiveness, he changes our hearts. This is the new covenant work of Christ. He provides forgiveness by his shed blood, and he gives us new hearts by sending his spirit. New hearts via a new covenant. Now let's go down to number four under new covenant fulfillment. New covenant fulfillment. Trying to do almost a parallel. Matthew 26, verse 26. This will be a familiar scene to you. The institution of the Lord's Supper. Why would we look at this? Well, we looked at the blood of the old covenant. We looked at the inaugural meal of the old covenant. Well, let's look at the inaugural meal of the new covenant. Let's look at the blood of the new covenant. Verse 26 in Matthew 26. Now, as they were eating, Jesus took bread, and after blessing it, broke it. And gave it to the disciples, and said, Take, eat. This is my body. And he took a cup. When he had given thanks, he gave it to them, saying, Drink of it, all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. I tell you I'll not drink again of this fruit of the vine till that day when I drink it anew with you in my father's kingdom. Really neat verse, verse 28. This is my blood of the covenant. There was the blood of the old covenant. Inaugural sacrifice. Inaugural sacrifice. Sacrifice is really, there were multiple animals. Sprinkled blood. And a celebratory meal, celebrating the inauguration of the covenant. Well in the new covenant you have also a blood of the covenant. It's much better than the blood of oxen and other animals. It's Christ's blood, my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. The blood sacrificed at the foot of Mount Sinai and then sprinkled on the people and then sprinkled on the altars did not take away sins. It did not remit Sins. It did not erase the guilt of sins. But the blood of Christ, the blood of the new covenant, does. The my blood Of the covenant. I love the personal aspect of that. It's not just the blood of the covenant, although it is, but he says, my blood of the covenant. And he connects it with forgiveness. Blood of the covenant poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. Remember that Jeremiah prophecy. The forgiveness is the basis of the new covenant. Forgiveness is the basis of any blessing that we enjoy in the new covenant. Hopefully that broadens, not narrows and not alters, but broadens our appreciation of the background of the Lord's Supper. Part of the background Is the Passover Lamb because that pictures redemption But part of the background is the blood of the covenants, because that pictures the inauguration of a covenant. When God took Israel out of Egypt, they weren't automatically in a covenant relationship with him There had to be the giving of the law. There had to be the entering into the covenant under the under the mediation and through the mediation of Moses So you had the redemption from Egypt, but then eventually you had the inauguration of the covenant. The communion that we celebrate in the church. The Lord's Supper that we celebrate in the church looks back to both of those. Both redemption and the inauguration of a covenant. Because both of those are accomplished through Christ's sacrifice. His sacrifice simultaneously redeems and inaugurates the covenant. Number five, the promise fulfilled in Christ. Before we uh turn to Hebrews 8, just look at that passage I have there underneath number 5 from Romans 5. 5. Hope does not put us to shame. Because God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit, who has been given to us. Man, what a great verse! First of all, how did this love come to us, the Holy Spirit? It's the only way this love could be poured into our hearts. Through the Holy Spirit who's been given to us. I always thought that was intriguing, and it says God's love has been poured into our hearts. How can love be poured into our hearts? It's just talking about our hearts experiencing God's saving love. It's talking about how our hearts receive and embrace and are changed by God's gracious Redeeming love. He poured his love into our hearts. If He 's the one acting. If he doesn't pour his love into our hearts, our hearts will never experience his love. So the gospel at some point came into our lives. And the gospel came into our minds and through our minds into our hearts. The gospel of Jesus Christ came and changed our hearts. And the metaphor is that's God pouring his love into our hearts. He did hope does not put us to shame. In other words, it's not we don't need to be ashamed about having the hope that we have in Christ, even though the world would scoff at it. Because God's love has been poured into our hearts. Through the Holy Spirit who's been given to us. Oh, what a blessing to know Christ. What a blessing to share in this hope. What a blessing to have the Holy Spirit. Now we can get to the Hebrews one. Hebrews chapter eight. Now this is where the author of Hebrews He will quote in full that passage from Jeremiah 31, 31 to 34. We're going to skip over that. But we're going to look at the words he says to introduce, quoting that passage, and then we'll look at the his closing words that he says after quoting that passage. And we're doing that just for the sake of time. Hebrews 8, 6 through 8. But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry. That is as much more excellent than the old as the covenant he mediates is better. See that? Better covenant Better mediator, better ministry. He had one covenant, one mediator, which was Moses. And a ministry, ministry not only of Moses, but a ministry of many, many priests over decades. Now you have Christ, a ministry that's as much more excellent than the old As the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises. You know That the new covenant in Christ is enacted on better promises than the old covenant mediated by Moses. You know that. Because the promises In the covenant of law were conditional promises. The blessing was conditioned on the obedience of the people. But the promises of the new covenant in Christ, what's the opposite of conditional? Unconditional For those in Christ, it's unconditional blessing, unconditional forgiveness, unconditional mercy. And the inheritance of eternal life. Unconditional promises, brethren, are better, far superior than conditional promises Conditional promises will only bring us death. Conditional promises will only lead us to heap up more and more guilt before the throne of God and bring condemnation down upon us. But unconditional promises of grace in Christ. What compares, beloved, what compares to this covenant? Christ has obtained a ministry. That is referring to What this says ministry, Christ has obtained a ministry. Really, the whole book of Hebrews is about this, just expounding it and applying it in different ways. All of Hebrews is about Christ's ministry in heaven. That's what that means. Christ has obtained a ministry. He's obtained a ministry. So that's not about his past ministry of dying on a cross And rising from the dead. It's about his present ministry in heaven, which is based on his past ministry. But that's Christ's Ministry, right now, his ministry of graciously saving sinners and sustaining them to the end and sanctifying them in the likeness of God. There would have been no occasion to look for a second. It's true, right? If that covenant could save, there wouldn't need to be a new covenant that could save If that covenant could circumcise the heart, there wouldn't need to be a new covenant that can circumcise the heart. If that covenant wrote God's law on the heart and the inner man to want to obey God, We would not need a new covenant to write God's law on our hearts in the inner man to want to obey God. If the first covenant had been faultless, if it could forgive sins. There'd be no occasion to look for a second covenant. Then he says, For he finds fault with them when he says, Behold, the days are coming. Declares the Lord, when I'll establish a new covenant. And then you have the passage. We've already talked about it at length. Jerem or the author of Hebrews is referring back to this. If this new covenant promised by Jeremiah does regard the church age, it does regard Christians now. That's not a future era when God will fulfill this new covenant promise This is how the author of Hebrews is using it. The new covenant has been inaugurated in Christ, and as those in Christ were members, citizens of heaven, by virtue of the new covenant, in verse 13. After the full quoting of that passage in Jeremiah, verse 13, he says, and speaking of a new covenant, he makes the first one obsolete And what is becoming obsolete and growing old is ready to vanish away. The old covenant is now obsolete. The Mosaic covenant, the Mosaic law covenant is now obsolete. The promise has been fulfilled in Christ. The promise has been fulfilled in Christ. Brothers and sisters, we must always remember that we are not under law, but we are under grace. Sin will have no dominion over you because you are not under law, but under grace. If you want sin to have dominion over you, just act like you're under law and forget about God's grace. If you want to be liberated from sin's dominion, from sin's ruling power in your life, Live as one who is under grace and not under law. Only grace can sanctify. Finally, the church. Number six. This is our final passage. Number six, the church is a spiritual nation under grace. 1 Peter 2, 9 through 12. 1 Peter 2, 9 through 12. Things this is almost word for word what was said to Israel in a conditional sense in one of those earlier Exodus passages. If you obey my voice, if you keep my covenant, then I'll make you into. Well, these things are stated as just facts about the church. Not things uh fut not future possibilities conditioned on obedience, but just facts about those who are citizens of the New Covenant Kingdom. Verse 9, you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who calls you out of darkness into his marvelous light That's not only our worship where we proclaim that and our relationships where we proclaim that to each other, but our evangelism and our outreach where we proclaim the excellencies of God who's called us out of darkness into his marvelous lights. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received a mercy, but now you have received a mercy. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul, and keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. So that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. Just Keep glancing at verses eleven and twelve and just think about the fact how we can do none of those things unless God first Circumcises our hearts. Unless God first writes His law on our hearts, changes our hearts by the Spirit, gives us a true desire to obey Him, a true desire to live for Him. That's the only way that we can wage war against the passions of the flesh that are waging war against our soul. And make no mistake about it, the passions of the sinful flesh are waging war against your soul. Every single one of us The question is this if you've realized it and if you're in the fight and if you're fighting back by the grace of God. And then he says, keep your conduct honorable. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. Have a good witness, have a good example. Well we can't do that unless God changes our hearts. We can't do that apart from the Holy Spirit. You see, in the covenant of grace, the new covenant is a covenant of grace. In the covenant of grace First comes life, and then comes the command. First comes the gift of life, and then comes the command. And as those who've been brought to life We obey God out of a genuine love and gratitude for Him. Life, and then comes the command, and then comes obedience. Under the law, it was the opposite. First comes the command. And if you obey, then comes the life. You understand how natural born sinners can never attain life under the law. When it comes command, and then our obedience Then life, no one reaches life. No one reaches life. We all reach death. Praise God for the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ. If Jesus did not die on a cross for our sins, we'd have no fellowship with God. We'd have no reason to think we could ever be forgiven of our sins. And if Jesus doesn't give us the Holy Spirit, we have no reason to think we could ever truly obey God. New covenant sealed in Christ's blood. We're brought into it by the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit. First comes life, life in Christ, and then comes obedience. And so even for our obedience, isn't it something? God gets all the glory. He gets all the credit of the obedience is a result of the life, and the life is a result 100% of God's grace and mercy. God gives we sing all the songs we sing, we'll sing about God. All the songs we sing, we sing about Jesus. We sing about the Holy Spirit. We don't sing about ourselves. We don't take any credit. We shouldn't want any credit. God has done it all. So glory be to God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the life that you've given us. And we do pray for our own hearts that you continue to conform us to the likeness of Christ. Help each one of us to understand the wonder of the new covenant and the power of Christ's blood. Help us to understand the way of grace. Help us to be urgent in our evangelism, to be expectant of your work in evangelism, to not be anxious as if it depended on us. Help us to be consistent in our evangelism, to never outgrow it. Father, by your grace and for your name and for your glory, would you sustain us and strengthen us for the battle ahead? In Christ's name we pray. Amen.