The words which we'll examine tonight come out of the book of John, the Gospel of John, chapter 16. We'll just be looking at verses 12 through 15. Tonight we're continuing our series and study of the Trinity, the Triune God, of whom we worship. The God that we need to know in order to worship accordingly. We're now at the third person of the Trinity, which is the Holy Spirit. Yes. The Holy Spirit. And with each person of the Trinity, one night of preaching is not sufficient to get the full biblical picture of them, let alone the full understanding. of the person of the Trinity. So likewise tonight we will not unpack every beautiful and majestic element of the Holy Spirit, but we will up We will take a glance and peer into just one piece of the Holy Spirit, one aspect that is so valuable to us as believers to understand. One of the things I want us to think about tonight is how the Holy Spirit is active within us as Christians. Have we thought about that? What does it mean, or what how is the Holy Spirit active? How has the Holy Spirit influenced us as believers? Has he? Is there any importance to the Holy Spirit? Hopefully some of these are softball questions. The answer is absolutely the Holy Spirit is vital to us as Christians Tonight we'll see that there is nothing, nothing we know about God, there's nothing we do in obedience to God, there's nothing about our salvation that has been accomplished by our own doing. Rather, it is accomplished and done by the work of the Holy Spirit. So as we examine Scripture tonight, as we see and understand who the Holy Spirit is, How he is working in our lives. I hope we we just grow a little bit with more joy, with more confidence in God's working. The Holy Spirit's working in our lives. And we start to take ourselves out of the picture as much, and we start to peer at God more. Fair? Good? All right. Let us read now. John chapter 16, starting in verse 12. I still, this is Jesus speaking, I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. Notice the words of Jesus here. Jesus speaking to his disciples. These are the men that have been with Jesus the longest. They've seen Jesus do miracles. At this point, he's at least about a year and a half, close to two years within his earthly ministry. And he's actually turning the corner of history here, and Jesus is preparing to go to the cross. He's on the road to Jerusalem. He's on the road to go to the cross. And here he's speaking with his disciples, the men that have lived with him, have eaten meals with him, have watched him do miracles, have sat and heard him teach. Picture this, these men had the opportunity, guaranteed opportunity to ask Jesus questions while they're walking down the street, while they're eating a meal. Man, wouldn't we love that opportunity? Just to be sitting with Jesus and say, could you could you could you just explain the ark to me one more time? How does that happen? Or or maybe they were they weren't even thinking about that, right? That's where our minds are, but they're just thinking, tell us about the kingdom. Paint the picture of the kingdom for us. Just As we're eating our food, just tell us about the kingdom one more time. These are the men that Jesus is speaking to right now, and he's telling them, I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot hear them now They can't hear them now. They're not ready to receive what Jesus has to say. Part of it is that they're not ready or able to comprehend all that Jesus is teaching. I mean we see this throughout the gospels. How many times does uh that Jesus is teaching and then the the disciples they come in and they think they have it all figured out and they start to say something And Jesus says , you're not thinking about the kingdom. You're not hearing what I'm saying. You're thinking through a human mind. You're thinking in a worldly sense. You're not thinking with your your God lens on. You're not thinking through the gospel yet. They haven't turned that corner. They haven't received that knowledge yet. And we see that happening here. They're not ready to bear all that he has to say. Why is this? Well We're going to see here, man is unable to understand and know God without the Holy Spirit. He points them. You're unable to Because, verse 13, when the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. They were not ready to receive Jesus. teaching fully. They weren't ready to know all that Jesus was going to do and how he was going to do it. They weren't ready to fully receive and understand the kingdom. They had to wait for the Holy Spirit. We actually see this after Jesus' death, his resurrection. Right? Now the disciples are getting a little bit more fired up because they've seen Christ die and be resurrected from the dead, so they're growing in their confidence. Things that Jesus taught about are starting to make sense to them. But even then they're still lacking confidence. They still have some fear. We actually see after the ascension. Well actually before the ascension, Jesus tells them to go back. Go back to Jerusalem. Wait there. Wait there. He doesn't say wait till you memorize all the scriptures. He doesn't tell them wait there until uh you you gain some more numbers or some more finances. No, he tells them to wait there until Who arrives? Holy Spirit. I'll make a deal with you tonight. If there's any answer that I ask a question, just say Holy Spirit. I wasn't intentionally doing that, but as I hear my questions, that's what you're going to be saying. So we'll wait for the Holy Spirit. Even after they've seen the resurrected Christ, they still don't have the full understanding And they weren't going to get the understanding. They weren't going to get the energy. They weren't going to get the new life and build the church until they received the Holy Spirit at Pentecost. So, brothers and sisters, why do we assume that we are going to live any different? Why do we assume that we will know God by our own doing? If we just study the books hard enough, we will know God. If we just open up all the history books and study and get find all the proofs, we will know God. If we just line up all the apologetic arguments right in the right order, we will know God. If we are attempting to know God to understand who he is out on our own accord, if we're trying to accomplish that on our own doing, we will always fail. All of humanity has always failed. Every attempt they've made to know God, to understand who the Creator is, to understand this greater being, they have failed. If they're attempting it on their own. We know and we see that the knowledge of God only comes through the revelation given to us by the Holy Spirit. Look with me at 1 Corinthians chapter 2. First Corinthians chapter two, starting in verse nine, reads, But as it is written What no eye has seen, nor ear heard, nor the heart of man imagined, what God has prepared for those who love Him. These things God has revealed to us through the Spirit. For the Spirit searches everything, even the depths of God. For who knows a person's thoughts except the spirit of that person which is in him? So also no one comprehends The thoughts of God, except the Spirit of God. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God, that we might understand the things freely given us by God. Man, what a beautiful truth this is. That the spirit which searches the depths of God is the spirit that is communicating to us who God is. Think about yourself. your deepest, most secret thoughts, your deepest, most unknown things to the world around you Maybe your spouse doesn't even know, your parents, whoever is most close to you in your life has no knowledge of this. Only you have that knowledge. How do you communicate that to someone? Well, you would have to speak of it. You would have to demonstrate it to them. You would have to express it in some way. But only you could do that. Likewise, this is God. The deepest aspects of God, the most secret humanity, can only be revealed to us by God. And this is why it's important that we understand the Trinity being unified. One God, three persons. One in unity, one in essence, three distinct persons. Because here, the third person of the Trinity, who knows the deepest parts of God, because he is part of the triune God, is the one that now reveals. God's deepest love for us as His beloved. This is the knowledge we seek and desire to know. What else do we want to know about God? We have it in the Holy Spirit. He reveals it to us. Or what about this? Where else are we trying to seek for knowledge about God? Do we stare up into the heavens all day and all night, just looking up, waiting for God to appear to us Or do we go to the historians? Do we go to the scientists? Do we go to the biologists? Prove to us. Prove to us God. Instead of seeking and searching everything on our own strength by human thoughts and human wills, how about we go and seek God according to the revelation of the Holy Spirit? You will never know God. Unless the Holy Spirit reveals him to you. Turn with me to 2 Peter. Let us see how God reveals Himself through the Holy Spirit to us. 2 Peter 1, starting in verse 19, reads, And we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed To which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts Knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation, for no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man But men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. So how do we want to know God? We don't need to search the textbooks. We don't need to search the universe and we don't need to study trees. We don't need to ask the philosophers. How do we know God? We go to God's word. The Bible. Who wrote God's word? Well, human hands formed the letters on the paper as we read them. But who inspired, who indwelled these men to write the words? It's the Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit worked through these men to form the knowledge of God that we need right here. We don't need to go to the philosophers. We don't even need to go to someone that's claiming to be a Christian that has a secret deeper knowledge that if you follow them, they will give you the secret insight to who God really is. Why do we need to go anywhere outside of God's word? We have his word. It's authoritative. It's from him. We don't need to seek and search him other places. He's revealed here. Yes, of course he's revealed in creation. We see that in Romans. He's revealed in his creation. How can there be a creation if there's not a creator? But we see special revelation being given here that the Holy Spirit has worked through man to speak to us through his word. That's why we spend so much time preaching out of his word. Pastor Matt and I and Jason, we don't just get up here and and give you our thoughts. Uh that would be a little scary at times. I I've had conversations with these men. We have some crazy thoughts at times. If we just got up here And and try to give you a feel good. This is what we're thinking about. And never go to the Word of God and place our focus in here, then we're not actually hearing from God speak. This is where He speaks. Let us go with confidence to his word. Let us recognize that the Holy Spirit is working here is working as we read the scriptures. And notice this. If the Holy Spirit's the one that guided man to write the scriptures And all knowledge of God comes through the revelation of the work of the Holy Spirit, then as we're reading Scripture, we should be desiring not to get more facts We shouldn't be looking to, okay, I want to I want to make sure I win Bible trivia next time we have it. We shouldn't be looking and saying, okay, I want to make sure I get all the names correct and all the dates correct. Or I I want to make sure that I I know this one Greek word that if I just know the grammar of it I will I will amaze everyone when I talk about it. No, that's not why how we go to the Bible. When we go to the Bible we should be Seeking to have the Holy Spirit reveal the truth that He had men right thousands of years ago to our hearts When we read the Bible, it's not just a story about something that maybe happened or something that makes us feel good. It's God revealing Himself to us. He's revealing the issue of sin and the redemption of the Savior. We must see that the Holy Spirit is the only one that reveals man to reveals God to sinful men. This is good news for us. We should rejoice in this truth. That we have God speaking to us here in His Word, and we know that the Holy Spirit reveals truth, reveals God to us. Let us go back to John as we look at our second point here. This one's a bit of a a no-brainer. It's what this whole series is about and what we're talking about, but let us be clear here. The Spirit is the third person of the Trinity. Now, I'm not saying that to point out the steps of the Trinity, that he's the third, like he's in third place. But rather, what I would like us to see is that he is part of the Trinity He is God. We should not divide and and appear or or put the Holy Spirit here in another category that there's God the Father, he's he's the big guy, right? And then there's Jesus, he's the one that we like, and then there's the Holy Spirit that's doing something and makes crazy things happen. No, no, no. That's a that's a misunderstanding of God. The Trinity is functioning in unity. distinctive roles and and functions. We see the Father's will, the Son executing the will, and the Son is the one that dies in our place. And now we're going to see that the Spirit is the one proclaiming the victory of Christ. The Spirit doesn't come to then try to speak on his own behalf. The Spirit doesn't come and say, let me boast who I am. No, the Spirit comes to boast the triune God and proclaim the victory of Christ. We read this last week, but turn to Hebrews chapter 10 with me. Excuse me. Before we do that, let us see here in John. Midway through verse 13, it reads, For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. This language here is quite interesting as we look at it, for he will not speak on his own authority. But w whatever he hears, he will speak. Where is the Holy Spirit when he's hearing anything? He's he's in the heavenly places. He's he's dwelling with the Father. He's part of the Trinity. So what's he hearing? Well we see a glimpse of this at Jesus' baptism Right? When Jesus is baptized, he comes up out of the waters, and as he's walking out of the waters, what happens? We see the heavens open up and the Father peer down. And with joyful, what does he say? I know not the Holy Spirit. Don't say the Holy Spirit. Do we know what the Father announces upon his son? Yeah, this is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. Who heard that? We all uh well the the the audience around me hears it, but we also know that the Holy Spirit hears it because The the triune God is at work in that moment. We see the Holy Spirit coming down like a dove upon Christ. So what's one of the things that the Holy Spirit hears and is now announcing to the world? Jesus is the Son of God, and God is well pleased with him. What else do we see that the Holy Spirit hears and now is announcing to the world? He's now revealing to the world. Well, let's think about the work of Christ on the cross. He he knows that Christ is on the cross. He knows that Christ has paid. The price for sin. We talked about that last week. That there's no other payment sufficient for sin except for Christ, the final perfect sacrifice. Well, we we know and we trust that the Holy Spirit is proclaiming this. He's revealing this. We also know that He is proclaiming and revealing that Christ is sufficient and final, that He is victorious. We also know that the Holy Spirit is proclaiming and revealing the law of God. He reveals who God is and what it means to be obedient to Him. Let us look at Hebrews chapter 10. and see a little bit more of what we read the Spirit revealing to man. We read this last week, so this is a bit of a repeat, but it's good for us to be reminded. Hebrews 10, verse 15 reads, And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us, for after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them, after those days, declares the Lord. I will put my laws on their hearts and write them on their minds. How does God get the law on our hearts and our minds? He doesn't surgically cut us open, physically, and open us up. Jesus doesn't come down and just punch us in the face and say, follow me. No what happens? It's the Holy Spirit that comes down. The Holy Spirit spiritually penetrates our hearts, gives us a new heart and a new mind, writes the law of God on our hearts and our minds, and gives us the desire and the joy to follow after them. Likewise, continuing in verse 17, then he adds, I will remember their sins and their lawless deeds no more. Where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. We know that this is accomplished through the work of Christ. But who is revealing Christ to us? Who is proclaiming Christ to us? Who proclaims that there is forgiveness found in Christ alone? It's the revelation given to us from the Holy Spirit. Brothers and sisters, recognize That you don't have any understanding of your need for a Savior and your forgiveness in Christ outside of the work of the Holy Spirit. You did not, if you're sitting in here today and you're a believer in Christ, you did not come to that conclusion on your own. Now you may be sitting there and go, well, but but Anthony, I remember the day, I remember the moment. It was so clear to me. I remember when all the dots were connected and I heard the scriptures. I remember when I felt the burning in my chest of my sin. I remember when I walked up the aisle. I remember when I was baptized. Sure, all those things happened. But do you really think that the dead sinner that you were, the child of wrath that you were, made just a wise decision one day? That you were so smart that you just figured it out one day, so then you decided that you're going to follow after God? Absolutely not The only reason that you came to those conclusions, the only way that all the dots were connected, the only way that you had faith, the only way that you walked down the aisle, the only way that you got baptized was because the Holy Spirit indwelled you and revealed the victory of Christ to you. This is good news, brothers and sisters. Because if it was our doing, it would also be our doing to fail it. We would mess it up in a heartbeat. If we were so confident and we became so strong and so smart that we did we figured God out on our own, we figured out salvation on our own, we would lose it the next day. Because we are we we make mistakes. We're sinners. We jack up everything, right? We jack up a lot of things on our own doing. But we know and we see that the reason we've come to faith in Christ is because the Holy Spirit has revealed it, has has cracked open our hearts, has pierced us open. Has revealed the scriptures to us, and this is a beautiful truth. That if the Holy Spirit's the one that has revealed it to us Then the Holy Spirit is the one that keeps us. We don't have to worry about our failings and our sin to lose our salvation. We rest assured that it is the work of the Holy Spirit that has redeemed us, has revealed it to us, and He's also the one that has sealed us. Let us look here at Ephesians 1 to see what I'm speaking of. Ephesians 1, starting in verse 11, and uh Jason read this a few weeks ago. And we see I think when you were talking about the Father, if I remember correctly, we see that the Trinity overlaps, that we see so much of of the beauty of the Trinity uh overlapping of course because that it's one God that we're worshiping. But look at Ephesians 1 starting in verse eleven In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, Let us hold up here. Where did we see this language of truth? Back in John. Remember the Holy Spirit, he will guide you into all the truth. Alright, we're starting to see the connection here. So who leads us in the truth? It's the Holy Spirit. We see that when we Hear the word of truth, this is when we believe the gospel. So back in verse 13 of Ephesians, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him. We're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guaranteer of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. The truth was revealed to you through the work of the Holy Spirit, and you are sealed into glory through the work of the Holy Spirit. This is good news. You can't lose your salvation. You can't f fail so miserably that that God looks at you and says, While you once were my child, no longer am I going to call you my child. That is not the case because we're sealed by the work of the Holy Spirit. who is the one that revealed Christ to us is the one that gave us the faith to believe in Christ as our Savior. This is a beautiful truth. It should give us more confidence and more zeal as we go through our day-to-day lives. When we sin and we mess up, we have confidence that we can confess our sins before the Holy God, that we will are forgiven through the work of Christ on the cross. How do we know this? Because the Holy Spirit has revealed it to us through his word, through the indwelling that we have of him within our hearts. Turn with me to 2 Corinthians chapter 3. A bit of a Bible trivia tonight as we bounce back and forth, but Second Corinthians chapter three. Verses seventeen and eighteen 2 Corinthians chapter 3, 17 and 18. Now the Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there is freedom. And we all with unveiled face beholding the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same image from one degree to glory to another. For this comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. Clear? Your salvation. Your freedom is from the Spirit. The Spirit is the one that is present and gives you the understanding, the desire, the new heart, the newness, and this is freedom. This is what salvation is about. You're free, brothers and sisters. You're free. If you have faith in Christ, you are free. The news isn't our slave master. We don't have to get anxiety about wars We don't have to get anxiety about politicians. We don't have to get anxiety about what what the culture's trends are. You're free. Your sin is not your slave master. You are free in Christ. No longer must you follow after your sin. No longer does your sin hold the guilt over you. You are free. Christ paid the price on the cross. His victory over sin and death has been your victory because it's been revealed to you by the Holy Spirit. Has been brought to you by the Holy Spirit and has sealed it to you by the Holy Spirit. This is good news for us. We recognize that God's salvation for humanity has been revealed to us through the Holy Spirit, and we also recognize that God's authority over sin and death has been revealed to us by the Holy Spirit. Recognize that anything we know about God, anything we know about salvation Anything we know about grace and glory and love and mercy and judgment comes through the work of the Holy Spirit. So if God is sovereign and we know that, it's through the work of the Holy Spirit. Lastly, brothers and sisters, we see that the Spirit reveals the kingdom of God. This should not be a shock to anyone here If you're a Christian today, you're living in the kingdom of God. That's why we're called children of God. That's why we're called saints. We are part of God's kingdom. So it should be no uh surprise to you that if if the Spirit reveals salvation to us, reveals how Christ is our Savior, that then we also have the kingdom of God revealed to us at the same time. These go hand in hand. And we see back in John 15 how this is laid out. Let us read verse 14 again till the end of this section. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you. What is Jesus's? That's what we have to ask. If Jesus is saying this, what belongs to him? Well, the first thing that belongs to him is the redeemed. The redeemed are his. If you have faith in Christ, you belong to him. He's the one that that sits Next to the Father, he is the one that intercedes on our behalf. When God looks at us, he sees the blood of Christ He he hears and sees the work of Christ. When we cry out to the Lord, the Holy Spirit takes our prayers up to the heavenly places, our prayers and and our spiritual uh selves. Enter into the presence of God when we pray, when we worship, when we fellowship with one another. We enter into the throne room of God. through the work of the Holy Spirit, and the Holy Spirit takes it to the Son, and the Son intercedes for us to the Father. So that this is the triune God working on our behalf. This is all part of his kingdom work. So we see that he will glorify me, he will glorify the Son, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you So if you are his, the Holy Spirit's declaring it to you. This is what Christ is promising. What else belongs to God? What else belongs to Jesus We see after his resurrection, he then sits in heaven. He says, I will go to the Father, all authority in heaven and on earth. Is mine. Jesus is saying it's mine. Everything you see here is mine. It belongs to Christ. It's all of Jesus. His victory on the cross, his defeat of sin and death in the grave makes him the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords. There's nothing that out Weighs him. There's nothing that's more powerful than him. There's nothing that holds more authority than him. Satan has no authority over Christ. He's been defeated at the cross. We see him trying to squirm. It's it's like a snake. You you have the snake and you ever cut off a snake's head, it squirms for a long time. A long time. Chickens do the same thing, but the serpent has a good connection here. The serpent's head has been cut off. Christ has won the victory on the cross. Christ has won the victory as He's risen from the dead. Christ obviously has won the victory as he sits in heaven, having authority over all. And yet the snake is still squirming. The snake still wants to have some victory, but we know that he doesn't. So if Christ has all, it all belongs to him, this is what the Spirit is revealing to us. This is what the Spirit is announcing and proclaiming to each and every one of us, brothers and sisters. That Christ is Lord. Period. No one will beat him. Nothing will take uh will take the battlefield. Nothing will build a better kingdom. It is all Christ. It all belongs to Him. His death on the cross has paid for our sins. Not only that, his death on the cross and his victory over sin and death has brought redemption to this fallen and corrupt world. This is revealed to us. This is proclaimed to the world through the work of the Holy Spirit. Likewise, brothers and sisters, when we preach the gospel, we're not speaking our own words, we're not speaking our own ideas, we should be proclaiming the words of scripture which proclaiming the truth of the whole the the truth of the gospel and this is the Holy Spirit taking it out This gives us confidence why we preach the kingdom. Oh well maybe they won't believe me. Maybe they won't like what I have to say. Maybe I just won't form the right words. Yeah, you're right. The pagans will hate what you have to say. The pagans, newsflash, pagans hate God. It's part of their identity. It's part of your identity before you were redeemed. How will we redeemed? How will the pagans be redeemed? How will this entire world be redeemed? Is by the preaching of the gospel and the Holy Spirit penetrating the hearts of the pagan nations That's how this world has changed. We don't need to make a campaign to to try to make new tracks that that are attractive and eye-catching to people. We don't need to start a campaign of let's get an army together and storm some beach of some nation and and plant crosses there. No, we need to preach the gospel to ourselves and our friends and our family to Jarrett's Hartford County and watch the kingdom of God advance around the world. That's how the gospel works because the Holy Spirit is the one proclaiming the kingdom of God and taking it to the hearts of the pagans. And making them saints in God's kingdom. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians again, this time chapter 6, and let us see how he makes the kingdom of God known to man. First Corinthians chapter six verse nineteen. First Corinthians six nineteen reads Or do you not know that your body is the temple of the Holy Spirit within you whom you have from God? You are not your own, for you were bought with a price to glorify God with your body So, how does the kingdom of God advance through the work, the proclamation of the Holy Spirit? How does the Holy Spirit proclaim and glorify God? Is by the temple that God has purchased, which is you and I. We don't need to come up with new ideas. We don't need to try to figure out the right answers. We don't need to try to create something and do something extra special, as we may say. If you are a Christian here today, live as one. Be a Christian. Love your wife as a Christian. Treat your children as a Christian. If you're a Christian, this is how you're functioning. Be obedient to your boss as a Christian. Treat your neighbor as a Christian. This is the advancement of the kingdom. We don't like it because it sounds too simple, right? No, no, give us give us the mission plan. Give us the strategy. Give us how the kingdom's really going to advance. We we want the movie. We want the the the big explosions of how the kingdom advances You know how the kingdom advances is by believers being Christians. That's it. And it's a glorious thing It's a glorious truth that we don't have to do anything special except to be obedient to God, to live in the kingdom of God, to look and act like Christ. And we will see the kingdom advance. You may not see the spark happen right now. But I promise you, I promise you that this is how our God works. That while you may you may you may go to your deathbed and never see the kingdom of God as you want it to be, but there will be a time in history where as you're in glory, you will look back and you will be amazed. that the way you loved your neighbor, the way you treated your children, the way you loved your spouse has radically, was radically used to build the kingdom of God tens, thousands of years after your death. We don't think that way. We're we are a microwave society. We want the instant. Throw the popcorn in the microwave, hit the number three, let it burn a little, but we're gonna eat it. But that's not how God is. God's that slow cooker. And guess what happens with the slow cooker? The flavors intensify. The flavors are sweeter And we see that this is how the kingdom of God advances. A slow, progressive work. The Holy Spirit is indwelling you and I. If you're a believer in here, the Holy Spirit is indwelling you, and the Holy Spirit will use your life and your obedience to Christ. To build the kingdom of God more and more each day. How do we do this? How is this accomplished? It's because man learns how to live as a citizen in the kingdom of God. The Holy Spirit reveals and teaches us how to live and be obedient to God. Look with me in Ezekiel. Ezekiel chapter 36. I should have written down where that is in a few Bibles. It's maybe been a while since we were in Ezekiel. Ezekiel chapter 36. Verse 26 through 28 reads, And I will give you a new heart and a new spirit I will put within you. And I will remove the heart of stone from your flesh and give you a heart of flesh. And I will put my spirit within you. and cause you to walk in my statues and be careful to obey my rules. You shall dwell in the land that I gave your fathers, and you shall be my people, and I will be your God. How is this accomplished? The Spirit does it. The Spirit is how God tears out our hearts of stone, gives us a heart of flesh. The Spirit is how God puts his law on our hearts. The Spirit is the one that teaches and matures you. This is called sanctification. You are not growing and becoming a better Christian because you're working harder. You're growing and becoming a better Christian or being sanctified, becoming more like Christ. It's kind of hard to say how do you become a better Christian That's a bad scale to use. But how are we becoming more like Christ each day? How does your love for God and His Word grow day by day? It's through the working of the Holy Spirit. You're active in that, you're functioning in that, but if you think you're growing by your own doing, once again, you're man-centered. Stop thinking about yourself. Stop putting yourself at the center and start to look to God. We grow. We know how to live as Christians through the work of the Holy Spirit. And we see that as we obey and as we live in his kingdom, right? We've talked about this before, that if we're living in a kingdom, you're obedient to the king. If you're living in a society, in a civil government today, in a county, in a town, you're obedient to the authorities, the rules, and the laws of that town, that city, that state, however it is in our understanding today. Well, brothers and sisters, if we're dwelling in the kingdom of God, then we're obedient to Him. But too often what happens is now we start making a checklist, the do's and don'ts of Christianity Right? Oh, and I've heard this before and especially when I was in the army. I don't I'm not going to be a Christian because all it is is a bunch of things. You all you Christians do is you take away all the fun stuff that I like to do. Now for soldiers, yes, uh there is plenty of things that need to be taken away. But instead of looking at the donts of the kingdom of God, we start to see the deuce. We start to see the freedom we have. We start to see the true living that actually happens in the kingdom. And the only way we know this is because the law of God is written on our hearts that the Spirit has revealed what it means to be obedient to God, how to be a citizen in his kingdom. You don't have to memorize the Old Testament and all the laws that God gave to Israel. That was for Israel. You don't have to to memorize and and and think about every single footstep Jesus took and mimic that. We don't all need to go and live in Jerusalem to try to be exactly like Christ. That's not what's told here. But what happens is, is the Holy Spirit has revealed God to us, revealed His Word, has shown us our Savior, and has given us the hearts and the desire and the ability to be obedient to God. Do you love God? Do you want to please your Father? Do you want to be obedient to Him? Trust the Spirit. Seek God. Ask God to reveal how to do this. Ask God for the strength to do it. Ask God to show us how we walk and how we live in His kingdom. All this is only accomplished through the work of the Holy Spirit. In conclusion, as we see the Holy Spirit working in our lives, I hope that we grow and our love for God grows and deepens. I hope that we start to trust God more and more each day as we understand that the Holy Spirit is the one functioning. The Holy Spirit's the one that has grown us as Christians, has made us Christians. And the Holy Spirit will continue to work in our lives. Through this series, I hope we've seen and grown and understood how there is one God. We're not worshiping multiple gods. But within this one God we see three persons, unified, unified, yet distinct. I hope the beauty of God was magnified in this And over the next few weeks we'll continue our study of uh the Trinity, but we're going to start to look at negative aspects of it, not that the Trinity is negative. But the negative views of the world, incorrect views of the world, incorrect views of uh so-called religious people throughout the ages. And this will help strengthening our confidence in the Trinity. It will also encourage us that the the idea of the Trinity has not just been fabricated out of nowhere last week. It wasn't like Pastor Matt and Jason and I were sitting in the office drinking coffee and said, we should talk about the Trinity and make up this idea. No, we're going to study history and see that The Trinity has been debated since the early church and has been stood upon with confidence since the beginning of the church. And that should build our confidence in our God over the next few weeks. So brothers and sisters, may we go out into the world, worshiping the true and living God, trusting and knowing that the Holy Spirit is active in our lives, is transforming us. into the image of Christ. Let us pray. Father, we thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you that the Holy Spirit is at work in our lives. The Holy Spirit is the one that has has brought us to the revelation of who you are Lord, we ask that we continue to place you in the center of all things and start to pull man and ourselves out of the focus. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.