Our passage this evening from God's Word is Proverbs 1, verses 20 Through thirty-three. Proverbs one twenty through thirty-three. I'm calling this the cry of wisdom. As soon as we start reading the passage, you'll see immediately where that title comes from, The Cry of Wisdom. Unless I'm done growing in godliness, I still need biblical wisdom to come into my mind and heart. Unless you already have a hundred percent success rate in turning away from temptation, you still still need biblical wisdom to be injected into your mind and heart. Unless we are done growing in biblical discernment, in making judgments, and in making decisions in our lives, then brethren, we still need biblical wisdom. to be preached to us, for us to read biblical wisdom and meditate on biblical wisdom, and that's what this series is about. It's really what every preaching or teaching series is about, helping us grow. Proverbs 1 20 to 33. Let's read the passage and then I'll pray for our time together in the Word. Wisdom cries aloud in the street. In the markets, she raises her voice. At the head of the noisy streets, she cries out. At the entrance of the city gates, she speaks Quote, How long, O simple ones, will you love being simple? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing and fools hate knowledge? If you turn at my reproof, behold, I will pour out my spirit to you. I will make my words known to you. Because I have called and you refuse to listen. I have stretched out my hand, and no one has heeded. Because you have ignored all my counsel and would have none of my reproof, I also will laugh at your calamity. I will mock when terror strikes you, when terror strikes you like a storm, and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you. Then they will call upon me, but I will not answer. They will seek me diligently, but will not find me. because they hated knowledge, and did not choose the fear of the Lord , would have none of my counsel, and despised all my reproof, therefore they shall eat the fruit of their way, and have their fill of their own devices. For the simple are killed by their turning away, and the complacency of fools destroys them. But whoever listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease without dread of disaster End of quote. Let's pray. Father, as we attempt to hear wisdom's cry this evening, I pray that you would help each one of us. Help me to honor you through the preaching. I pray that not only the words would honor you, but that in my heart I would trust in you, to trust in your Holy Spirit to deliver this passage and the meaning and application of this passage to our hearts. And that through your spirit we'd receive it by faith and live it out for your name and glory. We pray for you to work. Work in the ears and minds and hearts of the hearers. Also to hunger for your word, to seek to be changed by your word, that we each would seek to be comforted by your word. Remind us of who you are, dear Lord. Remind us of your great power. Remind us of your perfect wisdom. Remind us of your will for our lives. We beg you, God. Remind us of your grace and mercy. And for those who do not know you this evening, I pray that the message of your forgiveness in Christ Would grip their hearts and change their hearts even this very evening. That they would repent and know Christ and love Christ and cherish Christ and not be ashamed of it Father, we pray all these things in Jesus' name. We've already talked about the basics of wisdom and what it aims for. Wisdom aims for practical godliness in our lives that's attained through faith and fellowship in Christ. And we've heard about the foundation of practical wisdom, which is the fear of the Lord, having a reverence and having an awe. Of God and awe and reverence before God, respecting his authority, understanding that we are accountable to God, the fear of the Lord. And of course, this is how the sermon series began when Jason preached from First Corinthians. What makes wisdom possible? How is it possible that we can gain wisdom in our lives, practical godliness. What makes it possible is the cross of Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ dying for sinners is God's ultimate revelation of wisdom and it's our path to wisdom. I forget exactly the way you said it, but you used the word pathway, the pathway to godliness is the cross of Christ. So almost something like that word for word. And it really is true. The cross of Christ and the preaching of the cross of Christ and you meditating on the cross of Christ according to scripture is the most practically relevant thing you could ever do. as a Christian. This is the thing that transforms us and helps us to live according to God's will, which is the definition of wisdom. Tonight we have two major points. Now the first major point is very short, but but it really frames out The whole rest of the message. The first major point is the fact of wisdom's cry. Very simple, the fact of wisdom's cry that wisdom cries out To us that we would heed wisdom's call. Verses twenty and twenty-one. Wisdom cries aloud In the streets. There it is. I told you it would stand out to you as soon as we started reading the passage. The cry of wisdom. Here you have wisdom, a street preacher. Wisdom cries aloud in the street. It's emphasizing the public call, the call of God that goes out to all. This is the metaphor. Wisdom crying out in the street, in the markets, she raises her voice where all the people are It's an image of God getting his word out into the world. It's an image of God getting his word out, calling sinners to come to him. Verse 21, at the head of the noisy streets she cries out. That really caught my attention. Because that part of the verse Is the imagery of all kinds of distractions, of all kinds of busyness and things going on at the head of the noisy streets, wisdom is crying out. Isn't that a picture of life Distractions, galore coming from every angle, even coming from within. And yet God is calling out that we pursue godliness by heeding wisdom's cry. At the entrance of the city gates, she speaks. The entrance of the city gates was a very important place This is where leaders would sit. This is where the wise men would sit. This is where you would go for counsel. This is where disagreements could be settled in a public manner. The city gates were very, very important. And here you have wisdom. Coming in the midst of where all the voices of culture, all the voices of our neighbors, all the voices of man's wisdom are crying out, and here comes God. God's wisdom crying out, but we in the midst of all this distraction, all these competing voices in the world, is the world full of voices that compete with God's message or what And wisdom cries out. I thought of John the Baptist as I read verse 20. Wisdom crying out. Wisdom crying aloud in the street. It's wisdom preaching in the street, lifting her voice, crying out loudly, boldly, clearly, with conviction, like John the Baptist, the voice crying in the wilderness. The kingdom of heaven is at hand. Repent. Wisdom cries out. Is just another way of saying that God beckons sinners To come to Him. And God invites sinners, zealously invites sinners to enter into fellowship with Him. We do that through faith in Christ Wisdom crying out is synonymous with God pleading with foolish men to turn from his foolish ways and live for God. This is the fact of wisdom's cry. It's a passionate pleading with the heart of sinners. It's one of the ways, one of the aspects I think about preaching. It's a passionate pleading, aiming for the heart. Through preaching, God confronts us with his word by the power of his spirit to stir us up in the things of God. To stir us up, to awaken us, to revive us, to strengthen us in our faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Wisdom is crying out. Wisdom is crying out. This is the fact of wisdom's cry. Now the rest of the passage is the second major point. Told you the first one's short, but it frames out the rest of the message. The second major point is five features of wisdom's cry. You see the quote, the quotation mark, quotation marks the beginning of verse 22. Right before how long? And you see the quotation marks at the end of verse 33 after the phrase without dread of disaster. Verses 22 through verses 33 is wisdom's cry. The first two verses is just saying that wisdom's crying out. But now here's the actual cry. And you can break this down in many ways. I've broken this down into five features of wisdom's cry. The first feature Is that wisdom cries out for self-reflection? God calls us to self-reflection. Verse twenty-two. How long, O simple ones, will you love being simple? How long will scoffers delight in their scoffing and fools hate knowledge? See, it's a question that comes to the simple ones. It's a question that comes to scoffers. It's a question that comes to fools Which in the wisdom literature is essentially synonymous with the lost. And they're called to Reflect on this question about themselves. How long, those simple ones, will you love being simple? How long will you love Living for yourself rather than God. How long will you devote yourself to sin rather than holiness? How long will you go your own way like a fool rather than turn and go the way of God? How long? Oh simple one, reflect. Self-reflection. When God began to Intervene in my life and start to stir me up to think about spiritual things in a true and genuine personal sense. The first thing God started to do was to open my eyes to the foolishness of worldly living, to the futility of material things, to the emptiness, to the selfishness, and to the darkness of living simply for pleasure, simply for the flesh. And God began to open my eyes to the darkness of sin and the foolishness, the foolishness of giving myself to sin. And the emptiness of living for things under the sun, as if things under the sun were ultimate. And it was a season of self-reflection. That ultimately brought me to the book of Proverbs. The book of Proverbs was really the book that God used to get me seeking him in a true and personal way. They got me back going to church, hanging around Christians, going to Bible study. And during a sermon on the death of Christ for my sins, I was saved. But it was the book of Proverbs that God really used. to get me to see the wickedness and the darkness and the futility of living for self and for sin. And it brought me to his word, and praise God, through his spirit, he used his word to turn my life around like a whirlwind. Praise God. Wisdom cries out for self reflection. Notice That wisdom's cry tells us the truth about ourselves. But the world won't tell us the truth about ourselves. The world will tell us what we want to hear, what we want to think about ourselves. False teachers will tickle our ears and tell us a quote-unquote Positive message. But God's not afraid of the truth. God knows we need to hear the truth in order for us to change. So notice that wisdom In her cry tells us the truth about ourselves. Verse 20 and 21. Wisdom, or uh 22, rather, verse 22, tells the simple ones that they are simple. And calls out the scoffers on their scoffing. And is not afraid to call the fool a fool and to point out the fact that fools in fact hate knowledge. In other words, they hate the Truth, the objective truth about reality that comes from God. They love their own conception of truth This is what makes gospel preaching and Bible teaching offensive to natural men It's not offensive to regenerate man, except that those parts where it it comes at us and convicts us of our lingering sin so we can still repent. But truly offensive, I mean For the child of God, that makes us happy, even though it hurts. So there's a difference for a believer being convicted and an unbeliever being just straight up offended and angered by what God has to say. But this is what makes true biblical preaching and teaching offensive to natural man tells us the truth about ourselves. It tells the sinner That the sinner is guilty. It tells the sinner that the sinner is accountable to God and will answer to God, and if they do not turn, they will come under the judgment of God. God is honest God is the God of truth. And for our own benefit, He tells us the truth about ourselves. Wisdom cries out for self-reflection. There's got to be some sort of self-reflection when a person is being stirred awake to the things of God, hearing the word of God. Because we're saved from our sin. There's got to be an understanding of sin and our own personal sinfulness if there's going to be a true understanding of the cross and of God's salvation Just as wisdom cries out for self-reflection, which is the first feature of wisdom's cry, secondly, wisdom cries out with a voice of grace. Wisdom cries out with a voice of grace. This is the second feature of wisdom's cry. And it comes from verse 23. If you turn at my reproof, behold, I will pour out my spirit to you, and I will make my words known to you. Notice a few things in verse twenty-three as we see wisdom crying out with grace, grace and mercy. First of all, you can see that there's a an offer of repentance. Repentance is on the table. How does the verse begin? If you turn, and my reproof, the very fact that God gives us the opportunity to repent is an act of mercy. God is not obligated to give anyone, to give any of us an opportunity to repent and to know him. And if God were, this is hypothetical, because God is gracious, and this is not what God planned, and this is not what God is doing, but if God were just to bring every single sinner who ever lived under his eternal judgment, he would still be right and good, holy and righteous. He would not be guilty of any wrongdoing if he did that. He's right in all of his judgments. Now again, that's hypothetical. That's not what God purposed to do. That's not what God is doing. God has mercy. God has grace. And for the sinner, for the scoffer, for the fool, for the simple one, repentance is on the table. If you turn at my reproof, the other thing you see is what's held out is the gracious gift. If you turn up my reproof, behold, I will pour out my spirit to you. God is saying, I will give you the Holy Spirit. If you'll turn, I'll pour out blessings of the Holy Spirit upon you. Isn't that what we want in our lives? Blessings from the Holy Spirit within us. Blessings from the Holy Spirit that change our attitude. I know I need that Blessings from the Holy Spirit that will help us persevere in faith through sufferings and trials. I need that. You need that. Blessings from the Holy Spirit that will change the way I talk and give me discipline with my tongue. Blessings from the Holy Spirit, a true and lasting hope within our hearts, a peace and contentment that fills our hearts In the midst of a world under the curse of sin and death, we can have peace in the heart from the Holy Spirit. God says, I'll bless you. I'll pour out my spirit to you. I shudder and tremble to think of life without the aid of the Holy Spirit. And he says something else here, or she rather, wisdom is personified as a woman. She cries out something else here. And I believe this is really expanding on Pour Out My Spirit to give arguably the central benefit, or at least the first benefit. of the blessing of the Spirit. When at the end of verse 23 w wisdom says, I'll make my words known to you. That's called illumination. That's when the Spirit enables us to understand the truths of God's Word and to believe and to receive the truths of God's Word. When the Holy Spirit pulls back the blinders and enables us to see the glory of God is revealed through Jesus Christ, that through his word we see God and love God. The Spirit working through the Word, God making His words known to us. If God doesn't reveal Himself, we would have no fruition of the one true God. Oh, it's easy to invent God's Any of us can invent a God from within the speculations of our own imagination. But to know the one, the true living God, God must reveal Himself to us. We're finite creatures. We're fallen creatures. We live in the created realm. How in the world could we ever climb our way up to the infinite, invisible, almighty God? We never could. He must come down. He must speak to us. He must stoop and speak to us and make himself known to us. What a blessing. What a blessing. That God makes his words known to us. And that by making his words known to us, beloved, he's made himself known to us. The first feature of wisdom's cry is for self-reflection. I think I can make a really good argument that a believer, no believer can grow spiritually apart from self-reflection. You've got to have a self-awareness. I've got to have a self-awareness of the sin in my heart so that I can be grieved by it, begin to pray for repentance, and through God's power actually pray Put that repentance into practice. The repentance happens in the mind and the heart. And then it's put into practice outwardly. The outward is just a fruit of repentance, but the repentance is an inward invisible spiritual change that happens when God takes me from here and turns me to here. But if there's no self-awareness, like if you if I'm never aware, if I'm never reflective And how will I need to grow? How in the world, brothers and sisters, will I ever grow? Second feature of wisdom's cry, wisdom cries out with a voice of grace and mercy. A voice of grace and mercy. Third feature. Third feature of wisdom's cry as she cries out. Wisdom cries out with a sober Warning. There is a sober warning from verses 24 to 27. Because I have called, and you refuse to listen Have stretched out my hand and no one has heeded. Stop right there. This won't this won't be a long pause, but just I want us to to get in our heads the picture of what's happening. God is calling out as people are completely ignoring him. That's what's happening. Completely ignoring God I've called, you refuse to listen, stretched out my hand, no one has heeded, because you've ignored all my counsel, would have none of my reproof. So they they ignored his teaching, and in response to their ignoring his teaching, he comes and reproves them. They would have none of his reproof. Therefore, verse 26 I also will laugh at your calamity. I will mock when terror strikes you, when terror strikes you like a storm, and your calamity comes like a whirlwind, when distress and anguish come upon you. When you reap what you sow, it will be right in the eyes of God. There's no excuses. There's a sober warning for coming judgment. That's what that is. It's the imagery of coming judgment, the judgment that sin deserves. There's no excuses for those who ignore God 's voice, who ignore and reject wisdom's cry. God puts before man the things of eternity. Where we're all losing our minds, living for and chasing temporal things. God comes, wisdom cries out with the things of eternity. with things pertaining to the soul, for the spiritual condition condition of the soul for time and for eternity God puts before us our most basic responsibility in life is to believe in him and to love him and to obey him and the scoffer and the fool and the simple one says, no thank you. Too busy, not accountable to God. Wisdom cries out With a voice of grace and mercy, with repentance always on the table. As long as someone is still breathing, repentance is on the table set before them. If they would but partake of the meal of the gospel of Jesus Christ. But make no mistake about it, wisdom also cries out with a sober Warning of coming judgment. You continue to ignore God. You continue to live for sin. You continue to do things your own way in your own wisdom. Judgment is coming. Judgment is coming. This third feature of wisdom crying out with a sober warning made me think of several practical applications for my heart. And practical applications for our heart as a church. Our heart singular as a church in evangelism. Practical application in evangelism. First of all, it's a reminder that we need to be serious about evangelism People really are accountable before God. Please let's not ever forget that. This is not a game. We're not just playing religion. We're not relativists. We're not pluralists. We're children of the Almighty God. We're ambassadors of the exalted Christ. If biblical Christians aren't willing and aren't courageous and aren't compassionate enough, To communicate to the lost world the fact of lostness and the fact of coming judgment. Who in the world will communicate those things in the world? Brethren, we must be serious about evangelism. Secondly We must be equally, if not if not exceedingly, joyful in evangelism. Serious doesn't mean m angry at people. Serious just means uh we take this very, very seriously. It's a top priority, this is not a joke, this is real, but we must be joyful Ambassadors of heaven must reflect the joy of heaven. Those who have received the greatest gift that could ever be received, God Himself Must have joy. Exude joy, not negativity, not anger, not bitterness. Don't let the root of bitterness Start to grow up. So we must be serious, but we must be joyful. You could say the same you could follow the same pattern on any one of these points. About if Christians don't do it, who who in the world will? Right? If we're not serious or and honest about communicating lostness, but you could say it too about true joy. If Christians don't reflect and exude a spirit-born joy in the world, there'll be no spirit-born joy in the world. There's counterfeit joys in the world. Based on counterfeit treasures, fleeting temporal material things. Christians have a unique joy, a peculiar joy, a peace, a rest. uh uh a sense of celebration and contentment because we have everything. We have everything and nothing in the world can take it away what God has given us in Christ. So we share the good news With serious, joyful honesty. Third in evangelism, we must be sincere. We must be sincere We're not just trying to get bigger. We're not trying to impress anyone. We care about people's souls. That's not easy to do. In fact, apart from God's help, that's impossible to do. What what does Matt, naturally speaking, not Matt born of the Spirit, but naturally speaking, care about most? Matt cares about Matt the most, naturally speaking. And like you, I'm in this process of sanctification, of God just putting that to death bit by bit. Praise God he's faithful, but there's a lot of growth to be had, a lot of work to be done. In our evangelism, we must be sincere. We must deal with people as people, not numbers, not just prospects for church growth. But we integrate this into our private prayer lives. God help me to care about souls. Help me to, when I see a person, to see the soul, and to see the issues with the soul, and to care about the issues with the soul. That'll be a lifetime of growth right there. In evangelism, this is also a reminder that we need to be consistent. In other words, there's uh There's no like break or season off where we'll we'll be passionate about evangelism for six months And then take six months off. And then passionate for evangelism. We should always be thinking of evangelism. One of the things we talk about often and we've already begun to pray with is just Evangelistic ministries that are a natural part of the ongoing body life of the church. So that's our goal. That's our prayer. A natural Here's my here's my buzzword, Jason. It's just a synonym for natural, so I really don't need to say it, but now I'm on my buzzword, okay? It's an organic part. Ongoing evangelism is an organic part. Of the body life of the church. So serious, joyful, sincere, consistent And this is your last one, just still just contemplating practical application of wisdom crying out with a sober warning for coming judgment. The last one here, the fifth one. In our evangelism, we want to have a sense of peace, not be filled with anxiety. Sometimes I've seen a sense of worry and anxiety when it comes to evangelism, and it's mistaken as having a zeal for evangelism. No, it's really in your heart of hearts worried and doubting that God is working And that God will work and He'll bear fruit through our efforts in whatever way He wants to. Our focus is on obedience to God and on the souls of the lost. Not on numbers, not on outward results that we can measure and feel good about what we measure. We must be at peace. This is very closely related to that joy. Some of us are lagging behind in being joyful because we're lagging behind in having a peace. And we're we become slaves almost to anxiety. Man, it's an icky feeling. It's an icky feeling that people don't want to be around extra anxiety and drama in their lives. People have enough of it. When messengers of the gospel come, we're messengers of peace. We want to model the peace that we say we're offering to people through the gospel. Serious, joyful, sincere, consistent, and with a heart and attitude of peace, not filled with anxiety. If the gospel truly sets people free, then we should model that. Show people what that looks like as we're talking about the fact that they too can be free if they turn to Christ. Let's get to the fourth feature of wisdom's cry. Wisdom cries out for sincere repentance. Genuine repentance you could put if you'd like. You could put authentic if you want to go the buzzword route. True repentance is what I usually say. But there is such thing as a false repentance. And you see that in this passage, 28 to 31. 28 to 31. Then they will call upon me. In other words, when the judgment starts to come, then they'll call out. Then they'll call upon me, but I'll not answer. Then they'll seek me diligently, but will not find me. Then they'll really want God's intervention, but it'll be too late, in other words. Verse 21, 29 29, because they hated knowledge and did not choose the fear of the Lord. They made their decision, and they're reaping what they sow. Verse 30, they would have no they would have none of my counsel And despised all my reproof. Therefore they shall eat the fruit of their way, and have their fill of their own devices. They're getting what they deserve. They're reaping what they sow. Even though it looks, I mean, if you strip that verse 28 out of context, it could be misinterpreted as a true repentance. But just wanting to escape judgment is not true repentance. Just a kid not wanting to get caught just because they don't want to get in trouble, that's not the heart of an obedient child They just don't want to get in trouble. It's not a motive of love for the parents that they want to obey or love for the teacher that they want to honor the teacher's authority. They just don't want to get caught. So before the teacher comes back in the room, they sit down and act like they were being good. I was doing my work. That's not true obedience, and just wanting to avoid judgment is not true repentance. It's not evangelism merely to get people to want to go to heaven and not hell. Well that's a part, that's a part of what we're talking about, okay? Eternal consequences. But that's not enough. Of course natural man, given the choice, would choose heaven and not hell, because natural man is self-serving. Give me the good place, not the bad place. So when God shows up with judgment here, there's a crying out, a turning to God for help, but it's too late. In their hearts, in their hearts, verse 28, read it again. They'll call upon me, but I'll not answer. They will seek me diligently, but will not find me. In their hearts, as they're doing that, they still do not love God. They're just broken up and sad that the judgment they deserve is falling upon them. Wisdom cries out for sincere repentance, not for false repentance. That just wants to escape the consequences or the judgment of sin. It's a wrong motive True repentance is in the heart, a heart that's been changed to love God and love holiness and believe in God, rather than to love self and to love sin and live for the things of the world. Joel two twelve. Let's look at Joel two twelve. Yet even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your heart With fasting, with weeping, and with mourning, but rend your hearts and not your garments. Return to the Lord your God, for he is gracious and merciful, slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. And he relents over disaster. In other words, he'll hold back his judgment. He'll turn from his judgment if there's a true repentance. If you just do the fasting, and just do the weeping, and just do the mourning, and just rend your garments, but not your heart, that's not true repentance. There's nothing wrong with an outward expression of repentance. The fasting, weeping, mourning, rending your garments. There should be in some form, whether it's this or something else, there should be some form of an outward manifestation of an inward repentance. But it must start with the heart. How do you return to the Lord? How do you turn to the Lord? Return to me with all your heart. Verse 13, Rend your hearts. Let your hearts be broken and turn to God in your brokenness. And God will turn from his judgment. When we were lost. It was not just a myth that God's judgment hung over us. It's when we were saved that our sins were forgiven. We had to be saved. We had to hear the gospel. We had to embrace Christ by faith. We had to be born again. You must be born again. You will not see the kingdom of God. There has to be sincere repentance. Wisdom's cry has a fifth feature. And it's found in verses 32 and 33, really a summarizing part. of this chapter. But this fifth feature of wisdom's cry, I'm I'm putting it this way. Wisdom cries out with a message of hope. Right after this Sober warning and crying out for sincere repentance. You know, part of the warning is that a fake repentance won't do. I broke it up into two separate things, but that's really the flow. There's this warning of coming judgment that you'll get what you deserve. And part of the warning is a fake repentance will not do. And then verses 32 to 33, a message of hope. For the simple are killed by their turning away, and the complacency of fools destroys them. But one of the great words to describe the lost world Not just in our age, but in a in any age, is complacency, living for themselves, completely oblivious to God's will, complacent in their f folly, just as I was complacent in my folly before the Lord intervened in my life. But here's this ring of hope. Here's this great bell of hope In verse 33, but whoever listens to me will dwell secure and will be at ease without dread of disaster. Whoever listens Jason, I think you I think you're the one, although Anthony, it could have been you this past week who was talking about what the word listens means in Scripture. Listen to God is basically saying obeying God. It's not just an audible thing when it says whoever listens to me. It's whoever hears or whoever heeds and receives my words and obeys my words. Whoever Turns to God, whoever receives humbly this cry of wisdom will dwell secure and will be at ease without dread of disaster. It's the imagery of being saved It's the imagery of being at peace with God. That's what it's alluding to. The one who's a fool can have wisdom. The one who's alienated from God can be reconciled to God. The one who loves sin loves the sin. Can have their heart completely destroyed and completely made new to hate sin and love God, I know because Scripture teaches it, but I know because it happened to me through the power of the gospel We 're messengers of hope, messengers of hope that there is a way to God Though our hands be red as scarlet, God can wash them. White as snow he can make us. As we're finishing on this last feature of wisdom's cry, that it's a message of hope, I want us to turn to 1 Peter chapter 1. And conclude our time together with a great passage on Christian hope. As you're turning there, I'll just Rehearse these five features of wisdom's cry from tonight as wisdom, this bold street preacher cries out for self-reflection. Number one. Cries out with grace and mercy, number two, cries out with a sober warning, number three, cries out for sincere repentance, not fake repentance, number four, and number five, cries out with the message 1 Peter 1, beginning in verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable. Undefiled and unfading, kept in heaven for you, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. How can he say living hope? Isn't hope a thing? Isn't hope an idea? How can a hope be living? Living hope? Because our hope is a person. Our hope is the living Christ. He died for our sins, but he rose again as the source of our hope. Born we've been born again to a living hope. The living hope is one of those blessings, one of those benefits of being born again. Living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. from the dead. Jesus Christ is alive. He reigns in heaven. Our salvation is the fact that we're united to him by faith. And we have the guarantee because he's given us of the Spirit. And also love, one more thing in this passage. I know there's there's a lot here, but the verse five, who by God's power are being guarded through faith for this coming salvation. That comforts me. It comforts me that I'm guarded by God's power and not my own. And I hope that comforts you as well. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness. Thank you for your mercy. Help each one of us, whether lost or saved, to hear wisdom's cry. To keep striving to grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, to keep striving to put to death the deeds of the flesh. To keep striving through prayer and by your spirit to cultivate more and more the fruit of the Spirit. Let us not grow weary in doing well. Let us be rich in good works for your name and glory. And in our thoughts. words, prayers, and conversations. Let us be a people who give all the glory and all the honor to you, to your Son Jesus Christ, and to the Holy Spirit whom you have given us. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.