All right, let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 2. Today, Genesis 2, 4 To seventeen on the goodness of God. The goodness of God. Specifically the goodness of God to Adam, which is the focus of the passage. I hope that God's goodness toward Adam will be a reminder of God's goodness toward us. There's so many different attributes of God that we can talk about. We can talk about His holiness. We could talk about his love, we could talk about his justice, uh his infinity, his omnipresence. There's so many different aspects of God's character and attributes of God, but let's, brothers and sisters. Let's never forget the goodness of God. Let's never forget that God is good, that He has been good to us, He has promised good to us, and therefore that we should be thankful every day because God is good. Good. Genesis 2, 4 to 17, the goodness of God. Before I read this passage As a whole, I want to very simply give a definition of what we mean by goodness, or what we mean by God is good And we simply mean uh goodness is the doing of what is kind or beneficial towards someone. That's pretty straightforward, right? That's pretty simple. It's doing what is kind. It's doing what is beneficial. It's doing that which blesses others rather than harms others. You know the difference between a bad deed that hurts someone and a good deed that helps. Helps someone. We know the difference between someone at school or someone at work who is mean to others versus someone who is kind and gentle to others We know the difference between someone who is a bully or just a controlling menace versus someone who's a helper. And someone who is a supportive friend. And what we're getting to is the importance of goodness. What it what it is that makes somebody or something good in a practical sense is doing what's kind or beneficial. For someone. Let's go ahead and read Genesis 2, 4 to 17. We'll see God's goodness as manifest to Adam. These are the generations of the heavens and the earth when they were created, in the day that the Lord God made the earth and the heavens, when no bush of the field was yet in the land. And no small plant of the field had yet sprung up, for the Lord God had not caused it to rain on the land, and there was no man to work the ground. And a mist was going up from the land and was watering the whole face of the ground. Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. And the Lord God planted a garden in Eden, in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant to the sight, and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. A river flowed out of Eden to water the garden, and there it divided and became four rivers. The name of the first is the Pishon It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Havilah, where there is gold. And the gold of that land is good. Bedelium and onyx stone are there. The name of the second river is the Gihon. It is the one that flowed around the whole land of Cush. And the name of the third river is the Tigris, which flows east of Assyria. And the fourth river is the Euphrates. The Lord God took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work and keep it It and the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat of it You shall surely die. Let's pray. Father, open our hearts to your word this morning. We pray that we would humbly receive your truth. And wherever any one of us, each of us, wherever we need to be encouraged and comforted, would you do so? And wherever we need to be instructed, corrected, would you do so? Would you lift our hearts and minds to heavenly things? And that we would be fixed on Christ and fixed on your glory, and that we would strive all the more by your word and spirit to live for you and not ourselves. And it's in Christ we pray. Amen. Our passage describes God's goodness to Adam, and let me just reiterate: I'm hoping that this will be a reminder to us of God's goodness to us. And God was good to Adam in giving him life, love, and law. There you go, alliteration in three points. Who would have ever guessed that the outline would be that? But I try to keep these outlines simple so that when we're inside of each point, we can really open it up and dive into it without getting distracted. God was good to Adam In giving him life, and giving him love, and in giving him law. Giving him life, giving him love, and giving him law. First of all, number one, life. God was good to Adam in giving him life. That's probably the most obvious point in the passage, isn't it? God gave Adam life. Notice, that's verses four to seven. Verses four to seven where we see that. Specifically verse seven. Then the Lord God formed the man of dust from the ground. And breathed into his nostrils the breath of life, and the man became a living creature. Well, that's the first creation of the first person. And so it's a supernatural creation. Adam was formed of dust. You and I were not created in this exact way, being formed of dust, but make no mistake about it, God is the one who formed us. God is the one who made us. God is the one who gave us life. He gave us a body. He gave us a soul. He gave us existence. He sustains our existence. Life for Adam, life came from God. And brothers and sisters, life for us comes from God. Apart from God, we would have no life. Notice the setting. We have gone back to the sixth day of creation. That's important in the flow of Genesis 1 and 2. Genesis 1 was what? It was the six days of creation. And then the first paragraph of Genesis 2 was what day? The seventh day. Right? So Genesis 1, the six days of creation. Then the first paragraph of Genesis 2 is the seventh day. But now what you're doing is something that's very common in storytelling. It's a flashback. It's a flashback. We're going back to day six. We know that because it's the creation of man. We're flashing back to day six and we're zooming in on the creation of man. So that's where we are. Also notice the uniqueness of the creation of man, as in contrast with the creation of Everything else that God created in chapter one. Verse seven again. Forming the man out of dust, the dust of the ground. Which is unique, a special relationship between man and the earth. Remember man was given dominion over the whole earth? Over everything on the earth, over every creature, God gives the earth and everything in it as a gift to man that we would not only enjoy it and um gain our sustenance from it, but that we would rule over it according to God's will and not our own. Now under sin, in sin which is the age we live in. We govern the world but according to man's will, not God's will. That's why we need to be saved and learn. We all have to learn how to live according to God's will, not our own. But that's not the case in the original creation. There was no sin. Adam was formed from the dust of the earth. But also you have this verse 7: God breathing into his nostrils. the breath of life and the ma and the man becoming a living creature. Now there were other kinds of living creatures, creatures in the air, creatures in the sea, creatures from the ground. And there are other, there's biological life. Life that's not inanimate, but animate life, but nothing like this where you You have God breathing into the nostrils, the breath of life, this special relationship between God and man. Man alone is created in the image of God, in the image of likeness of God as God's unique representative. in the creation. But the point is, all of this comes from God. All of this comes from God. It's not God plus Adam. It's not God with the help of angels. It's not God with the strategy meeting and then God just implementing. It's 100% God. He came up with this whole idea This whole plan, all the wisdom is his, all the design is his, all the power is his, all the resources is 100% from God. And so God gets all the credit. The most right and proper and natural thing for a human being to do would be to say, thank you, God, and then to give your life in the worship of God. We should worship God as the great almighty creator. And we should say thank you. Every day we should roll out of bed and say, Thank you, God, for the life that you've given me. Thank you, God, for today. No matter how hard it gets, no matter how bad it gets, and those things are because the sin has infiltrated this world and brought death and brought suffering and brought brought disease and brought selfishness and pride and fights and all kinds of things. But we still have life. And life is still from God. And we can always say thank you, God, for that which you've given me. When we talk about God's goodness to us, the first thing we say is we are alive because of God. We are alive because of God. When we say we should just be oozing gratitude We should be oozing humility of being a created being. We can make we say we make things. We say we create things. But we don't create things out of nothing. All we can do when we say we make things or create things is we take things that already exist and we manipulate them into other things. We can work with atoms and materials, but we can't create atoms and materials out of nothing, speaking them into existence. Everything that we have, everything that we are, that's good, comes from God. Acts 17, 25 Speaking about God, nor is he served by human hands as if he needed anything, since he himself gives to all mankind life and breath and everything. And so we should be oozing gratitude. And we should be oozing humility. And we also should be oozing a spirit of obedience. And this is walking in the fear of the Lord. And what that means is we come to acknowledge God's authority over us. And we come to have a reverent fear for an Almighty God of infinite power who made us and we come to admit you know what we come to admit friends we come to admit that we are accountable to God After all the war, the spirit of the age, every voice in the world around us, every voice in the sinful flesh that lives within us says, You're not accountable to God. The truth is we are accountable to God. And God, we acknowledge your authority over us. You made us. We are accountable to you. We want to obey you. That's the mindset that we have. That's called walking in the fear of the Lord. And don't you want that in your in your life in an increasing manner to walk in the fear of the Lord rather than walk in the fear of man? Man 's principles are arbitrary. Man's values are arbitrary. Man treasures that which opposes God But the Holy Spirit will enable us to treasure that which honors God. And the Holy Spirit will help us through the Word to walk in the fear of the Lord. God gave Adam life. And Adam, when he was created, knew no sin. Sin had not entered the world Sin and pride, sinful pride, did not reside in Adam's heart when he was created. At this point, temptation had not even entered the world. Adam had not yet uh been confronted or had encountered temptation or evil in any way. Adam was a hundred percent grateful for being created, and he acknowledged God's authority over him. And he was perfectly obedient and perfectly innocent and perfectly holy. That sounds good, doesn't it? Doesn't that sound nice? Well that will happen to you one day, not in this age, in these bodies it won't happen to you But when these bodies die, our souls will be made righteous and go to live with God in heaven. Jesus was risen, will be risen bodily, and will be perfectly he will be perfectly righteous. And you'll love God with a perfected love. And we'll love each other with a perfected love. Life. Life life life life life one hundred percent comes from God. So if you ever look at yourself and you think I'm alive, that's a moment where you give thanks to God. Amen? Give thanks to God. And secondly, not only was God good in giving life to Adam, but God was good to Adam in giving him gifts of love. Gifts of love. Because Adam is not standing on a barren earth with only life and nothing else. God could have done that. Here you go, an earth that's just a desert with nothing else, but you have life. That's not the case. Let's look at this again in um start in verse eight. God giving Adam good gifts To surround him and to enjoy. Verse 8. The Lord God planted a garden in Eden in the east. Word Eden meaning paradise. He planted a garden in Eden in the east, and there he put the man whom he had formed. And out of the ground the Lord God made to spring up every tree that is pleasant. To this to the sight, and good for food. The tree of life was in the midst of the garden, and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. God As a gift. As a gift. Gives Adam a well watered and fruitful garden. There's another paragraph about it's well watered. We read that at the beginning. You could skim over that again from verse 10 and following. It's a well-water watered garden. It also is proof of a well-watered earth so that Adam and Eve can actually obey God and um fill the earth, be fruitful, multiply, and fill the earth It's a well-watered, fruitful garden, paradise, tofieri gardens, a fruit-bearing garden that God gives Adam as a And the practical point of this for Adam, and it does have application for us, of course, in a different way, because again, there's no sin in this at this time and there is in our time, but this is getting to the practical daily enjoyment of God's creation The practical daily involvement with God's creation and the practical daily enjoyment of God's creation. It's pleasant to the eye. It's good for food. Four points on this well-watered and fruitful garden that's given to Adam as a gift. It's so he can enjoy the sustenance and survival that comes from. From creation. Adam is just like you. He needs food. He needs water. He needs sustenance. And this is part of God's design that we would derive those from things in creation. Food and water, though he will enjoy the sustenance and survival. That comes from a creation. And when he does so, do you know what that will do in his heart? It will increase gratitude to God. Because where'd the creation come from? God, where'd the trees come from? God, where'd the fruit come from? God, where'd the water come from? God, where'd the air come from? God, God, God. Everything is designed by God to point back to Him as the givers of all that is good. That's the way the creation is designed. So we can say over and over, God gave me this, God gave me this, God provided this, God provided this, thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you. That's how we should live. So the enjoyment of the sustenance and survival that comes from creation. Number two, to enjoy the beauty and to enjoy the wonder that is in creation. Did you catch that phrase in there? It's not just good for food, but it's pleasant to the sight. It's pleasant to the eye. The to enjoy the beauty and the wonder that is found in creation. And so you see that one of the ways you see that is in the beauty of nature. Flowering trees and fruit bearing trees. And that's why People we now pay admission tickets to go to gardens, topiary gardens, different places where you can see the wonder and beauty of creation in a way that highlights and magnifies that beauty in a special way The starry sky, things like the Grand Canyon, the vast ocean. I would be terrified to do it, but uh I See I see uh camera work, I see footage of people who go into the ocean and get visuals of the wonder and the glory and the beauty and s the the The awful power of some creatures down there. There's just beauty, wonder all over the place. Well, that was For Adam in the garden, it was meant not just for sustenance, but for him to enjoy the beauty of God 's creation. And again, that would that's meant to lift his heart to appreciate God's wisdom. It's meant to lift his heart to appreciate that God is the one who's who is beautiful. God is the source of beauty. God is the source of that which is pleasant. God is the source of that which satisfies. So again, all things are meant to point Adam, and all things are meant to point us to God. God is the sustainer, God is the creator. Number one, to enjoy the sustenance and survival that comes from creation. Number two, to enjoy the beauty or the wonder that is found in creation. Number three, to enjoy meaningful work within creation. To enjoy meaningful work within creation. And I hope in our first reading that that stood out to you in verse 15, the Lord took the man and put him in the Garden of Eden to work and to keep It, to work and to keep it, or to work and to guard it. Adam is given work. Adam is given responsibility. Adam is made a steward of part of God's creation a steward of all creation, but in a special way this garden, this paradise, this home for Adam and for Eve To work and to keep it. Meaningful work within creation is part of God's will for our lives. Meaningful work within creation is part of God's calling upon us. And we all have different callings. We have different callings and most of us have a different job at different points in our lives. I've done all kinds of job Jobs. And most of you out there, many of you out there have done multiple kinds of jobs. Jobs and callings within the home, jobs and callings outside of the home, jobs and callings you have in the church, jobs and callings in different spheres of society. But meaningful work, meaningful work, so we don't get bored, because what happens when we get bored? When we just end up giving ourselves to sinful things and meaningless things So God keeps us busy with meaningful, fruitful work within his creation. Adam had a job. Adam had work. Adam got up in the morning today. I'm going to work and guard and keep the garden that God has given me. Thank you, God, for life. Thank you, God, for food. Thank you, God, for beauty. Thank you, God, for this garden. Thank you, thank you, thank you. A worshiper of God, A faithful servant of God That's what we strive for, isn't it? Isn't it what we strive for? The purpose of salvation is to get us back to this. To get us back to the purity of this design, the simplicity of this design. Design. And it there's a simplicity here for godly living. It's not our goal and it's not God's goal just to fill your life with layer upon layer of complicated, complex religion. God wants you to give your heart to live for Him in all areas of God. And part of that is serving in the church, part of that is serving him at home, serving him at work, serving him at school, wherever your hobbies. We see ourselves as servants of God. But that's not complicated. That's not complex. I'm not saying it's easy. I'm just saying there's a simplicity to this of a heart that's given over to living for God A heart that's filled with gratitude for God, and that in all areas of life, wherever we find ourselves, how do I live out your will in this situation? Enjoyment of sustenance and survival that comes from creation. The enjoyment of the beauty and wonder that's found in creation. I'm not a traveler, but that's why a lot of you travel. You want to see the various sights and the various beautiful things, wonderful things of God's creation. The stories I've heard about Alaska, people talk about Alaska, they get this look on their face. Sounds awesome. Right now, I've never been there, but that's why people like to travel and see things, to see different aspects of the beauty of God's creation. Three, enjoy the meaningful work Within creation, according to God's will. Enjoy meaningful work within creation. And now, number four, number four, in that context, Adam would then fulfill God's calling. Which is given in chapter 1, verse 28. God blessed them, Adam and Eve. God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. And have dominion over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, exercise dominion over the earth according to God's will, not your own. All right, but that's in the context of Adam being placed in the garden. And that's why you have this flashback, because you have this overall commission given to mankind. But then you flash back to where God put God put Adam, God put Eve in this situation, in this garden, and from there, boots on the ground, rubber meets the road, from there fulfill your purpose. So it's in the context of The enjoyment of sustenance and survival, the enjoyment of the beauty and wonder, and the enjoyment of meaningful work within creation. Now, in that context, live according to God's will and not your own. Some really good application here that all of us need to hear. God's gifts are meant to be enjoyed in this life. God's gifts are meant to be enjoyed in this life. Acts fourteen, seventeen. He did not leave himself without witness, for he did good by giving you rains from heaven and fruitful seasons. Satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. Satisfying your hearts with food and gladness. God did that 1 Timothy 6, 17. As for the rich in this present age, charge them not to be haughty. nor to set their hopes on the uncertainty of riches, but on God, who richly provides us with everything to enjoy. Let that reverberate in your brain. Richly provides us with everything to enjoy. We're not supposed to be mopey We're not supposed to be grumbling and complaining and keeping ourselves away things that would bring joy and enjoyment and happiness and fun and delight into our lives. Good gifts in this world were created so that his children would enjoy them. And as we enjoy them, you know what this gives us one more thing to say. Thank you, God. Thank you, God, for this enjoyment that you've given us. And if that's true for Adam in a world without sin, how much more important is it for us in the world that's full of sin? Full of torment, full of struggles, and full of suffering. How much more important is it for us to be able to identify the good things from God so that we don't just spiral out of control in darkness and despair? That's one of the things we need to grow in as God's children is identifying the good gifts from His hand. And then learning how to enjoy them in a proper way, and growing in our thanksgiving in a proper way. God manifests his love to Adam in giving Adam an incredible set of gifts. Gifts from God. God was good to Adam in giving him life. God was good to us in giving us life. And God was good to Adam in giving him gifts of love. And God is good to us in giving us gifts of love. And we've only talked about the natural gifts of God's love. We haven't even gotten to the supernatural, eternal, heavenly gifts of God's love that come to us in Christ, the forgiveness of sins. The gift of the Holy Spirit. The hope of going to heaven. The hope of having a resurrection body. All of our sins being erased. The record, think about this, the record of our sin. We haven't even gotten to the supernatural. We're just on the natural, natural gifts from God. That show us and prove to us and teach us and discipline us to see God is good, brothers and sisters. God is good And number three, God also gave Adam a law. God was good to Adam in giving him a holy law. Verses sixteen and seventeen. And the Lord God commanded the man, saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden. There's that enjoyment, right? The enjoyment, sustenance, survival. You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day you eat of it You shall surely die. Adam. Adam is placed in a covenant relationship with God. Covenant is a very important word in scripture. You see it over and over again. And don't get thrown by it if you've never heard this word covenant before. It means a legal agreement that forms a relationship. That's different than like a contract. Like you can have a contract for a building or something. But that doesn't form an ongoing relationship. A covenant is a binding agreement, a legal agreement that establishes a relationship. Like a marriage covenant would be that kind of agreement. Like a church covenant is that kind of agreement. We make this formal agreement that forms this special relationship. Adam is placed in a covenant relationship with God, and this covenant relationship is one of law. L-A -W. Very important concept here, very important word here, a covenant of law. Some will call this a covenant of works because a law covenant functions on the principle of works and it functions on the principle of obedience. This is a covenant relationship of law, which simply means this legal demands are placed on Adam. Legal demands are placed on Adam. Adam. Now what's the prohibition? What's the legal demand that's placed on Adam? You've all known this since kindergarten, most of you. You cannot what Eat of the tree. That was almost in unison. It's so well known. Eat of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. This is law This is not a suggestion. This is a holy law and it must be obeyed. And it's a legal demand placed on Adam, and so Adam is under law Which means if he obeys, he will continue to enjoy the blessedness of God's favor. He'll continue to enjoy a state of holiness. In his own heart and mind, he'll continue to enjoy the full blessedness of this life in innocence. That's if he obeys. But if he disobeys, he will, say it with me, he will. Die Which means to be separated from the blessedness of what he had. It means to lose the blessedness, the lose the holiness, forfeit the light. You forfeit, he will forfeit the light And it makes sense, right? Because the life was a gift from God. So if you rebel against God, now, Adam, you forfeit the gift that you've been given. And that's why the wages of sin is Right, and that's because life is a gift from God. And so when we sin, we forfeit the gift that has come from God. And we need Jesus to give it back. to us he's the life-giving spirit he brings us back to life spiritually speaking Now, so Adam, covenant relationship with God. He's under law. He's in this legal demand placed upon him. Think about what the situation. Is like. And you see parallels to this throughout scripture, throughout history. Adam is in the time of testing. He's in the time of trial. As some would say this is a time of probation, but this is what hit Adam's situation is a time and Eve too. She's not yet created yet in our passage, but if you just zoom out and look at the big picture of this original state of innocence Adam and Eve are in a time of trial. They're in a time of testing to see whether Adam would remain faithful. To see Adam, to see whether Adam would stay obedient to God. To see whether Adam would stay trusting in God's word alone. as the standard of what he should or shouldn't do. So you have two trees as signs of this covenant The tree of life and the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. It's visual signs, visual reminders of the covenant and of the law that God has placed Adam under. You have the tree of life. Now, what would this signify to Adam? Well, a tree of life, for someone who has been given life from God, is assigned to Adam. That his life has come from God. It's a sign to Adam that his life is dependent on God. And that's how we should live every day as our life is dependent on God. And it's a sign to Adam that if he would ever attain to a higher life, to a heavenly life, that it too could only come from God. Adam couldn't make his way to heaven on his own any more than we can make our way to heaven on our own. Adam had not yet sinned, and so he didn't need to be forgiven of sin, but Adam doesn't have the creative power to lift himself up to heaven But if he wo the only way he could get there is if he could obey the tree of life. Your life comes from God. Your life is sustained by God. If there's ever going to be a higher heavenly life, that too would come from God. And it would only come if you remain obedient. Remain obedient. But there's another tree, isn't there? There's another tree. There's a tree of the knowledge of good and evil This is a sign to Adam that knowledge of what's good and evil lies solely with God Himself. Should I say that again? Knowledge of what's good And evil rests solely with God Himself. The only reason we know anything about what's truly good and truly evil is because God has enabled us to know that and He's revealed that to us. Even in the conscience, the conscience that we have before we're saved is spoken of as a result of God's revelation as we're made in the image of God, Romans chapter 1. God alone is the source and standard of that which is right versus that which is wrong. He's the standard of the right, he's the standard of the truth, he's the standard of the moral. He's the source. He's the standard of the ethical. Now the world doesn't get that. I didn't get that when I was lost. I didn't like that at all. I didn't like that at all, Brother Don. I wanted I wanted to be the standard. I'll tell you what I how I should live. I'll tell you where I should go. I'll determine what's beneficial for me to find my authentic self or something like that. All the different phrases we use in the in in the culture around us. The truth is, God alone is the source of the knowledge of good and evil. So if you eat of this tree, you are saying, no, he's not. That 's what you're saying. No, you're not, God. No, you're not. There's something supplemental, or there's something higher that I need to attain to what's good for me. And that was part of the temptation that came to Eve. That it would be good for her. It would be good for her. And good for Adam to partake of this tree. That's the opposite of what God said. If you said if you eat it, you'll die. That's not good for you. So you supplant you supplant God's word for the lies of the enemy. And you're acting as if God is no longer the standard of truth, wisdom, and morality. If you eat of this tree, you are saying, God, you are not the standard of knowledge or the source of knowledge of good and evil. Adam was under law. Adam was in a time of trial, a time of testing, this covenant relationship. Now Adam was under law. It's a good time to read a part of Romans 7. 615 where it talks about believers who've been united to Christ. It says, We are not under law but under grace. We are not under law but under grace. By the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ, the guilt of our sin has been erased. Jesus was risen from the grave and he ascended on high and Jesus gave us the Holy Spirit. And in giving us the Holy Spirit, Jesus has brought us to eternal life. He's given us eternal life. Jesus has reconciled us to God Right? Jesus has reconciled us to God. So w so that we're under grace, not under law. And I want all of us to know exactly what that means, that we're not under law but under grace. Romans six fifteen, we are not under law, but under grace. I'll try to put this in layman's terms. If we were under law, we would have to earn our way into heaven. How does that sound? Earn your way into heaven by a perfectly righteous life. If we were under law, that would be the situation. If we were under law, one more thing, if we were under law, we would have to pay for our own sins. How does that sound? You bear the punishment, you bear the penalty. You bear the wrath of God. I carry the wrath of God for my sins. Under law, listen, under law, we have to earn our way to heaven. Well that's off the table. And also we have to under law we pay for our own sins. So how many of us, how many of us could be reconciled to God if that were the case if we were under under law zero. Nobody could do that. It's not by works of the law that anyone could be righteous before God. But we're under grace. We're under grace. So we don't earn our way into heaven Jesus earns our way into heaven. Yes? Jesus earns your way into heaven. That's the gospel. By his righteous life. Jesus earns our way into heaven. And what about the penalty? What about the punishment? Jesus takes our penalty. Jesus takes the punishment of our sins. Jesus bears the judgment that's coming against our sins By dying on a cross in our place. Dying in a cross on a cross in our place. And that's the gospel. And that's how sinners get saved. The gospel is not for the righteous, it's for the unrighteous It's for the wicked, it's for those who are weak, it's for those who are foolish and need God to save them. That's who the gospel's for. It's not for the strong, it's not for the mighty, it's not for the wise, it's not for the smart. It's not for the the good, the good, there are none who are there are none who are good. It's for those who've come to see I'm weak, I am pathetic, I am sinful, I'm corrupt, and I need a savior from God. God. That's who the gospel's for. And he died on the cross for our sins. And he rose to imperishable life. He ascended on high. And he reigns at the right hand of God. This very moment Jesus reigns. Sits enthroned at the right hand of God in heaven, and he offers the free gift of eternal life to all who would believe in him. Put your faith in Jesus Christ. I trust in Jesus Christ. the forgiveness of sins. I trust this is what I'm saying it, but I'm envisioning you in your heart coming to this place where in your heart you can say this. I believe in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins. I believe in Jesus Christ to reconcile me to God. I put my faith in Jesus Christ alone as my entrance to heaven. And I want to be under grace, not under law. You can be either one. Under law or under grace. Now if you're still under law, alienated from Christ, when you die, if you're still under law, then you'll You'll pay for your own sins. But if when you die, you've been united to Jesus, you put your faith in Jesus and you're under grace, when your body dies, you're granted immediate entrance into the blessedness of heaven, the blessedness of the presence of God. Adam was given life, he was given the gifts of love, and he was given a holy law. Hopefully you've seen God's goodness to Adam and hopefully it's reminded you of God's goodness to you. Um I'm gonna speed through these Just for the sake of time, I'm not going to expound on them, but I want to at least get these out here and we can conclude with these hopefully these practical applications for simmering around, bouncing around in your heart. Number one, I just got three of them, all right? Number one, God is good to all, and therefore all should turn to Him in thanksgiving and praise Do you agree with that? God is good to all, and therefore all should turn to Him in thanksgiving and praise. Matthew 5. 45 for your study. Matthew 5. Number two, as God's children who see the goodness of God, we do not join in the anti-God negativity of the world. As God's children, He's opened our eyes to see His goodness and to be thankful for His goodness. We do not join the anti-God negativity of the world. Just a chronic complaining, the chronic grumbling. Man, that's easy. That's the way of the world, isn't it? To magnify the negative and blame God, meanwhile taking for granted the positive and not giving thanks to God. And that's Romans one eighteen to the end of the chapter on that. Not seeing God's goodness, not acknowledging God's goodness, not giving thanks to God, but then giving ourselves to all kinds of things. And as God's children, brothers and sisters, we've been set apart. Let's not join just the chronic darkness, despairing, anti-God negativity, pest Of the world around us. But let's be a people known for rejoicing and giving thanks to God for all that is good. And number three Recognition of God's goodness, the verbal recognition of God's goodness, and the verbal thanksgiving for God's goodness should be ever on our lips. You know how we use our lips is a big piece of our discipleship, isn't it? A discipleship in our minds, in our hearts, and in our lips. And the verbal recognition of God's goodness, the verbal thanksgiving for God's goodness, should be ever on our lips Psalm 118. Oh, give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. Let Israel say, His steadfast love endures forever Let the house of Aaron say his steadfast love endures forever. Let those who fear the Lord say his steadfast love endures forever. And let us this morning say His steadfast love endures forever. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus. I pray for anyone in here who does not know him. I pray that this very day they'll put their faith in him. And enjoy the blessedness of eternal life. For each one of us, Father, continue to comfort us and sanctify us according to your word and spirit. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen.