Well the words which we'll examine tonight come out of 2 Samuel 2 verses 1 through 11. Send this print in the bulletins one through eleven. But we'll actually be examining uh about three to four chapters. Jason set the standard last week. Did he do four chapters? And I said can't let Jason do more chapters than me, so no, just kidding. It's a contest now, yes. But tonight we're gonna be seeing how David became the king of Judah The king of Judah. If you know the story and you're hearing this, you're saying, well, wait, wasn't David told and promised and anointed to be the king of Israel? The answer is yes. He hasn't gotten there yet. It's not there yet. What we're going to examine is how God is working and moving and how his timing is perfect. That's frustrating for us. Could could God just talk to me about what timing would be best? Because I've been perfect on everything I've ever done, right? I've never been late to anything, except for my wedding I'm really I I can never be late, but I was a few minutes late at my own wedding. I'll blame my brother for that. Uh but we see and we feel around us as though things just aren't right. That God's timing must be different. If if if Christ has died on the cross And Satan knows that he's defeated. Why do we still have this problem of sin and corruption in this world? If I've been redeemed by the blood of Christ, why am I not perfect yet? If Christ is victorious and God is in control, why does the enemy still appear to be strong and prowling around and causing destruction? Friends, I think these are are appropriate questions for us to ask. I think God actually invites us to ask those questions. Because as we ask these questions As we start to examine and understand how God is working, we're going to see the glory of God and how He is in control and His timing is perfect. But let's be honest, it's not easy. So so tonight we're gonna examine uh David becoming king and we're gonna talk about God's timing and why it's happening, and then we're going to see how should we we be responding with the understanding and knowledge that God is in control. And we're going to be examining David's life and his uh taking over as king of Judah. Judah for this. So let's read in 2 Samuel chapter 2, starting in verse 1. After this, David inquired of the Lord, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? And the Lord said to him, Go up. David said, To which shall I go up? And he said, To Hebron. So David went up there, and his two wives also, Hanoma of Jezreel, and Abigail, the widow of Nabal, of Carmel. And David brought up his men who were with him, everyone with his household, and they lived in the towns of Hebron. And the men of Judah came, and there they anointed David king over the house of Judah. When they told David, it was the men of Jibesh Gilead who buried Saul David sent messengers to the men of Jabesh Gilead and said to them, May you be blessed by the Lord, because you showed this loyalty to Saul your Lord and buried him. Now may the Lord show steadfast love and faithfulness to you. And I will do good to you because you have done this thing. Now therefore, let your hands be strong and be valiant. For Saul your Lord is dead, and the house of Judah has anointed me king over them. But Adnar, the son of Nair , commander of Saul's army, took Ishbokshef and the son of Saul and brought him over to Mahaniam. And he made him king over Gilead, and the Asherites, and the Jezreel, and Ephraim, and Benjamin, and all Israel. Ishboshep, Saul's son, was forty years old when he began to reign over Israel. Israel and he reigned two years, for the house of Judah followed David. And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months. Let's just recap where we're at. We saw at the end of 1 Samuel, Jonathan, David's best friend, and his father Saul, the king of Israel, died in battle. Died in battle. And then we see in 2 Samuel, the beginning of 2 Samuel, David receives report that Saul and Jonathan have been killed. And David cries out in pain. He cries out to the Lord. He he feels the pain of this killing. For one, he he feels the pain of the loss of Jonathan, his best friend. And we read that a few weeks ago, how he cried out, just recognizing the friendship that that David and Jonathan had and the pain of losing such a friend. But he also recognizes and cries out for the pain of the death of Saul, the man that has been chasing David and trying to put him in. I don't know about you, but when I think about my enemies dying, I often don't cry out in pain. I I cry out in rejoicing. Yes, finally the enemies that have been chasing me that have been attacking me. One of me dead, they are dead, and I'm alive, I'm better. That's not David's response. David recognizes that uh the man that is king over Israel in this historical moment has been killed by God's enemies. He recognizes it as pain. But David must also recognize and understand that if Saul is dead, that now means that Israel doesn't have a king. And David can think back to the time that that he was promised and anointed, that he was going to be king over Israel, that God anointed him. And in this moment, there's this this instance and this this movement that's probably happening, David saying Alright, this is my time. I'm now going to be king. Saul has been killed, and this is God's timing. I'm now going to be king over all of Israel. What do we see? That's not the case. He first becomes king of Judah. They anoint him. They say, Yes, you are king. But here, in the second part of our reading tonight We see that there's a battle happening. That that uh Ish uh Ishboshef is is not allowing David to be king over Israel. That he's actually taking command. He says, I'm in charge. I'm the commander of the army, so then if Saul dies, I now take over. And he's not allowing David to become king. And if you read through the rest of chapter 2 into chapter 3, all the way over to chapter 4, read through all those, not now. Pay attention to now, but if you read through those, you're going to see that it's a long time before David becomes king over Israel. And there's a lot of blood involved. That that Judah and Israel are actually battling and fighting each other a lot until David becomes king. So we just go, well well God, I thought you were in control. God, I thought you promised that David was going to be king. I thought you promised that that w that things would be better and once that Saul would be gone, this wicked man, and once he was gone, David would be king. Why doesn't it just happen right now? Because that's not how God works. It's not how God works. Out of Ecclesia uh Ecclesiastes 3, 11, it's at the top of your your uh handout there, it says, He has made everything beautiful in its time. Also, he has put eternity into man's heart, yet so that he cannot find out what God has done from the beginning to the end. He has made everything beautiful in its time. I I really like the language there because it's causing me to think that not everything's beautiful right now. Right? It it's being made beautiful in its time. And God's in control of that. God's the one making that. God's the one at work there. And as we see and read the history of David's life and In Israel's history, all the way up to Christ and and even into the the New Testament, we see God 's timing and his timeline being worked out. And it appears slow to us. It appears as though he's not doing what we wish he was doing. So the first question we must ask ourselves tonight, how do we think about God's timing? How do you think about God's comments? You know, right now everything may be good in your life and and and things are just peachy and you're going, I'm happy with it. It's good, I like it, it's good. No complaints But I think we all can admit at times we think that I wish God was doing it this way at this time. I wish God would change this right now. I wish God would fix this right now. And I think this is something that we struggle with as Christians, is not quite as confident as we should be in the timing and the control of God. Often we feel as though God is too slow. It's too slow. You could just be a little bit faster in my sanctification. My wife would appreciate it. If if he could just be a little bit faster in bringing the new heavens and the new earth, then we won't have to vote in November, right? Can we admit maybe that would be that would be really nice. Come on God, just a little bit sooner And and we just feel as though uh it could be faster. It could just be a little bit faster. I had a conversation with uh uh uh two young uh teens or eighteen adults um the other day and both atheists and they just wanted to discuss and argue the Bible and the young lady that was in there she just said, God God can't be God and cu you can't say he's good because look at how bad things are. And if he's really so great he would have just fixed it all by now. I was like I struggle with that too. I feel that pain sometimes, that weight of it. Now we went to scripture and we walked through it, um and and she ultimately has just rejected God and his word, but yeah, I think we all ask that sometimes And I w I want us to look at Psalm thirteen. I want us to see that David cries out in a very similar way. David's crying out and saying, it just feels like you're you're being a little too slow, God. I mean, picture this. There's physical army surrounding David. Trying to kill him. And he knows, he's he's assured that God will save him, that God is at work, that God's in control. But as that armies are marching closer and closer and closer and closer You gotta deal with David and he cries out and say , how long? Look here in uh chapter thirteen of Psalm, Psalm 13, starting in verse 1 How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? You feel that sometimes? How long, Lord? How long will this pain last? Um sickness and illness. How often do we ask that question? How long, Lord, will I have this illness? How long? Must I deal with this? How long must I feel the pain of the loss? How long, Lord, must I struggle with this temptation? How long, Lord? How long? Will the enemies of the world appear to be in control? How long? When we ask such questions, we're just joining the psalmist and crying out to the Lord. Hello. And we cry out this way, we think this way, because at times we think that God is too slow. That's not the only way that we think about God's timing. I think often we feel as though God is not active. He started everything, he created everything. Maybe take the the imagery of a s uh a a snow globe, right? He shook it up, his creation, now he sets it on his table and he sits back and is watching what's happening. You feel that way sometimes? Like God, you could you could intervene right here. You can move right now. You can make this change right now. Often I think we feel as though God is actually quite absent from our lives. Psalmist has a very similar language. Turn back just one page or uh to uh Psalm 10. Psalm 10, verse 1 And here the words of the psalmist. Why, O Lord, do you stand far away? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? Can you join the psalmist in crying out like that? Sometimes. Why, O Lord, you sin, far away. Think about when you've you're in you're you're in the guilt of your sin You're guilty of sin. You've done it. You recognize it's sin. You know it's wrong. Don't you feel that? How long, O Lord, will you stand far off? How long, O Lord, will you be away from me? Now we know the answer to that. It's He's not the one away from us. He's not the one inactive. We are the ones that have brought the sin that that has pushed us away from the grace of God, but we know that confession and repentance draws us right back into his arms. He's at work, he hasn't changed. But do we feel that sometimes? As the world's at war, have you felt the call and the cry to call out to the Lord, How long, O Lord, will you let this happen? How long, O Lord? So I think these are some of the negative ways that we think about God's timing. And here's how we need to be thinking about it. Is God is in control and his timing is perfect. God is in control and his timing is perfect. Friends, we must rest on this truth. We must rest on the sovereignty of God, that He is in control. He's not just in control of the big events. Sometimes we say, oh, He's just in control of salvation And we are grateful for that. But all these minuscule and and minor things of how we're raising our children and how uh the government is running and how the school systems are working and how I'm working within my job. We think God's not in control of that. But no, we see that God's in control of all things. His sovereignty is over all of his creation. And his timing is perfect. Well we wish and we think it would be better if God would do this at this time right now. He would fix this problem right now I'm going to promise you, and I am telling myself this, that God's timing is perfect. We need to hear that. We need to hear that when times are hard. We need to hear that when temptation is in front of us. We need to hear that when when it just feels as though I'm not being sanctified quite the way I think I should be. I'm still struggling with the same temptation. I'm still fighting the same battles. We need to sit and rest that God is in control and his timing is perfect. From the most minuscule of events in history all the way up to the crucifixion of Christ and redemption of souls Why do I believe this? The word of God. So it's a good answer, right? If you say why do you believe something? Just say the word of God Well let's look at the exact same psalms that we heard crying out to the Lord. How long, O Lord? Why are you so far off? Now let's see that the psalmist is This is the one of the beauties of the Psalms is that while he cries out in pain, he always turns back and puts his eyes on the Lord. So look at Psalm 10, verse 14. But you do see, for you note mischief and vexation, that you may take it into your hands, to you the helpless, commits himself. And you have been the helper of the fatherless. Break the arm of the wicked and evildoer. Call his wickedness to account till you find none The Lord is king forever and ever. The nations perish from his land. O Lord, you hear the desire of the afflicted. You will strengthen their heart, you will incline your ear to do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man who is of the earth may strike terror no more. It's here that God is in control. Well the psalmist is crying out, why are you so far off? And then if you know the psalm, this is my favorite psalm. at a chaplain read this and uh pray right as we went off onto deployment and this pumped me up uh maybe to a dangerous point but it pumped me up at that time and and we see in this psalm that it's just talking about the enemy and how the enemy's looks like it's winning. The enemy's uh harming the innocent. The enemy is is taking control. And then here in fourteen, actually in twelve, arise, O Lord, God, lift up your hand, forget not the afflicted. And then in fourteen, but you do see. You are present. The psalmist is recognizing that God is present. He's active. He's doing justice. He's at work. So while the enemies appear to be strong, we must trust that the Lord is active and in control, and he is just, and his justice will be perfected in the end. But let's look back at Psalm 13. Psalm 13 verse 5. Because remember, this psalmist was crying out saying, How long, O Lord? How long, O Lord? How long? And then here in verse five, but I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord because he has dealt bountifully with me. But I have trusted in your steadfast love. Never changing. Continuous. Not adjusting, not moving, not not going with the whims of the time and the culture. Steadfast love. Now is that a God that's slow? No. He's not changing. He's been working. He's working. Since the fall, he's been working out salvation. Actually, before the fall, we see that this was his plan of salvation. This was to bring him glory. This was his way of redeeming sinners and making them children and saints. May we rest and be assured that God is in control and his timing is perfect. Friends, when you're struggling with this, when you're doubting How God is working, where he's at, why is he not doing what I think he should be doing right now? I encourage you to go to the Psalms, to read the Psalms. to to see that you're joining with other saints and and crying out in your pain, but then you must turn your hearts and your eyes and your minds and your souls and everything to the Lord and knowing that He is good. So God is in control and his timing is perfect. So why is God's timing this way? Not why is it perfect? No, we know that's because it's God. But why do we struggle with it? Why do we feel as though God is slow in his work? Well, the first reason is that it's for his glory. God's timing is for his glory. And friends, I want to be I want to be honest with you right now. I don't fully know how to explain that for us to understand. I I don't want to explain that, well, that the reason that it takes this long for us to be sanctified is for his glory because I don't I don't have the why and how God is glorified in that timing, but I do have scripture that tells us that he is glorified in his timing. That it is good that from creation of man and the fall that it took uh a few thousand years till Christ came to this earth It was good. God's timing is good. Now try to think about that. Thousands of years of man's wickedness from the fall Without the Savior being there. How's that good? Well, God is glorified at that. We read in Romans, mark this down, Romans 11, 36. Tells us this. Romans 11, 36, for from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. For from him and through him and to him are all things. To him be glory forever. Amen. Friends, we may not understand the timing. And I I actually implore us not to get so stuck and figure out well why did this happen at this moment in my life? Why is this happening right now? Why am I not here right now? I'm forced not to try to chase the the trail and and be detectives to figure out why something is not, but trust that God's in control and his time is perfect. And he will be glorified because of that. I do believe that when we get to heaven, part of our songs and our rejoicing and our praising of God is clearly because of our salvation. Yes and amen. And I think part of that song that we will be singing and telling of is how God was so patient When I was a sinner. He was so patient and his mercies were upon me even as a sinner. And then he redeemed me by the blood of Christ. The Holy Spirit indwelled me and gave me faith. And even as I was a child of God, I still made foolish mistakes. Yet he was faithful. to me. Yet his mercies were to me, yet his grace was poured out upon me. I do believe that this is part of our song and our and our rejoicing in the Lord and that this is for his glory. So when you're doubting, come on, Lord, be a little faster. Turn things around quicker. Trust is for his glory. But the other reason for God's timing is it is for our benefit. It's for God's glory. Yes and amen. But he's doing this for your benefit. Turn with me to Exodus. Exodus twenty three Verse 28. Exodus 23, verse 28. We saw this a few weeks ago in our Sunday school class, and it it really gripped me. It really gripped me and some of the things I wrestle with and I'm I just I I wish I understood better and um and and the building of God's kingdom. I wish I could just put a map out there and why isn't it here? And this gripped me. And it told me right now is that the reason that I'm living in twenty twenty four and the condition of the church is as it is and the condition of the world is as it is and the gospel going forth is as it is is because God's doing it for our benefit. So look with me at Exodus twenty-three twenty-eight. And I will send hornets before you, which shall drive out the Hivites, the Canaanites And the Hittites from before you. Alright, so this is Israel. They've come out of Egypt, they've re are receiving the law, and now God is promising that they're going to go into the promised land. And God will take the hornets, or he will force all the enemies out of the land. Verse 29, I will not drive them out from before you in one year, lest the land become desolate. And the wild beasts multiply against you. Little by little I will drive them out from before you until you have increased and possessed the land. So God cares for the Israelites by slowly pushing the enemies out of the land. And so that that the Israelites can go in with the people and cultivate And and care for the land. They can take control of the land. And God says if he and he he's saying, I could do this. Right now, God could boom all the enemies be destroyed before Israel And they c they could have the land and there would there wouldn't be a single enemy there. But what's gonna happen to the land? It it's it's gonna deteriorate. They're not ready to take the land Well church, do we get a glimpse of this today? Could God right now, boom, all the enemies of God be destroyed, and the new heavens and the new earth be here right now. Could that happen? Yes. We don't need to pull out timelines and charts and try to m no, it could. If God wanted it, it could happen that way So why has it not? Why has the church started with a a few people in Jerusalem and then a few thousand in Pentecost and then has just slowly gained control and started to spread throughout the earth Why? It's because God knows that it is for our benefit. He knows that the church will advance little by little, the kingdom of God will grow little by little, the mustard seed, right? Little by little so that it will take dominion over all of creation It is for our benefit and his glory. So when we're struggling with the timing of God, when we don't like what we see before us, we wish he was doing it differently Glorify him and recognize that he's doing it for your benefit. Look to God. Trust God. Rely on God. He cares for you. He's not stepped away. He's not slow in his timing. It is for your benefit. Number three. Now we're going to get back into 2 Samuel. Y'all thought I forgot about it, didn't you? I did not. We needed to build out the understanding of God's timing, some of the struggles we have, and resting and being assured that God is in control and that his timing is perfect. It is for his glory and for our benefit. And I'm not gonna try to map out where that is and how we need to understand that and what's the benefit of each timeline. We just trust it. I I do believe that there's times where we just trust it and in the end we will understand it fully But right now we may not fully see it. So how should we respond to these realities? How should we respond to that God is in control and his timing is perfect? Just like David did. What's the very first thing that David does? He cries out to the Lord after the death of Jonathan and Saul. Arguably, he is now king of Israel. He has been anointed by God. Saul is dead. What's holding him back? What's the first thing David does? Does he grab the army and storm to Jerusalem and take it over? Does he does he go against all the enemies of God and say, I'm in charge now? Does he Does he grab the Israelites by their tunics and say, I'm the king, follow me? What's the first thing he does? And after this, 2 Samuel 2 verse 1, after this David inquired of the Lord He prayed. He prayed. So how should we respond to these realities? Letter B is call out to the Lord, prayer, and we're going to get back to that. But letter A, calm down. Let's calm down. How should we respond to understanding that God is in control and his timing is perfect? Is that we must just take a deep breath and trust God Man, I feel it. I I I really feel it every four years in America. I don't know why I feel a special just This turning that I get fired up and I really get concerned that things are going chaotic. I don't know why every four years and this year's one of those four years that we feel this way. Maybe I'm alone in this. No. Don't we? We get really worked up that all right we we have to align and make sure all of our votes are perfectly submitted and and that if this person does not get in control everything's destroyed There's no chance. The church is dead. God has lost. We may not say that, but trust me, some of us are acting that way at times. Friends, can we calm down and trust that God is in control? Can we calm down and trust his timing? I feel for parents that have children that have wandered off. Let us rest and trust the Lord. Let us trust the Lord. His timing. His work. While we may not understand it, we don't like it. Rest and trust him. Are you struggling with a a temptation, a sin that just feels like it keeps coming up in your life over and over again And you're just starting to really struggle and say, uh, maybe I'm not a Christian. If this this sin is such a temptation to me, then obviously I haven't been redeemed. Calm down. Trust the Lord. Trust in Him. Often when we are all worked up and we're doubting, is then we try to take things into our own control. We try to start working things out ourselves. Alright, I'm struggling with this sin, so I'm going to make a calendar where every day that I don't commit that sin, I'm going to mark it off. And every seven days that I don't do that sin, I'm going to give myself a pizza party. Someone some people are like this if Maddie's into it. Well Maddie don't be friends with me if you're relying on that because I can't go through that system. But don't we do that? We try to build systems and we try to form uh uh programs. to to fight against sin. We try to form programs and systems to to overcome temptations. We try to form systems and programs to do whatever's in your life. God can use those things, but often we're relying on those systems and programs for sanctification. We're relying on those systems and programs to change the world. Let us calm down and trust in the Lord. Look with me back in verse 6 and 7. This is what David's doing. He's he's Just calm. We may not be able to quite see it, but notice his language and how the story is being told. Verse 6. Now may the Lord show steadfast love and faithfulness to you. And I will do good to you because you have done this thing. Notice just recognize David's talking to the people that buried Saul. They they went in and and got the body back of Saul and buried him properly. But these are the very future enemies of David. But he's not all worked up. He's not all scared, nervous. No, he's he's calm. Now may the Lord show steadfast love and faithfulness. Verse 7, now therefore let your hands be strong Wait, he's in he's actually encouraging his future enemies. And then he he he goes on and just recognizes that he's been anointed as Judah and he's saying, Come, I'm inviting you to come and join me And you'll be rewarded. And then look at verse 11. And the time that David was king in Hebron over the house of Judah was seven years and six months. Seven years and six months. For seven years and six months. Maddie, are you seven? But you're not seven and a half. Maddie hasn't been alive as long as David was king over Judah and not all of Israel. That's how long he just rested and trusted that the Lord is in control. And at the appointed time, God will anoint him and make him king over all of Israel. He trusted the Lord. But how did he do that? Why can David do that? And this is our call as well. Letter B, call out to the Lord. Be in prayer. Are you communing with the one that's in control of time? Are you are you speaking with the God of creation? Are you speaking With the Lord that is in control and his timing is perfect. Verse 1. After this David inquired of the Lord, Shall I go up into any of the cities of Judah? When was the last time you asked God about a a decision you were making? Should I take this job or this job? Should I move here or here? I've never moved at all. But no, when have we we've gone before the Lord and just asked and said, I'm trusting you. What what is right in this time? Often we we just take all the worldly things, our careers, our families, and say, this belongs to me, I must operate and do them according to my timeline. But here we see David asking and inquiring of the Lord. But he goes on. He he receives uh the Lord says, Go up. And David said, To which shall I go up? Be clear. And the Lord says to Hebron. So David goes. And we see this type of language a lot in David's life. That David prays to the Lord and receives a response. David cries out to the Lord asking what should I do and then responds. One of the times that we see David not prayer, and not in prayer, not calling out to the Lord asking what he should do. Anyone have a guess when he doesn't do it? Yeah, that's Shiva. And then murder. So yeah. Lust, adultery, uh, murder, lying. That's when he wasn't speaking to the Lord. Oh, wait, we actually forget that he didn't go out into battle to lead his men. He was a wimpy king sitting back behind the front lines, resting On R and R. No, no, no. This is not how we're to act. We're to call upon the Lord out in prayer. We see David doing this. Why? Because he trusts that God's in control, so he's gonna go to the the the Lord, the sovereign God over all things, he's going to talk to him. Friends, are we doing that? Are you communicating with God? Are you in prayer regularly in your life? Church, let me broad this out. Church, are we doing that regularly? Are we in prayer with God? Are we inquiring, what should we do? How should we do things We're trusting you, knowing that you are good. We must, we must, we must be in prayer with the Lord. Call out to the Lord. If we believe he's in control, then we must cry out. Let us see. How should we respond to these realities? Is we must be present while keeping your eyes on eternity. Be present while keeping your eyes on eternity. This is the peace that I think uh really forms our lives as Christians. Because some of you maybe got real excited because you You're saying, all right, God's in control, his timing is perfect, I need to calm down. I'm gonna go buy a bag of Doritos and go sit at home until he calls me to help heaven. Right? If God's in control, if God's so perfect and his timing's so perfect, he doesn't need me, I'm gonna go chill at the house. This is uh unfortunately one of the major divides of the primitive Baptists, if you're familiar with them. Uh they were so convinced of the sovereignty of God that they actually said it is not beneficial for us to go and evangelize the world. world. Because God's in control. You made me nervous how you groaned right there. Now there's been a lot of reforms. There's some primitive Baptists uh that that don't hold to this, but early on this is one of the struggles. That they they just had uh an understanding of the sovereignty of God too far that they said they don't need to evangelize, they don't need to preach the gospel Well that's not it. We must be present, which I I believe is the where we're calm and we're communing with God. We're communicating with God and we're just we're we're we're trusting in Him, but we're keeping our eyes on eternity And I think this is our call to be activist Christians. Christians, put your hands to the plow. I don't care if you're seven and a half Seventy s that's what I thought seventy-seven and a half, right? Put your hands to the plot Get to work. Notice that David doesn't just sit back. Alright, David, David could have said, Saul's dead, I'm Cain. God has anointed me, I'm king, I'm not gonna go do anything. No, he goes up to Hebron and for seven and a half years we actually see that he's he's building and establishing and forming a a kingdom I I mean he's he's building an army. He's he's growing a civilization. It really echoes what God has instructed man to do in the garden. To take dominion over what he has given him. But we see that even once David's king over Judah, he still is battling and fighting the enemies He's still going out to war. We actually see that there's there's great battles. 2 Samuel 2, 12 through 32 is a wild story. Hollywood, take some notes. Creative writers, take some notes of how God tells stories. It's a wild story. Don't read it now. Focus, but but we see fighting and battling and and and a war happening and we see that David actually grows in strength and he continues to fight and battle. And and his army and his his kingdom grows and grows and grows. And then in chapter 5, 2 Samuel, 2 Samuel chapter 5, verse 1. There's years of fighting. There's years of of battling, but David is at work. David is trusting in the Lord and he's continuing, stepping day by day, out on faith, stepping one foot in front of the other, continuing to work and build. And grow. And here in 2 Samuel chapter 5, then all the tribes of Israel came to David at Hebron and said, Behold, we are your bone and flesh. In times past, when Saul was king over us, it was you who led out and brought in Israel. And the Lord said to you, You shall be shepherd of my people Israel, and you shall be prince over Israel So all the elders of Israel came to the king at Hebron, and King David made a covenant with them at Hebron before the Lord, and they anointed David king over Israel. Israel. David was thirty years old when he began to reign, and he reigned forty years. At Hebron he reigned over Judah seven years and six months. And at Jerusalem he reigned over all Israel and Judah thirty-three years. David kept his eyes on eternity, and this isn't even eternity yet. But he kept his eyes, he trusted that the Lord had promised that he was going to be king over Israel, and he continued to work. He didn't sit back, he didn't become lazy, he didn't say, Well, uh God's so sovereign he's No, God's working Through us. If you're indwelled by the Holy Spirit, his Spirit is within us. He's called us to live lives, to fight against sin, to fight against temptation. To grow, to proclaim the gospel, to raise children, to be good employers, to be good employees He has taught us into these things. So friends, let me reassure you, we have the freedom to go and vote, and we have the freedom to believe that we should be voting for a person No, will we have that come November? No. But it doesn't mean we sit back. It doesn't mean we quit. It doesn't mean we don't do anything. No, we continue to work in the world and society God has placed us in. Because he's in control, his timing is perfect, and his church is victorious and is working and proclaiming and proclaiming the goodness of God, proclaiming his word. We must be like David. We must trust that while we don't see the fulfillment of the promised kingdom yet, we know that it's coming. But not only that, we actually see that David is promised to be king Like the the king king. Like like he's his his genealogy is going to rule the all of Earth. Was David alive when Jesus came to earth? Answer's no, good. No trick question here. Matthew w uh Matthew one, verse seventeen tells us this. Matthew one, seventeen. So I should have marked. Matthew 117. So all the generations from Abraham to David were 14 generations. Alright, so remember, Abraham received the promise. The number of the stars, the children of God. Right? Number of the sand, the grand sands, children of God. So it was 14 generations to David. And from David to the deportation of Babylon, 14 generations. So from David till they went to Babylon till Israel had rejected God and God had disciplined them with the Babylonian army. and and uh destroyed them and their people and kidnapped them is fourteen generations. And from the deportation to Babylon to the Christ, fourteen generations. Friends, a long span of time. So here we have Christ. Why are we so anxious in 2024? Because we think Christ should have already just everything should have been corrected already. If everything was corrected 40 years ago I wouldn't be here. Right? Like there's just a logical thinking here. If if everything would have been perfected, the day Christ rose from the grave and he just said, Alright, all the enemies are killed, all my people are in, none of us would exist. We must recognize that God's timing is for our benefit and it's slow and it's working out. He's patient, but he's in control So friends, are we as patient as David? Are we as patient as Abraham? Are we ready to go into glory trusting that God is still building his drive here on us? Are are we are we trusting that God's in control, that we are building institutions and establishments, we're sending our kids off to get educated so that they can then go into the world and proclaim the gospel when we're long and dead in gone. Are we living in such a way? And are we working in such a way that actually believes that? Why do we work as Christians? Why do we follow after God? Why do we proclaim the gospel? Why are we raising our children to love and fear the Lord? is because we believe that he's in control and his time is perfect. I don't understand it. I don't know it Why is my two and a half year old not a saint and perfect in all that she does? She's close when she's asleep But why not? Because God hasn't called us yet. God has not called us home. God has not Christ has not returned yet. So what are we to do? We're to be like David And keep working. Keep building. Keep striving. Trusting that God's in control and His timing is perfect. And when we rest in this, we cry out to the Lord and we are present in the here and now, keeping our eyes on eternity. We will recognize and we will trust our Heavenly Father even more. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you for your truth. We thank you for your redemption of sinners. Lord, I now pray that you allow us to rest in you tonight. Remind us that you're in control. Remind us that you are very active in your creation. And Lord, now show us where you want us to be diligent in our work. Show us where you have called us. To live, to build, and to work in your kingdom. I pray this in Christ's name. Amen.