Ephesians 1, 3 through 14. If you've been here the last few weeks, you may be nervous that there's so many verses. Pastor Matt has been working through one verse at a time, sometimes one word at a time, and has been filling up our service in in the truth of what is there and you're thinking, how is he going to do all these verses? Rest assured that I may go long. No , rest assured That what my goal is this morning is for us to step back. And as throughout the summer, we've been talking about and we'll continue talking about the blessings of our salvation, the blessings of the Lord. I want us to see. What our posture as Christians should be as we think about the blessings. You'll see the title of the message is To the Praise of His Glory. As we read these words this morning, as we hear of the blessings that we have in Christ and throughout this summer in our lives, as we think and dwell on all the blessings that God has given us. I want us to think about praising Him, worshiping Him, dwelling on His goodness And as we go through this passage this morning, we're going to take a high view, but see how everything Paul is talking about. Is pointing us to worship God. Everything Paul mentions of a blessing is pointing us to the praise of God. And not just with the lips. But to the praise of God and how we live our lives. So join me as we read Ephesians chapter 1, starting in verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him In love he predestined us for adoptions as sons through Jesus Christ according to the purpose of his will. To the praise of his glorious grace, with which he has blessed us in the beloved. In him we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us In all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of His will, according to His purpose which he set forth in Christ as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him you also, when you heard the word of truth, The gospel of your salvation, and believed in him, were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance, until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of His glory. Let's go before the Lord once again in prayer. Father, we pray, we ask you to be present now. We ask that the words penetrate our hearts. The Holy Spirit stirs up in us. A new love, a new understanding, a new praise of you, because we recognize your goodness. We recognize the work of your Son on our behalf, and we rejoice that the Holy Spirit has marked us as yours. In Christ's name. Amen. To the praise of his glory. Did you hear it a few times At least three times the idea is in this section. Verse 6, then we see it again in verse 12. In verse 14, to the praise of his glory. You can't see it. This is Paul's main point in this section. He 's driving at home that as believers, as those who have faith in Christ Jesus, we should be praising God. Not praising God about what we have done, not praising God about who we are or what we have accomplished, but praising God because of his glory, because of what he has accomplished, what he has done. On our behalf. And we see Paul breaks it down into the understanding of the triune God. We see the Father and the Son and the Spirit. That all three persons is one God, one triune God. But not that we should neglect one person, but to recognize that each person of the Trinity is to be praised. And to be worshipped. Now in our English Bibles, we don't fully see this because from verses 3 through 14 we have a whole bunch of sentences. The English has put a lot of periods and even broken up into different paragraphs. But in the English, or excuse me, in the Greek text, verses 3 through 14 was one single sentence. This is how I write too, Paul. Forget theories, let's just put some commas in there and just keep writing. But why is this? It's because Paul starts with the premise that we are to praise God, blessed be the God, blessed be God, and then what does he do? The rest of this single sentence is laying layer after layer after layer of reasons that we should praise God I think about a young child who's come back from a party or the amusement park. And what do they do? They get home and you say, How was the party? How was the amusement park? What do they do? They just start rambling on and and sentence after sentence. They just keep saying, and then we did this, and then this happened, and then we ate this, and then we got to do this. Right? They're so excited that they can't even stop talking because of the joy they have of what they just did or what they got to witness. And they're just rambling on. Well, likewise, Paul's not rambling He's very controlled. He's writing under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit. But we must see the joy that Paul has, that Paul recognizes The praise and the glory of God, and He just has to lay it all out for us. He just has to keep talking about the goodness of our Lord and Savior. Now, when we talk about the praise of his glory, we must understand what praise is and what glory is. The first one is that the glory of God is the radiance Of who he is and his redemptive work. So it's the glory of God, it's his radiance, it's the showing, the shining forth of who he is. And within that is the redemption of sinners like you and I. So we see his glory, who he is, is to be praised. We're to worship that. But not only with our voice and our mouths are we to worship it, our praise is how we live our lives We don't get to separate and say, all right, we praise when we gather together on Sunday mornings, we sing songs, that's praise, and then the rest of our lives, that's not praise. No, every aspect, and this is what Paul's calling us to, every aspect of our lives, if we have been cleansed by the blood of Christ, if we have been identified as the child of God, if we have been marked by the Holy Spirit, We are to live lives to the praise of his glory so that the world sees who God is and his goodness. Martin Lloyd Jones said that the glory of God must be the starting point of all of our thought, and it must always be the test of all of our thinking. The glory of God must be the starting point of all of our thought. How can we live? If I'm thinking, what am I going to do? What should I do? How should I live? It must be the starting point, must be to the glory of God. And then as we have situations laying out before us, or we've done this, and we're trying to understand, was this right, was this wrong, should I keep walking down this path, the test must be, are we glorifying God in what we're doing? All of our lives is focused on the praise and the glory of God. That's what verse 3 tells us. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us. In Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. So the question is, beloved, how has God blessed us? How has God blessed us? What do we have to be praising Him? Let's see what Paul has to tell us. The first blessing, or multiple blessings that Paul instructs us to praise God for, is that God is to be praised because the Father chooses and adopts us. God is to be praised because the Father chooses and adopts us. Look with me in verses four through six. Even as he chose us in him. before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption as sons through Jesus Christ, according to the purpose of his will. To the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved. You hear the blessings? Of the choosing of the Father? Do you hear the blessings of the uh the adoption into the household of the Father if you were a child of God? The first one is the choosing. The Father chooses the saint to be holy and blameless. That's in verse 4. Now, if God's choosing has any importance to us, we must understand why he's choosing. Why did he choose us Is it because we're so good? No, I see some headshaking, no. Good answer. Is it because we were so loving to him and we were so obedient to him? Is that why he chose us? No, this is why we praise him, beloved. His choosing is not based off of what you and I have done. His choosing is based off of his will, his plan. It's based off of what he wants, what he accomplishes. We see that this trucing was done before the foundations of the earth. Before the any of us had breath in our lungs, he had already chosen us to be adopted as his children He had already chosen us to be made new in the blood of Christ. He had already chosen us to be blameless and holy before him. Oh beloved, what good news is this? That he has chosen us to be blameless and holy. We weren't blameless and holy, and that's why he chose us. And we can't be blameless and holy on our own doing. But because of God's love, his choosing of us, his work of redemption in us makes us blameless and holy before him. How is this possible? How can we be blameless? How can we be holy? I mean, if you just examine my own life in a 24-hour period, you would say, yep, not holy, not blameless. It's not working. How is this possible? In Christ Jesus. In Christ Jesus, we are holy and blameless. We must recognize it's not our own work, it's his work. Romans 3 cites Psalm 14 And it says this: none is righteous. No, not one. No one understands. No one seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they've become worthless. No one does good, not even one. This is why we're joyful, beloved, is because we are that no one in Romans and in Psalm We are the no one that has sought after the Lord. We are the no one that desires to follow in obedience. We are the worthless ones outside of Christ. But God's love has chosen us. And has redeemed us, brought us new life. His choosing is a beautiful blessing that we must rejoice in And that choosing leads then to our adoption. The second point of that God is to be praised because the Father chooses. And adopts us. Look in verse 5. He said he predestined us. Same idea, choosing his pre-planned will, his pre-planned idea, is that he has predestined us for what? For adoption as sons through Jesus Christ. If you were here last week, you heard about adoption. But this understanding that while we were rebels, while we were enemies of God, Christ died for you and I. While we rejected God, while we hated God , Christ died for you and I. And faith in Christ. Faith in Christ rips us out of this evil, wicked state that we are in and brings us Into the marvelous light. The reality that we are children of God. We are ripped out of our old nature and brought into a new nature. We are children of God We are sons, meaning heirs. We've received the blessing of God. He looks at us, and when he looks at those in that have faith in Christ He doesn't go, oh, look at these wicked sinners who might get into heaven. No, if you have faith in Jesus this morning, he looks at you and says, there is my Child who has been cleansed by the blood of Christ. They belong to me. They are part of my family. Is this something to praise God for, beloved? Amen. Indeed. We are to praise the Father because He has chosen and adopted us, brought us into His family. Why did He do this? Verse 6 tells us. You'll hear this once, you'll hear it again in twelve, you'll hear it again in fourteen. To the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved. He has done this for his glory. We are praising him for his glory. He has chosen and adopted us for his glory, and we are praising him. So we are to praise God because of our election and adoption of the Father. And how is this accomplished? It's through the work of the Son. This brings us to point number two. God is to be praised because the Son redeems us and reveals the plan of salvation or the mystery of the gospel. God is to be praised because the Son redeems us and reveals the mystery of the gospel. Look with me in verse 7 through 12. It says, in him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace. which He lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of His will, according to His purpose, which He set forth in Christ, as a plan for the fullness of time. to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. God is to be praised because the Son redeems us and reveals the mystery of the gospel to us. The redemption. How is this redemption accomplished? How have we been brought into the family of God? How are we adopted as children of God? It's through the blood of Christ. Verse 7 is very clear here. In him we have redemption through his blood. We have redemption through his blood. What is redemption? Let's understand the term that's before us. As many of you know, but it's a good refresher for us, or maybe this is new information for you, which is good. Redemption is the act, the act or action of saving or being saved from sin, error, or evil. Friends, do we need saved? Do we need redeemed from sin, error, or evil in our lives? Absolutely. Each and every one of us does. It's also the action of regaining or gaining possession of something. I really like this term. It's the gaining or regaining possession of something in exchange for a payment or clearing a debt. Do you recognize your sin as that debt? Do you see that you have rebelled against a holy God, and that that holy God pours out judgment upon that sin, and that just punishment for the sin? It's an eternal punishment. It's an eternal separation from Him. It's an eternal dwelling in the lake of fire. That's the reality for each and every one of us outside of Christ. We justly deserve this punishment. We have this great debt before God because of our sin. But here's the redemption. Is that Christ, in his love for us, the Father's love sent him, has died in our place The blood that Christ poured out for you and I paid the price, that debt that we have before God. Our sins were paid for on the cross Our sins were washed away. He dealt with our debt on the cross. Beloved , is this worthy? Is God worthy to be praised that our sins have been paid for? That we have been redeemed, we have been ripped out of darkness, he has gained possession of us and brought us into the marvelous light of his kingdom. What beautiful, glorious news this is. Colossians 2, 13 through 14 tells us this: and you who were dead in your trespasses, in the uncircumcision of your flesh, God made alive together with him, having forgiven us all our trespasses, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. The legal debt, by canceling the record of debt that stood against us with its legal demands, we owe the debt. We can't escape the debt. We can't just ignore it. We have the debt of sin against God, and what's he do? He sets it aside, nailing it to the cross. Christ took your debt and paid for it. He is to be praised for this. We are to worship him. Our debt has been paid for. The debt of sin is gone. This is how, through the blood of Christ, is how we can be blameless and holy before the Father. It's because our debt has been paid for by the Son. Oh, praise to the glory of God that our sins have been paid for through the blood of Christ. And we see this has been his plan. In verse 8, we see that which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ, as a plan for the fullness of time, to unite all things in him, things in heaven and things on earth. This lavishing upon us is the love of God that He is pouring out on us, stacking on top of us, the lavishing on top of us. And it's in his wisdom and insight. The time that Christ came, lived on this earth, died on the cross, and paid for our sins was the perfect timing, according to the perfect plan and will of God. It's perfect. It wasn't too early. It wasn't too late. Maybe there was a better way. Maybe he could have tried something different. No, the plan of salvation, Christ dying on the cross for us. Is the perfect wisdom and insight of the Lord, which has now made known to us the mystery of his will. This is the revelation that we see Christ giving us, the mystery of his will. What is this mystery? The mystery is simple. It's that sinners like you and I are saved by the glorious gospel. That is the life, death, resurrection, and ascension of Christ Jesus. That He is the only way, the only truth, and the only life. There's no other option. He is the only way of salvation. He's the only path of redemption. But this mystery goes beyond just that to the original Jewish reader. To the original Jewish reader, they were understanding that Israel was the chosen race of God, the chosen people of God. And that through the old covenant, obedience to him, walking in obedience to God, that they would be redeemed. But here, Christ comes onto the scene. Paul's on the scene now talking about the whole world being redeemed by the blood of Christ. And this is quite confusing to the original here. But Paul clarifies the mystery in chapter 3 of Ephesians. Ephesians 3, verse 6 says: the mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise. How is this possible? How can they be members of this body? They're not Jews. How can they be partakers of this body? They're not part of the family. This is what Paul tells them. And they're partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. The Son Has redeemed us through his blood and has revealed this beautiful gospel to us and to the whole world. This is the gospel we take to the ends of the earth. This is the gospel that we preach to ourselves day in and day out. This is the gospel that we preach here in this church and on the street corners. That sinners can come into the family of God through the blood of Christ. The mystery's been revealed. We don't need to look in hidden places. We don't need to think that maybe we need a deeper insight. No, we look to Christ. We read Christ. We know Christ. And we see the will of the Father. We see the beautiful salvation that is in Christ Jesus alone. So the Father is to be praised because We have been chosen and adopted. God is to be praised because the Son redeems us and reveals God to us in the mystery of the gospel. How does he do this? How can we rest assured in this? Is through the work of the Holy Spirit. This brings us to point number three. God is to be praised because the Holy Spirit has sealed And guaranteed the saint. The Holy Spirit has sealed and guaranteed the saint. Or put yourself in this: the Holy Spirit has sealed you and guaranteed you We see this in verses thirteen and fourteen. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth The gospel of your salvation and believed in him were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee Of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it, to the praise of his glory. There's the third time we hear that. To the praise of his glory The Holy Spirit seals us, has sealed the saints. What is this sealing we see? There's two options here. The first option is the sealing. It's the security aspect that you are secured and sealed by the Holy Spirit, meaning you won't be loosened, you won't be lost. I'm okay with that because it connects with the second point of the guarantee. But I think this ceiling has a different meaning than the security aspect, which is there But the understanding of the ceiling is also the understanding of being marked for God, being marked as God 's Where do we get this from? The seal. We think about the good old days back when there were knights and kings and castles. I don't know how good old days those were, but we're picturing there. If a king had a letter he wanted to send to another king or out to the community, and he wanted to make sure that they knew that it was truly and officially from the king, He would have it written, he'd roll up the scroll, he'd put a little bit of wax on it, and then he would take his ring, which had his his ID on it, essentially an engravement of who he was, his image or his seal, and he would push that ring onto the wax And that wax would be the seal that held that document together. And then as the runner took that document to the next kingdom or out to the community, they would see that seal wax seal with the king's imprint on it, and they would then know that the document was genuine. It was from the king. You start to see the beauty of this imagery as we see that the Holy Spirit is the seal, the mark of God in our lives, beloved. Do we start to see how how we are marked out as God, the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, when we have been born again by the Holy Spirit? According to John 3, as Jesus instructed, that you must be born again. And that indwelling, that new birth comes from the Holy Spirit. In that moment of regeneration, we know that we are forgiven. We know that we repent of our sins. We know that we are born again. We know that we are children of God. But we don't always feel it in this life, do we? We struggle with our identity Yeah, I know I'm forgiven, but I'm still struggling with the sin. I know I'm a child of God, but the world doesn't seem to accept that or to like that Well, beloved, we must see that the work of the Holy Spirit in your life is that mark of God within you. It's the seal. That when you recognize and you have been regenerated, when you recognize that the Holy Spirit's made you new, when you recognize that the Holy Spirit has given you faith in Christ, When you recognize that the Holy Spirit has given you a love for God and His Word and a hatred for sin, even though it still happens in your life, but He's given you a hatred for it. That is God's mark in your life. The reality that you love to gather together with the saints. Is a part of that sign and seal that's marking you as God's. It's the work of the Holy Spirit within you. And we see marking throughout all of Scripture. In the Old Testament, the marking to the nation of Israel was more outward. It was the circumcision, right? It was the mark or the seal that this nation was unique and special and was marked out by God. But here in the New Testament, we see that that physical mark had no eternal value. But it's always been a mark on the heart. And how are our hearts made new? How are we born again? How is our hearts circumcised? Well, that mark comes from the Holy Spirit Romans 2, 28 through 29. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly. Nor is circumcision outward and physical, but a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart. By the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God Love it, have you sensed the Holy Spirit in your life? This is maybe an easier question because sometimes when we talk about have you sensed the Holy Spirit? You don't know that can be real mystical and and And beally, and and that makes us unsure. Have you recognized that Christ is your only Lord and Savior and placed your faith in him? Believed in him, that's the work of the Holy Spirit. Don't don't over over-examine this and make this a complex thing If you have faith in your heart, if you have recognized that you are a sinner, deserving the just punishment of God And you recognize that there's nothing you can do to solve this problem. If you recognize that Jesus, fully God and fully man, came and lived a perfect life. If you recognize that Jesus died on the cross in your place, paying your debt. If you recognize that while he was in the tomb dead for three days, he rose from the dead, defeating sin and death. If you recognize that he sits in heaven, having dominion over heaven and earth today , you believe in him. Beloved, you have the seal of the Holy Spirit. That's the work of the Holy Spirit within your life. God has chosen you to believe. You've been cleansed by the blood of Christ, and now you've been marked as a child of God. You're identified as God's, which then leads us to the reality that the Holy Spirit is the guarantee. We're sealed, we're marked as gods, and now we have the Holy Spirit as our guarantee. He guarantees the saint Their inheritance. Look with me in verse 14 once again. Who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it? What's our inheritance? What's right here? It's the eternal presence, it's the eternal dwelling with God. Perfect. Fully holy, fully blameless, fully in the presence of God forever. That's our inheritance that awaits us. Now, we already have that But it's hard for us to comprehend it because it's not in our possession yet. God's already given it to us. When you've been born again of the Spirit, when you have faith in Christ, you already have that, but it feels really far off, amen. It feels like, I don't know how perfect it can be. Things aren't perfect here, right now. And that's why we have the Holy Spirit. The presence of the Holy Spirit, while it's the mark that shows that we are God, the work of the Holy Spirit within our lives is also the reminder, it's the guarantee, it's the guarantee that we have a future glory. It's the guarantee that we have a future glory, a future presence and dwelling with our God. Because presently we feel the work of the Holy Spirit Presently, we know that we have been forgiven. Presently, we have a love for God and a hatred for our sins. Presently, we we sense the work of the Spirit within us who's made us alive and new in Christ. And that's only a glimpse. of the eternal. The eternal, the possession of our inheritance that one day we will have, and right now we know that it's there because of the work of the Holy Spirit within our lives. When times are hard, when temptation is strong, when sin has crashed into your life, you turn and see the Holy Spirit's work in your life, and you're reminded of the glorious hope you have. You're reminded that one day you will enter into the presence of God. Why have we do we have all these blessings? Why is the Holy Spirit working this way in our lives? Why? It's to the praise of His glory. Beloved, may we rejoice this morning as we think about this. As we think about how the Father chooses and adopts us. May we praise God. As we think about the Son who redeems and reveals the mystery of the gospel to us, may we praise God. As we think about how the Holy Spirit seals us, marks us And then guarantees the glorious hope we have. May we praise God for this. To the praise of his glory. But notice that it's not just with our words. I've said this before and it's important. This is what we'll conclude on, that we are our praise. It's not just with words, but it's how we live our lives. In verse 12 it says, so that we who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. And we are to live our lives. We are to function, to live, to move, to breathe, to preach, to talk, to sing songs to the praise of His glory. We are to be to the praise of his glory. Not just to say praises to his glory, not just to think about the praises of his glory, but to be Beloved, if you are a Christian here this morning, meaning you have faith in Christ, your life is to reflect this. You are to live in a way in obedience to God, to the praise of his glory, thanking him, thinking about All the blessings he's given you. If you're not a believer in here, you don't know Christ. I call you this morning. Come. Come find, come here, come see, come believe in Christ this morning See the beautiful work. See that the Father has chosen you before the foundations of the world. See that the blood of Christ has paid your price. See that the Spirit seals you as a child of God. How does this happen? It's faith in Christ Jesus. Believe in him as the only way. Believe in him as the only Savior. Believe in him that there is no other option for you to come into the family of God, but look to Christ. And join the saints As we praise God for the Father's choosing and adopting, the Son's redeeming and revealing, and the Holy Spirit sealing and guaranteeing. Let's go before the Father in prayer Holy God, we thank you this morning. We praise you for your goodness. We praise you for the reminder of all your blessings. And Father, I ask that you continue to remind us that as we go home today, as we wake up tomorrow, we go back to our daily lives, may we be thinking about these blessings. May we seek to glorify you. May we seek to praise you in how we live. May we seek to proclaim your glory to the ends of the earth in our newness in Christ, in the way we live our lives as Christians. Father, I pray for anyone in here this morning that doesn't know you, hasn't understood the work of Christ on their behalf I pray that you send the Spirit into their hearts. Reveal this to them this morning. Give them faith this morning to come to Christ. And Lord, I ask that you strengthen us to proclaim this good news to the world. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.