The words we will examine this morning come out of Revelation chapter 3. Verses 1 through 6. Revelation chapter 3, verses 1 through 6. Wake up, church It'll be the title of this letter that we'll see, written by our Lord and Savior to the church in Sardin. Wake up I hope you feel the sharpness of that language. Many of us, if not all of us, do not enjoy the sound of our alarm clocks, right? No one raise your hand if you like it because you will be judged, just so you know. No one likes that. That sharp awakening, the loud noise that brings us awake from our deep sleep in the morning. But how good the sound is of a smoke detector in the middle of the night when there's a fire in your house. You may not like it. It hurts. You wake up in a panic. You're concerned. The reality, if there was a fire in the house, the reality of the smoke detector going off, the life-saving. You didn't like it in the moment. You wanted to keep sleeping, but it saved your life. Well, likewise, this letter is doing the same thing. The church of the time probably did not like the words that they heard. It was sharp to their ears. It hurt them. They'd prefer if they didn't have to hear this. But Jesus is writing this letter to them because it's going to save their lives if they heed the call. So let us read what Jesus writes to the church and starting in verse 1 of chapter 3. And to the angel of the church that starts, write, The words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, but you are dead. Wake up and strengthen what remains. And is about to die, for I have not found your works complete in the sight of my God. Remember, then what you received and heard, keep it, and repent If you will not wake up, I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. Yet, you have still a few names in Sardis, people who have not soiled their garment, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy The one who conquers shall be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. Do you feel the sharp call there? Now the temptation this morning is to push this and say that was just for those people in that church in that time. This isn't for us. We're North Hartford Baptists. We're Americans in 2025. Of course we're awake. My eyes are open. I'm sitting in the pew right now. This can't be for me Well, beloved, I warn you of such thought patterns. I warn you not to jump and say, this is impossible for it to be about me. This is impossible for Jesus to say such things to me. And this morning, take this time and examine yourself. Hear these words. Examine your heart. Hear what the word of the Lord has to say and respond rightly. If this is you, this is your wake-up call. If you see yourself that you are one that needs to hear the wake-up call to wake up, to not live as though you're alive, but in fact you're dead. Wake up. Listen. Now, if this morning you're here and as we go through this passage, as you hear the word preached, and you examine yourself and you say, This is not me, this is an opportunity for you to praise the Lord. That he has strengthened, that he has kept you, that he has matured you. And you should pray to him now to ask him to keep guiding you, to keep strengthening you, to keep maturing you. If you're in here this morning and you're saying, I'm not a Christian, I don't even have any kind of identity as a Christian, this wake-up call is for you as well. Come and hear the truth of who Christ is. Come and see the beauty of how you are forgiven in Christ Come recognize that you too to be in the presence of God, to be made white as snow, and to enjoy Him forever. This letter is for all of us to hear this morning As we dive into it, we see in verse 1 it says, Unto the angel of the church and Sardis write the words of him who has the seven spirits of God and the seven stars. Now we could we could uh go for about an hour just on this one verse. There's a lot of detail here that we could dive through and see. But the two things I want you to recognize before we get to the the the main part of the letter. The first is that God is complete. That's the totality of the seven spirits of God is showing his completeness. He's not lacking in anything. So as we hear his words, we can trust and know that he is complete. He's not seeking something more. He's not trying to accomplish something that he has failed to do. He is complete. The second aspect of it is when he says that he has the seven stars Now, in chapter 1 and through 2, we've seen this: that the stars represent the leaders of the church or the church as a whole, and then the angels are the pastors of the church. And what we see here is that God is sovereign over the church. Now, why is that beneficial? Why do we need to hear that? Oh, beloved, if he is sovereign over the church, he is the Lord of the church, that means the church belongs to him. So then we should be listening to him. The church doesn't get to pick and choose how we act, how we worship, what we do We don't just get to work off of our feelings and emotions. We don't get to make it up based on what philosophy and psychology is teaching of today. What we need to do is to ground ourselves in the Word of God. Seek Him for His guidance and His wisdom of how we are to act and to live as Christians, how we are to worship Him as a church. But this header or this introduction to the letter should cause us to believe, to trust the words that are about to be written. To see that this is our commander, this is our God who is teaching and proclaiming and telling the church to wake up. So the words are valuable and beneficial for us to hear. So, what is the command that happens? Verse, halfway through verse 1 says, I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive. Let me pause there. You imagine this is we gotta put ourselves in the in the shoes of this church, early church They're far away from Jerusalem. They're living in a time and a place where things are uncertain. It's a new church. They're trying to understand what it means to be a Christian, what it means to be a church. They're growing, they're they're trying to do what's right, they're trying to understand how to be good Christians. And then they get this letter. And the letter comes into the church, and they're about to read the letter out loud to the congregation, and they hear, I know your works. You have the reputation of being alive, and their pride and their boastfulness. Is growing. Could you picture that? You'd be like, yeah, yeah, yeah, you're right. Good Jesus. I'm glad you recognize who we are. I'm glad you've heard about how great a reputation is in this world. You know, we've been doing a lot of good works. We've been caring for the needy and the poor. We've been feeding the hungry. We've taken care of the orphans. We've gathered together as saints to worship you. We're doing all these good things. And finally, the Lord Jesus is recognizing, because he's heard of how good our reputation is. The church is getting a little boastful at this time. And then could you hear the pastor say these words? I've heard, I know your works, you have the reputation of being alive, the pride's there, but you are dead. Uh uh. You are dead. Your reputation is a lie. You're putting on a front, you say you're Christians, you're doing good works, you're known within the world and within the society as though you are Christians, but in fact, you are dead. Jesus does not waste time. He gets to the heart of the issue. He gets to the heart of the problem. And it is indeed our heart. That's the problem. It's not their works. It's not the attacks of the enemy. It's not that there's some unrepentant sin within their lives that they continue to fall into and commit. It's not like some of the other churches where they've allowed false teachers to come into the church. And preach a false gospel and a false doctrine, he points directly to their hearts. Their hearts are dead, beloved. Now ask yourself. We made a line and every one of you had to come up here and stand right here, and the only question you had to answer is: why are you a Christian? What would your answer be? Would it be that you come to church? Would it be that you give a lot of money to do a lot of good works? Would your identity as a Christian be based on the fact that you've gone on missions trips to the ends of the earth? Would your your identity as a Christian be grounded on this idea that you're a good person, you don't break the law? You never get into fights and you say bless your heart when you talk to someone. We may not be far enough south to feel that Is that what our identity is as Christians? Or could you stand up here when that question asks, why are you a Christian? What makes you a Christian? You say that you have been transformed by the work of the gospel through faith in Jesus Christ because he has died in your place as a sinner. And he has taken on the penalty that you deserve to pay. By faith, by his grace and his mercy, by faith, you have been transformed and made new. Is that your identity as a Christian? Or is it on everything other than your heart? Please hear me. I fear that there's many sitting in here and within the church worldwide that their identity as a Christian is not based on Christ. Or if they do have faith in Christ, their pride is not in Christ. It's in their works. It's in their accomplishments. It's in their identity outside of Christ And it is a great concern that this happens. We shouldn't be surprised by it. We see Jesus writing. A long time ago saying, wake up, this is your problem. You appear to be alive, but in fact you're dead. Your heart is dead. We hear this language in Scripture a lot. Paul says that you were dead. This identity of being dead means you are before Christ, you are unregenerate, you are outside. Of Christ, and you are dead, spiritually dead. We saw the warning of death coming to Adam in the garden. You eat of the tree, and you will surely die. We see this understanding of death as a separation from God, not being of Christ And it's not a good title. So when you hear, when they hear that you are dead, regardless of what your reputation is, regardless of the image you're putting on, you are dead. He's pointing to their heart. Beloved, examine your hearts this morning. Examine. Are you dead? Are you just putting on a front that you're alive in Christ? Is it fate? Is it just by tradition? Or are you alive because He has regenerated you and made you new? He has given you faith and repentance. Are you dead? If you are dead, there's a command, a call. That's what we see Jesus doing here. He says, You are dead, and then verse 2: wake up. Wake up. This is the smoke detector going off in your house right now. If you do not have faith in Christ, if your identity as a Christian is based on everything or anything other than Christ, your house is on fire right now. Wake up, brother. Wake up. Stop believing this lie that you are a Christian because of your works. Stop being built up in your pride of what you have done. Wake up. It's a serious call. Ephesians 5. 14 says, awake, O sleeper. Arise from the dead. Christ will shine on you. Awake, O sleeper. Arise from the dead. Do you hear the call, beloved? This is out of love for you. This is out of a plead for you If you are not alive in Christ Jesus this morning, I am pleading with you. Scripture is pleading with you. The Creator of the universe is pleading with you. Wake up. Wake up and see the sweet forgiveness in Christ Jesus. Wake up and recognize that true identity, eternal purpose, and meaning is found in Christ in Christ alone. Your value, your identity, your purpose as a Christian is rooted in Christ. It's why we have the name Christian. Not on missions trips, it's not on your attendance, it's not on your denomination, it's rooted in Christ. Wake up And as we hear the sharpness of that call, the wake up, what does it do? It should wake you up. It should bring you alive. It should open up your eyes to it But now we must respond. It's not just a wake up, recognize the issue. This word in Greek is not just a simple one-time You wake up, your eyes are open, but it's actually a continuation. You are awake and alert. You are alert of what's going on around you. You are alert of your condition. You are alert of your identity. Now many theologians and historians point that this would be a very important word and terminology for the people in Sardis. As far as the bad history as a city of being taken over by enemies twice within their short lifespan. And the issue, anyone want to guess why they got taken over in the middle of the night? Everyone was asleep. So historical evidence that the town was asleep, they didn't have the right protocols and the right forces to be on the on watch and on guard that the enemy could sneak in and take over. So these people live in a world that they are on high alert from a physical enemy attacking. And here, when Jesus tells them to wake up, be alert, they heed the call, they hear what's happening They can picture the physical destruction that's happened when they weren't alert, when they fell asleep, and now they're waking up to it. They hear the call. But he doesn't just tell them to wake up and be aware and alert, he tells them to be strengthened. So the command is to wake up. The second command is be strengthened. Strengthen what remains. Wake up, verse 2, wake up and strengthen what remains. And is about to die. This understanding of strengthening, we we think about going to the gym, right, lifting weights and becoming physically stronger, but here there must be something more. You know, to be a better Christian, you don't have to go and lift weights. News fluff, praise God, right? That we don't have to be physically strong to be good Christians. There's a spiritual language here. The strengthening is of a spiritual one. He's saying, wake up and be strengthened. What remains? Strengthen what remains. If you are alive, if indeed you truly are alive, then it does not appear that way and you need to be strengthened. 2 Peter 3. 18 says, but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. The growth that happens there is not go and do more. It's not, hey, wake up, good, you you recognize you're Christian. and be strengthened by going on more emissions trips, and be strengthened on giving more tithe money. And be strengthened by Fill in the blank of anything other than recognizing the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior. Beloved, we must grow in our understanding of the grace of God. How do we grow in that? We recognize, we recognize we are sinners and he is not. We recognize that he is holy and we are not. And we recognize that there's this great this great valley, this chasm between us. And by his grace, the Father sent the Son to take on flesh, to live the perfect life, to go to the cross and die in our place. Took on our sin. He died the death that we deserve to die. But he did not stay dead. He arose from the dead. He ascended into heaven and now he sits in heaven having dominion over heavens and of earth. Do you recognize the gift? that that is. Do you see the beauty and the grace of our God that the Son came and died for us? Beloved, we must grow each day in that understanding. Recognize that you are forgiven in Christ. Recognize His goodness, His mercy upon us. We must grow in that. How else are we strengthened as in the knowledge of our Lord and Savior? Do you know God? No, think about that word before you you immediately say yes. I've talked about a few weeks now, and our young adults are going through a study about the knowledge of God once a month, and we're not just talking about facts. I don't just want facts. Could do you have the knowledge of God in your head, but do you know God intimately Do you know him? Do you love him? Are you obedient to him? Do you know God? And this is why Peter's telling us that we grow in this, that this is our life. Is the journey of the Christian life is that we grow in grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior. So, how are we strengthened? When Jesus tells us in Revelation to be strengthened, what remains? And is about to die is remember, grow in the grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior. Beloved, this should be our our our desire as Christians This should be what we want more and more of each day. Beloved, it's why we get up here and preach the word. We preach the word because we want you to grow through the Word of Christ. Through the Word of God, we want you to grow in the knowledge of Christ and of the grace of God. Grow in this. See the beauty of the cross. See the beauty of the gospel and mature and grow. There's not a 12-step program you need as a Christian to become a better Christian. There's not a class that you can sit down and if you go through this pipeline and we'll we'll make sure you start to do these ministries and we make sure that you start to work here and then you'll become a better Christian. How do we grow as Christians is that we grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior. Be strengthened by that. Don't look for something else. Don't don't look other places. As you grow in the grace and knowledge, God will give you more. As you grow in this, He will give you more passion and more desires to do missions and ministries and tithing. But that should not be your identity. Grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior. Be strengthened. What happens if we fail to be strengthened in these things? We stay focused on the flesh, we stay focused on our pride, and what makes us look and feel good, what's going to happen? It's going to die Notice he says, strengthen what remain remains and is about to die. Bring it life now. The announcement of wake up is the reaction we need because you don't know the time frame of when it all ends. Now, beloved, we could die today. I'm not trying to bring us down and depress us, but are you prepared to stand before your Creator if that moment is right now? Are you prepared for that? If you are in Christ, with joy you say yes and amen. I cannot wait for that moment. But if right now you're going, I don't know because of my works and my deeds, you're thinking about it the wrong way. When we stand before our Creator, that moment we stand before Him and we proclaim and we see that we have been made alive in Christ Jesus, we have no fear of facing the judgment day. Christ has paid the penalty. He has taken the judgment. Be strengthened in this reality, beloved. Don't let it die. Don't get focused on other things and let it dwindle and die off. Be revived in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior. The third command that we have from Jesus is remember. I'm also going to give us the fourth one at the same time because they go together. Remember and keep it. So your four commands are wake up, strengthen, remember, and keep it. Look with me in verse three. Remember then what you received and heard What is it that they have heard? What is it that brings the dead to life? What is it that brings us hope? What is it that has made us alive in Christ? It's the preaching of the gospel. It's the word of God. Remember it. Notice that he's not building up on something arbitrary or telling you to get to work. Get your hands muddy He's going back to the foundations of Christianity, the truth of Christ. Remember the gospel. If you have been redeemed by the gospel, if you have been saved by Christ, go back to that You don't need something new, something cool, something different that the world likes. Go back to the basics. Remember what brought you to faith in Christ Jesus. Remember what brought you into the church. Remember what brought you joy. Oh, the moment that we heard the truth of the gospel and our hearts were converted, that the Spirit was within us. The moment we pled out to the Lord and cried out for forgiveness of our sins, the moment we went to Him, go back to that day, beloved. Enjoy that memory. Rest in that memory. Now if you're saying I don't have that memory. Seek the Lord. He is calling you. Oh sinner, come O sinner, turn from your sins and come to me. O sinner, find forgiveness in Christ Jesus. Remember that. He's telling them to go back and remember that. And then immediately following, he says, remember What you uh what you received and heard, and then what you say, keep it. Keep it. It's not just uh, oh, I remember it, and then you move on from the day. You keep it, you hold on to it. May your salvation be the thing you grip to the hardest in life. May faith in Christ Jesus be the one thing that the enemy cannot pry out of your hands. May the fact and the truth that Jesus died on the cross for a sinner like you never lose strength in your mind. Beloved, keep it. Don't let it go. If I wrote you a check for a million dollars right now and handed it to you, this page, you would fight me if I tried to take it back from you. And you'd win. You're strong. In the physical world, we have this understanding, we hold tight to it. I'm not going to let it go. But then when it comes to faith, when it comes to our identity in Christ, we're a little bit more willing to let that go Because we want to hold on to something else. We want to hold on to our traditions and our our ways of doing things. We want to hold on to the pride we have in what we have done. We hold on to that and we let go of faith in Christ Jesus. Beloved, hold on to what you have heard, which is the gospel. The truth of Christ Beloved, as you wake up, hold tight to the truth. Enjoy the truth. Enjoy the mercies God has had upon you. Proclaim it wherever you go. Rejoice in it day in and day out. Never let it go, keep it. 2 Thessalonians 2:15, I think, gives a good understanding of both remember and keep it. It says, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us. So this is the apostles teaching to them, the traditions of the faith. Either by our spoken word or by our letter. He's pointing back. This wake-a call isn't you gotta You gotta reinvent yourself. You gotta get a new plan of action. You gotta make sure you r you reorder everything and work harder. This wake-up call is to go back to the fundamentals of Christ, of Christianity That faith in Christ Jesus is all we have. It's all we need. And we rejoice in this, that our newness comes from that and of nothing else. Now, if you're sitting in here this morning and you're saying, I failed at many of these, or I failed at different aspects of this, I've lost my identity in Christ. If this wake-up call has scurred you up this morning, there is hope. It's the fifth command that Jesus gives. It's one we all need to hear at different times in our lives. Don't think that anyone is outside of this command. It is repent. Repent. He says in the middle of verse 3, he says, keep it and repent. Repent. I love Acts 3. 19, how it says, he says, repent therefore and turn back. That your sins may be blotted out. This imagery in Acts uh just helps me understand what repentance is. Repentance is we're going down the avenue towards sin, and the repentance is the 180 turn and going Back to our Lord and Savior, going back to God, having Him in our focus, turning away from our sins and fleeing from it into the arms of Christ. Repent, beloved If you have sinned, which we all have, repent of it. If you have realized that you have fallen asleep and you have allowed your identity to be based on something other than Christ, repent of it right now. Do not delay. That's why the wake-up call is so sharp. There's no time to delay. You don't know what the Lord has in store for you today, tomorrow, and the rest of your lives. You don't know your time frame. Wake up and repent. This is a beautiful word. It should bring us joy that we as sinners get are able to repent of our sins and find forgiveness by the Creator of the universe. With joy we repent. With joy we repent of our sins. Repentance brings strength to us, beloved. Repentance lifts our spirits up. Repentance brings a newness into our lives. Repentance fights back the attacks of the enemy. The truth of repentance This goes on and on of the beauty of it. Encourage you to come tonight to hear more about the repentance that we have as believers, the sweet joy that repentance brings. But the command that Christ gives is to wake up. To be strengthened, to remember, to keep, and to repent. Now this is just the commands, and now we have to look at what happens If we are going to fail and not listen to the command. If we say, oh, we hear you, Jesus, we're just going to refuse what you say. Beloved, we don't have that option. You don't have the option to reject the king. You may think you do, and you say, no, I'm not going to do what the king says, and I'm going to live my life however you want. You're correct, but one day you will stand before the king. You don't have the option. He is king. He reigns over all, and all must obey him, or they will receive their just punishment. So what is the result if the command is refused? Simply put, it's destruction. Destruction. Now we have the spiritual destruction that we'll talk about, and there's also a physical destruction that will come to them. Verse 3, right in the middle, says, if you will not wake up. I will come like a thief, and you will not know at what hour I will come against you. He's coming Folks, do you hear that? The Lord is coming. Now this uh most likely this is not talking about the eternal judgment. uh the eternal uh day of the great white throne, uh judgment throne, where Christ will raise all people, regardless of the status in him, they will all be raised from the dead and stand before him. Well, most likely, this is talking about a current historical judgment that it will come upon the church. It's going to come upon them. There's going to be an attack of the enemy that's coming to them. This is a prophecy against them that if they will not repent, if they will not wake up, recognize that they are in fact dead and need to be made alive in Christ Jesus, there is a destruction going to come to them. Now, this could be in a personal way that they will be put to death, or it could be in the the reality that the church, the Sardis Church, will be destroyed. It will be no more. Now, how can God say that? How can Jesus write these words? That's why we started with the identity of the author, that he is sovereign over the church. It's his. If Jesus looks at the church and says, this is not my bride, this is an enemy against me, he has every right to destroy it. Every right to smash it, to scatter the people, to destroy those within it. Beloved, likewise, the Lord has the right to call us to him and stand before him at any time he desires. We don't we don't we don't deserve life. When we wake up in the morning and we're alive, our eyes wake up, it's not like, oh good, I did it again. I've taken my vitamins, I've accomplished another day of life. No, it's because it's the mercy of the Lord that He's brought you to life. But the moment He brings you into His presence through death, You should not be shocked or surprised. For the question is: are you ready to stand there? Are you ready for that moment? Or are you fearing that moment because you've based your identity off of your works? Rest in Christ. If you refuse to, there will be destruction. North Hartford Church, I w uh Baptist Church, I want you to hear this. This is From your pastors, if we fail to hear this call and these commands and we say, no, we're just going to keep going with the way we want to do things, we don't care about what the Lord says, He will destroy the church. I'm not saying we're in that now, but but if we ever get to that time of where we say, you know, we don't care about the word, we just want to do whatever we want. We want to base all of our identity as a church and as Christians off of what we have accomplished and what we have done. Christ will destroy it. It's not a threat, it's not, oh, we got it, should be a warning to us to seek the Lord, to be Christians based in Christ, not in anything else. Have a great uh warning uh and and concern for the modern church in America. The church as a whole, the universal church within America, has found its identity in a lot of things, but very few of the churches have found their identity in Christ. We must be concerned for the condition of the church. We must be people that plead from the Word of God to other Christians. Other churches, come and be obedient to Christ. Don't find your identity in something else. Rooted in Christ. I believe that we will see within my generation and the younger generation and maybe some of the older generations, we will see a turning point in this country. That those that we have a long history of Christianity in America that is starting to crumble because they have based their identity as Christians on something other than Christ. And it's painful, but with joy, we should recognize that our Lord is at work within the Church in America There's a turning happening. If you don't see it, you don't hear it, I encourage you to talk with Pastor Matt and I, and we see it in pastors. There's a revival, there's a wake-up happening in the church in America, starting to go back to the Word of God. Not on programs and outreaches and ministries and that's and home groups and that's where people are finding their identity. There's Strong biblical preachers in this country that are turning back to the Word of God and saying, this is what we must be preaching. This is where our identity is based in. Praise be to God. And beloved, I want you to be part of that. I want you to be awake to this and alive to this. And with joy, you should be speaking. That all Christians, all people should be turning to the Lord and warning that there is a destruction coming for those that disobey, who do not hear the call and the command of Christ. That's the bad stuff. Reality, we have to talk about it. But there's a great hope. Amen. There's a great hope we have. What is the result if the command is obeyed? You wake up, beloved. If you're in this room this morning and you realize you've fallen asleep of your identity in Christ, you've You've allowed your pride of the works of your hand to be your identity. What's your hope? Oh, there's a great hope. Repent. Wake up, and here's the promise. Here's the joy of obedience in this. that we will be with the Lord. Then we see here that in verse 4 it says, yet you have still a few names in Sardis. People who have not soiled their garments, and they will walk with me in white, for they are worthy. They will be with the Lord. Beloved, when we are alive in Christ, we have this eternal hope. Our eyes are fixed on the truth and the reality that one day we will be with him forever. Oh, what great joy the day we enter into his presence. The joy should bring us the hope it has for the times of trials, that we will walk with him. Notice it's not this, we will sit under his thumb and he will command over us, but it's this relationship of us walking with our Savior. It's a uniqueness. It's a sweet reminder of how he loves us and just made us his. Turn with me, if you will, Revelation 21. I want you to hear some of the language that comes out of this letter in this book of the Bible. Revelation 21, verse 3 and 4. It reads, and I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore, for the former things have passed away Beloved, is that a sweet truth that we want to live by? You want is that the hope we have? Wake up That promise is yours. That promise is yours when you're awake in Christ Jesus. When you recognize that it's not of your own doing. It's not what you have accomplished, but by the work of Christ. When your identity is rooted in Christ, this promise is yours. Back in chapter 3, it continues on. So we have the first result of the command when it's obeyed is that we will be with the Lord. It says we will walk with him. They are worthy. And then verse 5, it says, The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garments, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. It will be white garments. I missed this in verse 4, but we have to see he's comparing it against 4. It says, people who have not soiled their garments. This imagery here is that those that are asleep, that are dead, they have soiled garments. Now, when I say the word soil, whatever word comes to mind or image comes to mind, run with it, probably. Yeah, it's not a good one. It's a gross one. If you have toddlers or babies and diapers, that's what my mind's going to right now. It's toil. Disgusting. When we are dead, when we are not awake, that's the image. But now I hear this: when we are in Christ, we're not of the soil garments. We're not walking around stinking and disgusting and dirty. It says in verse 5, the one who congers will be clothed thus in what? White garment. Now how do we get the white garments? Go to the store, buy a wedding dress, right? This is where the white no, this is just the wedding dress is imagery to the true, an eternal white garment. The purity, the idea that we are forgiven in Christ. Look with me in Revelation 7. How do we get the white garments? It's not by the works of our hands, beloved. It's by the blood of Christ. Revelation 7, verse 13. Then one of the elders addressed me, saying, Who are these clothed in white robes? And from where have they come? I said to him, Sir, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones coming out of the great tribulation. They have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Who's the Lamb? Christ Jesus. Now who has ever spilt blood? Who looks forward to spilling blood on a wedding dress? You'd be like, no, that's a terrible idea. That's not how this works. Yes, that's the reality, and what's so amazing about the work of Christ is that his blood being shed makes us pure. That his death brings us life. That his payment paid our penalty. Beloved, you are made white. You put on the garments of white through the washing of the blood of the Lamb of Christ Jesus. How does this happen? Having faith, believing, trusting, and obeying that Christ died on the cross for a sinner like you and I. Loving him and being obedient to him. You want to walk in the white cloth and the white garments as promised? Wake up from your sleep and your slumber and live in Christ Jesus. Oh, what a great picture this is. What a joy it brings us. May be what we seek after. Beloved, you are righteous before God right now, if you are in Christ. Let me say again, you are righteous, you are forgiven, your sins have been washed away right now if you are in Christ Jesus So reality you live in now should bring us hope and joy, and we should see the fulfillment of that and the outworking of that when we enter into his presence. Beloved, the idea that we are forgiven gives us strength to live today. It gives us the ability to wake up and strengthen ourselves in the grace of our Lord and Savior. The third gift or result of obeying the command is that Jesus will represent us before the Father. We wake up and we're alive in Him. We have the promise that Jesus is our representative before the Father. He's the one that has made us righteous. He's our entrance into the eternal glory. He is the one that has forgiven us and made us new. It's all in Christ, and we can rest assured on that today. You don't have to doubt it. You don't have to be concerned about it. If your faith is in Christ, he will accomplish the work. We don't doubt it. We don't worry that, oh, well, maybe he will fail. When we work in our identities based on our hands and what we've accomplished and what we have done, trust me, beloved, it will fail. You should doubt that, because it will fail. But when we rest in Christ Jesus, when we're alive and awake, that our newness comes from Him, we can rest assured. Back in Revelation 3, verse 5, it says, The one who conquers will be clothed thus in white garment, and I will never blot his name out of the book of life. I will confess his name before my Father and before his angels. What better representative do we have other than Christ? Some congressman to go, you know, we oh we elected a congressman and he goes into the the House or the Senate or however that works and he represents us But he's fallsy, he fails. What about Christ? Does he fail? He's the one we didn't elect him. He he is the victor, he's the conqueror, he's the one that has won it all. He's brought us newness, he has brought us life. And now he goes before the Father as our mediator, as our head and represents us. So that when the Father looks at us, he doesn't see there's Anthony, the sinner that I've somehow redeemed He looks at me, he looks at you in Christ and says, this is my beloved whom has been washed by the blood of Christ, and he is my child. Beloved, if you have the identity as a Christian because of faith in Christ, that's what God looks and says to you right now. He looks to you through Christ, your mediator. Look with me in Revelation 20. See this language. Revelation 20, verse 11. The fear of the eternal can be gone. The fear of judgment is gone when we are in Christ. Revelation 20, verse 11, says, Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it. From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened Then another book was opened, which is the book of life, and the dead were judged by what was written in the books, according to what they had done And the sea gave up the dead and were who were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged. Each one of them according to what they had done. Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life. He was thrown into the lake of fire. Now do you want God to judge you according to the books of deeds and works or according to the book of life? I hope you hear it's the book of life. Your name must be found in the book of life. How do we do it? How does our name get into the book of life? It's not by going on more mission trips, it's not by giving more, it's not by having perfect attendance at church. It's by the blood of Christ. He is your representative. His blood wrote your name into the book of life. And you are judged according to that. Beloved, with joy, wake up. With joy, go into the rest and pleasure of being with your Creator. Notice and see that He is good. Notice that your works will fail. And has no eternal hope, it only brings destruction. Rest in Christ Jesus, and he will grow and mature you into all those other things. He will make you new, but we rest in him. We know that we will be with our Lord. We know that we are forgiven. And we know that Jesus is our representative before the Father. May we live this out with joy and pleasure in our lives. Let's go before our Father in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your call, your announcement. Lord, may you stir up in us, may you awaken our souls, bring us life, remind us of your goodness. If anyone in here needs to hear for the first time, allow the Spirit to take it into their hearts and pierce them open. Show them the truth of forgiveness in Christ. Preach the gospel to their hearts now. If any of us need to be stirred up and awakened because we have fallen asleep in our slumber. Wake us up, Lord. Any of us just need to be reminded of your goodness and strengthened in this time. We ask that you do it now, Lord. May all that we do, may all that we have be glorifying to you. May we recognize that our identity rests in faith in Christ, in Him alone. Pride and boastfulness in Christ may we live. We pray this in his name. Amen.