Welcome. We are in 1 Thessalonians 3. I'll give you just a moment to get there. And for those watching online, thanks for tuning in. Always appreciate your uh virtual presence. 1 Thessalonians 3. The title of this study is called Why in the World Would We Pray? Why in the World Would We Pray? This is not specifically a passage about prayer directly, but the issue of prayer does come up in the passage. But Everything does relate to this question, why in the world would we pray? And the answer is because only God can do what needs to be done. We pray because only God can do what needs to be done, and there's three major points or three major sections. in this chapter and each one has to do with only God can do this, only God can get us through this. Only God can produce this. Only The sovereign God of all the universe. So why in the world would we pray? Because only God can do what needs to be done. He has the power, He has the authority. He's the one who can address our needs. So that's the title. Why in the world would we pray? And I hope it's an encouragement to us, to you. to boost your prayer life and for us as a church to boost our prayer life, trusting the Lord, crying out to the Lord, calling upon the Lord. To do what needs to be done. We cannot look to ourselves for these things. Let's pray together. Father, we ask that you'll help us in our study. This evening, even as we come to your word and submit to your authority, I pray that you would increase within us a love and a passion and a desire and a thirst for your word. Show us Jesus tonight, we pray. Show us his transforming power. Show us his saving grace. Show us His tender, compassionate mercy toward weak and lowly sinners like us. Show us Christ. Show us the gospel. Show us the hope of eternal life, the promise of glory. Father, show us our sins and grant us repentance. Create within us, cultivate within us individually and as a church. A deeper burden for prayer, perhaps like we've never known, that we would trust you at a newer level, that we'd call upon you more consistently. And that we'd have the patience and the wisdom to wait upon you and to watch you do your work. Father, we come to you now asking that you'll teach us. And lead us this evening. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Alright. First Thessalonians three, the whole chapter. Have you ever known me to In one class to a whole chapter. Usually I say like a paragraph and then I'll get through a sentence and a half. That's an exaggeration, most of the time. But we're doing the whole chapter, and I'll give you the subsections, and then I'll read through it, and we'll back up and study. The first section is about enduring affliction, verses one through five. Enduring affliction. Why in the world would we pray about this? Because only God can help us endure affliction. Not only to endure it and to get through it, but to grow through it and to learn from it and to draw nearer to God, to be strengthened in our faith. Through enduring affliction. Number one, enduring affliction, verses one through five. And number two, the victory of faith, verses six through eight. The victory. That overcomes the world is faith. It's our trust in God Enduring Affliction, 1 through 5, the Victory of Faith, 6 through 8, and then this, which really underlies the whole thing Sovereign authority. God's sovereign authority. Verses nine through thirteen. And there's some really good action verbs. In that section, that put a clear picture, not only of God's sovereign authority, but how we're expecting Him to work and how we're praying for Him to work. All right, enduring affliction, the victory of faith, obviously in the context, the the victory of persevering through that affliction and Standing firm in Christ and for Christ and for the gospel and not giving up and not wavering and not changing your doctrine and then sovereign authority, the God we look to for help. Let's begin in verse one. Therefore, when we could bear it no longer Now that's Paul, the we there is Paul, Sylvanus, also called Silas, and Timothy. Therefore, when we could bear it no longer, we were willing to be left behind at Athens alone, and we sent Timothy, our brother, and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ. To establish and to exhort you in your faith, that no one be moved by these afflictions So what's the purpose of s sending Timothy? To strengthen them so that they don't lose their faith in the face of adversity, in the face of Afflictions. Timothy's going there to help them, in other words. And now they're still on the second missionary journey. They're at Athens. Paul and Silas stay behind and they send Timothy to the church in Thessalonica To strengthen them so that they so that the afflictions, the persecution would not cause them to forfeit their confession. Does that make sense? It's a very simple, very practical and pastoral thing that's going on here. Timothy, go help them. For you, uh so now the uh middle of verse 3, for you yourselves know that we are destined for this. To suffer affliction for the sake of the gospel. That's what he means. For when we were with you, we kept telling you beforehand that we were to suffer affliction. Just as it has come to pass, and just as you know. So it's happened, and you know it's happened. You've you've saw it with us, you've experienced it yourself, and you're still experiencing it. Verse 5. For this reason, when I could bear it no longer, I sent to learn about your faith for fear that somehow the tempter had tempted you And our labor would be in vain. So he's referring to a specific temptation that he was worried about. The temptation to what? Give up the faith because things got difficult. Give up the faith because it wasn't popular. Give up the faith because it was not. Popular and accepted by the surrounding culture and and the Jews and the religious circles as well. Remember, the Satan is the accuser of the brethren, and he's the liar And he's also the tempter. He's the tempter. He wants you to sin. He wants you to weaken in your faith. He doesn't want you to be interested in Bible study. He doesn't want us to give ourselves to prayer. He doesn't want us to evangelize. And he lays all kinds of traps and snares out in the world. And that combined with the pride that's inside of us. Makes it difficult. But what they're going through are afflictions, persecution for their faith. And so that's why But uh hopefully you saw the word in there. Affliction. Let's just pinpoint where that's used. Verse three, that no one be moved by these afflictions, and so the idea of endurance and through these afflictions And then again, verse the end of verse four, the middle of verse four, that we were to suffer afflictions. Suffer afflictions. And the reason he sent Timothy back is to strengthen them, to help them endure and overcome and pass through this fire Stronger, not weaker, and certainly not losing their faith. So enduring afflictions And we can still endure endure persecutions and afflictions. They may look different than what they look like in Thessalonica. But what are some ways where Christians can be persecuted? And um we could talk about this globally, there 's bec that would in some ways it would look differently than what it looks like in our culture. Right, you could be ostracized by your family or hated by your family or rejected by your family in our culture um or by your friends. Uh maybe there's some situations where you lose your job or don't get the hours, so you have to leave your job or something like that. Um you could be publicly maligned. So there are different ways and then in some areas of the world um you could be arrested, thrown in prison, beaten, executed. Uh your things could be confiscated, your house could be burned. So the persecution looks differently. But wherever the kingdom of light Is advancing, the kingdom of darkness is sure to be raging against the advance of the gospel. And that will look again in different places. But it's spiritual warfare nonetheless. And those afflictions are real nonetheless. And you can highlight exactly What they need. Paul uses a couple words here in the first one Is verse uh in verse three or verse two rather in verse two We sent Timothy, our brother and God's co-worker in the gospel of Christ, to establish, number one, and to exhort you in your faith. Establish and exhort. Those are actual things that need to happen for believers. We we come to faith That's great. Praise the Lord. That's a miracle. That's a supernatural work of the Spirit. We're born again. We're saved. But that's not the end. of the story. That's the beginning. We must be established in our faith. We must continue to grow in the word and in truth. We must continue to grow in prayer, to be sanctified, to be strengthened in our faith, becoming stronger in faith. Is an actual thing. Faith is not to be static. It's supposed to grow. And that happens over time. And it happens through Ministry, ministries of the brothers and sisters in the local church. That's why he's sending Timothy back. It's through God's people. Through the agency of the Spirit, always, and through the means of the Word, the Word of truth, but God using people as his instruments. And so don't ever forget the need to be further established in your faith, and that that's going to happen in the context of the local church. Based on truth by the power of the Spirit, but in the context of the church. Friends, that's the story of the New Testament. That's the story of the New Testament. Christ coming to do his work, establish his kingdom, and then he establishes the church, and this is the way he has organized his kingdom in this age, local churches Scattered all over the world. So being established in our faith is something we need to seek. Something we just need to admit in our hearts. I need this I need to be further established. And we want to make sure we see too that before the affliction comes or before the affliction ramps up and intensifies, because we need to be ready when the time comes. And exhorted. Exhorted. We all need to be exhorted. We're all plagued with sin. When we became saved people, we didn't become sinless people. It's not like the inner corruption just eroded and disappeared from us. We're still in what Paul calls in Romans These bodies of death that are still plagued with the corruption of sin, plagued by weakness, we need to be exhorted by each other. And again, based on truth, not human wisdom, not people's opinions, and other people don't have the authority to bind our conscience. Only the Word of God does. But again, it's through God's people, through each other. We need to be established. We need to be exhorted as it regards our faith. Verse three, that no one be moved by these Afflictions. You yourselves know that we are destined for this He told them it was going to happen. They saw it happening, and now it was happening. You see, Paul's heart for them in this. Verse 5: For this reason, when I could bear it no longer. And then verse 1, he said the same thing. We could bear it no longer. Paul's really, really concerned for them. He has a genuine, true hearted burden for their souls. And and this is what's at stake when we s when we're dealing with Church and ministry and the Bible and sharing the gospel. Souls. Souls are at stake. Eternity is at stake. You get can get a clear sense of the burden of this for Paul. He cares about their souls. They can bear it no longer. He sends Timothy back. And good for Timothy. God bless him for going back where the trouble is to help the church, to help the local church. Let me see if I can glean anything else. Verse 5 is something I've been alluding to throughout this series. That one of the reasons Paul sent Timothy back was also to get a report on their faith. Number one, yes, to strengthen them, to help them, to encourage them, but also to he he wanted to know what was going on with them. And he says there in verse five, I sent to learn about your faith. So Timothy is going there to get a report. And remember Timothy comes back To Paul. Gives the information. And that's why Paul can start. Go back to chapter 1, verse 2. We give thanks to God always for all of you, constantly mentioning you in our prayers, remembering before our God and Father your work of faith and labor of love and steadfastness of hope in our Lord Jesus Christ. We know, brothers, loved by God, that He has chosen you, because our gospel came to you not only in word, but also in power, and in the Holy Spirit, and with full conviction. You know what kind of men we prove to be among you for your sake, and you became imitators of us and the Lord, for you received the word in much affliction with the power of the Holy Spirit, so that you became an example to all the believers in Macedonia and Achaia. For not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you in Macedonia and Achaea, but your faith in God has gone forth everywhere, so that we need not say anything. For they themselves report concerning us. the kind of reception we had among you and how you turned to God from idols to serve the living and true God and to wait for his Son from heaven, whom he raised from the dead, Jesus, who delivers us from the wrath to come. So there was a good deal of spiritual health there in the church. It began at their conversion and their reception of the message, but then a continued word about their faith And particularly their evangelistic efforts, it looks like, had spread. And Paul gets this additional report from Timothy, and he writes back. I have one more comment on this point that absolutely needs to be said, but I'm going to hold it to the very end Not the very end of the class, the very end of this point. First, any questions on verses any questions or insights or applications from from verses one through five on the importance of enduring affliction or maybe you want to just talk about the uh the reality of suffering affliction in general as it's spoken of here of something that is going to happen in a general sense of chapter three is letting us know uh uh how deceptive Satan can be that he would be so concerned. Yeah, yeah it's a great point. It's a great point. We need to be aware of the devil's schemes because they are subtle and they they are powerful and we need to be aware of them. Yep. And just because you're growing, uh, you know, just because someone's really growing in faith and making progress for five years, that does not mean he he can just stop caring about it and just coast the rest of his life. He'll fall f pray, he'll fall victim, yeah. Anyone else? I think I like what you said about being established in faith because there was a time something happened in my life and for months I prayed once and that was it. And it was all that I had learned prior to that that held me under that faith Then I never let go. But I was in such terrible voice. It wasn't happening to me, it was happening to one of my children. That um It was what I knew going into this trial that got me through it. So I think better is the more we knew about God. The more we can hold on when things get bad. Yeah, I this is a great point. It's and I can relate to that too. You know, when you get in the affliction, when you get in the trial, you are very weak. And it's it's hard to find the strength uh to do what needs to be done. But the growth and the strength of faith from from prior times and prior is what sustains you through that and enables you to keep an eye on Christ even when you feel like you just have nothing and can do nothing and don't feel like doing anything and feel like all hope is lost. Well that that faith, that being established in Christ, even at the low points, will will get you through. That's what gets us through is looking to Christ. Yeah. It's a great look into the Apostle Paul who's a missionary Who says I can't bear it no longer. I've got to find out what's going on back there. Yeah. Yeah, he wanted to know. He wanted to know what was going on. He cared about him. Uh Yeah. My last point on this was that needs to be said when we're talking about enduring affliction is the work of Christ. Who suffered affliction and endured suffering. And for the joy that was set before him, he endured the cross, and he despised the shame of the cross. But for the joy that was set before him, for the salvation of his sheep, for the glory of the Father, he knew glory was coming. Uh Hebrews says he learned obedience from the things he suffered Jesus never needed to repent from disobedience to obedience, but there is such a thing as moving forward and advancing from one thing to the to the other in what God has called you to do. And Jesus Hebrews says learned obedience through suffering. It was through suffering that he advanced in his work of living a righteous life. And it's that righteousness that's given to us. And it's with that righteousness that we stand before God and are approved. Because Christ's righteousness is imputed to us. It's credited to our account. That wasn't an easy task. That was his life. He actually, that was something he had to do. He did that. He endured suffering and affliction and hatred And you know, the punch list of what Jesus endured ultimately across. Now his sufferings are redemptive. His sufferings uh and his especially and centrally his death Have an atoning power to them. His sufferings achieve salvation is what I'm saying. Our sufferings do not achieve salvation, but they come in the wake of the salvation we've received. But uh 1 Peter says we're to follow in his footsteps as an example of one who suffered but did not revile back He was cursed but did not curse back. He did not return evil for evil. He's we're to look to him as an example. He's our Savior, He's our example. Specifically, specifically on the part the point I'm referencing from Peter. Enduring suffering and not returning evil for evil. So we don't have the right, we certainly don't have the biblical command or mandate to hate people who persecute us. We're to pray for those who persecute us. We're to love our enemies. We're to pray for their salvation. We're we're not to Be unloving toward them. That doesn't mean we be doormates, it just means don't be hateful. Hate is never of God. Unless you're you're hating what is evil, but you don't hate people. We love our enemies. Now what that looks like? You know, it takes wisdom. It takes wisdom. Um We don't condone evil. We don't condone the things that those who persecute us are doing. Of course, we don't do that. We are fighting a spiritual warfare, but we don't fight like the children of this age. We don't fight like children of darkness. We fight with the word, with prayer. spiritual spiritual weapons for spiritual people. Alright, I've said enough about that. Enduring affliction, verses one through five. And um I just want to hearken back to the title, Why in the World Would We Pray? Because only God can do what needs to be done in affliction, to give us the endurance that we need. And pray for the pray for others to endure. Pray for ourselves to be strengthened. Help establish your brothers and sisters and seek to be established yourself. Look to exhort others and encourage others and receive exhortation and encouragement. Enduring affliction can only happen by the power of God within us. Amen? Is that true or false? Only God, only God can do it. We must pray. Section two, the victory of faith. The victory of faith. And this is from verses six through eight. But now that Timothy has come to us from you. Aha! What is he getting now? He's getting The mission report. We get those. We get mission reports or missionary reports. What's going on on the mission field? We want to know. Has brought us the good news of your faith and love, and reported that you always remember us kindly. That's a really big deal. And long to see us as we long to see you. Again, the the love, the Christian love. Verse 7, for this reason, brethren, in all our distress and affliction, we have been comforted about you through your faith. What is it that Paul heard about that was a comfort to him? They still had faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what he wanted to know. Have they left Christ? Have they gone somewhere else? Have they turned somewhere else? Have they forgotten their first love? Which was referenced last week in our class, the letters from Revelation. We've been comforted through, we've comforted about you through your faith. It's your faith that is our comfort. For now we live if you are standing fast in the Lord And that's where I'm cutting the point off. They're standing fast in the Lord. Their souls, therefore, are secure. That's what Paul wanted to know. That's what he cared about. Ultimately, if all of our different needs that we help each other with, you know, needs at the house, needs with uh finances or bills or encouragement or a ride here, ride there. All these different needs. We serve each other. We care for each other. We love each other. That's right and proper and good. But we must be concerned first and foremost with each other's souls. Is your soul secure? Are you have you come to faith in Jesus Christ? Number one. And number two, are you standing firm in Jesus Christ? And that's what Paul is concerned about. Many different things we could highlight here in terms of what this victory of faith looks like. Uh no surprises here. The first thing he says about the mission report It brought us good news, verse 6, of your faith. Just stop there. That's the first thing he says. He says more But the most important thing and the overarching thing, good news of their faith, they still had faith. In terms of receiving blessings from God, faith is right there at the center. Blessings, blessings of salvation that come from God come through Jesus and are received by faith. So that's what he wanted to know. Faith has Three aspects to it. One is a knowledge aspect, because true faith is going to be based on truth Not a lie, not a myth, not a feeling, not tradition. You can't worship a God you don't know. You can't believe in a Jesus you don't know. A false idea of Jesus does not save. Only the truth Will set you free. Only the truth sanctifies. It's the truth of Jesus Christ. So there's a knowledge. That's why the preaching and teaching is so central not only in the ministries of the church, but in our individual devotional lives. We must be rooted and grounded and anchored in truth. This is how God has revealed himself to us. And now that was past tense. And this is how God reveals himself to us. His truth. Faith has the knowledge aspect and it also has the aspect of agreement, just a sense, to agree that what God says what God says is true. Even if it disagrees with what I say. Yes, absolutely. What we need to repent from is suppressing the truth and embracing lies. We want to repent from that and become a people who embrace the truth and by faith allow God's truth to suppress the lies. The lies that come from the world around us and the lies that spring up from the pride within us. And you are aware that the lies of the devil um come from both of those sources, right? The world around us and the pride within us. The corrupt, sinful nature. Faith has the idea of knowledge. Make sure, make sure you're getting yourself a steady diet of the word of truth. That is the foundation stone of building up our faith and establishing us in the faith and keeping us on the right track in life and in ministry. God's word to us. And then the second aspect of true faith is the idea of assent and agreement. And that has to that is a posture that does not come naturally. And that's why even though that seems like a simple thing to say and an elementary thing to say, it is an elementary thing to say, but it doesn't come naturally. It doesn't come naturally. That's again that's something we pray for. God, give me a humble spirit. Give me a learning spirit. Give me a receptive spirit to receive your truth. And no matter what it says about me, about the world. I agree with you, God. That's just a heart posture we need to get to and we need to grow in. And finally, faith has the aspect of personal trust. Saving faith is trust in a person, a person who lives, a person who is also God, who lives and reigns in heaven. With supreme authority, Heavenly Priest, the living Lord Jesus Christ Trust in a person, not just agreeing with ideas, not just adopting a religion, not just um submitting ourselves to Facts and agreeing that these facts are true. Yes, I agree that these facts are true, but have you received Christ personally? Do you trust Him as your everything? That's the way to be saved. Coming to Christ empty-handed, leaving all, coming to Him as Savior. Personal trust, faith. Faith. And also, what's the second thing he heard about in this mission report? The first was faith, and now the second is Love. You know, it's the strangest thing. This word seems to come up almost every Bible study. Love What's the first and greatest commandment that is the seedbed for all other commandments and all other obedience? Everybody knows it, so don't be bashful. What is it? Yes. We're not in unison on it, but we're all saying it. Love. Love God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength. Love God most. Isn't that what I was saying? Like love God most. Love God, first of all, above all things. He's not just one love amidst a host of equally valid And valuable love. We love him above all things. We love him with all that we are heart, soul, mind, and strength. The whole person with a true holy affection for the infinite and almighty God. We love God above all things, with all that we are. Now here's where really we really get hung up. In all of life. In all of life. Not just one sphere of life, just the religious sphere, and to go off and live however we want and prioritize other things above God. No. In all of life, we love God above all things as God. And again, that we know the understatement, right? That doesn't come naturally. We love creaturely things instead of the Creator. And that's something we need to, again, that's suppressing the truth and embracing lies we need to repent from. To embrace the truth and let God's truth suppress the lies within us. We must love God. We must. It all starts here, and again, how do we do that? Through Christ. It's not something we do apart from Christ. Amen. We know this, right? It's not like we come to faith in Jesus and serve Jesus over here, and then we'll try to love God over here. No, this is the loving God. We love God through faith and Jesus, Jesus is God's love to sinners. This is redemptive love to sinners received by faith. We love God through faith in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, King of kings. And coming conqueror. And what's the second greatest commandment? Love your neighbor as yourself. And now you could Put subcategories under that. First and foremost would be our families and our church family. Our families and our church family. And then you would extend that outwardly. It would look differently. Those loves look differently. Some things are similar. But then you could extend it outwardly to the lost, to have a burden for the lost, to want to reach the lost. This is God's purpose: to build his church. To expand his kingdom, to seek and save the lost. That's God's purpose. It needs to be our purpose if we're his people and if we're submitted to his will. A burden for the lost, not a hatred for the lost, a hatred for sin, a hatred for Satan, a hatred for the kingdom of darkness. But this is this is the miracle and the mystery of the gospel that God is saving sinners. He has it He has an incomprehensible Mercy and love and favor for sinners. Us. It's unbelievable. We've got to have a love, a proper biblically defined love. For the lost. And one of the things that we'll call that will keep us from doing is to not water down the message, to not change the word of God. Just to appeal to natural man. The Word of God will change the heart of natural man God does that through his spirit. But if we change the word, we're forfeiting that power. We're forfeiting the very good that we wish for the lost. to Sharon. That's just one practical application. But loving God, loving others, and he already gave that testimony about them in verse eighth of chapter one, not only has the word of the Lord sounded forth from you, the word of the Lord sounding forth from them. Teaching and preaching and spreading the word of the Lord. What's implied there is they had a they were seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. They were seeking first the kingdom. They were evangelistic. They knew the powers in the word. And friends, that's still true today. The word of God is no less powerful than it was in Acts chapter 2. The word of God, the truth of God, the centrally the gospel, is the power of salvation. So faith and love And then after that, reported that you always remember us kindly. They remember them kindly. They speak of them kindly. They did not turn themselves against the apostles. Now why would he say something like that? Why was that a big deal? Well, because if Paul goes and teaches them Christ in Christianity, they received Christ and now they're Christians and it and it brings them lots of trouble and lots of suffering. It could be very easily it'd be very easy to fall into the temptation To now uh be mad at Paul and hold a grudge against Paul. What in the world did did he bring us this message for? To make our lives infinitely worse We didn't we weren't being persecuted three months ago. So this is a really big deal. They're speaking kindly and remembering kindly the apostles, even though they're going through lots of difficulties. And again, this is another issue. We need to be established in the faith so when difficulties come, we don't curse God and die like Job's wife told him to do when difficulties come. We need to be established so we don't turn ourselves against God in the face of adversity. And in fact, in the face of adversity Our faith will be strengthened and we'll draw nearer to God than we had before. So there's they're full of faith. They have love. Again, this is from the Spirit, not from within themselves. They're speaking kindly, remembering kindly the apostles, and they long to see them. They long to see them again. So it is reciprocal care and concern. They haven't forgotten about Paul. They haven't forgotten about Timothy. They haven't forgotten about Sylvanus. And when Timothy came They were happy to see him and said, Man, we've been longing to see you. We can't wait to see Paul. When is he coming back? The relationship, the relationship, is very important. So, what did the victory of faith look like? Well, first of all, faith. That's an actual thing. It's not just a feeling. It's an actual thing. that they had and were growing in and standing firm. Uh love love for the brethren, love for each other. I think is the primary point there, even though I talked about it in a more general way. Kind speech, remembering kindly the apostles, which is a A sign, a really good sign, that even though the gospel brought hardship, they still cherish and treasure the gospel and the people who brought it to them. Blessed are the feet who bring good news. And the desire for fellowship and longing to see them, all those can be Put together under one heading that's given in verse eight. All of those things. Faith, love Kind speech and desire for fellowship with the apostles can be put under one heading that again this is this is uh in verse eight Standing fast in the Lord. That's what it looks like. That's what it looks like. Standing fast in the Lord. Maintaining faith and growing in faith. Maintaining love. Love for God first, love for the brethren, second, love for the lost. Faith, love, and kindness. Now the specific example he gives is remembering the apostles well, speaking well of them. I take that as is representative that they still cherish and treasure God's messengers and God's message, even though it brought them hardship. And that needs to be true of us. They've overcome the temptation he was worried about. They're standing firm. Alright. Questions or comments on this section, and then we're going to the next section, the final one of God's sovereign Authority. With every sub point, a few more people trickle in. I like that. Next time I'll do eleven subpoints, people will keep coming. Section nine. Is that the next section? Well that's a great, great, great comment. Pastor John said, look in verse uh seven, where Paul says, I've been comforted about you through your faith and just pointing out the difference between the way comfort the idea of comfort is used in society in general versus what for Paul it was his comfort was the fact that they were bearing fruit in the faith. Is that what you said? How did you say it His comfort was Well the there was fruit that was remaining. Yeah, remaining fruit, not leisure. Right? Comfort is a worldly comfort and worldly comfort Is one of the biggest idols in our culture. Leisure and things, and trying to attain to a life where we have The feeling and the appearance of security and comfort based on how much how much we have How much freedom we have, worldly comforts and comforts. So it's very important to realize what true spiritual comforts is. And in this instance, for Paul, it's the fact that there's a remaining fruit from their original confession. Remaining fruit from their original confession. And that's very, very important topic. Anybody else? Anything from these verses? This was six through eight. Well there's a prayer list for us, right? Grow us in our faith, grow us in our love, grow us in our kindness, help us overcome temptation. How was the long for fellowship with each other? I'll keep us busy. I mean that would be a lifetime of growth, but God will answer those prayers. God will answer those prayers. remains around so it's faster time. Because in the the year of the relation of the If they are not continuing them out in the situation, this thing is in the watercast, in this the ecosystem , how they are, how is they So his main preservation main work is about the one of the that are main Yeah. A great comment about is about Paul's pastoral heart that even though you know he's still going through afflictions and he's got a lot of work to do, he's still worried about them. He's concerned about them and if they're established in the Word. And he he really does care for them and I love that phrase, a a pastoral heart, a shepherd's heart. And he really is worried for them. And You know, he wasn't about uh building a brand and certainly wasn't about become uh increasing his net worth. And he could have very easily just uh become a workaholic and made made the work his idol and just forgotten about where he was, but he didn't do that. He cares about them. Even to sending one of his his workers back to check on them. Great comment. And even if we're not pastors, we could all have a Shepherds heart, uh the heart of Christ toward one another, to have a care and concern for one another. Alright Enduring affliction, number one, victory of faith, number two. Why in the world would we pray? Why would we pray? Well, we need God's power to help us endure affliction. And we need God's power to give us the victory of faith, to grow in our faith, to grow in our love, and so on and so forth. Now the last section here is God's sovereign authority. And what I'll do is read it, see what stands out to you, see if you can see why I'm calling the point this. And then I'll highlight the words that I want to highlight. Verse nine for what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? For all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God. As we pray more earnestly, that's where I got my title from. That's the clause, that's the phrase that inspired my title as we pray more earnestly, night and day, that we may see you face to face. And supply what is lacking in your faith. Why would you pray for that? Because only God can make that happen. That's the idea here. Only God can do this. Only God can do what's needed. Uh verse eleven Now may God our Father go may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus Direct our way to you, and may the Lord make you increase and abound in love , For one another and for all, as we do for you, so that He may establish your hearts blameless in holiness before our God and Father at the coming of our Lord Jesus with all his saints. And yes, when Jesus comes it will be with all those saints who've bodily who die bodily before he returns. They'll come back and they will receive resurrection bodies as well. That study will be coming In a week or two. Two or two or three weeks rather. We'll see how quickly we go. But that's not the point today. That's just how he ends the point. Oh, that's not the main point today rather. He wants to sustain them to the end. He wants them to on the day of judgment to be counted holy and blameless, not to come under judgment and wrath. So they need to stand fast to the end of their lives. Alright. Verses 9 Through thirteen are the context of prayer, and he even voices The prayer. Verses eleven, twelve, and thirteen are a prayer. They're written in a letter to a people, but they are a prayer. Asking God to do specific things. The first thing, now I have things to say about verses 9 through 10 too, okay? So those who really love verses 9 through 10, don't get mad. We'll circle back to them. But first, specifically what he asks for and calls upon the power of God for is That God would direct their way to the church of Thessalonica. Now may, verse 11, now may our God and Father Himself and our Lord Jesus direct our way to you. Number one. Alright? And it's an encouragement and a reminder to us that our prayers not only could be, but should be specific prayers. Ask God to do something. Don't just give God updates about things and tell him kind of the underlying reasons why you're concerned about the situation. Trust God as sovereign Lord. Ask God to do things. May God direct our way to you. And then he goes on to the next prayer request. And May the Lord make you increase and abound in love for one another and for all as we do for you. That's number two. God help them to grow in love. That's a prayer. Help them increase and abound in love. Now, every single one of us here, and the church as a whole, every single church to one degree or another, needs to increase in love. We all need to grow in this. What do we think? Is this the one aspect of the Christian life which just happens to be, you know the central aspect that we don't need to grow in, that we can just move on from and graduate to some higher form of spirituality. This is it These three remain faith, hope, and love, and the greatest of these is love. We need to increase in love. We need to be more abounding in love, as they did. As they did. So Paul asks for that in prayer. May the Lord make you increase and abound in love This doesn't say I wish you guys would be more loving. Although maybe he said that to them off the record. I'm not sure. I'm sure he did wish they would be more loving. But he knows As we should know, what's the only way they can increase and abound more in love is if God creates that within them. God must do that. Only God can do that. So he prays for them to increase and abound in love for one another and for all. So, number one, he prayed that God would direct their way. To the church at Thessalonica. Number two, he prayed that the church in Thessalonica would, by the power of God, by the power of God, increase and abound in love. And number three, so that, which is a phrase of purpose, right, so that he may establish your hearts. Blameless in holiness before our God and Father. He wants their hearts to be established in the faith. He wants their hearts to be strengthened and to be sanctified. Your hearts Be established. Well no, he doesn't say may your hearts be established. I'm putting that in my own words there, but the the way he says is that he may establish, right? He, God, may establish action verb your heart's direct object. Sorry to be a grammar nerd, but grammar is important Only God can establish their hearts, blameless in holiness. The sanctification begins in the heart. It's God's gift of holiness to undeserving sinners. It comes from the power of the Holy Spirit wrought in the human heart to make us holy. Never perfectly holy in this life, but truly holy in this life, and increasingly holy in this life. But only God can do this. And he wants them to be growing in their faith, becoming more like Christ. And at the coming of their Lord Jesus Christ, when Jesus Christ is revealed with all his saints, And everyone comes under judgment, the verdict will be blameless. Innocent. In Christ is the crux of the matter there. Those in Christ. He wants to make sure they're in Christ. So why pray? Why would he pray these things? Why would he pray? God uh for their way to be directed to the church? Why would he pray for them to be increasing and abounding in love? Why would he pray that their hearts would be established in sanctification and growing in holiness? Only God can do these things. Only God can do these things. Only God. We must call out to Him, as Paul called out to Him. God is the one who can direct things. He is the one that can cause things He is the one who can create spiritual fruit within the human heart. Only God. If we can grow in embracing Those truths, just those truths, and that's a short list. God only God can direct things within history, only God can cause things to happen. In his providence and only God can do spirit create spiritual fruit in the human heart. If we can truly embrace those three truths We'll be praying night and day, as he says here. We'll be praying night and day, calling upon God. God, do this. Please, God, please do this. Direct our way here. Direct our way here. Please God, increase us in love, increase us in faith, increase us in holiness, establish our heart, establish their heart. And then we could just start praying for others and praying for each other. We we would be Praying night and day if we would embrace just just these three truths under the heading of God's sovereign authority. And that's just the sovereign authority. I mean, the other implied point here under this main point is his care and concern to build and strengthen and complete his local church, his church. His church as a whole, yes, but local churches. This is the local church he's writing to. That's the context. God loves his churches and wants to grow his churches. We've got to believe that he has sovereign authority. We're talking about God's sovereign authority. We have in view his power. But we also have in view his purpose, his saving purpose. We're not thinking of God abstractly. We're not philosophers. We're Christians. He has a saving purpose. And he has sovereign authority to achieve that purpose, then he will achieve that purpose. The gates of Hades will not be able to stand against him, which is a representative of all the enemies of God, seen to be in the Jewish culture at at that time the most powerful force there could have been in the kingdom of darkness. Can't stop Christ. Can't stop Christ. His power, his saving purpose. And then the third P I would give on this would be that he God does these things s specifically through his people. Through his people. He saved us and brought us into his kingdom, and now he's using us for his purpose. So we cannot be a lazy people. We cannot be an indifferent people. We cannot be on the fringe of the kingdom. We must pour ourselves into the body life of the church, pour ourselves into each other in love and care, exhorting each other, encouraging each other, caring for each other. Giving ourselves to the Word of God and wanting to do that, delighting to hear the Word of God, preach the Word, teach the Word, go home and read the Word His power, his purpose, and working through his people. And brothers and sisters, we are his people. We are his flock, and he's bestowed upon us a kingdom. Alright, now I did say I'd say a little bit of something about verses nine and ten, just uh the idea of thanksgiving and joy in prayer. The idea of thanksgiving and joy and prayer. There's a heart that's full of gratitude and thanksgiving, and there's there's a joy, there's a true joy, a genuine joy, and then the idea of prayer. For what thanksgiving can we return to God for you? For all the joy that we feel for your sake before our God. You know, as Christians, we do serve together. We are co-workers, right? Co-workers for the gospel. Um, but we're also friends. We also have joy in each other. And that's something also we can pray for and can grow in and need to ask God to help us grow in that. To rejoice in each other, to rejoice in what God is doing in each other's hearts and lives, to rejoice. And that's What he's thankful for. He has a sense of joy in the Christians at Thessalonica for what God is doing in their lives, what God is doing through that church, and for and that is what erupts into thanksgiving We pray earnest. You know, it's interesting. Verse 10, as we pray most earnestly, night and day, that we may see you face to face and supply what is lacking in your faith. Now that phrase that we supply what is locking in your faith uh should stand out to us after all he had just said throughout this book he's given really high marks. on what the Lord is doing in that church. Their faith, their witness, their love, their labor, over and over, not when not just when he was there the first time, but the report he got from Timothy. They still need to be ministered to. They still need to continue learning and growing, as do we all. Amen? Or is there a point where we stop learning and growing and caring about the Word of God Right? No, no. He wants to go back. He wants to see them on a personal level. He longs to see them. But he also knows, again, this is this pastoral heart, this apostle's heart. They still need to grow. Never outgrow a learning spirit. In in the book of Proverbs One of the characteristics, if not if not the defining character no, the defining characteristic of the truly wise would be fear of the Lord. And um A love for God. But one of the defining characteristics after you get that foundation of the wise man is a learning spirit. Not the master, teacher of everybody else. It's the one who is able to receive correction. The one who's able to receive truth and humble himself. And have a learning spirit and a gentle, humble learning spirit to be shaped by wisdom instead of the lies of the world, the traps of the devil, the pride that's within us. This is the wise man. Blessed are the poor in spirit, not blessed are the full of themselves. We must be humble. We must be poor in spirit. And I know I'm ranting on that, but I think it's so important, so important that we continue to have a learning spirit and a growing spirit. We need to be we need to have a uh I've heard this said, a gospel humility about us. A gospel humility about us. And that'll help us to love each other. Also help us to continue to grow and learn. in the truth. But I but that was the last phrase that stood out to me. That they still are lacking something. Now they didn't have all their They didn't have every issue settled. They had weaknesses. They had things they needed to learn. They needed to be corrected in specific ways. We'll get to those passages, and all of us do. Right? And every church does and w to to one degree or another, you know. Not to the same degree. Makes me think again of uh what you brought up last week in Eda with the letters to the seven churches and revelation You know, some good things, some bad things. God praiseworthy, but you need to repent all this. But we need to be growing in our discernment And seeking to grow and asking God. Oh man, if you don't remember anything else from the fire hydrant I just uh put out there. Um Please remember this. Why in the world would we pray? Why would we pray? Paul's praying day and night. Because only God can do what needs to be done. Done. Only God can do it. Only God can do it. Grow the church, sanctify us, save the lost. On and on and on. On and on and on. Help us love our wives. Help us love our children. Help us endure afflictions. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your great, infinite power. I don't even have the words to describe it. I thank you for your love that you've showered upon us Lord Jesus, we thank you. Thank you for enduring affliction to save us. Thank you for dying on a cross, to take our guilt, to take our penalty. I thank you for the glory and the compassion of your reign in heaven right now. We seek your faith. We ask for your help We ask that you would establish us in the faith, and we ask that you would use our church in a mighty, mighty way, increase us in our love for each other and for all. Our love for the truth, our love for holiness, show us our sins and break us over those sins and drive us to repentance. This we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.