Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and go to 1 John chapter 2, looking at verses 12 214. We took a week off because of the interview week last weekend and uh I really enjoyed Anthony's preaching, and I also am very happy to get back to 1 John. We're talking about the confidence that we have in Christ. Every time I come back to one of these passages through this series of 1 John, we always begin with this overview point that in Christ we have confidence that our sins are completely forgiven. Amen? Past sins, future sins, known sins, unknown sins, sins of the the inner self, sins of the mouth, sins of the hands and the feet. In Christ, through faith in Christ, we have 100% confidence that all of our sins are forgiven, which means the guilt of our sins is completely erased. Before the throne of God. That's good news, right, church? This is good news. And in Christ we have 100% confidence that we've been reconciled to God. We have a relationship with Him that will never end. In Christ, we have confidence that we are recipients of the gift of eternal life. So there's nothing else we need in addition to Christ To supplement his work and then gain eternal life. In Christ and through faith in him, our sins are forgiven. We've been reconciled to God, and we have the gifts. We're to have confidence and assurance that this is the case. Today we come to 1 John 2, 12 through 14. And I'm calling this message a people of the cross. And after I read the passage and after I pray, I'll tell you why I'm calling this message a people of the cross. But for right now, all you need to know is I'm calling this message a people of the cross. Okay? First John two, beginning in verse twelve, I'm writing to you, little children, because Your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. I'm writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning I'm writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the Father. And I write to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning. I write to you, young men, because you are strong. And the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one. Well, real quickly here before I pray, I just want to point out something at the end of verse 14. Make sure we understand that two things go together. The end of 14, you see this one phrase, because you are strong And then right after that he says, and the word of God abides in you. And we've got to grasp the relationship of those two statements. It's because the Word of God abides in us that we are strong. We have no strength, no spiritual strength apart from God's word, apart from God's word dwelling in us, which is a way of talking about that our hearts have been changed. to receive God's word and to embrace God's word and to live in light of the promises of God's word. It's very it's parallel to saying the Holy Spirit lives within you. Therefore we are strong. And if you're If you're at all fighting the battle against sin, if you're at all fighting this spiritual warfare. You know that the only hope that you have is strength that comes from God and His Word. And this is what He says: You are strong, and the Word of God abides in you. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would anoint both the preaching of your word and the hearing of your word And Father, we pray that you would humble both the preacher of your word and the hearer of your word. And Father, we pray that both the preacher and the hearer would also be doers of your word through faith in Christ. Father, we pray finally, and above all things, that you would show both the preacher and the hearer Christ and his amazing grace. So we come to you now and we're trusting your word and we're trusting your spirit. We're trusting your faithfulness and we're trusting your goodness so we can go on and on glorying in your attributes. We come to you. We ask that you bless us by your word and spirit and show us Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. We're calling this message a people of the cross. Because the blessings that John is talking about here only exist Because of Jesus' sacrifice for us on the cross. He died for us. He died in our place. He shed his blood as a substitute sacrifice for us. So that our sins would be forgiven, so that we could know God, so that we could be strong and overcome the evil one. Everything in here is a result of Christ's work for us on the cross. So, to be a people of the cross is not just to be a people who merely acknowledge the truth of the cross. It's one thing to acknowledge the historical fact that Jesus died on the cross. But to be a people of the cross is more than that. It's not just intellectual knowledge. To be a people of the cross is to be a people who cherish the sacrifice of Jesus above all things. To be a people of the cross is not merely believing that Jesus died on the cross, but it's to be a people who treasure and cherish the cross above all things and Who've been powerfully changed by the message of the cross. The cross is where we come to die to the old self and are made alive in Jesus Christ that we might live for Him. We're to be a people of the cross. In fact, that's too weak of language we're to be a people of the cross. Here's what I should say. We are people of the cross. In Christ, this is who we are. We treasure Jesus Christ and his sacrifice above all things. And we've been powerfully changed and are being powerfully changed evermore by the message of the cross, by the power of the cross. Husbands, you're not merely a guy who knows that your wife is your wife. The intellectual knowledge that she's your wife doesn't make you a good husband. You are to treasure your wife. Above all other women, above all other people on the planet. You to treasure her above all other people. And the fact that she's your wife changes the way you live. Amen. Husbands, are you with me? You don't live for yourself. You don't live for your own preferences and your own comfort. To lay down your life and love your wife the way Christ loved the church. Just knowing the fact that she's your wife doesn't help anybody. Similar to with the cross. Christians aren't just people who just check the box and agree that Jesus died on the cross. We treasure him above all things. Because he reconciles us to God. He gets us the best thing there is a relationship with God. And our lives are changed by the cross, people of the cross. He says in verse twelve , writing to you little children, because your sins are forgiven, which is one of the ways of summarizing the blessings. of the gospel that's one of the ways of summarizing salvation our sins are forgiven then it says this sins are forgiven for his name's sake Our salvation exists to showcase God 's glory, to put on display God's power to put on public display and showcase God's love to us and to the world around us. Sins are forgiven for his name's sake. The name of God must be preached. God wants his name to be known. He wants his name to be praised and submitted to and honored. Sins are forgiven for his name's sake. Now in flushing out being a people of the cross Shocker, I have three points. Now I don't always have three points, but quite often there's three points. Um, first of all, that we're recipients. Second of all that we're reconciled. And third that we're redeemed. Okay. Recipients, reconciled, and redeemed. Let's start number one with recipients. We are recipients of grace. Recipients of grace. Verse 12. We just read it. I'm writing to you little children because your sins are forgiven for his name's sake. The message of Christianity is a message of free grace. And to receive free grace is what we want for other people. This is the burden that we have for the world around us. We want people to hear about free grace from God, and we want them to receive it by faith. The forgiveness of sins. Forgiveness is erasing the guilt of sins, and so there's no more penalty. So you can think about if you were to forgive someone else, maybe a coworker, maybe someone in your family who's who said something bad about you. Now what would it look like for you to not have forgiveness? Say something bad about them, try to sabotage them in one way or another, give them the silent treatment indefinitely until they earn their way back and into your favor, what would it look like to show forgiveness? What would it look like to have grace towards someone that has wronged you? You erase the vengeance that you have. You erase the anger that you have. You give up or you forfeit whatever right that you think you have to get back at that person in one way or another Whether it's talking bad about them or just ignoring them or secretly in your heart hoping that things don't go well for them or refusing to pray for them or forgetting to pray for them. Forgiveness, erasing the guilt. In First Peter 2 :24, Peter teaches that Jesus bore our sins. in his body, on the tree, which is representative of the cross, talking about the cross He bore our sins in his body on the tree, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds we've been healed. It's by the cross that our sins are forgiven. So if we're to be a people who are um living in The glory of this gift of free grace of forgiveness. We have to be a people of the cross. Another good verse is 2 Corinthians 5. 21 Where Paul teaches that God made him who knew no sin, who is Christ, God made him who knew no sin to be sin. So that we might in him become the righteousness of God. Again, that's talking about the cross, where the perfect Son of God, him who knew no sin, Bore our sins so that we might be counted righteous before God. Apart from the cross we have no spiritual blessing Apart from the cross we have no forgiveness of sins. Apart from the cross, we would never have this gift of the Holy Spirit that we have today, and therefore we'd never have true obedience in our lives. Apart from the cross. Apart from the cross, we have no spiritual blessings. It all comes through this avenue of supernatural grace, Christ dying for us on the cross. Your sins are forgiven For his namesake. Sometimes I wonder, no, I often wonder if we've heard that so many times it's just in one ear and out the other, like it's no big deal. Friends, this is everything. Because we're all going to die. And we're all going to stand before God. the infinite, holy creator of the universe who's righteous and we're accountable to him. And in that moment, if our sins are not forgiven, oh the horror Of being exiled from his favor forever. Our sins are forgiven for his name's sake. Manifest grace and power in our lives. Christianity is for the masses. Christianity is for the common people. It's a message of forgiveness. It's a message of free grace that's supposed to be communicated clearly at a level that anyone can understand. That though we are sinners, Christ died for our sins, and through faith in him your sins could be forgiven. I invite you today to receive this gift of free grace. I invite you today, receive the forgiveness of sins by the cross of Jesus Christ. By faith, by faith, receive the promise I have no act of religion or a set of good deeds for you to go do to qualify yourself. To be a recipient of free grace. This is how it got the name Free Grace. You don't have to do anything to be worthy of it, because we can't do anything to be worthy of it. But you can receive it by faith Let's discuss Christian living just a little bit. Forgiven people are, by definition, a spiritual people. Whatever else that means, whatever other specific applications you can come up with for being a spiritual people, it means that spiritual things and eternal things are always and everywhere the most important things to us. There are physical issues to attend to, no one's denying that. There are temporal concerns to attend to, no one's denying that. But first and foremost, the spiritual and the eternal. Spiritual needs come first. Are you with me, church? Spiritual needs come first. They must be the priority. Eternal needs, eternal matters must be first Always. And in that context, we deal with the physical. In that context, we deal with the temporal. Church In many ways should be like an oasis for us. Because we live in a world that's always prioritizing the temporal over the spiritual, always prioritizing the physical over the spiritual. It's so easy to get wrapped up into in that. To where we don't even notice it, or at the very least get distracted by that, so that we're negligent in spiritual matters. The church is an oasis where we come here and we freely publicly say to each other I say to you, you say to me, we say to each other, here's where we come, where we blatantly prioritize the spiritual and the eternal over the physical and the temporal. And that has to show up. That has to be evident to each other and to others who come. That we're a people, it's going to be strange to the world around us, right? Because it's completely different. It's like an alien world to the culture around us. That we are a spiritual people who prioritize humility, who prioritize showing grace to each other. In a way that's so radical it seems insane to the culture around us. We have spiritual priorities. We we have a a joy about us, a unique joy about us. Because we're a spiritual people. We should have a humility about us that is shocking and jaw-dropping to the world around us. And brothers and sisters, we must pray for these things. If God doesn't give us these spiritual things, where in the world are they going to come from? Well, they won't come from anywhere. We'll just keep doing the outward things of religion and thinking that that's what it's all about. It's not what it's all about. The structures and the organizations and the outward and the physical and all all this all this stuff is just to be a vehicle. To pursue and to grow in spiritual and eternal things. We're a spiritual people. Secondly, forgiven people are a purposeful people. Beloved, we are not just coasting through life, having as much fun as we possibly can. We're people whose heart Whose hearts are set on worshiping God. We want to worship God. We want to worship God. Together, we want to lift our voices and lift our hearts and join our voices in song to God, our Creator and our Redeemer. We're a people of purpose. We're here to worship God and we're here to serve God, not just in church. Church is just one sphere, it's just one institution in society. We're to worship God and serve God in our homes and in our families. You call that sphere one if you want to. We're to worship and serve God in the church. Absolutely. I'm not minimizing that. I'm just saying it's discipleship is much more than that. This is like a center for discipleship. It's almost like boot camp for discipleship. To prepare us and to equip us and to encourage us and to empower us to go out into the other spheres of life and serve God appropriately there, the sphere of the family. The sphere of being a citizen, the sphere of the state. What kind of citizens are we? What kind of employees are we? What kind of friends are we when we're engaging out in society, culture, and our hobbies? What what kind of people are we? We're to be a spiritual people. And that's where we will stand out. As lights in this wicked and corrupt generation, as we're out there in the world, in all spheres of life, serving God faithfully. But it all starts with being a recipient of grace. Being a recipient of the free grace, the free gift rather. Uh well is free free grace. It's a free grace gift. Call it that. Of forgiveness. There has to be forgiveness. Because if there's no true forgiveness, let's just use me as the example. If there's no true forgiveness, if there's no changed heart, every d everything I'm doing right now is is the epitome of evil and wickedness, is being a faker, being an imposter. Going through the motions of religion. I believe we'd be a false teacher who's pretending. You see, apart from salvation, it's all fake religion. Apart from the heart being changed, it's all man-made religion. That's not what we've been called to. Our hearts have been changed by grace. Our sins have been forgiven. We are recipients of grace. Your sins are forgiven. For his name's sake. So I encourage you, exhort you even. Be a recipient of grace in the way you live. Be a spiritual person who prioritizes the spiritual and the eternal over the physical and the temporal. And be a be a person Of purpose, whose whole life and existence is there to worship God and to serve Him faithfully Number one, we're recipients of grace. And number two, we are reconciled to God. We are reconciled to God. Um, verse 13. I'm writing to you fathers because you know him who is from the beginning. I'm writing to you, young men, because You have overcome the evil one. I write to you children because you know the Father. And I write to you fathers because you know him who is from the beginning. Now The phrase we're highlighting here is the phrase you know. It's talking about a personal and intimate relationship that you now have with the Son and with the Father three times once in verse Thirteen at the very beginning, you know him who is from the beginning. In a general sense that means God, but in the context it means Christ. It means God the Son. You know him who is from the beginning. And then at the end of verse 13, you know the Father, which makes sense. Because if you know the Son, you know the Father. If you don't know the Son, you don't know the Father And then for verse 14, you know him who is from the beginning. Again. So that's right in the middle is knowing the Father, and on either side of that you have knowing the Son. It's not just knowing about. In the Bible, that's not what knowing means. In the Old Testament, when God says to Israel, only you have I known. He doesn't mean that Israel is the only nation that he has intellectual knowledge of. It means Israel is the only nation that he chose in a special way by grace to be his chosen nation. I know Israel, God would say In that way only. So here's the same way. We've been brought into a relationship with God that will never end. Of course that's why the cross is so precious to us, because apart from the cross we wouldn't have that. Reconciled. We're reconciled to God. Reconciled just means that enemies are made friends Right if you've ever had two friends or two family members who are fighting, or maybe you're the one in the fight and there needs to be a discussion, someone needs to say I'm sorry, someone needs to say I forgive you, someone needs to say, you know what, let's just move on, I don't want to argue anymore. And whenever whenever that hostility is removed and there's a restored uh favor, that's reconciliation Now, if you're in some kind of strife with someone and another person comes in and helps to bring about that reconciliation, that person is called a mediator. And that's what Christ is. Christ is our mediator who erases the hostility. He gets rid of the hostility between us sinners and God, who's holy and who has An angry wrath against sinners and our sin. That's what reconciliation is. It's a restored friendship. It's restored favor for those who were in strife. Now, in our passage, he centers on that we know the Father and that we know the Son, him who's from the beginning. What about the Holy Spirit? Well just quickly turn to chapter three, verse twenty-four When you're writing a New Testament epistle, you can't cover every topic in one paragraph. Okay, so just because he doesn't mention the Holy Spirit in our passage for this morning, don't think that the Holy Spirit's not apart from this We can't know the Father unless we know the Son, and we can't know the Father or the Son unless we recipients of the Holy Spirit. Chapter 3, verse 24 Whoever keeps his commandments abides in God. That's another way of talking about the relationship with God. And God in him. And by this we know that he abides in us by the Spirit whom he has given us. That's the Holy Spirit. So how do we know that he abides in us? By the Holy Spirit. We're recipients of the Holy Spirit. And as recipients of the Holy Spirit, we know the Son. And as those who know the Son, we know the Father So we we are sinners who've been reconciled to God, still sinners But saved sinners, recipients of grace, reconciled to God. That should be on the same page, although depending on the layout, you might have to flip the page to go to 413 1 John 4 13. By this we know that we abide in Him and He in us, because He has given us of His Spirit, over and over and over again. Really the same themes. Relationship with God. Well, how do you have a relationship with God? Well, here, the Holy Spirit. Apart from the Holy Spirit, we do not have This reconciliation. Well, I think that's important to point out, even though the Holy Spirit's not mentioned in our verse All of these things are, all these blessings that we're talking about are possible because of the cross of Jesus Christ. And they come to us by way of the Holy Spirit. A couple of cross-references for you and talking about being reconciled people that were again on this theme of being a transformed In other words, there's no way of being reconciled to God without having a changed life. First Peter 1, 22 to 23. Having purified your souls in that vivid language, how do you like that? How do you like that symbolism? Purified your souls, brothers and sisters, if there's anything That happens in your life or anything that you see to or that you attend to in your life before you die, make sure it's the purification of your soul. Having purified your souls by your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love Love one another earnestly from a pure heart. In other words, if your soul has been purified, we'll now love each other from a pure heart, from that pure heart. Verse twenty three, still first Peter one, he says this since since you have been born again Not of perishable seed, but of imperishable through the living and abiding word of God. It's a powerful uh metaphor of The spiritual life that we s we we receive in Christ. It's a vivid metaphor for the salvation that we have as this Seed of truth, this seed of the gospel is implanted within us and births new life You've been born again, not of perishable seed, which means not of anything in this world, but of imperishable seed Through the living and abiding word of God. The word of God came to us. The gospel came to us, and what did it do? It changed us. And faith was birth. It's a common metaphor for faith in the New Testament. A seed, the seed of faith that then grows and bears the fruit of obedience. It's also one of the metaphors for the kingdom of God. It's a seed that grows and expands to the glory of God. Well, if we've have purified souls through faith in Christ, that means we've we've been changed We're not just adding religion on to a pretty good life. We've been fundamentally changed in the inner self. Reconciled people are transformed people. You know, we've died to the me life, as I like to say. We've died to the me life. We've died to the life where I am the center. Died to the life where it's all about me and my preferences and my ideas and my passions. We've died to the me life Reconciled people are a transformed people, and reconciled people are a transforming people. You like that? All I did was change the suffix, right? Changed the ending, really. We've been transformed. Amen and glory to God that we're not who we used to be. But we continue to be transformed. We're transforming from one degree of glory to another, being sanctified. Can you imagine if wherever you were, think about where you were spiritually in your maturity the week after you were saved Now, can you imagine if you were still at that point all these years later? Thank God for his grace that saves us, and thank God for his grace that sanctifies us and grows us. And helps us and conforms us to the image of Christ. More and more as the years go on. We are a transformed people. We're a transforming people, no longer slaves to the me life Here's another one from 1 Peter, 1 Peter 2, 4 and 5. As you come to Him, which is a way of talking about the Christian life, but I love that as you come to Him. Sometimes we think, well, we came to him, now what? Peter says, as you come to him, a living stone rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. You yourselves like living stones. Isn't that something? Stones don't live Stones don't breathe, stones don't grow, but the metaphor is we are living stones being built up as a spiritual house To be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ, which is the only kind of acceptable sacrifice there is, ones that are offered to God through faith in Christ and cleansed by his blood. Being built up as a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, offering spiritual sacrifices That's the picture of the individual growth of the Christian and the growth of the church as a whole Because when God saved us, He saved us into a community of faith. He's brought us into the household of God. He's brought us into the family of God. God has a purpose for his church. In the New Testament, the church is the temple of God. And in the New Testament, the body of the believer is the temple of God. And we never pit those two things against one another and say, well, well this is This one's more important than this one. This one's not quite as important. That's optional. But they're both critical. They go together. God is sanctifying his people and at the same time, he's strengthening the church. For the advance of his kingdom. This always comes back to this. It always comes back to why is this happening? It's happening for God's glory in the world. It's happening for the name of God to be preached and to be known and to be loved and to be praised. It's forgiven our sins for His name's sake. Well, are you a recipient of grace? If not, you can be a recipient of grace this morning by putting your trust in Christ and his sacrifice on the cross. Have you been reconciled to God? You've been changed, transformed, reconciled to God, enemies made into friends. If not, you can be reconciled to God by trusting in Christ as your Savior because of his death on the cross. We're recipients of grace. We're reconciled to God. And third and finally, we're redeemed from sin. Redeemed from Sin redeemed is the imagery of being set free from slavery. It means being purchased out of slavery. We are redeemed from sin. 13B, which means the end of 13. Through 14. 13 or the middle of 13 rather. I'm writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. Now who's the evil one? That's Satan, that's the devil. And there's this saying that he's victorious over you or you're victorious over him. Okay, it's victory, victorious life, spiritual victory. You have overcome the evil one. And then at the end of work fourteen he says, You're strong? So Christian, are you weak or strong? Strong. In one sense, we're strong because of what he says next. The word of God abides in you. Now, in our own flesh, in our own flesh, our own natural selves, are we weak or strong? We're weak, utterly weak. We don't even have the words to express how weak and sinful we are. But that's not all that we are in Christ. We've been filled with the Holy Spirit. The word of God abides in us. We've overcome the evil one by virtue of Christ and his victory. We live by virtue of his victory, so we don't have to accomplish victory. We have victory. You have overcome the evil one. And you are strong. And the word of God does abide in you. And then he says again, to close it out, you have overcome the evil one, and that's how he finishes this passage. It's written like poetry almost. Just in case we missed it in the middle, because we are prone to miss this and live burdened by guilt and burdened by shame and burdened by despair and crippled by despair. And not having assurance and not having confidence, you have overcome the evil one because Christ has overcome the evil one, and what you have in Christ can never be taken away. You are strong if the word of God lives within you. You have to have faith. You have to be, by God's grace, you have to be like Joshua and Caleb. Not like the ten other spies. And not like the rest of Israel who who bought into this pessimistic faithless perspective of the ten spies who said that the enemy was too big. The enemy was too strong. The cities are too fortified. The people are too big. They're too well equipped. We can never do what God's called us to do. Joshua Caleb said, no, we can do what God's called us to do because if God did put the period, that's the end of the argument. If God has promised you victory, you have victory to be enjoyed by faith. Recipients of grace, reconciled to God, redeemed from sin. Now five of these quickly to review on what does what does that mean? To be redeemed from sin, to have this victory where we've overcome the evil one. First of all, it means we're no longer uh living under the curse of sin. Now we live in a world Where the curse of sin still reigns. But we've been redeemed from that kingdom of darkness. We're now citizens of heaven, sojourners, aliens living on earth, living in the midst. Of the curse of sin, but no longer under its consequences. He sets a table for us In the presence of our enemies. And in the Psalms, it's written of the Christ. He reigns in the midst of his enemies. So we're not we're no longer living under the curse of sin, even though we live in the midst of the curse. Secondly, we're no longer blinded by sin's power. No longer blinded by sin's power. I hope you know this about yourself. I know this so clearly, so vividly about myself that before Jesus changed my heart, I was completely blinded. I didn't know what it was doing to me. I didn't understand. I didn't see what was happening inside my heart. Rebellion against God and a love for evil things. Pursue it like it's no big deal. Completely blinded to sin. One of the one of the aspects of the victory, one of the great aspects of the victory we have through faith is that the blinders have come off We see who we are. And what that helps us to do is flee to Christ and trust in Him and understand the magnitude of His grace for sinners like us. No longer living under the curse, no longer blinded by sin's power, no longer burdened by sin's penalty, um, which is eternal death, separation from God, separation from all of his favor probably not even having the ability to experience joy. Just be completely numb to anything good that would come from God. Burdened by sin's penalty. The ironic thing is when we're lost, we're not sensing that burden But at some point, what should happen is when we when we hear about God and his holiness and his commandments and when we hear about where how we're accountable to him It's called coming under conviction when we start to sense and start to feel the penalty that we deserve For our sins. And it's that burden, friends, it's that burden that's designed by God to drive us to the cross so that we could be a people of the cross. We're no longer living under the curse, though we're surrounded by it, no longer blinded by sin's power, no longer burdened by sin's penalty, no longer oblivious to sin 's gross and dishonorable character. When we're lost. It's easy to admit that we're sinners. Do you admit you're a sinner? Yeah, I admit I'm a sinner. Everyone's a sinner. Everyone it's because we have a conscience. That doesn't mean our heart's been changed. That's because God has given us a conscience that we know right and wrong When we're lost, we're oblivious though to sin's true nature. Um It's giving example this. When you see news reports of uh the abortion industry And you hear the statistics and you hear about what's what happened what what's happening in the world, what happens in your heart. Are you oblivious to that and just don't care at all? Or is there just righteous anger and wrath against wickedness that stirs up in your heart for that evil? Now, what's the mindset of the culture toward those same things? Completely oblivious. In fact, worse than completely oblivious, actually celebrating those very evil things that grieve your heart. So you have overcome the evil one that when you see wicked things, you know that they are wicked, and you are grieved by wickedness, and we see that in our own self. That's what brings about repentance. Finally, redeemed, no longer ruled by sin 's passions. Now you still have sinful passions. Living inside you. And I so do I. We will have until the day these bodies breathe their last. This body of sin, this body of death. But, brothers and sisters in Christ, we are not ruled by those passions. We have another master. We have a master in heaven, Jesus Christ. Sin is not our master. We're no longer ruled by sin 's passions. Israel was redeemed, no longer ruled by Pharaoh and his oppressive uh regime of darkness and wickedness. And we come to Christ in faith by virtue of his blood. We're no longer ruled by sin and its pride and its selfish passions. 1 Peter 2:11. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners, as exiles, abstain, abstain from the passions of the flesh which are waging war against your soul. Romans 13, 13 and 14. Let us walk properly as in the daytime, which is a metaphor for godliness. Not in orgies or drunkenness, or in sexual immorality or sensuality, or in quarreling, or in jealousy. But rather put on the Lord Jesus Christ, which is a metaphor, it says to do a clothing, put on, like put on a garment. It's a metaphor for saying, pursue Christ-likeness. And make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. I'm going to finish on that point. Think about this. Make no provision for the flesh. Now if you're on the battlefield and you run out of provisions, what's happened? You're in trouble. You're starving. You need rations. You need food. You need clean water. You need provisions. Here he says, make no provision for the flesh to gratify its desires. The flesh is this natural Corruption that lives within us. Why would we feed it and make it stronger and encourage its dominion in our lives to help it win the battle? When the battle that is waging is against our soul, against our good. Don't make provision for the flesh. Don't feed it. Don't make it stronger. Don't gratify its desires. You have a secret sin, and you are secretly feeding sinful passions and pleasures, secretly gratifying those desires, you know it's getting stronger. And you're getting deeper and you're caught in a s what's called a snare of sin. Your only hope is God's grace. Your only hope is that God will get through, that his word will get through and birth repentance. Repentance happens inwardly first. That which comes outwardly is just a fruit of repentance in biblical language. So, redeemed from sin, don't feed the enemy. You're on the battlefield, don't every night sneak over to the enemy's camp and give them more provisions and more weapons and more ammo No, don't feed the flesh. Recipients of grace, reconciled to God, redeemed from sin. I'll close just by inviting you, if you don't know Christ today, if you don't have this confidence that your sins are forgiven in Christ. I invite you to come to Him, which means put your trust in Him as your Savior. If you can't say today with confidence you have a relationship with God, the invitation is the same. Come to Christ. See his blood sacrificed on the cross as the forgiveness of your sins and put your trust in Christ. This is the only step that you need to take. There's nothing outside side of you that has the power to keep you from the forgiveness of sins. It's just that unbelief on the inside. Admit that you're a sinner. Feel that you're a sinner and put your trust in Christ for salvation. Why would you linger? We're all going to die. Church, are you awake this morning? We're all going to die and stand before God. And in that moment, I'm telling you, the only thing that will matter is whether Jesus Christ by his blood Has completely erased all the record of all the guilt of all your sin ever. It'll be the only thing that matters in that moment. Faith brings that which is far near. So why don't you make that the only thing that matters today? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your grace. Thank you for the blood of Christ. Thank you for the Holy Spirit. Thank you for your word by which you've taught us these things. Father, I pray that for the lost you would bring salvation. I pray for the saved, but in a snare of sin that you would give repentance for all of us. Deepen our love for Christ, deepen our burden for the lost, teach us your name, teach us your glory, teach us your power and your purpose and your providence in our lives. in the nation and in the world. Let it all be for your name. And it's in Christ we pray. Amen.