Let's take our Bibles and turn to Luke chapter 7. Luke chapter 7, verses 36 to 50, looking this morning at the forgiveness of sins. You really cannot get more central to Christianity than the topic of the forgiveness of sins. I mean this is at the heart Of the Bible. This is at the heart of what the church is about. This is the heart of the gospel, the forgiveness of sins that's found in Christ Jesus. Luke 7, 36 to 50. Let's begin our time in prayer. Father, we ask that you would help us this morning. Together we join our hearts in faith, and we ask that you open our minds to your word. Open our hearts to your word That you, by your grace, and you by your spirit would do a work in us. Even now I'm aware of my inability to do What you've called me to do is to preach Christ, to preach your word in such a way that changes people. And we're aware for every listener, for every hearer, that every one of us in the flesh are unable to do what you want us to do, to receive your word by faith and be changed by it. So we a thousand percent are trusting in you. And we know that if anything good will come of this time, if anything spiritual, if anything fruitful will come , Of our time and your word together, it will be because of you. It will be because of your grace that you do good to sinners. It will be because of your power. That you are at work by your Spirit. And it will be because of your faithfulness, O God, that you promise to build up your church by your word. We depend on you. We are seeking you. We pray that you would help us and minister to us by your word and spirit. Show us Christ in such a way that it changes us. That it gives us rest, that it gives us contentment, and that seeing Jesus by your Spirit would further conform us to his likeness and put to death the wickedness that lives within us. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. The forgiveness of sins is the erasing Of the guilt of our sins. Now you can picture that. Adults, you can picture that. Children, you can picture that. Something being erased. First it's there, and you come in with an eraser or a sponge and you blot it out, you wash it away, you erase it, you get rid of it, that's the forgiveness of sins. We've all sinned against God. There's not a man or woman alive who hasn't sinned against God. And so we have a guilt on a record before God. And the forgiveness of sins is God erasing forg The record of our wrongdoing. Would you say amen if that's good news? And what we see in our passage Is that forgiveness creates love, and then love creates worship If you can remember that simple two-step movement, you've got this passage down. In fact, you've got the whole idea of Christian living down. If you can remember that forgiveness Creates love and love creates worship. Or you can use the idea of giving birth. Forgiveness gives birth to love in the heart. And love in the heart Gives birth to worship and obedience. You've come here this morning to sing songs to God and to hear his word, right? Think in your heart, why is that? And then you're going to go home and you're going to read the Bible and seek God's will for your life, and you're going to spend time in prayer, asking your heart, why? And then in between all of that, you're going to strive to be holy. And when you fail and sin, like we all fail and sin, you're going to go to God. In private and ask for forgiveness. So ask yourself in your heart why? Well the answer Why, why, why to all of these things is because something exists inside of your heart As a side note, it exists there by the grace and power of God, so there's to be no boasting about this. Are you with me on this? There's no bragging about this, but there's something that exists in your heart that drives you to all of those things: love for God and for his Son, Jesus Christ. Amen? Forgiveness has given birth to love, and that love gives birth to worship, which manifests itself, worship does, it manifests itself in our lives in multiple ways. Coming to hear God's word and sing his praises. Going home to read the Bible and spend time in prayer. Striving to live for God and not ourselves. Going to God for forgiveness and grace. When we sin and fall short, which is every single day. In our hearts, we cherish Jesus dearly. And in our hearts we desire Jesus deeply. And in our hearts we need Jesus desperately Love. Love for God and for his son, Jesus Christ. And so, of course, you seek him And you worship him in all sorts of ways because you genuinely love him. Now, if you've got that in your life, everything else will be okay No matter how difficult it gets, no matter what suffering comes into your life, no matter what hardship, no matter what trial, this is your anchor. This is your anchor, love for Jesus Christ. Just a few more thoughts on this love that exists in your heart that drives you to all kinds of worship and devotion for Jesus. This is a love birthed by the Holy Spirit. This is the love that's strengthened by the Holy Spirit. If you're in a cold season, if you're in a dry season, what you need is to cry out to God for the Holy Spirit. That the Holy Spirit will so move in your heart and mind that you begin walking with the Lord again. We cannot be strengthened by the sinful flesh to live for God, and we cannot be strengthened by the world around us to live for God. We cannot be strengthened by the mere externals. of church to live for God. We can only be strengthened by the presence and power of the Holy Spirit. Amen? Love birthed, strengthened, and sustained by the Holy Spirit. A few verses on this. Romans 5. 5. God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us. That's one of my favorite illustrations in all of Scripture. It's the I you can picture a bucket, you can picture a huge jar, you can picture a you can picture a pitcher Of God's love, love for God being poured into your heart. But the important phrase is through the Holy Spirit, Romans 5. 5. God's love has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit who has been given to us 1 John 5, 3, for this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. His commandments are not burdensome. That means they're not a drudgery for us. None of us obeys God's commandments perfectly. But there's a difference between loving his commandments and wanting to obey them. on the one hand, and then on the other hand, despising his commandments and seeing them as a negative. And then we as God's people, we as those who are filled with the Spirit, we as those who God's love has been poured into our hearts. We do not see God's commandments as a negative. We don't see them as a drudgery. We don't see them as a burden. But we see them as a gift. We see them as a blessing. And by God's grace and spirit and power, He enables us to do the thing that we want to do. And that's to obey him. Praise God that he accepts our imperfect obedience. Yes? Because it's the only kind of obedience that exists in the world. It's imperfect obedience that God accepts. For the sake of Christ. Forgiveness creates love. Love creates worship. And that's our message today. Let's read this passage in Luke 7, 36 to 50. We will read this entire passage before we get it any more into the outline. One of the Pharisees asked him, that's Jesus, to eat with him. And he went into the Pharisee's house and reclined at table. And behold, a woman of the city who was a sinner, when she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisees' house. Brought an alabaster flask of ointment. Standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. And wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the anointment, with the ointment. Now, when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself , If this man were a prophet, he would have known who and what sort of woman this is. who is touching him, for she is a sinner. Jesus answering said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you. And he answered, Well say it, teacher. A Syrian moneylender had two debtors. One owed five hundred denarii. Which is just an exceptional amount of money. And the other fifty When they could not pay, he canceled the debt of both. Now, which of them will love him more Simon answered, The one, I suppose, for whom he canceled the larger debt. And he said to him, You have judged rightly Then, turning toward the woman, he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet She has wet my feet with her tears, wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in, she has not ceased to kiss my feet You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. Therefore, I tell you, her sins, which are many, Are forgiven, for she loved much. But he who is forgiven little loves little. And he said to her, Your sins are forgiven. Then those who were at table with him began to say among themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins? And he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. Quickly look at verse 42 again. Forgiveness is the canceling of a debt. You know that. Debt forgiveness. Verse 42. When they could not pay, he cancelled the debt of both. That's a picture of forgiveness. And then again, verse 43 in Simon's answer. The one, I suppose, for whom he cancelled the larger debt. Jesus Is telling this parable. He's telling this story to make the spiritual point about forgiveness And the illustration or the picture is the canceling of a debt. That's forgiveness. And this is what we all need in the eyes of God: the canceling of our sin debt. The canceling of our spiritual debt, the erasing, the blotting out of the guilt of our sin. Verse 47. Therefore I tell you, her sins which are many, Are what? Are forgiven. So you have the parable , the story. Then you have the point, or the interpretation. I guess you could say the application, which is forgiveness The canceling of the debt, the canceling of the debt, what's the point? Her sins are forgiven. And how do we know her sins are forgiven? By this great show of love and devotion that you're seeing right before you. Because the forgiveness Created love and the love created the worship. We know she's forgiven because of her love That's exactly what he says. Verse 47 I tell you, her sins which are many are forgiven because she loved much. And then you've got to love verse 48. The simplicity of verse 48. Is it not? Music to your ears, music to your soul. And he said to her. Your sins are forgiven. Jesus says that to every single notorious sinner, like this woman, who is known For living a life of sin and wickedness and immorality, Jesus says this to every sinner who comes to him for forgiveness. When you come to him in faith, Jesus declares this to you: your sins are forgiven. Amen? That's the good news of the gospel It's what this church is here in Jarracksville to proclaim and to explain to people. We don't know this naturally. People don't know this naturally. The world doesn't know this naturally. So it's up to the church, it's up to you, it's up to Christians to communicate and to explain this: that Jesus forgives sins. And if you put your faith in Jesus, he says to you, your sins are forgiven. In verse 50, he said to the woman, Your faith has saved you. Go in pace. Go in peace. Go in peace. Your faith has saved you. Go in peace. That's connected to the forgiveness, the being saved. Another word for that is salvation So she received salvation, she was saved. You're saved from the judgment of God when your sins are forgiven. That's the connection Because when the guilt of my sins was still on my record, then the judgment of God hangs over me. What's the way that I can be saved from that judgment? What's the way that I can be delivered from that coming judgment? Well, I need the guilt of my sins erased. I need forgiveness. So see this the connection between the forgiveness and the being saved. She's saved because she's forgiven. And now that she's saved, and now that she's forgiven through faith in Christ, there's nothing else she needs to do to shore up her salvation to be sure of it. She can be sure of it, that's why Jesus says, go in peace. Don't go in anxiety. Don't go in worry. Don't go in doubt. Don't go lacking assurance. But go in peace because you've been saved. The forgiveness of Christ came into her life. The forgiveness of Christ came into her heart. That's our prayer for each and every one of you. That's our prayer for our families, is it not? And for our friends and for our co-workers. Let's be praying every day for the salvation of the lost. The very simple way to look at this story is to look at all the parties involved. That's what your outline is that's there before you. First, we'll look at a convicted sinner. That's the woman. And then we'll look at the confused Pharisee. Obviously, that's Simon the Pharisee. I guess you could put it in quotation marks. We call him the host. Technically, he's the host, because it's at his house. But he's not very hospitable, is he? That's Jesus' point in what he rebukes Simon. You have a convicted sinner You have a confused Pharisee. Obviously, you have Christ the Savior. If you take him out of the picture, he've got nothing. And then finally, you have the question for onlookers. There are other people here, even though the story, as it's told, focuses on the woman and Simon. Verse 49, obviously there's other people there. So the convicted sinner, the confused Pharisee, Christ the Savior, and then the question for onlookers. Let's look again at verses 36 to 38. And bring our minds to think about this convicted sinner. And what that means is that this woman has come to grips with her sin and guilt, and she has fled to Christ for mercy. That's what a convicted sinner is. She senses. She knows. She feels. She's come to grips with her sin and with her guilt. And she's made a beeline for Christ for saving mercy. That's a convicted sinner. Verses 36 to 38 One of the Pharisees asked him, again that's Jesus, to eat with him, and he went into the Pharisees' house and reclined at table. Jesus is at Simon's house for a meal. Verse 37, and behold, a woman of a city who was a sinner. When she learned that he was reclining at table in the Pharisee's house, brought an alabaster flask of ointment. Standing behind him at his feet, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears And wiped them with the hair of her head, kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. It should have been one of his servants who lost and anointed the feet of the guests. They should have seen to that. That should have been taken care of to show a basic hospitality. in that ancient culture, dirt roads, wearing sandals, animals all over the place, uh and you're not having chairs with your feet hidden away uh underneath and Cleaned, everybody's clean, showered, and you have socks and you have shoes. But they're reclining at a low table In sandals, in this ancient culture, and so a basic hospitality is you have someone wash the feet, maybe anoint the feet. Simon the host didn't do that. You have this intruder. You have this woman who is called a sinner. Now, what's the point of calling her a sinner? Aren't we all sinners? So what's special about her? Well she is publicly known as a s as a sinner. And most scholars, most biblical scholars, theologians looking at that culture who know something about the culture and know something about the times said it 's most likely She is a prostitute or a serial adulterer, and known for this. Known for this. And she intrudes Simon's Hosting a meal with Jesus and other Pharisees. Now the Pharisees are religious conservative leaders in the eyes of the people, in the eyes of themselves. That's a leader. A religious leader in Judaism at the time. Because the so-called conservative. Now you have this woman. This prostitute or serial adulterer is coming in, and isn't it amazing? She's doing the very thing that Simon should have already attended to, or at least have one of the servants attend to this. And she has an alabascar flask of ointment Standing behind him at his feet, weeping, weeping, she began to wet his feet with her tears. And wiped them with the hair of her head, and kissed his feet, and anointed them with the ointment. This is a great show Of humble service to Jesus. And you see the deep emotions that's going on with her? She's weeping as she does this Not just a little tear uh trickling out, but she's weeping. Have you ever been so crushed by something? Maybe crushed by sin. Convicted by sin, which is what's driving her to tears. It's this strange thing when you come to Jesus. You're utterly crushed and broken by your sin, but at the same time you have this newfound joy that you've never tasted before. So you're simultaneously broken and crushed by the weight of your sin, and at the same time filled with joy unspeakable that you can't even put into words. That's what happens when The forgiveness of God grips the heart and changes the heart, and it's driven her to tears, and it's driven her to humble service and honoring of Christ. To love him. The only thing she's doing here is expressing love. You don't have to remember all the details. If you want to remember all the details, that's fine. But just remember this: what is she doing? She's expressing her love She's expressing her love. She's expressing her joy. She's been humbled by God. And she is responding in love, worship, and devotion. That's how we should all be living our lives. That's how we should wake up every morning as wanting to live our lives in that way. Love for Jesus expressed in humble devotion. Now we don't have the opportunity of Going into a dinner party where Jesus is there physically and anointing his feet. But we can still come before Jesus by faith, right? You can still fall down on your knees before Jesus and cry out to him. You can still humble your heart before Jesus and honor him and serve him and pledge your devotion to him. This convicted sinner. We see what she's doing outwardly. We know from the rest of the story and the rest of Scripture what's going on within her. The forgiveness of Christ, which she found, I mean treasure of treasures, this forgiveness. The forgiveness of Christ has created love And that love has created, and you should know it by now. Forgiveness creates love. See, this is my test to see if you're paying attention or not. Forgiveness creates love and love creates also a test for me to see if my preaching is any good. Worship. Alright. Now I know you know it. We when we get into church sometimes, we're just in the crowd, we get bashful. The forgiveness leads to love, and the love leads to worship and obedience. the devotion to Christ. That's the paradigm for salvation and for Christian living. Coming to Christ is like You're bleeding out, stumbling into the ER for help. That's what it's like coming to Christ. You realize that you are dying and dead spiritually unless The qualified people intervene. You just are stumbling into the ER trying to cry out for help, but Seeing the lights go out at the same time. You're passing out as it's happening. You're just so desperate for help so that you might live. That's what it's like to come to Christ Or if you're drowning and you've been trying to tread water for hours and you are just done And you start to feel your legs cramp cramp up. Has that ever happened to you in the water? Has a cramp in your leg ever happened? You know what it just seizes up and it feels like you get stabbed and you're drowning and finally, finally Just as you're going under, just as your eyes are disappearing from to under the surface, you he you hear and you can see fuzzy A life, uh a rescue boat, and someone throws you a life raft, you're grabbing on to that, that's what it's like to come to Christ. That's what it's like to come to Christ. Dying, dead in sin, desperate for help. And Christ helps you. And he forgives you and He saves you. He saves you. Now it May not be sexual sin that's ruling your life like for this woman. Maybe it is. And there's forgiveness for you today There's salvation for you today. Maybe you're already sinned. Or maybe you've already been saved, rather. Maybe you're already saved. And you don't need this initial conversion. And this initial turning from sin. Maybe you're already saved, but still there's a sin that's ruling over your heart, mind, and life. And maybe it's not sexual sin. Maybe it is. And God has a restoration for you today. Maybe it's unrighteous anger and losing your temper. Maybe it's a rebellious spirit, maybe it's envy, jealousy, greed Idolatry of loving something in the world more than God. Maybe it's laziness or spiritual apathy. Maybe there's a sin that's ruling your heart and ruling your mind like sexual sin was ruling the heart, mind, and life of this woman, but you can come to Jesus today for forgiveness and for repentance. This church, not just this church, but the church is a place For helpless sinners to come for forgiveness and salvation from the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what church is about. It 's the desperate, needy, convicted sinners who've come to grips with our sin, to come to grips with our guilt, and we fled to Christ For saving mercy. That's what this woman embodies. That's what this woman exemplifies. But you also have a confused Pharisee. Verse 39, the confused Pharisee. Now when the Pharisee who had invited him saw this, he said to himself, Mark that down. He doesn't say this out loud. He says it to himself. Maybe he murmurs it under his breath. What it says, he said to himself, which makes me think he's thinking this, that lines up with other stories in the gospel. Where people are saying things to themselves, and then Jesus can see and can hear what's going on in their mind. He says here's what he says to himself if this man were a prophet He would have known who and what sort of woman this is who is touching him for see she is a sinner. Now, what's his implication? By the way, it's a wicked Ungodly implication in his mind. He's disapproving Disapproving of Jesus receiving this notorious, scandalous sinner. That's what's going on in Simon's mind. Simon is lost. Simon does not understand the gospel. Simon does not understand his need for a savior. If he understood his need for a savior, he would be joining the woman, not criticizing Jesus. He's confused, to put it mildly. He does not approve. Why does he not approve of Christ doing the thing that Christ came to do? Receive sinners and grant them forgiveness. Because he doesn't get the gospel. He doesn't understand. Jesus came for the wicked. Jesus has a love. Do you understand the gospel? That Jesus has a love for evil people. That they would come to him and be forgiven. And no longer be lost, enslaved to evil and sin, but to have the Holy Spirit and to have the hope of Christ and have fellowship with God and to be sanctified gradually into the image of God. Jesus came for the wicked. Jesus came for the evil. Not that we would stay that way. But that we would see our sin and see our guilt, come to grips with those realities and flee to Christ In love and worship and faith. This of all things, brethren, do I still have your attention this morning or did I lose you? Of all the things that brings glory to God, this is the central thing. This is the central thing. Sinners Understanding that they are wicked, going to Christ for forgiveness, this is the central thing that glorifies God. And are we not to be about God's glory? Don't be ashamed of this gospel. Don't be ashamed of this gospel and don't get this gospel twisted. Jesus did not come, he said it himself, did not come for the righteous. But for the unrighteous, that they would come to repentance. And he also would say: the healthy don't need a doctor. But the sick do. Which is just a metaphor illustration for this idea that he's come for sinners. Simon, Simon, Simon, this Pharisee By the way, this contrast between this convicted sinner and this confused Pharisee in my preparation for this, it reminded me of the kind of atmosphere we should have in the church. It reminded me of the kind of spirit that we should have toward one another and toward others. When others come to this local church, the church of God, what do they see? What's the vibe? What's the vibe? What's the atmosphere? It should be that of humbled, joyful sinners. I mean, there's more you can put on it, but that's the bare minimum. Humbled, joyful sinners. Simon is confused because he doesn't understand the gospel. Number three, Christ the Savior. This is verses 40 to 50, where Christ responds to Simon. And he's also responding to the woman in her devotion, too, making sense of it, teaching what's going on. Christ the Savior, verses 40 to 50. And the idea, the summary of Christ, the Savior, is that he freely forgives sinners. Who come to him in faith. That's it. He freely forgives sinners who come to him in faith And that's why it's a problem for Simon. He hasn't come to grips with his need. He hasn't come to grips with the depth of his sin. He doesn't think he needs to do this. So that's why what the woman is doing is completely overset. I mean, her devotion is lost on him. And Jesus' reception of her is also lost on him. He's implying he's not even a prophet, let alone the Son of God. Or if he were a prophet, surely he wouldn't let this happen. If he were a good man, if he were a holy man, he wouldn't let this happen. So that's why we need Christ to come in. And explain things. Verses 40 to 50. Jesus answering said to him, Simon, I have something to say to you And he answered, say it, teacher. A certain moneylender had two debtors. One owed 500 denari Exorbitant amount of money, and the other 50, much smaller. Right? Much smaller, manageable, feasible. 500 versus 50 When they could not pay, he canceled the debt of both. Now which of them will love him more? Simon answered, the one I suppose, for whom he canceled the larger debt. That's right. That's right. If I pay your late fee at the library for 75 cents, right, and Zach pays off your mortgage for $550,000. Thank you, by the way You'd be m you'd be much more you have a lot more gratitude and love and appreciation for him. Alright? Because the larger debt has been forgiven. And he said to him, you have judged rightly. Then turning toward the woman, oh this is interesting to me, he turns to the woman, he said to Simon. He's still talking to Simon. He's responding to Simon, he's answering Simon. Now he turns to the woman, and he said to Simon, so he's going to use this woman as As the object lesson, not objectifying her in a sinful way, but he's going to use what she's doing. He's going to use her devotion as the object lesson, as the rebuke. In the lesson to Simon, he turns toward the woman and he said to Simon, Do you see this woman? I entered your your house. I entered your house. You gave me no water for my feet. At the very least, you could have given him some water that Jesus could have washed his own feet You gave me no water. But she wet my feet with her tears and wiped them with her hair. You gave me no kiss. Now in our culture we don't understand that, but that would have been a normal hospitality greeting in that time in that culture to give someone a welcome kiss. You gave me no kiss. You didn't even welcome me. Like that would be today, that would be equal to you coming over to my house for dinner, but I'd I Barely say hi to you and don't even shake your hand. And don't take your coat. Like it's just don't do the basic things of hospitality. You gave me no kiss, but from the time I came in, she has not ceased to kiss my feet. You did not anoint my head with oil, but she has anointed my feet with ointment. Therefore, I tell you, her sins, which are many, are forgiven For she loved much, but he who is forgiven little loves little. She loved Much. She loved much. Translation a whole lot She loved Jesus a whole lot. She loved him much. Because she was forgiven. Not only was she forgiven, but she understood the depth of forgiveness. She understood the magnitude of forgiveness. She understood that God's forgiveness was much. God had forgiven her much. Interpretation, a whole lot. Our sin debt, in fact, is an infinite debt Because when you sin against an infinite being, it's an infinite debt. It's a penalty that we cannot pay. She was forgiven much. She understood the death And the width of her wickedness. Therefore she also understood the depth and the width of Christ's forgiveness. She was forgiven much. She knew she was forgiven much. Do you know that you're forgiven much? Do you know that you sin much? And that you're forgiven much. This is what it means to walk in fellowship with Christ. We are aware of our need for forgiveness, for much forgiveness. And what does that awareness? What does it lead to? It leads to an appreciation? The cross of Jesus Christ. The power of the cross. His blood spilled on the cross. Cancel the whole debt of all of our sin. We are forgiven much. You are forgiven much. If you come to Christ this morning, you will be forgiven much. And that forgiveness creates love. And that love creates devotion. And the woman, it's such an amazing thing that the woman is experiencing the forgiveness of Christ. And her heart is filled with love. She's been humbled. Her heart is filled with joy and she's expressing her devotion. She's expressing her love. She's worshiping Christ. She's come to Christ. She's been saved. She's been forgiven. And here's Simon over here criticizing because he doesn't understand his need for forgiveness. This is the barrier of the sinful flesh. This is the pride of the natural flesh. We don't see that we're accountable to God. We don't see in our flesh that we're under the judgment of God, guilty of sin We don't see, we don't see our need naturally. So thank God for his word. We all need the word of God to come into our lives and teach us. And tell us and explain to us and convict us of our sin, convict us of our guilt, so that we see our need for forgiveness So that we see our accountability to God. And praise God for the Bible that not only preaches that holy law of God that convicts us of our sin, but it also preaches the glorious gospel of God that shows us Christ. And it sets the table with forgiveness. And it sets the table with salvation. And the invitation to come feast at this table goes out to all. There's no admission fee But you come to the table for free, and you feast, and you eat, and you receive Christ for forgiveness and for the gifts of eternal life, for the salvation of our souls. So this woman is experienced. It makes perfect sense to me what she's doing. But that's only because the grace of God has changed my heart And with different details that's happened in my life. And with different details, it's happened in your life. And if you're if you came in here not believing in Christ this morning with different details, it can happen in your life You can be convicted. You can come to grips with your sin. You can come to grips with your guilt. Listen, I know that the message of the whole culture and world around us is opposite of what's being preached right here. I know that what's being preached right here is the opposite of everything that your natural pride tells you. I know because the Bible teaches it, but I lived it No one comes out of the womb a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. God has to come into our lives and convict us and then convert us and save us by his gospel. Christ the Savior freely forgives humbled sinners who come to Him in faith. The forgiveness of sins had already been established in Jesus' preaching ministry. Luke 5, 24. The Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. Jesus already begins already preaching in all kinds of towns. Luke 4. 43. I must preach the good news of the kingdom to other towns as well. For that is for I was sent for this purpose. Now Jesus at this point is on a circuit ministry. He's going to different towns. And he's preaching the good news of the kingdom. He's preaching the good news of forgiveness. He's preaching that he has the authority to forgive sins. This was already a part of his ministry. This was already the heart of the preaching ministry that was all over, and word was going out, and there's miracles being performed. There's huge crowds. But that's how the message of forgiveness got to this prostitute or serial adulterer. One way or another, the central message of Christ's preaching ministry, which was forgiveness, came into her life. And it changed her. It changed her. And she seeks out Jesus. And even though he's a guest at someone else's house, the religious leaders, can you imagine how intimidating this could have been? Imagine how intimidating this could have been. Pharisee, probably other Pharisees, at least other leaders. At their house, at Simon's house, Jesus is there, you come right in. That's how unstoppable this power of love was in her heart. Because she had been forgiven. That's where I want to be. And that's where I want you to be. The question for onlookers, verse 49. I'm so glad this is here, because it brings other people into the mix. Then those who were at table with him began to say among themselves, Who is this who even forgives sins? That's the question, isn't it? Who do you believe Jesus is? Who is this? At the very least, we can say that they understood what Jesus was claiming. They understood that Jesus was claiming that he had the authority to forgive sins. Otherwise, they wouldn't have been able to say what they say. Because look at their question. Who is this who even forgives sins? And that's not like Me forgiving your sins against me, or you forgiving my sins against you, a husband and wife forgiving each other. This is talking about forgiveness of sins in the eyes of God This is talking about literally wiping the slate clean, erasing the guilt of someone else's sins as far as they stand before the throne of God? If I claimed that authority, you would have to fire me on the spot. If you claimed that authority, you'd be in my office tomorrow morning saying, what's gotten into you? Only Jesus has this authority to erase sins in our standing before God. So they understood that. And what's their question? Who is this? I guess you could read a different mood into it, which is dangerous. But I've heard it preached both ways. Like one way you could read into this is they're saying, who does he think that he is? Another way you can read into this is this is a sincere question. Who is this? I mean, Simon's here not thinking that he's even a prophet. They're asking, who is it? But that's the question for onlookers. And as those who are reading this story, that's the question for us. Who is this? Who do you say that Jesus is? He is the Son of God. He is the only way of salvation. And it's been preached before from this pulpit, I know because I did it. But if you want to get to heaven, you only have to do two things. Find a way to pay the penalty for all of your sin, and then after that, for the rest of your life, live a perfectly holy life in every aspect. Or put your faith in the one who's already done both of those things on your behalf. Put your faith in Jesus, who's already paid the penalty for sin. Put your faith in Jesus, who's already lived a perfect life in every single way. And when you put your faith in Jesus, you're united to Jesus. When you put your faith in Jesus, you come into a relationship with Jesus. And the blood sacrifice that he made as a substitute for sinners, that becomes your way of salvation. And it becomes so immediately You can be saved right now in your heart if you put your faith in Jesus on the basis of his righteous life, on the basis of his sacrificial death, you can be like this woman This is a great woman to be this is a great example. This is a great woman to aspire to be like, a convicted sinner. Someone who's experienced forgiveness, that forgiveness has created love, and that love that's created worship. She knows that when she goes to bed at night, she knows that her faith has saved her and that she has peace in Christ. Let's pray. Father, thank you for forgiveness. I pray that you would stir each one of our hearts Whether we're tasting forgiveness and salvation for the first time this morning, or whether we've been at this for many decades walking with Christ, I pray that you would stir our hearts afresh. To the miracle of forgiveness, to the glory of your grace, to the wonder of your mercy, show us a fresh Our depravity and our sin and our weakness and our corruption, that we might in a new way appreciate the life, death, and resurrection of Christ cultivate within us love and devotion that leads to worship and obedience. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.