Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. All right, Daniel three. Lights are on And you I'm going to ask for your forgiveness ahead of time. But Jesus says to forgive your brother. How many times? Seventy times seven. So I'm just asking you to do it once tonight. Yeah. Four, uh an extensive review of what we looked at in Daniel so far. So a lot of it is asking for my own forgiveness because I like just to dive into where we are. But chapters one and two are foundational. We've talked a lot about them. We've seen the major points in Daniel. Those major points will not change. They'll just further develop. Before we get to chapter three, plus we missed a week last week. Be f before we get to chapter three, which we will do tonight if the Lord wills it. Um we do see a new element of God's providence and his special providence for his people in Daniel 3, where God sends his angel to save his people. God sends a an angel as his representative to deliver his people uh f from a from a trial from a fiery trial But review. Alright, now there's five points on the review. Number one, God is in control. This has been the overarching Theological point, practical point in Daniel. God is in control. He is the sovereign king. Daniel 1 Verse 2. And the Lord gave Jehoiakim, King of Judah, into his hand. God is in control. Track with these verses if you have them I'm going to give a few of these for each intro review point. Chapter 1, verse 9. And God gave Daniel favor and compassion. In the sight of the chief of the eunuchs. God is in control. He gave Jehoiakim into Nebuchadnezzar's hand. He gave Daniel favor and compassion in sight of the chief of the eunuchs. Chapter 1 verse 17. As for these four youths, God gave them learning and skill. Who gave them learning and skill? They get it by themselves, they were just good students, they were just conscientious. God gave, God gave, God gave. Sovereign king. God is in control. Chapter 2, verse 21, which this is nice because you see those micro examples, but now you see a macro view of history. Chapter 2. 20 and 21. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might. He changes times and seasons, he removes kings and sets up kings. God is in control. He's the one in charge of the different eras of history, in movements of history, in kings of history. Putting them in place, taking removing them, the kingdoms, the flow of history. God is in control. He is the sovereign king. Now, that's your our first review point. The second review point is so important to keep in connection With the first point that God is in control. Because the fact that God is in control is not something we want to think about in the abstract. It's not just a point of philosophy. He's in control. Okay, so what? Review point number two. He's at work fulfilling his purpose. He's at work fulfilling his purpose. He is in control. He actually has something that he's doing. God has a purpose from all eternity. that he decided he's going to do as a manifestation of himself, of his glory, of his power, of his grace, so that he would be worshipped forever. Of course, the center of that work is his revelation of himself and his redemption through Christ, through the person and work of Christ. And we come to him through Christ, we worship him through Christ. This is God's purpose. So he's not in control in an arbitrary or capricious way. He's doing random things for the sake of it. There's meaning to his kingship. He's working out a purpose. Chapter 2 17 and 19, we get we get some windows into this, of course, in the Daniel narrative. Then Daniel went to his house and made the matter known to Hananiah, Mishael, and Azariah, his companions. It was the fact about Nebuchadnezzar's dream. He was looking for someone to tell him the dream and the interpretation of the dream. And Daniel told them to seek mercy from the God of heaven. concerning this mystery, so that Daniel and his companions might not be destroyed with the re with the rest of the wise men of Babylon. Then the mystery was revealed to Daniel in a vision of the night Then Daniel blessed the God of heaven. So Daniel understands that God has a people on earth. He is a child of God. He and his friends are children of God. They're worshippers of God. They know that God has mercy. So he says, seek mercy from the God of heaven. They know God is present with them, and they know God is working out a purpose, and so they go to God and ask God for help, which is a paradigm for how we should behave. We go into God and asking for help. We know what God is doing. We know who we are in Christ God is at work fulfilling his purpose. Also in chapter 2, 46 through 49. Then King Nebuchadnezzar fell upon his face and paid homage to Daniel. That's shocking That is utterly shocking. That would be like uh i if there were some random a Christian missionary stranded in Russia and something happened in one way or another. Uh Putin fell on his face and paid homage. to that Christian. It's just a shocking, this doesn't happen from a worldly perspective. This is absolutely incredible. It commanded that an offering and incense be offered up to him. The king answered and said to Daniel, Truly your God is the God of gods and Lord of kings and revealer of mysteries, for you have been able to reveal this mystery. Then the king gave Daniel high honors and many great gifts, and made him ruler over the whole province of Babylon and chief prefect over all the wise men of Babylon. Really mirrors or parallels the experience of Joseph in Egypt. Where God, through his special providence, exalts him and shows him favor in the midst of a wicked worldly kingdom. But the point is, through all of these things in Daniel, All of the stories and all of the visions, the point is God is just moving his purpose forward. He's moving his purpose forward and he's ministering to his people in that context. So the first point of God is the sovereign king. The second point is that he's a God of providence And a God of redemption. He's a God of providence working. He's not just ruling over the world, but he's also working in the world, but not arbitrarily. He's working in the world for his redemption, for his redemption in Christ. Which is what we work for as a church, right? This is why we support missionaries. This is why we share the gospel. This is why we come to worship. Because this This centers us during these crazy, hectic, difficult lives on earth. It centers us. We're citizens of heaven. We're children of God. We belong to a kingdom. We have a purpose because our God has a purpose. We're not just floating through life. Third review point, God reveals truth. Well, tongue in cheek here. I'm uh this may be exaggerating to make a point. It won't won't really do us any good if God is doing things in the world, but He doesn't communicate to us and tell us what He's doing. Right? And the example I always use, and there could be Countless examples in scripture. The example I always use is if God revealed himself to Moses in the burning bush, the bush that appeared to be burning but was not burning, but didn't say anything to Moses. That doesn't help Moses. He would be impressed. He needs information. He needs truth revealed to him. So in the midst of God's ruling as sovereign king and working in as a God of providence and as a redeemer. He reveals truth. Here is two subpoints under this. First of all, he gives wisdom and knowledge. Chapter 2, verses 20 and 21, again. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might. He changes times and seasons, he removes kings and sets up kings. He gives wisdom to the wise and knowledge to those who have understanding. So where do the wise get wisdom? If it's true wisdom, from God. If it's the wisdom of the world, we just get that from ourselves. That's not hard. We all know everything. Until the word of God changes our minds. Shows us how foolish we really are. And he gives knowledge to those who have understanding. So for those who have true understanding Where do we get it? We get it from God. We get it from God. Any true knowledge, any true understanding comes from God. And it it doesn't mean that people who are lost can't know anything. They just don't know the true nature of knowledge. Like you know lots about a tree. So much more about a tree than I do, but I know that a tree is made by God as a manifestation of His power in His world. And it's just one part of a much larger um revelation of God. So we're not saying that you can't know anything, but any any true wisdom or knowledge, in one sense really does Come from God. Even think of the lost there are lost people all over the world who think that lying is wrong. Who think that murder is wrong. Right? There is a God-given conscience. There's a God-given knowledge of morality that's warped and marred, of course, because of sin. But that knowledge of right and wrong, that conscience, comes from God. Uh also God reveals truth in terms of special revelation Not just wisdom and knowledge, but special revelation. Chapter 2, verse 22. He reveals deep and hidden things. He knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells in him. And they go down to verse twenty seven and twenty eight. Daniel answered the king, chapter two, verse twenty seven and twenty eight. Daniel answered the king and said, No wise men, enchanters, magicians, or astrologers can show to the king the mystery that the king has asked. But there is a God in heaven who reveals the mysteries, and he has made known to King Nebuchadnezzar what will be in the latter days. So it's the dream is about the future, basically. And Daniel wants to make a really big point of this to Nebuchadnezzar. That it's God who revealed the dream to him. It's God who revealed the interpretation of the dream to him. That God in heaven is the one responsible. He's in control. He's at work fulfilling his purpose. He reveals truth. Two more of these review points. Number four, God will set up his kingdom, dot dot dot on earth. Now, that's from Daniel's perspective. It will set up his kingdom in the future. That kingdom was set up by Christ. It will be completed and glorified at the return of Christ. But from Daniel's perspective, the message is God will set up a kingdom on earth. That was the point of Nebuchadnezzar's dream. Chapter 2, verse 34 and 35. This I've been calling the central prophecy of Daniel, of God's coming kingdom. Chapter 2, verse 34 and 35. This is Daniel explaining the dream. Uh taking uh in the middle, all right, so there's a a large statue, a large image, with different sections that represent progressive kingdoms and history. Progressive Worldly wicked kings in history. And then ultimately, here's what happens. As you looked, a stone, verse 34. A stone was cut out by no human hand. And it's a huge stone. Don't think of like a pebble or a rock. It's a hewn stone, like that would serve as a cornerstone or of a foundation or some kind of building. It's cut out with no human hand, so it's something supernatural about this stone. And it struck the image on its feet of iron and clay and broke them into pieces. Then the iron, the clay, the bronze, the silver, and the gold all together were broken in pieces, and became like chaff of the summer threshing floors, and the wind carried them away, so that not a trace of them could be found, but the stone Oh, but good news about the stone, my friends. The stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. I always ask the same question right after I read those two verses. Who's victorious? The image or the stone? It's no question. It's no question. This vision, this dream was designed to make that abundantly clear to us. And for confirmation, go down to verses 44 and 45 in the interpretation of the dream. And in the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom. There it is. God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms and bring them to an end and it shall stand forever. Just as you saw this stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and then it broke it in pieces the iron, bronze, clay, silver, and gold. A great God has made known to the king what shall be after this The dream is certain, and its interpretation is sure. The coming kingdom of God is one of those things that can serve as a title for the whole Bible. There's some different ways you could do that 'cause there are different aspects to the story. One of the ones I've used often is this whole this whole Bible is about God creating a people for himself in Christ. Well you could just say that's The kingdom of God. That's what that is. He's creating a people for himself in Christ. That's describing God's kingdom. His redemptive reign. His reign of salvation. His victory over Satan. His victory to deliver sinners from the curse as a show of his grace and mercy for all eternity. The praises of him will echo through the ages because of this great work. God will set up his kingdom on earth. And then our final overview point, but I think it's going to be our longest. Alright, so when we were studying chapter two, we did it in two sections. We did one week on God Will Set Up His Kingdom dot dot dot on Earth and Then we study God will set up his kingdom dot dot dot in Christ. In Christ. This is how this is the whole New Testament is about this. This is how John the Baptist ministry is the kingdom of God is at hand. Jesus ministry, the kingdom of God is at hand. He sent his disciples out preaching the good news of the kingdom, calling people to repentance. The messianic kingdom, God setting up his kingdom in Christ. John 18, 36, Jesus says, my kingdom is not of this world. So any idea any idea of an earthly kingdom, of a geopolitical kingdom, we've got to get out of our minds. These are a carnal conception of the kingdom of God will ruin our interpretation. It's a heavenly kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom. And I have four verses I want us to look at from the New Testament on this. First, Matthew 12, 22 through 29. I have three in Matthew, one in Revelation. And and whenever we talk about the kingdom of God, we should always be thinking about what it is and we should always be thinking about practical application. You know, the life of citizens of heaven should be different than it was before we came to Christ. It should be different than the world around us. We've been consecrated. We've been set apart for God's purpose. We don't live for we're not materialists We 're not secularists. Matthew 12, 22 through 29. Oh wow, that's a big passage. How much time do we have? Maybe I'll just preach a sermon on this passage. All right. Then a demon oppressed man who was blind and mute was brought to him, was brought to Jesus, and he healed him, so that the man spoke and saw, and all the people were amazed, and said, Could this be the son of David? But when the Pharisees heard it, they said, it's only by Beelzebub, the Prince of Demons, that this man casts out demons. I mean, what a wicked thing to say It's the worst thing you could say at that point. That's really the worst thing you could say to be there in that moment. Verse 25 Knowing their thoughts, he said to them, Every kingdom divided against itself is laid waist waste, and no city or house divided against itself will stand. And if Satan casts out Satan, he's divided against himself, how then will his kingdom stand? He's basically well not basically he is, is telling them that their way of thinking is foolish and it makes no sense. If I'm Satan, why would I be casting out my own servants to not do what I want them to do? That doesn't make sense. And if I if I cast out demons by Beezelbub, by whom do your sons cast them out, therefore they will be your judges. But well now he gives the positive point. Now he gives the positive doctrine. But if it's by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, well let me just go ahead and ask. Was it by the Spirit of God that he was casting out demons? Alright. Then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Or how can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods, which is a symbolic way of talking about his ministry? specifically his authority over the demonic realm, entering a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first you can circle the word first. binds the strong man, which is just biblical imagery for limiting his limiting his authority in the spiritual realm, binding him. First binds the strong man. Who's the strong man? Then indeed he may plunder his house, which is describing his earthly ministry, his authority over the demonic realm, his authority over Satan, his authority over evil. He bound Satan, entered his house, which is the world. Satan was the ruler of the world. He's bound. His authority is limited by Christ in the coming of Christ And Jesus Christ is plundering his house, and he's been plundering it ever since. I'm part of that plunder. You're part of that plunder. Jesus saved us from the kingdom of darkness. He transferred us from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of his beloved son, Colossians 1. We're part of his victory. We're trophies of his victory, of his grace. The kingdom of God had come upon them in a power that had never been seen on earth and has never been seen on earth since. The power of Christ. That's em I think that's important to emphasize. It's as important to emphasize as when we emphasize his suffering on earth and his sorrows on earth and his um His death, those are important to emphasize as well. That he's through those things that he attains victory over sin and death. But as I said before, make no mistake about it, this was not a weak man. This is not a weak and pitiful man who was just so lonely and begging for anyone, just anyone, please come and be a part of my group. This was a man of authority and power. Like it's never been on earth, ever. This is God in the flesh on earth manifesting divine supernatural power The kingdom of God. It's the kingdom of God being established on earth. Matthew sixteen, sixteen through nineteen. I'm doing this passage because it links the advance of the kingdom of God with sinners coming into the church. All right, the local churches is the outward manifestation of the kingdom of God on earth. This is how God has decided to organize and advance his kingdom on earth through little local churches scattered all over the world. Matthew 16, 16 through 19. Simon Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonah. For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you. We saw that point in Daniel, right? It's God who reveals truth. But my Father who is in heaven, and I tell you, you are Peter, on this rock I'll build my church and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. So it's a militant church. It's a warring church. Get that carnal conception out of our minds. It's spiritual kingdom with a spiritual battle that re that attains spiritual goals through spiritual weapons and spiritual means. But it's real, and that power is manifest on earth. I'll build my church. The gates of Hades, the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. And we don't have time to flesh that out. But it's talking primarily about the gospel ministry. Is the thing that grants sinners entrance into the kingdom of God. It's the preaching of the gospel. It's the preaching of Christ and His deity and His righteous life and His sacrificial death and His resurrection, His forgiveness. That is the thing that brings us into the kingdom of heaven. And so it's coming, it's granting us access into the kingdom of heaven, aka Christ building his church. Same thing and saying it in different ways. Matthew twenty-eight, sixteen through twenty. Matthew twenty-eight sixteen through twenty. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee, to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them, and when they saw him they worshiped, but some doubted Isn't that incredible? Because think what's the context here? This this is the res post-resurrection And they should still doubt. Well, we still doubt here and there, even with all the good things God has done in our lives. So they're no different than us. They're just weak sinners like us, saved by grace, struggling through life, through faith in Christ. Verse 18, and Jesus came and said to them, All authority, how much, Becky, how much authority is that? Every bit? Every bit. In heaven and on earth. Alright. How much how much of loc how much of s location is that? Every bit, every bit of authority at every bit of the universe has been given to him. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and Son and the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you to the end of the age. His kingdom authority, kingdom authority. Before the coming of Christ, all the world was given over to darkness in bondage to sin and in blindness to sin. Uh one nation, the easiest easiest question ever asked in the history of adult Bible class, there was one nation that had received God's redemptive promises, and that nation was Israel. There weren't like true worshippers of God and true knowledge of God and true knowledge of God all over the w all over the earth. This is what we re one of the things we rejoice in today, that Christ is Savior of the world. The whole world was lost in darkness. The coming of Christ, Christ's work changed that. It changed that. And ever since The day of Pentecost, he's been advancing his kingdom all over the world, establishing churches. God's the one who plans churches. I got one more one more verse for you. This is What's the word? Spontaneous. I'm adding a verse. I do have one more main verse I had planned. Turn to Acts 2 with me. Acts 2 And I'm completely spoiling a major point that was going to come in a later lesson. But this is so important. I want us to see it. It's the day of Pentecost. The Spirit is going to be poured out. The church is going to be formally established. And I want you to see who is there. Let me find where it says. Oh yeah. Verse 5. Now there were dwelling in Jerusalem, Jews, well you already knew that, right? And devout men, you already knew that. Now listen to this From every nation under heaven. From every nation under heaven. Because if I were to ask you today, do you think that the gospel is already spread to every nation under heaven. Most of us would really struggle with that. We'd be like, no, no way. That's definitely not happened. And then if I were to ask, okay, well, by the end of the Apostolic Era, did the gospel, was it preached? to every nation under heaven? We would say, no, may maybe in one sense. The known world, maybe. And and that's true. This is the day of Pentecost. There's people from all over the world, every nation under heaven. Are they hearing the gospel? And there's an important distinction we need to grasp when it comes to the last days. The witnessing of the gospel, the preaching of the gospel to the nations is one thing, then the actual discipling and converting of the nations is another thing. So here on the day of Pentecost, in one sense, so we can qualify this, there are other passages that talk about what happens in the last days and the trajectory of things. But in one sense, the gospel witness went to people from every nation under heaven on the first day of the church. Acts 2, verse 5. But the nations have not yet been discipled. They've not yet been discipled, as is the Great Commission. Disciple all nations. So there's the gospel witness, but then there's the fruit. of conversion and discipling the nations, it happens gradually. You can think of the gradualness and the kingdom parables. I keep bringing them up, but there's a reason why Jesus teaches those kingdom parables and it's so clear about The the kingdom power is unbelievable, but that doesn't mean it works quickly. It grows slowly and gradually like a mustard seed to a big tree. It works through gradually like leaven in a lump of dough. And that's the way Stenga like the Word of God. It's powerful beyond imagination, but that doesn't mean it works quickly. It doesn't work quickly in my life for every sin that I've tried to repent of has it done in your life? It hasn't it just doesn't work as quickly as we would want it to work. But God is growing patience in us, amen? Hopefully. He's working a work in us Alright, our final verse on this point that God will establish his kingdom in Christ, his messianic kingdom in Christ on earth, organized in the church in the messianic age, will be brought to a glorious consummation at the end of the age. But we're just talking about the kingdom building era right now, the church era. Revelation 1, 5 and 6. If I'm guilty of having a hobby horse passage, this is this would be it. John is writing to seven churches in the first century, the first generation of Christianity. And in this picking up in the middle of a greeting, we see some things that are already true. And from Jesus Christ. So this greeting is is uh From the Father and the Spirit, and now the Son, from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler. of kings on earth. That's just another way of saying he has all authority in heaven and on earth. He has all authority everywhere. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood and made us, past tense, made us a kingdom, priests, or yours might say a kingdom of priests. To his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. You have do we're a kingdom, we're kingdom of priests. We're kingdom, we're priests. We have direct access to the presence of God. Right now by faith, but in Christ direct access to God. We represent God on earth. We're representatives of his kingdom, of his gospel, of his of him on earth. We're a kingdom on earth. Kingdom of priests. The glorious, glorious thing God is in control, number one. God is at work fulfilling his purpose, number two. God reveals truth, number three, both wisdom and knowledge, but then also special revelation when it comes to redemption. God will set up his kingdom on earth, we say from our vantage point he has. And God set up his kingdom in Christ, which from our perspective we say he has. And he's advancing that kingdom to save sinners. To destroy the works of the devil, subduing his enemies, 1 Corinthians 15. And the last enemy to be destroyed is His death. Yeah. And then after that he hands the kingdom back over to the Father. So there's our review. I told you it was going to be a long review. Now, Daniel 3. God sends his angel to save his people. The angel doesn't show up to the end, but That's the big deal. That's the reveal. That's the climax of the story. That's that's the point of where all this is going. God sends his angel to save his people. J and I I believe This is a heavenly angel, just an angelic being. The word angel is used in scripture in different ways. Hebrews 1. 4 and Hebrews 1. 14, it's used for heavenly. beings, angelic beings, and many other places as well. Revelation 2 and 3 is used for pastors, representatives of church, or the letter goes to the angels to the pastors and then they send it to the church. It's used in Exodus 3. 2 and other places also for the pre-incarnate Son. Exodus 3. 2 is God revealing himself in the burning bush, which is called the angel of the Lord and also called Yahweh. The word angel is also used for John the, did you know this? Baptist, Matthew 11, 10. James 2. 25 , she's for Joshua and Caleb. Angels. Angel just means a messenger. Alright, servants of God. They can bring judgment, they can bring salvation. Acts 5:19, angel freed the apostles from prison. And in this story in Daniel 3. Um they save who are called Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, although that was not their Hebrew names. Alright. Verses seven through one. First thing we see is the wickedness, wickedness and the foolishness. Did I say verses seven through one? Just read my notes backwards. You want me to read them backwards? That would be quite a feat. Verses one through seven The wickedness and the foolishness of Nebuchadnezzar. King Nebuchadnezzar made an image of gold, whose height was sixty cubits, and its breadth was six cubits. Uh people have estimated it is ninety feet tall, nine feet wide, thereabouts. Measurements was not as exact in that time as the pr but It's it's huge. And it's made of what? Gold. Even if it was just gold plated, it's still in Unbelievable thing that he does. He set it up on the plains of Dora in the province of Babylon. Then King Nebuchadnezzar sent to gather the satraps, the prefects, and the governors. The counselors, the treasurers, the justices, the magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces. So all the rich people, all the people with influence and power from a worldly perspective. Shocker, right? Their worldly leader would do this. To come to the dedication of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. Then the satraps, prefects Uh uh I looked that up. It's uh it's like a provincial governor. And it says governor later on, that would be of probably like a smaller territory, but like a more like a prince or something like that. The counselors, treasurers, justices, magistrates, and all the officials of the provinces gathered for the dedication of the king of the image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up, and they stood before The image that Nebuchadnezzar had set up, uh, the Bible's real interesting. He keeps saying his name over and over, Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar, Nebuchadnezzar. the style of the narrative is just giving us a little window into his heart. He was all about himself. It's all about Nebuchadnezzar. What's Nebuchadnezzar love? Nebuchadnezzar. Verse 4 And the herald proclaimed aloud, You are commanded, O peoples, nations, languages, that when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music Now okay. A ninety -foot image of gold is one thing, but think look at the magnitude of the celebration. The extensive choral arrangement or the orchestral arrangement. But you are to fall down and worship the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar has set up And whoever does not fall down in worship shall immediately be cast into a burning fiery furnace. Therefore, as all the peoples had heard the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, chigon, harp, bagpipe In every kind of music, all the peoples, nations, languages fell down and worshipped the golden image that King Nebuchadnezzar had set up. What does it represent? It represents him, it represents his kingdom, his glory. You know, because of the short time we have doing that review, we may revisit some of this next week. I'm not sure, but that's one thing to worship idols on earth is a very, very bad thing, right? It's another thing to have yourself worshipped. It's to create an idol, even if it were a little inch of gold. 90 foot, I mean just this is a window into Nebuchadnezzar's heart. And coming after the dream that he had in the interpretation of the dream, this is Rebellion, no doubt about it. He was the head of gold. Now he what he's going to do is build a huge image, all of gold, and demand that it's worshipped. And if it's not worshipped in honor of him, what's going to happen to those people? They're going to be destroyed by fire. Who is he taking the place of? This is God. This is what God does He demands to be worshipped. He demands to be obeyed. And he should be worshipped and obeyed. He made the world. Right? He deserves. He ought to be worshiped and obeyed. Not Nebuchadnezzar. Not Nebuchadnezzar. But he's putting himself in the place of God. His kingdom is not going to last. He is not going to last. But you see the wickedness and the foolishness of Nebuchadnezzar. And this sets the context for what happens next. Verses eight through fifteen persecution against God's people Therefore, at that time certain Chaldeans came forward and maliciously accused the Jews. There's your persecution. And they're going to try and trap them. There's a couple different well, there's many different ways of persecution. Two of the ones you see in Jesus' ministry against him, and you see against the church is Trying to trap him, right, so that he'll be caught in something that he does or says, or false accusations. Lying about him and twisting things in a in a fa in a a mock trial against him. Here it's accusations, but it's more like just It's just maliciously accusing the Jews. Verse 9. They declared to King Nebuchadnezzar, O king, live forever. Now flattery will get you everywhere, won't it? You, O king, have made a decree that every man who hears the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, chigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music shall fall down and worship the golden image And whoever does not fall down and worship shall be cast into a burning, fiery furnace. There are certain Jews whom you have appointed over the affairs of the province of Babylon. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, these men, O king, pay no attention to you. They do not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you have set up. Obviously they're jealous if we think back in the story. We know that God had been showing favor to Daniel and his and the three friends Verse thirteen, the Nebuchadnezzar in furious rage, how I mean how dare they not worship him in his image Then Nebuchadnezzar in furious rage commanded that Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego be brought. So they brought these men before the king. Nebuchadnezzar answered and said to them, Is it true, Oshadrach, Meshach, and Abednego? that you do not serve my gods or worship the golden image that I have set up. Now if you are ready, when you hear the sound of the horn, pipe, lyre, trigon, harp, bagpipe, and every kind of music, to fall down and worship the image that I have made, Well and good. But if you do not worship, you shall immediately be cast into a burning, fiery furnace And who is the God that who will deliver you out of my hands? I I believe that's a rhetorical way of saying. No one's going to be able to help you. If you guys go in here, just no one's going to help you Persecution, now it's turned into a trial of faith. And this gives you a little bit of a window into the attitude of man, of lost man, to the kingdom of God, to God's servants. From man's perspective it looks pretty hopeless unless they give up their faith in God. That's not an easy position. Remember, enemies against uh us, you know, the church, the God 's truth are Not ultimately against us, but set themselves against God, set themselves against Christ and His kingdom. And their hearts can be changed, right? So we don't despair. This isn't the age of vengeance. We've not been hit put here uh to enact final judgment or vengeance. We're mess we're messengers of good news. It's the good news that changes enemies into friends of God. It's the good news that takes people out of the kingdom. It's the of darkness into the kingdom of light. It's the good news that pulls back the blinders. It's the good news of Jesus that changes hearts from hatred to love. Persecution against God's people have now left God's people in the test of faith. So verses 16 through 23, the faith of God's people. the faith of God's people. We saw the attitude of men toward them. Now we see the attitude within them toward God and Toward toward uh toward men. Verses sixteen through twenty-three. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego Answered and said to the king, O Nebuchadnezzar, we have no need to answer you in this matter. If this be so, our God whom we serve is able to deliver us from the burning, fiery furnace, and he will deliver us out of your hand, O King But if not, be it known to you, O King, that we will not serve your gods or worship the golden image that you've set up. What a great testimony. What a great show of faith by God's grace. Um they answer him straightforwardly. Our God can save us. Our God can save us. But even no matter what We're not going to violate our covenant with our God and serve. We're not going to serve your gods. We're not going to worship that image. They're putting their trust in God and God alone. Then Nebuchadnezzar was filled with fury. And the expression of his face was changed against Shadrach, Meshach, and Nebednego, he probably thought they were going to repent and worship him. and worship his gods. He becomes enraged. He ordered the furnace heated s seven times. Seven times More than it was usually heated, and he ordered some of the mighty men of his army to bind Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, and cast them into the fiery furnace Then these men were bound in their cloaks, their tunics, their hats, and their other garments, and they were thrown into the fiery furnace. Because the king's order was urgent, and the furnace was overheated, the flame of the fire killed those men. Who took up Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. I always thought that was weird that he chose his some of his finest men, some of his mighty men to do this with the risk involved. But this Since he chose his mighty men. But then it gives a little window into it was he was kind of uh in in such a rage and so acting so hastily. It was not a good leadership decision. You know. You'd uh you should throw some rookies at that job or something like that. And these three men, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, fell bound into the burning fiery furnace. So there they are. All right. They're in it And now uh God's favor upon God's people. It's the last section. We've seen the attitude of men toward God's servants, we've seen the attitude of faith. Of God's servants. So by the way, there's two parts of that. There's an inner confidence that they have, number one, and then there's an outward obedience, number two. We want to have both of those as God's children. Inner confidence in God that will lead to an outward obedience and will sustain us through outward obedience because it gets hard, doesn't it? To do often to do what God has called us to do. The faith of God's people, and hopeless from a man's perspective. But verses twenty-four through thirty, we see God's favor upon his people. King Nebuchadnezzar was astonished and rose up in haste. He declared to his counselors, Did we not cast three men bound into the fire? They answered and said to the king, True, O king. He answered and said, But I see four men, unbound, walking in the midst of the fire, and they are not hurt. And the appearance of the fourth is like a son of the gods. It's the best he can put it into language. He doesn't know what he's saying. No wonder Nebuchadnezzar ends up losing his mind, and that too is by the providence of God. I mean he's cognitive dissonance, right? I mean he he thinks the world is his. He wants people to worship him and he's seeing stuff and he has he's having dreams. It's terrifying. He has no clue what's going on. He has no idea of the power of God. Verse 26, then Nebuchadnezzar came near to the door of the burning fiery furnace. Be careful, Nebuchadnezzar. He he declared, Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, servants of the Most High. God, come out, come here. This is a funny picture for me. I don't know if it is for you. He's at the furnace. Yelling to the people inside the furnace. People who were looking from afar probably thought, what is he doing? Maybe they couldn't see in there. He's lost his mind. I'm just trying to picture these yelling into This furnace, this fire, this consuming fire. Then Shadrach, Meshach, and Abed and Ego, great verse of scripture, came out of the fire. And the satraps, the prefects, the governors, and the king's counselors gathered together and saw that the fire had not any power over the bodies of those men. The hair of their heads was not singed, their cloaks were not harmed, no smell of fire had come upon them. Nebuchadnezzar I mean, talk about the complete protection of God. There's no sign of the fire on them. And Nebuchadnezzar answered verse 28 and said, Blessed be the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. Who has sent his angel and delivered his servants? There you go. God sent his angel and delivered or saved his servants, servants, who trusted in him. and set aside the king's command, which they should have done, and yielded up their bodies rather than serve and worship any God except their own God, which they should have done. Therefore I make a decree, excuse me, a decree, any people, nation, or language that speaks anything against the God of Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego, shall be torn limb from limb. And their house is laid in ruins, for there's no other God who is able to rescue in this way. Then the king promoted Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego in the province of Babylon. Complete reversal from the beginning of the story You've got to worship Nebuchadnezzar in his image, or you're going to be killed. Now, and if you speak anything against the this God, the God of these men. You'll be torn limb from limb, and your your all your property will be destroyed. For no other God is able to rescue in this way. What a great deliverance. God sent his angel. And I love the I love the picture there because I'm going to say two things and then we'll be through. I know it's 802. What order do I want to say them in? Okay. So God didn't need to send an angel to perform this miracle. He could have just supernaturally preserved them indefinitely. But he sends an angel to minister to them. And we don't know if anything was said, what was said, and w of course we don't know the supernatural process of you know how this happened, but it was the presence. And the power of God's servant that saved and preserved Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego. And they are the ones who walk out of the fire. They were thrown in bound. They are saved and preserved while they're in it. And they are able to walk out and be and be restored. Now you tell me, is that a parable of the situation of God's people when they're going to be in exile in a foreign land, slaves, without a nation? I believe it is. God saves his people by being with his people. He ministers to his people through servants, through messengers, here, an angel. The other thing I wanted to say was just think about the think about all these things about Nebuchadnezzar's rule and his kingdom and then the other kingdoms that are going to come and and ultimately the kingdom of heaven established in Christ. Well, the the kingdom, the the outward manifestation of the kingdom of God at that time was not really in good shape But it was not yet as bad as it was going to be. This is all happening around 605, 604, maybe. Daniel and his friends had been exiled. But Jerusalem wasn't really attacked in full until five ninety-seven. And Jerusalem didn't fall until five eighty-six. And Temple uh a temple destroyed. And then there were multiple exiles that had happened. So the outward manifestation of the kingdom of God on earth was going to be wiped away. The nation was going to be gone. But at this point, that hadn't fully happened yet. It was happening And then eventually there's going to be a return from exiles, there's going to be multiple returns, a temple rebuilt, wall rebuilt Then ultimately Rome would take Jerusalem, that that fourth kingdom, and then in the days of the Roman Empire, Christ comes and establishes his kingdom. But the point is, God setting up his kingdom on earth and his providence and his uh sovereignty and working through history is something that happens progressively. It happens in different stages. And it's not something that's completely put on hold and then all of a sudden Jesus shows up. It happens In different stages. The exile and the destruction of Jerusalem and the temple was yet to happen at this point. But the outward manifestation of the kingdom of God in that time, the typological kingdom, a nation of Israel. Um was coming under judgment. It was coming under judgment. Remember, this is one of I think the one of the first things we talked about in this class several weeks ago. And Nebuchadnezz Nebuchadnezzar was being used by God as an instrument of judgment against the southern kingdom, Judah. Uh it's God doing this. He's working out his purpose. Part of his purpose is redemption, part of his purpose is judgment. And this Israel's coming under judgment. But even in that situation , he still has his people. He has his children, his faithful remnant, represented in Daniel by Daniel and his three friends. Let's pray together. Fathers