Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 2. Today is Genesis 2, 18-24, God 's Will for Marriage. Genesis two, eighteen to twenty-four, God's Will for Marriage Zooming out, zooming out, zoom hovering upwards and looking down on the whole thing of of why we gather and what the sermon is for. Let's remember, brothers and sisters, that we have come here this morning to have our hearts set upon Jesus Christ Isn't that why we're here? That God would work in our hearts by his word and by his spirit To have our hearts set on the mighty and merciful Savior that He has provided. That's the center of worship. And you zoom out and hover above everything. We look down on it from a bird's eye view. That's why we come. That's why we put ourselves joyfully and gladly under God 's word. No matter what topic we're on. Whether we're on the topic of marriage or whether we're on the topic of heaven, whether we're on the topic of sin, the main thing, the central thing, is to have our hearts set upon Christ. If you need encouragement this morning, friend, that's the thing that will encourage you. If you have fallen into sin. And you need repentance, that's the thing that will give you repentance, is seeing Christ. Seeing Christ and trusting in Him Um, God's will for marriage, just one disclaimer on this because it's I know it's a huge topic and everyone's in a different situation, everyone's experienced different things, or maybe you're dealing with something. So our so we're talking about marriage this morning. We're not talking about divorce and we're not talking about remarriage. If you have questions about that and your mind is going here and going there, and you have this question, that question, we can't cover everything in one sermon. And the passage doesn't talk about everything. It doesn't even talk about everything within marriage. If you have questions about that, I want you to know that we're available, that I'm available to address your questions, to give you counsel, biblical counsel as best as I can, Pastor Anthony. As well. And we also have other mature men, mature women seasoned in the faith who can help you. And you may come to me and I may point you to this person or point you to that person. So if you have questions, if you need help, come talk to us, alright? That's my disclaimer. Is that a good disclaimer? Yeah. So we're all marriage, God's will for marriage. Let's pray and then we'll first read the passage and then preach on it. Father, we ask that you open our hearts to your word. We ask that you renew our minds, give us wisdom, help us to grow in our discernment. Help us to love your word, love the precepts of your word, and fix our hearts on the promises of the gospel above all things, that we would find rest in Christ. That we that none of us here would seek Fulfillment and peace anywhere except for the Lord Jesus Christ. That's what we ask. And we're trusting in you by your spirit and by the power of your word to make it so. And it's in Jesus' name we ask. Amen. Alright. Genesis 2, verse 18 to verse 24. Then the Lord God said It is not good that man should be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him. Now out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field. And every bird of the heavens, and brought them to man to see what he would call them. And whatever the man called every living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field. But for Adam, there was not found a helper fit for him. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man. And while he slept, took one of his ribs. And closed up its place with flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man, he made into a woman, and brought her to the man. Then the man said, This at last is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore, a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife, they shall become one flesh. And the man and his wife were both naked, and were not ashamed. Now that I read that because it's part of the passage, but you see that's not up there. I only on this sermon and going through verse twenty-four and then I'll have one sermon on verse twenty-five. That'll be a fun one. Looking looking forward to that. Because we're still in this age of we're still in this age where there's no sin on earth. There's no sin, there's no death, there's no suffering. So I'm gonna milk this portion of scripture for as much as it's worth. Um couple things first before we get into the outline. When we preach And teach when we believe a biblical view of marriage, I want us to understand where this puts us in relation to the culture around us It puts us in the extreme minority. I mean, in the lost culture, in the lost society around us, any view of marriage, any definition of marriage is a good one. Except the biblical one. So just accept the fact that in terms of the culture around us, if you hold To a biblical view of marriage. If you say God's the one who defines what marriage is, you are in the minority. So just come to terms with that in your heart. Secondly, when talking about marriage, in any way, when the idea of marriage comes into our minds, it should immediately draw our hearts to the union between Christ. And his church. Because the Bible teaches that the church is the bride of Christ. He is the groom. We are his bride. Now in marriage the two become one. So the idea that the church is the bride of Christ should encourage you. Because Christ and his church have become one. Every believer has become one with Christ. You have been united to Christ And you as an individual are not his bride, but you are a member of his bride, the church. Christ loves his church. He loves his bride. He cherishes his bride. And serves her in a perfect way with a perfect law. But he's always willing to forgive. He's always willing to be patient. He's always willing to help. And that's where our minds should go when we're ever talking about marriage. At least one of the things that should come into our hearts is I've been united to Christ because the church is the bride of Christ. In fact, hopefully we'll get to this passage in Ephesians at some point in the message where that comparison is made. I'm not making that comparison up. That comparison comes From God's word. Marriage is a a created reflection of the supernatural, the spiritual relationship between the exalted Lord Jesus Christ and sinners like us, the church, the church of Christ. Well, let's get into the outline on God's will for marriage. To understand God's will for marriage, we need to understand at least, I mean at least just within this passage. We need to understand, number one, Adam's need for a suitable helper. That'll be our first point. That's really the point that comes out first is Adam can't do everything he needs to do. To understand Adam's need for a suitable helper. Secondly, to understand God's will for marriage We need to understand God's original and unchanging design. God's original and unchanging design. This is a hard one for a lot of people to stomach. A lot of people to stomach. That God's design for marriage is unchanging. No. A lot of churches, you can preach this, uh, the biblical view of marriage or the biblical view of sexuality, and and you may lose people You may lose attenders. You may lose visitors who never come back. You may even lose members just because you stick to a biblical view on these things This is man's great sin in any area of life, not just marriage, but isn't this man's great sin in every area of life? Is we think we have the authority to define what it is, to say what it is? Or to make it what it is and to say what's right. And that's just the authority. Brothers and sisters, friends, visitors, straightforward, that authority belongs to God and God alone. God determines What things are and what things should be. Understand God's will for marriage, we need to understand Adam's need for a suitable helper I gave you three first. I should have given you two. I gave you number three, God's original and unchanging design. Number two , supernatural creation of woman. Supernatural creation of woman. Apologies for that. I'll say them again in order. Adam's need for a suitable helper, the supernatural creation of woman, and God's original and unchanging design. So point number one. Adam's need for a suitable helper. This is verses 18 through 20. So look at verses 18 through 20 with me one more time and see if this point flies off the page. Then the Lord God said, It is not good that the man should be alone. I will make him a helper fit for him. So the very first point you see that God is making here in this passage is Adam needs help. Adam needs a helper. He needs a specific help kind of helper. He can't just get one of the fish or one of the birds or one of the land animals to help him. He needs a f uh a suitable helper, a helper designed specifically for him and who he's called to be, what he's called to do. Adam needs help. Adam needs help. Um verse 19. Now out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field and every bird of the heaven, brought them to the man to see what he would call them. Whatever the man called every living creature, that was its Name, the man gave names to all livestock, and to the birds of the heavens, and to the beasts of the field. But for Adam there was not found a helper fit for him. Not found is a key phrase. Not found. The helper that he needs, brothers and sisters, is not there. And he needs help. It's not good for man, for Adam, to be alone. A side note here, and this is the first passage in Scripture where you get the proper name Adam. And the Hebrew word for ground, or the Hebrew word for man, the Hebrew word for Adam. It 's the same word. Man or Adam. A Adam is just the proper name of the first man, but it's connected to this word for man. Adam is the word. And so, in some of your Bible, some of your translations, in verse 19, is when the interpreters make that shift and start using the name Adam. But for and I'll read this in a second so you can see. But for other translations, some of you, the interpreters, make that shift in verse 20. And in verse 20, they start using the name Adam. So let's look at verses 19 through 20. It's in those verses where the proper name Adam is first used. Um now out of the ground, which by the word is a similar word, it's Adama, it's very similar to the word for man or or Adam to show that connection Between man and the ground. Remember he was made from the dust of the earth. It's a different word, but it's similar. Then the Lord God said, or note 19, now out of the ground the Lord God had formed every beast of the field, every bird of the heavens, and brought them to the man, or some of you have brought them to Adam. to see what he would call them. And whatever the man or Adam called, every living creature, that was its name. The man gave names to all livestock and to the birds of the heavens and to every beast of the field, but for Adam, there was not found a helper fit So for some of you, right there in verse 20 is where you first see Adam. Well, others you'll see Adam in verse 19 twice. But either way, I just want you to see the uh the theological connection between man And Adam. Man and Adam. Adam is the first man. Adam is the first human. Adam is a representative figure for mankind. And Romans 5 teaches that quite clearly. So just something you should notice. If that stood out to you, I was reading the passage and you saw Adam in your Bible, but you heard man coming from up here, that's what it was. And you'll see the glaring deficiency, I mean the glaring deficiency of the male-only world. Now, everything at this point, because sin had not entered the world yet, Everything was good. God declared everything good. And after the creation of man, on the seventh day, he declared everything good. Very good. That's in chapter one. But if you go back and you can skim your eyes there right now at the end of chapter one, it's a summary description of the creation of man and that includes male and female. It's after the creation of male and female in chapter one where God declares Very good. Because now mankind, male and female, can obey God's command and be fruitful and fill multiply and fill the earth and exercise dominion over the earth, which is God's will for mankind. But so at this point, where chapter 2 now has gone back and is zooming in on the sixth day of creation, at this point there's a glaring deficiency of a male-only world. If you have a male-only world, it's just a matter of time. It's going to dwindle, and it's going to dwindle, and it's going to disappear. It doesn't work. And that's not God's purpose for that. Man alone cannot fulfill, or male alone cannot fulfill God's charge in chapter one, verse 28. God bless them. And God said to them, Be fruitful and multiply, fill the earth and subdue it, and have dominion over the fish of the sea. And the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on the earth. The male alone cannot Fulfill God's charge. He needs help. It's just like wheels. You need an axle and you need wheels and tires on whatever it is you To make it go to be a a vehicle on the ground, you need wheels. Yeah, but you also need an engine or something to provide energy. Just having wheels that will roll and move you forward. You need to have some kind of force, some kind of energy, whether whether it's an engine or whether it's horses or whether it's As people, you need something else in addition to the wheels for this vehicle to be able to be useful. It's here with man or male. He needs help. Adam needs needs help. Now, if you were paying attention to verse 19 and 20, and I know that you were, that's just a thing you say to help people follow along, right? Verse 19 and 20, before the creation of woman, we notice that Adam had already joined God in his work. Where Adam is naming some of the different creatures. He's naming some of the different kinds of creatures. And up to that point in the narrative, the only one who names things with that authority to name is God. But then as you move through, God delegates certain things to man, to man to be his representative on earth. But Adam is already engaged in the work of God on earth. When this out it's verses nineteen through twenty. And um men, women, and children can imitate Adam here in this. And that is make God's purpose your purpose. Make God's purpose your purpose. Make God's goals your goals Isn't that key principle of discipleship? We're no longer living for ourselves? We're no longer just um i inventing what's the purpose of life or going to sources in the world for the meaning of life or for how to find salvation, how to find peace in our hearts. Well we go to God. And we go to God on this. And that is, what's my purpose? What's the pro Why am I here? What am I supposed to do? Well, we go to God's word. We go to God to find that out. Whether you're a male, female, adult, or child, take this lesson from Adam this morning and make God's purpose your purpose. By the way, we can make application to the church as a whole for that. And we need to make sure that our work is in line with God's work. Make sure that our mission is in line with God's mission. And so that we're not here just doing religion, but we're living out obedience, practical obedience to God. If we love him, we'll keep his commandments. And we do love him because he first loved us. Amen? Now that's the first point, is Adam needs a suitable helper. And the second point is The supernatural creation of woman. To understand God's will for marriage, the nature of marriage, we need to understand the supernatural creation of woman. This is verses 21. Through twenty-three. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man, and while he slept, took one of his ribs and closed up it And closed up its place with its flesh. And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man, he made into a woman, and brought her to the man. Then the man said, This at last is bone of my bones and flesh of my flesh, and shall be called woman, because she was taken out of man. Even there, God has Adam participating in God's work of identifying, of naming. It's a way of recognizing What God has done and honoring what God has done, but also joining God in his work. And Adam got that. He got special connection. Between a man and a woman, between a male and female, supernatural creation of woman. First of all, God puts Adam under a deep sleep. Beginning of verse 21. So the Lord God caused a deep sleep to fall upon the man. Just think anesthesia. Just think like what you want to happen to you before they cut you open. Anesthesia. Here you have just a supernatural anesthesia rather than a natural medical anesthesia But it's a deep sleep. It's a sleep that can't be disturbed until God brings him out of that. But what you have here does look a lot like surgery. He puts him into a deep sleep. And then there's a surgical procedure that he cuts Adam open in one way or another, and he removes a rib, and then he seals Adam closed. He just doesn't leave him there, bleeding out. And this is a supernatural, this is a unique, unrepeatable, supernatural work of God. Just like the cre uh the creation of man was supernatural and unrepeatable where God formed Adam from dust into a man and then breathed into him the breath of life that he became a living being Different than all the other living beings because made in the image and likeness of God. And now from image and likeness of God, man taking a rib and supernaturally forming it into woman. So man from the ground And um you see that special relation, that special bond between Adam and the dust, between man and the dust of the earth, but you see a more special bond. A more special bond, a higher bond between male and female. But of course, the most special bond is the bond between man and his creator. And if you walk in the fear of the Lord. Walk in the fear of the Lord. That means live in such a way where you're acknowledging God is your fear. creator where you're acknowledging God's authority where we're we are acknowledging that we are accountable to God He is our Maker and He's our Redeemer and it is our joy to serve Him. Walk in the fear of the Lord. It all goes back to this. God is the creator and man is created. You have God putting Adam under a deep sleep. Supernatural anesthesia that happens other times in the Bible too. That happens with Abraham when uh God makes a covenant with Abraham. It happened with David's men. One of these times where David was on the run from Saul, this happened uh to David's men when David snuck off into the camp and he took Saul's spear and he took Saul's water jug that was right near right there next to Saul. As he was doing that, the text says God put his men under a deep sleep. The point is, it emphasizes in the story that God is the sovereign actor. He's the one in charge. He's the prime actor. How active, how active and proactive is Adam in this creation of woman? Zero. He's completely passive. He's in he's asleep. What can Adam do? Even if he was awake, what supernatural power does Adam have? Adam can't reform form a woman out of a rib You can't do that. But the deep sleep emphasizes, I think certainly emphasizes God's mercy toward Adam in putting Adam into this deep sleep. But it emphasizes God is the prime actor. He's the one in sovereign control of this. And man, anything good that happens for man in this situation is 100% the work of God. A hundred percent the work of God. That's how we should think about our salvation, right? It's a hundred percent a work of God. It's not fifty percent me, fifty percent God. It's not fifty percent God was gracious and fifty percent I was smart so that I received his grace. That's not what salvation is. If not 99% Jesus did this great work and 1% I did this work, that now we have salvation. No, it's 100% God, 100% grace, and 100% the work of Christ. That's how we think about salvation, 100% the work of God. That's how we think about creation, whether it's the universe or man or woman or whatever. Anything creation that comes into existence out of nothing, 100% the work of God. And here you have that supernatural creation of woman. To understand God's will for marriage, first we need to understand that Adam's need for a suitable helper. There was a need This is not going to be arbitrary. It's not just a random fund thing that God is doing. He's meeting a need. He's addressing a real need for Adam, for males. So Adam's need for a suitable helper. Number two, we need to understand the supernatural creation of woman. And number three, we need to understand God's original and unchanging design. God's original and unchanging design. Verse 24. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become one flesh. Marriage is an ordinance for all society and for all history. It's not making a statement just about Adam and Eve in that situation And I know that for what well other verses that will come after this, but from within this verse, look very closely at what it says. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother. Now there's a problem. At this point in history, fathers and mothers don't exist yet. Are we awake? We all get that, right? Just making sure. I'm not trying to trick you with like philosophy or anything like that. M fathers and mothers don't exist. So a point is being made about what's to follow. But you have Adam You have this woman supernaturally made. This is the first marriage. God created them as a married couple. We didn't come into the world that way. We get to learn to walk, talk, grow up, mature, and then get married. They were created, married, at least once Eve is brought into the picture. Where is I going with this? Oh yeah, fathers and mothers. So it's an ordinance, which just means a regulation. It's an ordinance for looking forward based on what's happening here. It's an ordinance for all society, for all of history, that's not going to change. On the basis of this, on the basis of this thing, what God is doing here Therefore, verse 24, a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife, and they shall become And ordinance is just a regulation that everyone has to follow. I understand we don't use that word a ton out in regular life. We use that in church or the two ordinances of the church and bat water baptism and then the Lord's Supper, these these outward signs, these sort of visualizations of the gospel and of salvation. Those are ordinances. regulations that everyone has to follow. I used to live in a place where one of the ordinance what one of the ordinances was no overnight parking But that's a local ordinance. Not every place has that, not every street has that, but in some places you'll have an ordinance, no overnight parking. Sometimes there'll be no street parking at all. That may be an ordinance. It's a regulation that everyone has to follow. I try to have ordinances in my house and looking for my family. I try to have ordinances in my house, regulations that everyone has to follow. You fold up your cardboard box before you put it all in the recycling bin. Don't float boxes climbing up a wall on top of the recycling bin, leaving for dad who's got to break them all down. Break down your boxes. I'm looking at you all in the back, right over here. Parents, we try to have ordinances, regulations But that's all an ordinance is. So don't get thrown by this ordinance, but the fact of the matter is marriage Between a male and female is a creation ordinance. It's a regulation for all society, for all history that God put in place. It's a regulation for all to follow. No matter what culture says, this won't change. No matter what a person feels This won't change. No matter what the government allows and says is fine, this won't change. God's design, his unchanging design for marriage. is between a male and a female, and that a man shall leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife. And that's my second point under this original and unchanging design. First is it's ordinance for all society, for all history. Second, once he's married, man's first allegiance in his earthly relationships. Okay, we know ultimately our first allegiance is always to be to who? To God. To whom? To God. Alright, but in terms of earthly relationships, once a man is married, his first re allegiance in earthly relationships changes from his parents to his bride. He puts his bride first. He's worried about caring for his bride first and his bride's concerns. his bride's well-being and pleasing and serving and laying his life down for his bride, not just to please his parents to make them happy. Says, leave his father and his mother and hold fast to his wife. Husbands, your first allegiance in earthly relationships is your wife Absolutely without question. Your bride. Don't let any other relationship come in between you and your bride. God getting an Amen on that. Anyone? Husbands? Wives? At least you get the wives say amen on that. Doesn't count. Man's first allegiance in his earthly relationships changes from his parents to his bride when he's married. And you can take that principle and apply it to the wife as well. But what does the text focus on? Focuses on the man leaving. The man leaving And um so men you go first in modeling that. That's what a leader does. A leader goes first in doing something You go first. You be first. So like the line leader in first grade. What's a line leader? It just means you go first to the waterfowl. So be first in clinging to your spouse. clinging to your spouse. And then it says the two become one. The two become one. They shall become one flesh. The end of verse twenty four It's in two primary ways. Number one, physically, through intimacy and procreation, the two become one. Obeying God to be fruitful, multiply, and enjoying God's Gift of intimacy within marriage. But number two, legally. Now there's still two people. There's still two beings, two independent people Alright, but they're legally bound. So the second is legally. The two become one legally, legally bound together as one Covenant union before God, a covenant union, a formal relationship, a covenant union before God. So there's the physical oneness, there's the legal oneness, legally bound together. before God. Yeah, children are another example of this. Children are legally bound to their parents. In the sight of God I'm talking about a parent or a legal guardian that's where we get the phrase legal guardian right you can't just declare yourself the guardian of someone there's The law is involved. It's an illustration. But in the courtroom of God is what I want to talk about. Children in the courtroom of God. Right? Before the throne of God who made you, children, you are legally required to honor and obey your parents. That's God's command to you. Children, or any children? Children. That's God's command to you to honor and obey your parents. And you are legally bound over to do that. Parents, you are legally bound. in the courtroom of God. You are legally accountable, legally on the hook for caring for your children. for protecting your children and for disciplining your children, teaching them right and wrong, teaching them wisdom. So negligence to our children is a grievous sin in the sight of God. Abuse to children is a grievous sin. in the sight of God. A hard-hearted refusal, refusal to discipline and teach right and wrong is a grievous sin in the eyes of God. Parents, we are legally bound to parent according to God's will. Yes, human society is not just all these random, arbitrary relationships thrown out there. We do whatever we want to do. No, God has designed these things, He's ordained these things for our benefit. And for his glory. I'm trying to bring out the the reality of the legal union in marriage, where the two become one. Yes, that is alluding to the physical union. The union of intimacy for procreation. Brothers and sisters, marriage is broader than that. The union of marriage is deeper than that. It's bigger than that. Marriage Marriage were motivated by love to cherish one another. To lay down our lives for one another. To strive to do God's will together. That's the model of marriage. Um complex and complicated issues when it comes to marriage because um everyone's in a different situation. In the first place, not everyone here is married. Some people have never been married. Some people aren't even old enough to get married. Some people have been married but aren't married anymore. And that could hap that could happen for a variety of reasons. Some some of you are going through really, really difficult times and suffering in marriage. When we go into marriage and family trying to serve everyone and trying to help everyone. Everyone's situation is different. What I want to say is if you have any of these issues or any specific questions or specific issues. In your situation and you need help, as I said at the beginning, just reach out to us and we'll try to find a way to help you. In terms of applying These things in terms of applying this verse 24, what does he say? Leave your parents and hold fast to your spouse. I'm rephrasing that so it so it applies to everybody. in terms of leaving and holding fast. Holding fast to your spouse. Making your spouse number one. In terms of that, I'm giving the charge to men Again, men are called to be the leaders. So lead in that. Go first. Look for newer ways to show sacrificial love. Look for newer ways to be patient. And not lose your temper. Look for newer ways to make sacrifices for the well-being of your bride. Look for newer and newer ways to Love your bride the way Christ loved and loves the church, laying his life down. Men, husbands, let's be leaders in that To understand God's will for marriage, among other things taught in Scripture, I understand there's more taught in Scripture, but in this passage, to understand God's will for marriage, we need to understand, number one, Adam's need for a suitable helper. God creates woman so that Adam can now obey God and fulfill God's purpose in the world. Number two, we need to understand the supernatural creation of woman. There's a special bond, there's a unique bond between man and woman, between male and female. And number three, we need to understand marriage, this biblical marriage Which Adam and Eve, the first married couple, the first people, which they model God's original and unchanging design. Original and unchanging design. Now Some conclusions for some practical application. Alright, conclusions for practical application. Num and I've got four of these, alright? So put your seat Belts on. Number one, this is a reminder to every single one of us, whether you're married or not, it's a reminder to every single one of us that we need forgiveness. And we need to be able to forgive. All right. We need to be forgiven, and we need to be able to forgive. That's the only way a healthy and growing relationship can exist. is where both parties are willing to forgive and where both parties are humble enough to recognize I need forgiveness. We talk about marriage. Um, there's no perfect husband, there's no perfect wife. You talk about parents and children, there's no perfect parent, there's no perfect children. You can talk about brother and sister. There's no perfect people. So you're not going to have perfect relationships. Every relationship requires forgiveness that moves in both directions. And so whether whether this marriage applies to you or not, this principle of forgiveness absolutely applies. So, brethren, let's humble ourselves. Let's understand that b we're by nature we're people who need to be forgiven. And let's also understand that our loved ones, people we're in relationships with, let's understand they also need to be forgiven. And again, anyone who wears the name of Christ. Any Christian, anyone who is born again of the Holy Spirit through faith in Christ, you be a leader in this. Be a leader in forgiveness In any relationship. Be a leader in humbling yourself, not being combative toward others w when you're the one who did something wrong, not being defensive, not being doing silent treatment, passive aggressive for seventeen feet. Right, humble yourself and confess your sin. Acknowledge your sin, confess your sin, and repent from your sin and receive forgiveness. Unless you're perfect and you never make any mistakes ever in your relationship, that applies to you. And now also from the other side, when you need to do the forgiving, also be gracious and be patient and be merciful. And wait for the Lord to work in someone's heart to humble them. But you be willing to forgive. Be willing to forgive the offense and move on. We had enough problems in the world outside of us. The attacks of Satan, the wicked culture, all the problems in society, all the problems in the world. Let's say in our relationships. Let's lead the charge. in forgiveness that moves in two directions. Now secondly, secondly, conclusion for practical application, let you remember that our marriages are not Not the source of our peace and our identity. Rather, the source of our peace and the source of our identity is the living Lord Jesus Christ And that too is the same for everyone. Don't make a marriage an idol. Don't make a marriage an idol. It's your number one, most important, if you're married, earthly relationship. But it is not God. And it should never take the place of God. And your inner sense of security, in your inner peace, what the Bible calls rest for your soul. Your sense of fulfillment can only come from God and God alone. And also practical application number three This passage does speak to the kind of spouse, young people, that you ought to pray for. Speaks to the kind of spouse you ought to pray for and that you ought to look for when the time comes. And that is a person who has already joined God in doing God's will. He's already doing God's will. And he's going to help you do God's will. Or she's going to help you do God's will. You don't want someone in the marriage who you're trying to live for the Lord and they're pulling the steering wheel over here. That's just going to be wreckage And now I understand, again, as I said, there's complex and complicated issues here. We just can't control that all the time in different situations. I'm just talking to young people right now. That's all I'm talking to, is the kind of spouse you ought to pray for and look for when the time comes as a spouse who's living out the Lord's will and who will help you live out the Lord's will. And fourth and finally, we'll end where we began that the idea of marriage, just the idea of marriage, should always draw our hearts to the love of Christ for his church. Ephesians 5, 25. Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church, and gave himself up for her. That's talking about the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ. He loved the church and gave himself up for her. Now verse 26, that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word, so that he might present the church to himself in splendor. without spot or wrinkle or any such thing, that she might be holy and without blemish. What does it mean that the church is the bride of Christ? It means that the two have become one And the two have become one as a result of Christ's love for the church. Christ cherishes his church and he nourishes his church. And he has a self-giving, ongoing mercy for his church. And that's when we think of just the idea of marriage. Whether you're married or not, the idea of marriage, your head should go, your heart should go, that the church is the bride of Christ. You think about you think about how that could happen. It only happens If he died on the cross for our sins. And he did the work that Jesus did to sanctify us, to save us, making himself a substitute for our sins. He died on the cross. He died on the cross in our place. He took the penalty that we deserved. Why did he do it? So we could be his bride. So we could be his bride. Forgiven, cleansed, sanctified, and being sanctified. The bride of Christ. Marriage Between a man and a woman, as great as it is, as important as it is in the will of God, its ultimate purpose is to be a reflection of Christ's love and union with his church Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus, for his blood shed on the cross, for his glorious resurrection, for his mercy in saving us and giving us the Holy Spirit And I pray for every single person in here on these matters of marriage and everything related to it. There's just a thousand different situations that people find themselves in And only you know the precise comfort that each individual needs. Only you can give that comfort. Even if we knew it, we wouldn't we wouldn't be able to give it in the heart like you can We but we pray that you would. Only you have the precise wisdom for situations that people find themselves in. So again we ask not only that you'd give comfort, but that you'd give wisdom. We pray that you give perseverance. We pray that you would sanctify us to love your will and do your will more consistently as we walk in grace, not in works. And Father, finally, we just pray for strength. We pray for help. We pray for your work and your providence in our lives. Help us in our time of need. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.