The words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Galatians chapter 3, verse 15. Galatians chapter three, verses fifteen through twenty-nine. Law and gospel. Law and gospel. For many, these two words seem to be enemies of each other. Seem to be opposed to one another. For others, it may be the way of which you divide your Bibles. You divide the law of the Old Testament. And then when we get to the New Testament, now we get to the gospel. Friends, I want to encourage us tonight that these are not enemies by no means. They come from the same family. These two, the law and the gospel, are both used Are both active in the life of the Christian. God has given both of these. God uses both the law and the gospel. Both have purpose and meaning. For us today. We should celebrate both of them. When we understand the purpose of the law as God has given it, and we rejoice in the gospel. And we see how they work together, how they're active, how they're functioning, we will find great joy in the totality of Scripture, in the totality of who God is. Tonight we're going to examine the Judaizers. On one hand, they were abusing and dividing the law and the gospel by saying You must obey the law. Your righteousness, your justification is found in the law. Your obedience to the law. Once you perfect it, then you are righteous before a holy God. And we're going to address that tonight. It's the main argument that Paul has been laying out through all of this letter to the Galatians. And we see this in today's world at times, in today's churches around the world. is that uh we call these the legalistic tendencies, the legalistic church. And their argument, their belief is that you must follow and Be obedient, and often their laws and their rules are outside of Scripture. But what's what's being said is as long as you do all these things, then you will be saved. Avoid rock music. Avoid the movies. Avoid the media. Read your Bibles. You've got to read your Bible through its entirety every year. Make sure your attendance at church is perfect. and you will be made righteous. It's the same argument the Judaizers were doing. I think this is this is the language though that we see more often in today's world, and let's be honest, some of us have been tempted And have fallen prey to such ideology. But there's another side of the law gospel division that's happening in our world. I believe this division is more common in today's society and today's churches. Is the division saying that we are the gospel people? We're the new covenant people. And the law of God, that's for those old timers, those that only read the Old Testament. The law is of no use to us today. Have you ever heard that argument made in churches? You're saved by grace, brother. Go and live your life. Don't worry about walking in obedience. Don't worry about being faithful to God. Don't worry about all that stuff. It's all about grace. Now, hear me out. I I love grace. We all love grace, and we preach grace. But we cannot divide these two We cannot be like the Judaizers and the Legalists and say the law saves, but we cannot be on this other side. I I'm gonna put this in the big evangelical, the soft, squishy Christian Christian American church where we just get rid of the law. It's all about grace. It's all about love. And we just push the law and say there's no law in today's Christianity. Well, friends, tonight, my desire is for us to see the unity of the law and the gospel. For us to see why God has given the law. For us to see as Christians, how we have been saved by grace through faith and Jesus, and He has called us to now live in obedience to Him. This is the newness we have. Before we read our passage, let me just read this quote from Hermann Babink. If you just want to sound cool, just quote Herman Babink. Uh uh it takes you quite a long time to read him. He's he's an intense theologian that's uh just helps to lay out the truths of who God is and the understanding of theology. But this is what he says in regards to the law and the gospel. He says freedom from the law cons uh consists then not in the fact that the Christian has nothing more to do with the law, but lies in the fact that the law demands nothing more from the Christian as a condition of salvation The law can no longer judge and condemn him. Instead, he delights in the law of God according to the inner man and yearns for it day and night. Do you hear how that destroys that understanding of the law and the gospel destroys the legalism, the Judaizer, and destroys the free grace, go and and abandon the law completely We recognize that we are not saved by the law, but now in our newness we yearn and delight in the law of God. Alright, let us get into the word. Galatians 3. Starting in verse 15. To give a human example, brothers, even with a man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. No, now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. It does not say and to offsprings. Referring to many, but referring to one, and to your offspring, who is Christ. This is what I mean The law which came 430 years afterward does not annul a covenant previously ratified by God, so as to make the promise void. For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer comes by promise. But God gave it to Abraham by a promise. Why then the law? It was added because of our transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made. And it was put in place through angels by an uh intermediator. Now, an intermediator implies more than one, but God is one. Is the law then contrary to the promises of God? Certainly not. For if a law had been given that could give life, then righteousness would indeed be by the law. But the scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now, before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then, the law was our guardian until Christ came in order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. For as many of you as were baptized into Christ Have put on Christ. There is neither Jew nor Greek. There is neither slave nor free. There is no male and female. For you are all one in Christ Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring. Heirs according to promise. Praise be to God. As we unpack this tonight You can put your outline to the side just for a moment. I want us to understand the context and the text that's happening here, and then we're going to go back to our outline and we're going to answer those three questions. Well let's first understand what's happening here. If you remember last week, Paul laid out the defense of salvation by faith alone If you remember in the beginning of chapter 3, he says, O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly betrayed as crucified. Remember his stark and strong rebuke of the Galatians. Now, why is he rebuking the Galatians? It's because they have been infiltrated by false teachers. These false teachers are known as the Judaizers. And the goal and the purpose of the Judaizers was that they were going to come in and they were going to teach that, yes, you are in Christ. You are now those those new Christians group, but but the real salvation, to truly be justified, to truly be righteous before God, you must fulfill all of the law. That's where your identity of righteousness comes from. And this is a blatant offense against the gospel. And this is why Paul's so passionate. He's so upset about the situation. He hates these teachers and their teaching. Because it's drawing true believers away from the truth of the gospel. It's causing them to have this tension within them. That, okay, they believe in Jesus, but now they have to really get to work. They really have to fulfill the law because they know that one day they're gonna stand before God. And if they don't have the law perfected before they stand before God, then they will be condemned to hell forever. Brothers and sisters, what a scary and meaningless and terrifying gospel that is. If we are just seeking that, yes, you have Jesus, but you still must make yourself righteous before God through your works, there is no hope for any of us sitting in this room. tonight. And Paul knows this. And that's why Paul hates the Judaizers and what they're teaching. He hates it. Please hear the passion there. He hates it. It's destructive. So Paul's continuing his argument in this part of chapter 3. He's continuing his argument to show that no one in all of history has ever been saved by works of the law. And Paul, in his great wisdom and his historical background of the Jewish faith, what he's doing is he's making the argument from history. He's pointing the Jewish under the Jewish people and their understanding of of the Old Testament, their understanding of Abraham and the forefathers. He's pointing them to look back at their own history and recognize that God has never, never, never, never saved a single person by the works of that person's hand. They've never been redeemed by the law. So Paul is just driving home his argument here, and he brings up and he says, to give a human example, brothers. Even with the man-made covenant, no one annuls it or adds to it once it has been ratified. So he's he's trying to put it in as common language as possible. May we understand what's happening here So he's pointing back to Abraham and saying, the promise was g given to Abraham. If you remember that in Genesis 12, Essentially what happens is Abraham's called to leave his land and his family and given a promise that God's going to bless him. You can look back at Genesis 12, starting in verse 1 tonight, and you'll see that. There was no commandment Abraham God did not say, Abraham, come, follow the law, be obedient in everything I tell you, don't make any mistakes, and I will bless you. No, what we see is God say, come and I will bless you. Leave your family, leave your land, follow after me, and I will bless you. We see the promise given to Abraham still stands today. Have many nations been blessed by the seed of Abraham? We're celebrating it in Advent right now. The incarnation of Christ. We see the lineage of God's promise being fulfilled in Christ. So what Paul is doing here in chapter 3 is he's defending this point and saying, let's use a human covenant. A covenant, a bond made between two parties. Often it's considered a solemn bond made between two parties with rewards and punishments Alright, so we see here that the covenant was made with Abraham back in Genesis, and the law had not been given yet. The law of God had not been given yet. That actually comes 430 years later. So Paul's argument is that if the promise had been given to Abraham with no law, no law was given. Then why do you think that if a law was added on top of it or added to it, that somehow that would change the promise God made to Abraham 430 years prior? He says, let's use a human example. So if we made a covenant between one another, let's say you go to the bank and you take out a loan from the bank, that's some form of a covenant. Alright, there's a there's a relationship there. There's promises and there's there's reward and blessings for fulfilling the promises and there's penalty for breaking such promises. Essentially it's on your If you don't pay your loan off. But there's nothing that could come if you made that that promise. Alright, so that that loan was made with the bank. Good. And then you walk out the door. And let's say you live for 430 years. Alright? You live for 430 years, John. It's not like in four hundred and thirty years the bank can come and say, Oh, by the way, we now have all these rules that you have to accomplish and fulfill for you to receive receive the full payment of that loan. How would you react? Let's say, let's not wait 430 years. Let's just say in a month the bank comes and say, oh by the way, you actually have to do all these other steps now to actually get the loan. What would you tell the bank? Don't say that loud. We don't need any of that language here. But may we recognize that we understand in a very human sense We would say, by no means. Get out of here. You're not doing that to me. The promise was made the day that we got the loan. You can't add to it. You can't add something onto it that I then have to fulfill to re receive the promise. So Paul lays out this argument so that we would understand it. If we understand we wouldn't allow alone to do such a thing, Paul's saying, why do you think God would act in such a way? Why do you think God would make a promise and then add on to it? God would be the worst banker in history if he would do that. Why do we think that God would be so cruel and so mean to add on these extra requirements that he didn't give in the first place? So the understanding here is that the promise was given to Abraham, and we see that Abraham was a man of what? The law or a man of faith? Faith. He was a man of faith. So the promise was sufficient to Abraham, and that we should not look at the law of God given to Moses as the this extra thing that had to be accomplished. Before God's promise could be fulfilled. This is very important for us to understand and see this argument unveil before us Because what Paul does is he says, you understand it in the human sense. Why do you think God would do it? And then look with me in verse 18. For if the inheritance comes by the law, it no longer comes by promise. But God gave it to Abraham by a promise. So let's ask a simple question. Does God break promises? No, sir. Thank you for being so respectful. Pastor Matt. No, sir. Or by by Paul's language, by no means. How dare you would think God would break his promises And that's what Paul is driving home here. If you think that Jesus came and died and that there was some kind of salvation there, but for you to actually And be really, really holy. For you to be justified and righteous before God, you must fulfill the law. Then you, my dear friend, are saying that God has broken his promise. Now, I would encourage you Don't be a person that says God breaks promises. Don't be a person that calls God a liar. So what Paul is doing is he's pointing to the Judaizers. He wants the reader to understand this that those false teachers, those Judaizers They're liars about who God is in his character. We shouldn't follow after liars. We shouldn't listen to the advice of someone that uh smears the name of God, breaks down the character of God. He says, no, God does not break promises. He kept the promise to Abraham, and we have no reason to think that the law of God somehow ratifies and changes the promise God made. But the question still stands. Right? He still gave the law, didn't he? We still have this issue before us. Then why did he give the law? And Paul beautifully lays it out for us to understand. Look at verse 19 with me. Why then the law? Paul knows what we're thinking. He knows what the arguments are going to be. Why then the law? It was added because of transgressions, until the offspring should come to whom the promise had been made. And it was put in place through angels by an intermediate. Intermediary. Now, an intermediary implies more than one, but God is one. Look with me at verse 22 as well. It says, but the scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise of faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now, before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came, and in order that we might be justified by faith. That word right there in verse twenty four, the law was our guardian until Christ came. So was God mean when he gave us the law? Was he oppressive? Was he trying to make it more challenging for us to live? No, we actually see that God was gracious in giving us the law. God's love for his people motivated him. It was his his motivating force and purpose for giving the law. is because the law was the guardian. We're going to address what the guardian is in a little bit. But what Paul wants us to understand is that we do not say, well then the law was meaningless and the law is pointless and the law was harsh and cruel. No, what Paul wants us to see is that the law is good. The law of God was his love towards his people. It was not to ratify the promise he gave to Abraham, but it was also not as a punishment. It wasn't like God saw and said, Oh, because because of how wicked you are, I gotta give you a law just to make your life more difficult Essentially, what he does is he looks and he says, Oh, I see that you are a sinner. He knows this already. You are sinners, and this law will be a benefit to sinners who are to live as my people. So the law of God is good. Paul lays that out here. That the law of God had a purpose, it was good, and then we see when Christ comes There is a major shift and change that happens within the law and the use of the law, but it does not ratify and get rid of the law. So we see that Paul is destroying the Judaizers and saying that there's not this division of the law and the gospel. You're not saved by the works of the law, but you're saved by faith. So now what do we do? So let's answer these three questions on our worksheet or our handout. Our outline. What's the real name? Outline we'll go with. What's first question? Who are the offspring of Abraham? Alright, that's kind of out of left field, Anthony. We've been talking about the law of God and righteousness. in Christ, and now you just throw out this random question about who are the offspring of Abraham. We actually talked about this last week. But it's important that we understand who the offspring of Abraham are, so that we understand who the law is for. We understand the purpose of the law and how the law functions The people, the offspring of Abraham are those that have been made righteous through faith in Christ. So who are the offspring of Abraham? Those that have been made righteous through faith in Christ. It's important for us to see this and it's an important piece of Paul's argument against the Judaizers, because they're coming in and saying the true children and offspring of Abraham are those that fulfill the law perfectly And Paul's saying, no, the true and eternal offspring of Abraham are those that have been made righteous through faith in Christ. Look with me in verse 26. For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. Sweet, sweet words we must see there. For in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. Through faith in Christ Jesus. Not by It doesn't say you are sons of God through your works of the law. It does not say you are sons of God through your attendance in church. It does not say that you are sons of God through your being born in America and raised up in this nation. No No, no, no. It says, for in Christ Jesus you are all sons of God through faith. Brothers and sisters, this is the beauty of the gospel. That we have been made righteous, that we are called children of God because of what Christ has done. Because the Holy Spirit has indwelled us, has borne us again, made us new, given us faith in Christ. This is our identity. It's rooted in Christ. It's rooted in faith in him. Faith, faith, faith, not works, works, works. Verse 27, for as many of you as were baptized into Christ have put on Christ, there's neither Jew nor Greek. Alright, so that def that defeats the nationality argument. You gotta be born Jewish to be a child of God. Nope. That's gone. Maybe in today's language we would use that you've got to be born in a wealthy country. Nope, that's gone. Your identity. Your ethnicity has no bearing on your identity as a child of God. Your ethnicity has no bearing, no bearing on your identity as a child of God. It's through faith in Christ. So it destroys the ethnicity argument. There's neither Jew nor Greek Then he goes down this argument. There is neither slave nor free. Alright, so so we can't divide according to ethnicity, so that has no bearing on our identity. We can't divide on our ethnic status. Here's all the poor people, they gotta be in one camp. Here's all the rich people, they gotta be in another camp. No. Faith in Christ defeats that Your identity in Christ, your identity as a child of God, does not bear on your ethnicity. It does not bear on your economical status. So there's there's neither slave nor free. continues on there's n there's no male and female. Right? Praise God. There's no male or female. Doesn't say that it's gone away with. This is an argument from uh the liberal uh society saying, see? Even the Bible says that transgenderism is good. No, no, no. That's not the argument being made here. It's defeating that we are divided and that our identity as Christians or our identity as children of God is based on our gender. Brothers in here, you are a child of God because of faith in Christ alone. Sisters in here, you are a child of God because of your faith in Christ alone. There's not a different path, a different unique standard for one gender or another. And it continues here, for you are all one in Christ. Jesus. And if you are Christ, then you are Abraham's offspring. Offspring. Heirs according to the promise. Notice what Paul did there. He defeats this divide that happens. He defeats the divide, says, Your identity as the child of God is rooted in faith in Christ, and then what does he do? He jumps over the wall and points all the way back to the promised land. of Abraham. He says, you are heirs. You inherit. You have received the promise God made to Abraham all the way back in Genesis 12. What good news it is for us, brothers and sisters, that we are children of God according to faith in Christ. We are the righteous through faith in Him. In Christ. Your status before a holy God is based off of Christ, not off of your works. Praise God for that. So we understand that the offspring of Abraham are those that are righteous through faith in Christ. So then the question arises, why did God give man the law? Why did God give man the law? And we talked about this a little bit, but we see in verse 22 through 25. I'll reread. just to uh to get us back on track there and thinking in this. But the scripture imprisoned everything under sin, so that the promise by faith in Jesus Christ might be given to those who believe. Now before faith came, we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the uh coming faith would be So then the law was our guardian until Christ came, in order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, we are no longer under a guardian. So what was the purpose and the use of the law in the Old Testament? Well was a guardian. And now we ask, what is a guardian? Right? We have a logical process to think through here. There's two positions and two uses that I believe the guardian status of the law of God was used for The first use was that the law was a guardian over the people because it directed the people back to the Word of God. Right, so Moses received the law, and starting in in uh Exodus 20, he receives the law of God. And he writes it down, and then what does he do? He comes down the mountain, he presents it to the people, there's drama, he goes back up, he gets the law again. But he comes down and presents it to the people. So that now the people can constantly go back to the written word of God, the revealed word of God, and say, here it is. This is what God has instructed. This is the nature of God revealed in his law. It's pointing them back constantly to the Word of God. Go back to the Word. Go back to the Word. When in doubt, go back to the Word. We don't just rely on a natural revelation of the law of God. That there's just this we look in the trees and we know the law of God. We see that God has given us His law, revealed and written. And it was a guardian, it was constantly pointing them back to the Word of God. Well, what about us today? How are we pointing to the Word of God? Say again? By other guardians, yeah. How about this? That the word of God became flesh and dwelt among us. The revelation of Christ Jesus is the the the climax of history in this so far, and we see that He has come to dwell among us, that the Word of God took on flesh and now we understand Who God is in a very new and unique way because of Christ. Doesn't mean God changed, but we now understand Him more. So what points us back to the Word of God is because we want to know Christ more. We want to walk and live like Christ more. We want to rejoice in what He has done for us more. And it actually does point us us back to the law all the way back in the Old Testament. Why? It's because we see that we're sinners. The law points out our brokenness. The law points out how we have failed. I'm getting ahead of myself. So the first status of the guardianship is that it was used to point the people and take the people into the Word of God. the revealed word of God. The second use of the guardianship or the function of the guardianship of the law was that it gave away of life. It gave instructions of of how to live a righteous life. It gave instructions of how to live and how to make just laws in the civil authority. It gave instructions of the right order of worship of God. It gave instructions of how to be clean and healthy within a world that did not care about those things. The law was given to instruct the people of how they should live. You see the guardianship over there? It's pointing people to the word, but it's also protecting them. I'm going to knock this over if I keep that Backing up. It's protecting the people. We we really have missed some of the the functions of the law and how the the Israelites were healthy and avoided certain plagues and and diseases because of the law that God has given them and how to be cleanly and how to eat certain foods. We really miss that the law was given to the people so that they understood as they went to worship God what they were doing when they worshipped God. And we really, really have missed how the law of God instructed the the civil government of Israel, the leadership of Israel, how to function. as a society, how to make just laws, how to punish wicked and evil acts, how to reward the righteous. We've missed that, but we we recognize that the law of God was the guardian to point them to the Word of God, but also to tell them and instruct them of how to live. So that's the first uh why did God give man the law was the first that was the guardian. And then the second one, which is still applicable to us today, and in a very direct way, is that the law of God gives knowledge of sin. The law of God gives knowledge of sin. Now I I do believe that all know that they're sinners, they're suppressing that knowledge. But when we look at the law of God, let's just take uh Exodus twenty, the Ten Commandments. And I could run down the Ten Commandments and say, do you hold this one? Have you broken this one? And for the most part. We're willing to lie a little bit and break one of the commandments, but if we're willing to lie a little bit, we could say, yep, we've fulfilled the Ten Commandments perfectly. No murders, no blasphemy, no lusting after your your neighbor's stuff. So so we see this, and then what does Jesus do on the Sermon on the Mount? Uh-uh Uh-uh. Uh don't don't just think about the letter of it. Understand the principle and the spirit of the law, and he drives it down into our hearts. None of us are murderers in here, but then all of a sudden once we hate our brother, we've murdered him. in our hearts. None of us has cheated on our spouse in here, but then once we have lusts in our hearts, we've already committed the crime. We start to see that the law of God reveals our broken status. The law of God reveals that we are sinners and rebels against the holy God. The law of God reveals that you and I are wicked, wicked humans. We are creatures that hate our Creator. The law of God reveals and gives us the knowledge of sin. That's why God gave it to us. It's a benefit of the law. When we read the law of God, when we understand the law, it should drive us to our knees in humility before God. It should drive us to be joyful and thankful that we have been saved, that we have been redeemed by the blood of Christ. We should we should be the gladdest I don't know if I can say that. We should be the happiest people in all of history, in all the world, because we recognize that the law, we are condemned by the law, but we are made righteous by Christ. Christ. Friends, the law of God should drive us into the arms of our Savior. So what should Christians do with the law? What should we do with this? Should we be like the Judaizers and say we've got to fulfill the law? Let's cut out a majority of the laws that God gave in the Old Testament and let's just use the Ten Commandments. And say, okay, what if we just use those and say you have to fulfill these perfectly to be made righteous before God? Would that be right or wrong to do? Wrong. It'd be wrong. You're making works of the law. You're saying your righteousness, your identity is based on just fulfilling the Ten Commandments. Commandments. So what if I get on this side? What if I say, okay, well we're made right? What if we got rid of the Ten Commandments? The Ten Commandments, who cares about them? What value do they have to us? They're of no use, right? This is the This is the tension we live in within the gospel. Well, Paul actually gives us the truth. What should Christians do with the law? What should you and I do with the law? Brothers and sisters, we should rejoice that we are free in Christ. The law, the aspect of the law should give us joy that we are free We're free in Christ. And this is what he's pointing to. This is what Paul's pointing to when he says he in verse twenty four. So then the law was our sorry, let me Back up just one verse. Now before faith came we were held captive under the law, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came in order that we might be justified by faith. And so we see that we have been made free from the law. We're not obligated to fulfill the law for our righteousness. No one ever was. No one ever was We are righteous because of Christ, not because of us. So how should we understand the laws that we're not righteous because of the law? But on the other hand, how should Christians understand the law? It is a guide of obedience. The law is extremely and still applicable for us today. Let me say that again. The law is still applicable for us today. Post Christ. Those redeemed by faith. Why do I make this argument? How do we see this? Well, look back in Romans 3 with me. Romans 3, 31, says, Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? This is the question that we're asking, right? Are we then to get rid of the law? Paul says, in classic Paul language, by no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. Well, how is this to be? How can we not be saved by the law, not be justified by the law? We're not under the imprisonment of the law. How am I to be free of the law, yet uphold the law, Anthony. Come on, give me the answers. Well here it is. We look to the law to give us instructions of how to live godly and righteous lives. Not to achieve or accomplish or earn the righteousness, but because we have been born again, we seek to be obedient to our Savior. The law is our guy. Now the question must stand, how do we use the law that was given to Israel all the way back in those days? We have the dietary laws, we have all this code that appears to be a civil thing. And even if we were just limited to the Ten Commandments, how are we to use that? Well friends, I believe that Jesus gives us the answer when he's questioned, what is the greatest law? What's he say? Love the Lord your God. And Jesus being the Savior and Redeemer that He is, He doesn't just give them the simple answer, though question they asked. He goes on to give a second answer. He says, and the second greatest commandment is Yeah, you guys are saving my voice from having to say it all. But then what does he say immediately following that? Upon these two commandments. All the law rests. So how are we to understand the law? Is we must get our eyes and our minds focused on loving God and then loving our neighbor. Please hear me, I'm starting with loving God. The world has corrupted that and said, Love neighbor first and then love God. No. Our first primary, the first greatest commandment is to love God. We must get our eyes on that, to love God. And loving neighbor. So then we can look at the law that was given in the Old Testament and start to see the principles that are pulled out from there. You start to see that the Ten Commandments make a whole lot more sense when our goal is to love God and to love our neighbor. Right? We start to see See that the law that was given to to Israel all the way back in the Old Testament of how to deal with uh of um harming someone and and to deal with crimes, we start to understand that it's instructing us, if we take the principles of it, it's instructing It's instructing us of how to love God and love our neighbor. When in doubt, this is the question we must ask. What is the use of the law? The law is there for us to understand how to love God and love our neighbor. That's it. We shouldn't be seeking something else. We shouldn't be trying to contrive and say, well, the law has to be used. for for this function that somehow uh appeases my feelings or makes me feel good, or we should use it as an oppressive measure to to force people to come to no, stop. The law of God is for us to love God and love our neighbor more. Now let's let me flush this out a little bit if I may. May, I'm up here. Uh that but we see that how how then should we how does this actually function in our lives? You know, we have the Ten Commandments, but let's go deeper. Let's all look in Exodus 21. We're going to do a little practical exercise here. Exodus 21. Because what I'm doing now is I'm actually getting us out of our comfort zone of saying, yes, just the Ten Commandments. The law of God is just talking about the Ten Commandments. But what I can take us to is the death of God's law goes beyond the Ten Commandments and is beneficial beyond just the uh uh for Israel. So look at Exodus 21 starting verse 18. When men quarrel and one strikes the other with a stone or with his fists, and the man does not die, but takes to his bed, then if the man rises again and walks outdoors with his staff, he who struck him shall be clear. Only he shall pay for the loss of his time and shall have him thoroughly healed. Alright, so if there's a quarrel, there's a fight, a fist fight happens, a man is struck and he goes to his bed, the one that struck him must repay his time, the lost wages, and must also pay for his healing. Alright, make sure that he gets better. Now the one part of society is saying that we can just ignore this law. But doesn't this law sound really good? Wouldn't we like this applied within our society? Yeah. You're going, uh yeah, who would be against this? Exactly. The law of God. has been given to us for our benefit. And not only for us, but the law of God has been given to all of humanity. We should want. We should want our governor, our president, our does we'll have a mayor When he when we get a mayor official or whatever the politicians are here, we should want them to look at the law of God to base and instruct and build the laws of our civil society. Now America was uh ha has a a history of this. This was a huge portion of the the Puritans that came over in the Mayflower. The Mayflower Pack is part of what we celebrate in Thanksgiving was uh the union of uh the first settlers up there in New England and the Native Americans. But they were Puritans. They they built a pack before they even left the homeland that made a commitment that they were going to make laws and evangelize the natives according to the word of God. That's a good thing. And then we see in uh the the late seventeen hundreds as as the the Americans are starting to fight for their liberty from uh from England in the the royalty of England. They're starting to base the uh the constitution and the laws of these s independent states based off of the word of God. There's a book uh by Blackstone that was written way way before them, and essentially Blackstone took the law of God and made that the civil uh rules and laws of that people group in Europe, and then the the founders of our nation got a hold of that book and then they went right into the text of Scripture to make laws. So when we then look at our society around us, we get frustrated because we've abandoned the law of God. We've said it's of no use to us. us. And we look at the government and say it's your fault, but really, brothers and sisters, we should be looking at the church and saying we have not stood on the word of God. We have not proclaimed the word of God to the governor. We have not proclaimed the word of God to the president. And with boldness we call all people. Right? There's neither Jew nor Greek, neither slave nor free. There's neither politician nor non-politician. We call all people to turn to the Lord, to have faith in Christ, and follow his good and gracious law. Given us for our benefit to mature and grow us. I must end here, but we could go on for for hours talking about the principles and the understanding of the law of God. But friends, what I want us to hear tonight, what I want you to walk away with, is that the law and the gospel of God are not enemies. They are not enemies. Our Lord and Savior has given us both of them. And we must understand that both are valuable and beneficial. We have been saved by the grace of God through faith in Christ, and now each Each day we yearn to enjoy the law and walk in obedience to it. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, I thank you. For your word. I thank you that you have given us the law. I thank you that you have pointed us to Christ and that we are saved through Christ. We're saved through him. His blood has washed over us and made us white as snow, has made us righteous before you. And now we rejoice in you Your commandments. We rejoice and seek and yearn to live in obedience to you. Give us the wisdom. Give us the passion and zeal to do these things, Lord. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.