Let's take our Bibles, please, and turn to Ephesians chapter 2. Feeling a little bit guilty this morning because I know this is Pastor Anthony's favorite passage. And he's preached on it before, and I preached on it before, and Pastor John has preached on this before. This is a much Cherished passage of Scripture, Ephesians 2, 1 to 10. And the topic is new life in Christ. Alright? New life in Christ. The passage has it begins with the old life we had without Christ. And then the end of the passage is the new life that we have in Christ. And in the middle of the passage is how God made that change. And so you can think of a simple illustration like a bathroom that you want to remodel or a kitchen that you want to remodel. You have the old, outdated, not working properly. that you begin with, but then you have the before, you also have the after of the new and the up-to-date, and it looks nicer and it works better, it's got better functionality. But in the middle is everything that the contractor did. In the middle is everything that Jeremiah did for you at your house to get that renovation. And that's what we have in the passage, not with the bathroom, not with the kitchen, but with something much more important, our souls The old life without Christ, the new life in Christ, and what God did to make that change. Let's read Ephesians two, verses one to ten. And you were dead In the trespasses and sins in which you once walked, following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that's not work, and the sons of disobedience. Among whom we all once lived, in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind And we're by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. But God, being rich in mercy, Because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ By grace you have been saved and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus So that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It is the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no mu no one may boast. For we are his workmanship. created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should walk in them. Now this is just a s a quick aside , coming back to something I've already said in this uh series in Ephesians, trying to summarize God's will, God's eternal purpose. is to bring glory to himself by doing good to undeserving sinners. Do you remember that? God's will to bring glory to himself by doing good to sinners like me and you And you see that, a little bit of that in this verse, the end of verse seven, where it's talking about God's uh the end goal of this thing, God's uh eternal purpose, his ultimate purpose in this thing. is to show forth the immeasurable riches of his grace in what? Kindness toward us. Kindness toward us. Expressed in Christ Jesus. God wants to show you kindness. God has shown you kindness. He wants to do good to you. Because he's a good God. He's a good Father. He's a kind God. He's a merciful Savior. But please never forget God's ultimate purpose for all things and God's will for your life. as wills to bring glory to himself by doing good to you, by showing you kindness in Christ Jesus. Well hopefully Verses 4 and 5 stood out to you right there in the middle. Verses 4 and 5 God being rich in mercy because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, that's the old us, right? We were dead, spiritually dead. made us alive together with Christ. That's where I got the topic. That's where we get the title, New Life in Christ. We were spiritually dead. We were dead in sins. We were dead in trespasses. But now we've been made alive, together with Christ, united to Christ, spiritually alive. What a wonderful thing. Do you have life in Christ this morning? If you don't have life in Christ this morning, I want you to leave here knowing that it is available to you for free. Because Jesus came and he lived a righteous life that we can never live, that you can never live, of the righteous life. And he died a sacrificial death. Jesus died on the cross as a substitute for sinners If you believe that he's your substitute for your sin, believe that on the cross Jesus took your guilt, he took the judgment you deserve. If you believe in Jesus, you're saved. If you believe in Jesus, then you have new life in him. But don't I have to add some good works to that? Don't I have to add years of religion to that? No. Not to be saved. Not to receive new life in Christ. No. Now to be an obedient Christian, yes, we want those things. But we're talking about how you get from lost to saved. And the only thing you need to get from lost to saved is faith in Jesus Christ. And we'll get to those verses. They're in this passage. We'll get to them later. Hopefully. They stood out to you as well. And as you read that passage, you see that there's the old life, there's the new life, and then there's what God did in between. We're not talking about an old bathroom and a renovated bathroom or an old kitchen and a renovated kitchen. You can think of other illustrations to an old engine that's dead. Won't start. There's nothing there. And then a new engine rebuilt, refurbished. Yes, it starts. Lots of horsepower. Here we're talking about our souls. Spiritual life. He says, dead. In verse 1, you were dead in trespasses and sins. And then verse 5, even when we were dead in our trespasses. That's not talking about physical death. Obviously, because he's talking to people who are physically alive. And this has already happened for them. It's in a state of spiritual death. What does that mean? You'll need to know this for the exam. And for the weekly quiz and for the final exam. It means separated from God and unable to please him or return to him. That's what spiritual death is. separated from God and unable to please him and unable to return to him. Does that mean there's no way you can please God? Does that mean there's no way you can return to God? No, that just means there's no way on your own you can do those things. But God can do it. It'll take a miracle. It'll take a supernatural work. It'll take the arm of God. It'll take the grace of God coming into your heart and changing your heart. But it can happen if you believe in Christ. But the point is I couldn't do it on my own. And you couldn't do it on your own. We needed God to intervene. We need the grace of God. Otherwise we'd still be dead Spiritually dead, separated from God, unable to please him, unable to return to him, and what's even worse, not wanting to please him and not wanting to return to him. Oh, except for the mercy of God, we'd all still be there, brethren. The imagery is not passed out and asleep and need to be revived. But dead, unable to move, cannot get up, there's no chance. The imagery is not being injured or ill and need to be healed. No, it's spiritually dead. There's no pulse, there's no breath, there's no hope. The imagery is not that you're weak and just really confused and you need a little bit of help and guidance. No, it's dead, spiritually dead, spiritually void of life, or rather we should say void of spiritual life. Without Christ, friend, you are not a sinking ship. You are a sunk ship that's been rotting for centuries. And only God can raise you up to new life. Without Christ, our lives are not a really good Sunday. We just need a cherry on top of religion. No, we are repulsive, grotesque even because of our sin. And we need a supernatural cleansing inside and out. Romans 8, 7-8. For the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God. What does hostile mean? It means you set yourself against as an enemy. You're fighting against. Romans 8, 7 and 8. The mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed, it cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. This is why we need the life of Jesus Christ. so that by his righteousness we might be made righteous in the eyes of God. And this is why we need the death of Jesus Christ, so that he Who bears our sins and guilt on the cross may provide forgiveness for us because we must be forgiven of our sin. To be right with God. And we also must have a righteousness. We must have righteousness, a status of righteousness before God to be right with Him. And Jesus provides both of those as a free gift. He provides you the gift of righteousness. Here it is. A right standing with God, a record of perfect obedience. that you can present before God as your own. Jesus gives that to you because of his righteous life. And he takes the eraser. We don't have I was going to say chalkboard. We don't have chalkboards anymore. We have whiteboards and smart boards. But I remember picture a chalkboard, my fourth grade teacher scribbled up on the board all kinds of chalk and said, this represents your sin. And then she took the eraser, erased it up, and she said, that's what Jesus does. That's forgiveness. Erasing the guilt of your sin before God. Well that sounds like a lot. Righteous standard before God? All my sins forgiven before God? How in the world will I ever do that? You don't do it. You trust in Christ that He has already done it. You believe in Christ. Be made right with God is a free gift. Think about this. Walking into heaven. And dwelling in the glorious presence of God forever is a free gift. Being risen on the last day, to have a resurrection body just like Jesus has is a free gift. If you believe in Christ because of his righteous life, because of his sacrificial death, you can have new life in him. Just as Christ was made alive by God's power, you also If you believe, you have been made alive in him. And just as Christ was made alive by God's power, you can, if you do believe, you can be made alive in him. There's no ladder to God. There's no stairway to heaven. There's one step. There's one rung. And I know, as soon as I had this thought, I know Pastor Anthony's going to make fun of me for this when I act this out. One step of faith in Christ, and you're reconciled to God. One step of faith in Christ, and you have entrance to heaven. One step of faith in Christ is all you need You don't have to come through me. You don't have to come through the church. You don't have to come through sacraments. You don't have to come through spending time in purgatory to pay for the rest of your sins that haven't been paid for yet. One. Step, believe in Jesus, and you have been united to God. And that's the gospel. That's the Bible. That's Christianity. And that's what we stand on here. Four changes of life in Christ, you can see it on your outline. Four changes of life in Christ. In other words, four things that have changed in our lives. Because of this new life that we have in Christ. We have a new walk in him, we have a new master in him, we have a new heart in him, and we have a new destiny in him, or a new destination, you could say. Let's go through one by one. Number one, in Christ we have a new walk. A walk in the Bible can mean means a way of life. So to say we have a new walk means we have a new way of life. An illustration could be an immature young man or an immature boy, although there's lots of immature young men, not just immature boys out there, but he's he's he's late He's irresponsible, you can't trust him, he's selfish, but then something happens, a change in the change in his life A change in his walk and the new him, the mature him, is on time and early. He's responsible. He's reliable. He's trustworthy. And he looks out for others, not just himself. Well, what happened? Well, he's had he has a new walk. He's now walking, not in immaturity, but maturity. And here we're talking about our spiritual walk, a new walk in Christ. Now, look at verses 1 and 2. Verses 1 and actually just the first part of verse 2. And you were dead in trespasses and sins. In which you once what? Walked. So the the the pattern Of our lives, the priority of our lives, the direction of our lives, was walking in trespasses and sins. And now go to verse 10, the bookend, for we are his workmanship created in Christ Jesus for good works By the way, in case you don't know, that's the opposite of sins and trespasses. Okay? These are things that God likes These are things that God wants, created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand, that we should what? Walk in them. That's how the passage book ends. Old walk, new walk. Used to walk in sin, now you walk By the will of God. So what you have here, bookending this passage or bracketing this passage, is an old disobedient walk and a new obedient walk. That's a good change. Amen? Old disobedient Matt. New obedient Matt. And God gets all the credit for the new obedient Matt. And God gets all the glory for the new obedient you. God gets the praise for our obedience. Because our obedience is the result of our salvation, and our salvation is a thousand percent gift of grace. I'm running out of room over here. But that makes sense, right? How God gets because we do I don't want to I do not want to inadvertently communicate works salvation I want to make sure that we know that the obedience in our lives is 100% the result of God's grace. And so God gets the credit for any obedience at all that's in our lives. Do you love God? Would you say amen or raise your hand or nod your head? All right. God gets the glory for that. Do you love the Word of God? Say amen or raise your hand or nod your head or something. Who gets the credit? God gets the credit for that. Do you love the church? God gets the credit. Have you repented of sin? God gets the credit. Are you longing for heaven? God gets the credit. All glory to God. All honor to God. It's all about God's glory and then praising God for his glory. Clear the exposition of this passage, the exegesis of this passage, the bracket, the bookend, old walk, new walk. The old disobedient us to a new obedient us. What kind of people did you have in the church at Ephesus? What were these people? Who were these people? These Christians in Ephesus, these Ephesians, what were they like? They were just like us. They're sinners. And now they're saved by the grace of God. They're the same kind of people that we are. Once, they once walked. Not seeking God, but seeking the world. But then, because of God's grace, then they walked seeking God and not conforming to the ways of the world. They once walked not learning and not caring to obey God's commandments. But then by the grace of God, then they walked learning God's commandments, striving to obey God's commandments. They once walked not gathering for worship. They once walked not praying, not celebrating the Lord's Supper. Not repenting from sin, they once walked not being faithful members of the local church, but now by the grace of God they have a new walk And they do all those things. They gather with the church. They're faithful members of the church. They celebrate the Lord's Supper. They pray. And they repent from sin. They once walked in spiritual death, but then by a supernatural work of God, then they began walking. In Christ. And their walk in Christ was completely different than their old walk. John 10, 10, and 11, Jesus says, the thief comes only to steal and kill and destroy. And that's one of Jesus' uh illustrations for the false teachers, for like impostors who are least spiritual leaders, but they're lost. and they don't know God's will, and they lead people astray. They're thieves. They come only to steal, kill, and destroy. But Jesus says this, I came that they may have life. And have it abundantly. I am the Good Shepherd. The Good Shepherd lays down his life for the sheep. Jesus wants us to have life and have it abundantly. That means, brothers and sisters, that means life in communion with God. That means being reconciled to God, being filled with the Spirit, leaving the old walk where it belongs in the past, and enjoying and embracing the new walk in obedience in Christ. In Christ we have a new walk. In Christ, we have a new master. The master is one we submit to. The master is one we submit to. You had one job with one boss. You were under under their authority. You just submit to that boss. In the illustration, that's your master. They're in charge, in other words And you have to listen. They say work starts at seven, you have to be there at seven. They say, I want you to do this task first. You say, okay, I'll do that task first. It's one boss, one job, but then You can leave that job. Many of you have left the job for one reason or another. And now you have a different workplace, different job, different boss, different authority. In the illustration, a new master. And in your new job, at the new workplace, under the new authority, the new boss, it doesn't matter at all what the old boss wants from you. Because you're under a new boss. You're under a new authority. And that's what we're talking about here. In Christ we have a new master. Verse 2, the second part. Verse 2, the second part of verse 2. Now, he's already said in verse 1, in the beginning of verse 2, that you're walking in trespasses and sins. Now, what's going on under the surface? What's going on spiritually speaking? Well, look at the rest of verse 2. Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience. Now, the Prince of the Power of the Air is an idiom, it's a figure of speech or saying that represents who? Satan. This is talking about being a willful citizen of the kingdom of darkness. Under the thumb of Satan, under the authority of Satan, following the course of this world. The fallen culture, the priorities, the values, the morals, the malpractices and idolatries of the fallen world, the kingdom of darkness. And that goes hand in hand with being dead in trespasses and sins. When we're dead in trespasses and sins, that's how we live We can all picture this. We follow the course of the world. We follow the ways of the culture. We follow the path of fallen humanity around us. And when we're doing that, we are unwitting servants of Satan. But in Christ we have a new master, our old master, Satan. Has been dethroned in our hearts, and we have a new master, God, that now sits on the throne in heaven and also sits on the throne in our hearts, ruling over us. Because of his grace and the faith that he has given us. So now look at verses 8 and 9. For by grace you have been saved. Circle that word saved, at least in your mind's eye, circle the word saved. By grace you've been saved through faith, and this is not of your own doing. It is the gift of God. It's not a result of works, so that no one may boast. There really could be a whole sermon on verse 9 that our salvation is not a result of works. And the reason is The reason one of the reasons is not of works, so that we couldn't boast about it. So that we wouldn't brag about it. So that we wouldn't take credit for it, so that we wouldn't take credit for any part of it. Salvation is not a result of works. Works are a result of salvation. Now tattoo that on your mind. Salvation is not a result of works. Works are the result of salvation. You see, works are the fruit. But salvation is the supernaturally implanted root that comes from the gospel. Verse 8: By grace you've been saved through faith. And the faith is leaning on. Trusting in Christ, in his righteous life, his sacrificial death, his glorious resurrection. By faith you are saved. By grace you have been saved through faith. This is not your own doing. It is the gift of God. Now, he said multiple times in here Saved. Saved. Just look at verse 8. By grace you have been saved. Alright? Saved. One of the things we're saved from is Satan's tyranny in our lives. One of the things we're saved from is sin 's dominion, or you could say sin 's Mastery over us. And since we are saints, just picture Israel being saved from Egypt. They're delivered out of Egypt. And when they are delivered out of Egypt They're simultaneously taken out from under , the authority of Pharaoh. Pharaoh is no longer their master. Pharaoh no longer has tyranny over them. They've been delivered. They've been redeemed. They've been taken out. They've been saved. And now they have a new master, Yahweh. The maker of heaven and earth, who is their God and he is their people. And that's how we should think about ourselves. We're no longer under the tyranny of Satan We're no longer under the mastery, under the dominion of sin, but we're under the lordship of Christ willfully because we've been saved by grace through faith. One of the things that sets true Christianity apart in the world is that we gladly submit to God's authority over us. Does that make us strange to the world, or does that make us strange to the world? I mean, you're just face it and get over it in the eyes of the world. You're an oddball for submitting to the authority of Jesus Christ. We're just going against the grain, going against the current, not because we're smart. Again, there's no boasting in this. Not because we're good, not because we're naturally spiritual, but because God has saved us by his grace. It's not of our own doing, it's not of works, but it's the work of God. Are these things getting through to the heart? In Christ you have a new walk. In Christ you have a new master. Submitting to the authority of Christ is called discipleship. And you know, if you've been trying to live this out, that discipleship is the process. It's a process of learning To obey and honor Christ in all areas of life. That takes time, yes? That takes years, that takes decades, that takes life That takes life. To walk under the grace of God, to walk by faith, and to gradually be conformed to the likeness of Christ in all areas of life, to gradually have uh Have all areas of life brought into conformity with God's will. So our thoughts, our affections and desires, also our words Our actions, everything about us, discipleship, a process of learning, learning how to obey and honor Christ in all areas of life. Just as Christ was made alive by God's power, you also can be made alive in Him. And if you are made alive in Him by faith, you have a new walk, you have a new master, and number three, you have a new heart. In Christ we have a new heart, number three. Go to verse 3a, the first part of verse 3a. And this gives us a window into the old heart. Among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind. Living according to the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and mind. I know there's a lot of words there, but the meaning of that is very simple. All that means is you're living based solely on your natural sinful inclinations. Your natural sinful inclinations. The Bible teaches that though all people are made in the image of God, we also are fallen into sin. We are sinners by nature. And when We do not have Christ. When we do not have the Holy Spirit, the only thing we could ever do, the only thing we would ever do, the only thing we had ever want to do in the flesh is simply live strictly, I mean strictly based on our natural sinful inclinations. And it's no way to live. I used to live that way. I do not want to go back to that darkness, to the that mire of lostness, of being dead in trespasses and sins. I'm happy to know Christ. I'm happy to be saved by the grace and mercy and love of God. And I'm happy you're saved too. Are you happy that you know Christ this morning? Would you say amen? So that you don't have to live based solely on natural sinful inclinations, but that just is a nightmare. An absolute nightmare. But when we're in it, we don't know that. When we're in it, we don't feel that. And that's why we need the Word of God to come into our hearts and convict us and pull back the blinders and convince us Yeah, we're sinners who need a savior. Whenever I don't preach for two weeks, my throat gets rusty. But I was prepared. Always have a lozenge, always have a drink nearby. Okay. New heart. Now, the old heart, we just saw it, verse three. Alright, a heart Given to the passions of the flesh. That's a heart that's enslaved to sin. But the new heart, the new heart is the heart that's united to Christ. Let's not be uh let's not be eggheads with uh advanced theology that no one can understand. The new heart? Are you awake this morning? Would you say amen? The new heart is a heart that's been brought into spiritual union with Jesus. That's the new heart. Spiritual union with Jesus and therefore no longer enslaved to sin. And this is verse 5 to 6. This is in fact the heart of the passage. Even when we were dead in trespasses, dead in our trespasses, made us alive. Now the subject of that is God. The second word in verse 4. God. So this is what God does. Made us alive together with Christ. Now, mark that. Not just made you alive, but made you alive what? Made you alive together with Christ. In fact, in the Greek it's one word. It's a compound word. Alive with. Alive with. You've been made alive with Christ. The only way to have spiritual life is to be united to Christ. That's why this new heart is summarized by it's your heart, it's your soul in union with Christ. You've been made alive together with Christ And then it says raised up with him, right? Not just raised up. Not just raised up. This is not a vague notion of spirituality. This is concrete reality of your soul. Literally being spiritually and eternally united to the Lord Jesus Christ. Made alive with Christ, raised up with Christ, and seeded us with Him. In the heavenly places, in Christ Jesus, just in case we didn't get it, the first three times, in Christ Jesus, united with Christ Jesus. The attraction of this local church is Jesus Christ. That's the draw. That's the advertisement. That's the message. That's the billboard Jesus Christ and the incredible salvation that is found in him. I have zero interest in trying to draw anybody or attract anybody with something other than Jesus. That's the message that God has entrusted to every local church that's a true church and filled with the Spirit and seeking to do His will. It's all about Christ. And it's not just about the draw for the community. It's not just about what we're putting out there for the community and trusting We'll bring will bring people into the community. It's not just about that. Brothers and sisters, it's about why we come. Why do you come? Why do I come Why do we get out of bed and get showered and get dressed get ready and get dressed and drive? What's the reason? What is in our hearts as we're coming to the building? And parking and walking and coming in and finding a seat and the service is starting. What do we want? What does our heart desire? Is it Christ? Is it that God would show us Christ from His Word and by His Spirit? That God would open our hearts to Christ, that God would administer the power of Christ to our minds to get our minds right. That God would administer the power of Christ and the wisdom of Christ to our lips to get our lips right out in the world. That God would administer The joy and the hope of Christ to our souls, so that we're not grumps out in the world, so that we can set a good example out in the world. Shine the joy and the love and the gratitude that befits children of God. Why are we coming? Why are you coming? What is in your heart? Let it be Christ. I'm coming for Christ I'm coming for God the Father. I'm coming for the work of the Holy Spirit. I'm coming because the eyes of my heart need to see Jesus Christ. It's not just about outsiders and the community and all that. That's one thing and that's important. But why is Matt coming to church? And why are you coming to church? It has to be Jesus. You have to see your need for Jesus. You have to come hungry, thirsty. Those are biblical metaphors, not my metaphors. A soul, a thirsty soul, a longing soul for the grace of God in Jesus. I left my outline about 12 minutes ago, Neil. A new heart. What time is it? Oh. Is that right? Are you guys messing with that clock back there? A new heart This includes a new mind that's set on trusting and obeying God. It's set on what has a new love That said on loving God above things, instead of loving things above above God, we all know what that's like. In this culture, in our society, with all that we have, one thing we know that it means, and we don't need to take um Some kind of class on to learn what it means. We don't have to read a book. We know what it means to love things above God. And God wants the opposite. God also wants us to love others as ourselves, not love ourselves at the expense of others. So our new heart has a new it's a new mind, trusting in God. We have a new love, loving God, most and loving others as ourselves. And we have a new goal. We have a new goal in life. God's glory. God's kingdom. God's name. It's all about God. 1 Corinthians 10. 31. Whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. As Christ was made alive by God's power, you can be made alive in him if you believe. And if you're alive in him, you have a new walk, and you have a new master, and you have a new heart, and finally you have a new destiny. Look at the end of verse 3. The end of verse 3, by nature children of wrath, like the rest of mankind. That means in our natural state, headed for judgment. Natural state. And that's why we need to be what? Saved from a natural state. So that we no longer be headed for eternal judgment and torment away from the presence of God, but rather we're headed for a new destiny, a new destination. of the glory of God, the blessed presence of God in heaven, and the removal of sin. The complete sanctification, the complete removal of sin, headed for glory instead of headed for wrath. What do I have to do to get there? I mean that is huge. That's everything. That's everything. We know how fleeting this life is. Hopefully we feel the weight of that. Hopefully that sobers us to number our days. Oh God, would you teach us to number our days that we might gain a heart of wisdom? We know this life is temporary. We know the treasures of this life are temporary. We know the pleasures of this life are temporary. And then what comes? What comes next? What comes forever? What's your destiny? What's your destination? Don't let it be judgment. Don't have God cast you away from his blessed presence and favor. Have him receive you. Have him receive you into glory. One of the things we always pray a prayer of thanks at funerals of children of God is, God, thank you for receiving your child into glory. Thank you for receiving them into your loving arms. Thank you for receiving them into a blessed eternity in the fullness of joy. And you can procure that for your soul now, today. Be urgent about your soul. Come to Christ Do you see him dying on a cross for your sin? Believe, believe that he died as your substitute. You know, one of the great problems, it's a great tragedy, it's a great barrier, is naturally speaking, and this is amplified by the times we live in. It's so hard to get people to stop thinking in terms of outward religion. And part of my plea to you, if you don't know Christ, stop thinking in terms of the externals. And the traditions and the experience and the outward religion. Think in terms of your soul And think in terms of God, the one who made you. And think in terms of eternity and heaven and hell and the favor of God versus the judgment of God. Think in those terms. And seek salvation through faith in Christ. By grace, you can be saved. And in Christ, you can have new life. With a new walk, a new master, a new heart, and a new destiny. If you're burdened for your soul this morning, please come and see one of us. I'll be up here at the front Anthony and Jeremiah will be in the back. Talk to someone. Talk to someone. We're here to help you. We're here to serve you. Our goal, our prayer as a church. For anyone is to help you come to faith in Christ and then live out that faith in Christ and then grow in that faith in Christ. Very simple. That's what we're striving to do for ourselves, and that's what we're hoping and praying God will begin to do in your life. Let's pray