Those who've been here the past couple weeks or watching online, you know what our topic is. Obedience. We've been talking about obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. He has a very short list of things that you would put as more important than that. Amen? Obedience to the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's take our Bibles and turn to Matthew 28, 19 through 20. We'll start there. Matthew twenty-eight, nineteen through twenty And if you're stepping into this series for the first time, we're doing a series on the last paragraph of the book of Matthew. And we're calling that series a reminder of purpose And the subpoint that we've been on for this is the third week, and it will not be the last week. Obedience. That's part of our purpose. Obedience. Matthew 28, verses 19 and 20. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you And behold, I'm with you always to the end of the age. That last part 's critical Because if Jesus is not with us, we would not be able to obey Jesus. Jesus is with us. By virtue of his Holy Spirit. And by virtue of His Holy Spirit, we are able to obey Jesus. Oh, he says, teaching them to observe. All that I've commanded you. That's what obedience is. Learning and striving to keep the commandments of Jesus Now, of course you know I'm hopefully you know the the point I'm gonna say as as the qualifier for all of this, putting obedience in its proper place. First comes salvation by grace through faith. And then as a result of salvation comes the obedience If you flip that around, you've lost Christianity. The message of Christianity is salvation by grace through faith. Forgiveness Which is free. The gift of eternal life, which is free. Being reconciled to God on the basis of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, which is free. As a result of that root of salvation is the fruit of obedience. Now we just have to be there in our minds and in our hearts whenever we talk about obedience. Or we'll drift into a what's called a works salvation or a works mentality. What that is is thinking that our standing with God is based on our obedience, and it is not based on our obedience. Our standing with God is based on the obedience of Jesus and on the sacrifice of Jesus and on the life of Jesus within us by his Holy Spirit. Salvation first. Obedience second. One of these days I've got to switch this around. Let's put salvation over here. Salvation first. This way from the perspective of these people, they're on the salvation side. Yes, Amen. I see you, Bob. The root is salvation. I mean this is so critical. You know, most people First of all, nobody naturally knows what the gospel is. None of us. We don't we don't come out of our mother's womb and grow up Naturally knowing what the gospel is. And the natural mindset of man thinks that our entrance to heaven is based on us being a good person. Most people think that they have been a good person because when we do that, we always compare ourselves to the worst people in history. So we're good people and we're all going to heaven based on our obedience. And the gospel, then we come to church, or we read the scripture, or we hear on the radio, we hear the true gospel message, and it completely flips that around. Salvation first. By grace, for free, through faith in Christ. He did it all. He earned it all. And when we come to him in faith, we're saved. And then we get busy on obedience. And I pray that you're busy on obedience. Teaching them to observe all I've commanded you. The greatest and clearest Sign of your salvation to you is that you love Jesus and you want to obey him. That's the sign. That's the neon sign. That's the flashing, blinding neon sign that you are a child of God, that you love Jesus and you want to obey him. Jesus said, if you love me, you'll keep my commandments. That's John 14, 15. If you love me, inward Invisible, spiritual reality. If you love me, you'll keep my commandments. Visible, concrete , outward reality 1 John 5, 2-3. By this we know that we love the children of God. When we love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. It does not mean that it's super easy To obey Jesus, and there's no struggles. We just walked right into an obedient, holy life. That's not what it means when it says his commandments are not burdensome. What it means is this. We are not grieved by his commandments. We don't see his commandments as a drudgery, as something that's going to do us harm. We delight in His commandments. Otherwise, if we don't delight in the commandments of God, if we don't delight in holiness, why in the world would we strive after obedience? Because commandments are not burdensome because we hear God's commandments and by the Spirit we learn to delight in them and take pleasure in them and pursue obedience to them. We're not grieved by the commandments of God and act like there's some curse that he's Put upon us. So the curse was upon us before we came to Jesus. And that was obedience to sin. That was slavery to sin. That was not caring about the commandments of God God. That was what was grievous to us. That was the curse. But now we've been set free. And rather than hating God's commandments, we delight in God's commandments, and the thing that grieves us is the sin. Sin that still lingers in our hearts, amen? Oh, to be rid of indwelling sin. Oh, to be free of the corruption of sin. And one day, brother and sister, you will be. When your body dies and your soul departs and goes to be with the good Lord in heaven, and it will happen. It will happen And at that moment, the twinkling of an eye, you'll be free of the corruption of sin. You'll no longer have to battle temptation. Boy, one will be nice. Woo! You know, this work of repentance that you're if you're battling and praying and striving for this work of repentance actually will be over with. You'll be done repenting for all those sins. You'll be Perfected in the presence of God. How glorious. This is that. You know there's an end goal to this whole salvation. We're not just doing busy work here. Going somewhere. That's why we keep preaching, keep praying for our friends, keep witnessing to our neighbors, keep keep praying, setting a good example for our co-workers. Because we want people to be saved. We want people to have the hope that we have Sign of salvation that you love Jesus and want to obey Him. Now it's back to the 20 Commandments of Christ. And today, I've made my goal even more modest. I aim see how I put that qualification in there? I intend to do numbers 10, 11, and 12. Now you have one through nine filled out. I aim to get through 10, 11, and 12 with the bulk of our time on number 12. So important. It's so common. This is a common struggle. So many questions about this. We all need help with number twelve. Well, we all need help with all of these. But in it but in an acute way. Time and we live in. Just in my experience over the years and in my own personal struggles, this number twelve is really a big hitter. So we'll spend a lot of time on number twelve, Lord willing. What? Are you ready to dive into number 10? Say amen. Alright, number 10 on the commands of Christ. Pray in secret. Pray in secret. Matthew 6, 6. Jesus says, when you pray, go into your room and shut the door. Pray to your Father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. The reward will be God hearing and uh God confirming in your heart that He's hearing And God giving you a peace. God responding to your prayers. God does answer prayer. Praise God that he answers prayer. That he hears. And knowing that he cares, that's part of the reward. How tragic is it? And what emotional turmoil for children who don't feel and don't know and don't experience that the parents love them. But that their parents care for them. But that their parents listen to them. That their parents will help them. Oh, but what a glory when your parents hear you. When your parents care for you, when it's clear that they're there for you and they'll help you and they'll serve you. Parents, lit let's live that example out for our children of being loving and caring and present and listening and hearing And understanding and responding, your Father who is in secret will reward you. You see, the reward in prayer comes from God. In fact The fellowship with God that you have in prayer, that's the top reward. Prayer is one of the ways we commune with God. in this life. And that communion with God, that actual time spent in fellowship with God, is the reward. There's another parallel in in this life, multiple parallels in this life, when those who are closest to us are closest friends. um those who are closest to us in the church. You know, not not everyone in church is best best buddies and best friends with each other, but you should have a small group of really close friends In the church, our family. The reward, at the end of the day, brothers and sisters, the reward of the relationship is the relationship. The relationship. And that so the reward, the ultimate reward from our Father who sees and seeks Is time with the Father. Time with the Father. The more we desire time with God, the more we'll pray. The more we sense our need for God, the more we'll pray. The more we understand The kingdom of Satan in the world around us, the more we'll pray. The more we have a burden for the lost around us, the more we'll pray. And just like none of us are perfected in any area of holiness, none of us are perfected in the delight and in the duty of secret prayer. But Jesus commands secret prayer. He says, when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret. Now, let's Let's not be legalists. Obviously it's a figure of speech, it's a metaphor. You don't you don't have to pray in your room with the door closed. Obviously it's a metaphor for what? For secret prayer. For private prayer. Um I would say probably one percent of my secret prayer life actually occurs in my bedroom. But that doesn't mean not have an itty bitty tiny seat Prayer line. The point. It's like that metaphor last week. Cut off your hand if it's causing you to sin. Pluck out your eye if it's causing you to sin. It's it's an illustration for a simple case. Simple, simple principle and command from the Lord Jesus Christ to his children. And that simple command is private prayer. Secret prayer You know, the first step in building a prayer life is pray that God will give you a prayer life. Don't see prayer life as something that You have to muster up and then present to God as some grand work that you've done to be holy. The secret key To secret prayer is crying out to God that He would provide us with a prayer life. Because it's the it's spiritual fruit and it can only come From God. Secret prayer. Means when we are praying in public, and it's not unbiblical to pray in small groups. Sunday school classes or publicly. That's not unbiblical. That's just not what this passage is about, but that doesn't mean it's unbiblical. But the point here in this context certainly is Don't be showy in public prayers. Don't try to be flashy in public prayers. Don't ramble on. Don't try to impress others. Don't try to sound spiritual. Don't seek the approval. Let's not seek the approval. The approval of each other through our public prayers. When we're praying and we close our eyes, we close our eyes, it's a practical thing. It helps us to focus, it guards us from distraction. Man, how easy is it to get distracted in prayer. Especially that secret prayer. That's why we need to cry out to God to help us. Help us pray. Teach us to pray. Um, but we close our eyes as a practical thing, it helps us focus on spiritual things. To think about the throne of God in heaven. To think about our prayers rising up like incense before the throne of God in heaven, and to envision by faith our Savior, our mediator, Jesus Christ at the right hand of God. And to be able to envision with the eyes of our heart the work of the Holy Spirit within us as we're crying out to God. So the closing of the eyes in prayer is a very helpful practical thing to that we do to help us focus on the spiritual do and not get distracted by things around us. Prayer is when there's so much you can say about prayer, you can write about prayer, you can talk about prayer. First of all, prayer is calling out to God for help. The most general definition or most general explanation I could come up with with from prayer, and it's from the script. Is calling upon the name of the Lord. We call upon him for help, and we need help from God in so many ways. Genesis 426. 426, early in the Bible, is when men began to call upon the name of the Lord. We get to call upon God. Psalm 116, 1 and 2. I love the Lord because he has heard my voice and he has heard my pleas for mercy. Because he has inclined his ear to me, and therefore I will call on him as long as I live. Christians are a people who call on God as long as we live. We need God's help. We need God to help us in our weakness. We need God to help us not get distracted. We need God to sanctify us. We need God to strengthen us. We need God to encourage us. Brothers and sisters, we need God to comfort our souls, to console us, to be our helper. Psalm 186. In my distress I called upon the Lord. To my God I cried out for help. And from his temple, which is his heavenly dwelling. And from his temple he heard my voice and my cry to him reached to his ears. That's prayer. Prayers calling out to God for help. Prayers crying out to God for mercy. Psalm 77, verse 1. I cry aloud to God, aloud to God, and he will hear me. And in the day of my trouble, I will suffer. Seek the Lord. In the night my hand is stretched out without wearying, because my soul refuses to be comforted When I remember God, I moan, and when I meditate, my spirit faints. Well, what's the deal here? Is this psalmist going through intense suffering or is he crying out to God? Yes. That's the reason he's crying out to God. And the details of this and the applications of this are infinite. For people living In a world under the curse of sin and death, surrounded by evil, surrounded by suffering Surrounded by anguish and loss and all kinds all kinds of horrible things that would bring torment And within us, the spiritual battle against sin, against Satan, against temptation, against the flesh. I mean good grief, the amount of things we need to cry out to God for in our anguish. There's so many aspects to prayer. Asking God for wisdom, doing that daily. Asking God for guidance in specific issues. Doing that daily. Asking God for strength so that we do not grow weary in the things God has called us to. Doing that daily. In prayer we praise God. Here's another one where it's infinite. All the things about God that are praiseworthy. All the things about what God has done. That are praiseworthy. All that God has promised to do in the future that are praiseworthy. We praise him for who he is. Oh, and over and over, praising God in prayer, we confess to God. We confess our sins. We confess our weakness. In prayer, we give thanksgiving to God. So many things we can thank God for. In prayer, we make weak We make requests unto God. Requests for the world, requests for the nation, requests for our leaders, which hard from it say requests. Ask. We ask God for this. You ask God to work in the world. You ask God to work in culture. In the nation, in our leaders, in our church, in our communities, in our home, we ask God, we lay our requests before God. And we ask God to work. And for all of these different you know, asking for wisdom, guidance, strength, praising, confessing, thanksgiving, making requests, all of these things is A great reminder of why we need to have a steady diet of scripture in our lives. Because in all that we're praying, we must be praying according to God's will. Now, how will we be grounded in God's will? How will we pray according to God's will, apart from a steady diet of scripture where God's will is made known to us? So there's all these pillars. These pillars, practical pillars of Christian living. The word of God and prayer. Prayer, calling out to God, and the word of God, listening to God. God has spoken. God has spoken. His written word. This book is not just about God, it is about God But this book is the living word of God that not only teaches us things that we need to know, but will stir our hearts. To love those things, the things of God, the things of Christ, the things of the Spirit, the things of holiness, the things of obedience. So the word And prayer. Secret prayer is what's being emphasized here. Brothers and sisters, whatever else we do, this is not the only thing we do, but whatever else we do, let's strive and let's pray. Let's call upon the Lord to cultivate in our lives. Are you with me? Cultivate within our lives. Secret prayer. And then we get busy on growing in that. And then the parallel track of getting busy on a steady diet of the scriptures. And watch what the Lord does. Through a steady diet of prayer and a steady diet of scripture, watch what the Lord will do. Number 11, live for heavenly treasure. Live for heavenly treasure. This comes from Matthew 6, 19 to 21. Matthew 6, 19 to 21, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth, where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal, but lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroy And where thieves do not break in and steal, for where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. Live for heavenly treasure. Doesn't mean having things is wrong. It doesn't mean we can't have things. It means treating These small things as ultimate things that's wrong. Living for temporal earthly blessings To the negligence, to the neglect of eternal spiritual blessings is a sin. So having things not wrong. But having things in the wrong place and the wrong priority, that's wrong. That's why it says don't lay out treasures for yourselves on earth Where moth dish moth destroys, rust destroys, thieves breaking in steal. And by the way, even if the moth doesn't destroy it, and even if the rust doesn't destroy it destroy it, and even if thieves don't break in and steal it, one day we're all going to die and leave it all behind. And that's a major point in the book of Ecclesiastes. You're going to leave it all behind. You will have no more control over these things. These things will bring you no more joy after we die. So we prioritize the eternal. We prioritize the spiritual. We prioritize treasures that will last forever. And treasures where the enjoyment of those treasures will be enhanced after we die. We will not be cut off from them forever. Those treasures are the treasures that are found in Christ. The treasures of knowing God. The treasures of fellowship with God. The joy. A peace, a rest for the soul, an assurance for the soul that none can take away. This is what we live for, brothers and sisters. This is our priority. Salvation of the soul. They are church bells. Where's that coming from? Well, if you're gonna have a a ringtone in church, that's the one to have. Church bells. That's great So we live for heavenly treasure. Treasure that will last. And number twelve, do not be anxious about life. Matthew 6. 25, do not be anxious about life. Don't be overcome with worry, is what this means. Matthew 6. 25, therefore I tell you, do not be anxious about your life. What you will eat, what you will drink, more about your body, what you will put on. Is not life more than food? The body more than clothing? And then down, still in Matthew 6, but down to verse 34. Therefore do not be anxious about tomorrow Tomorrow we'll be anxious for itself. Sufficient for the day is its own trouble. Yeah, there are things to be concerned about today So don't worry yourself about things tomorrow. There'll be things to be concerned about tomorrow. And it doesn't mean don't plan out it doesn't mean that don't make plans There are other passages that tell us to make plans, mindful of God's will, mindful that God is in control. We do make plans for the future. But the point here is don't be wary, don't be c overcome with anxiety about the future. How can we be spiritually minded through anxiety? Isn't that an important question? How can we be spiritually minded through worry? How can we be spiritually minded in times of stress in life? I have an A, B, C, and D. Let's see what we can do. Are you with me? Say a secret prayer. Letter A, recognize the feelings of anxiety are not simple. But acting like God cannot help you with those feelings is that Just like we say temptation's not a sin. But indulging that temptation is a sin. Recognize that feelings of anxiety are not simple. Feelings of stress are not simple. Experiencing worry is not sinful. None of these things are simple. Being said. Being really, really sad, even in anguish. It's not simple. But in all these things, and in all these other any related thing, we can think of an inner psychological, whatever, an inner turmoil. Acting like God cannot help us, that's the step. And when we feel those things and we're experiencing those things, it's easy, it's easy. Um kind of turn inward and not cry out to God and just assume that He can't help me with this. Or assume that if He w if He is going to help me, He'll do it really quick like in a week Maybe I'll come maybe I'll just give you the points today and then at some point come back and flush these out. But a lot of what needs to be said is um through through the anxieties and through the stress and through the worry, through any kind of inner suffering Where we're to turn to God to help. Part of that is God sanctifying us. Part of that is God taking us to a trial to strengthen us. us for the long term. And the growth may not be till down the road. But guess what? You're not down the road yet. You've got to have faith. You can only walk this by faith. And seeing God at work in the midst of So feelings of anxiety, worry, stress, whatever are not sinful, but w when we let that define who we are and define our our life We act like God cannot help us and we're not crying out to God for help. That becomes a sin. That's that's a trap. Please be aware of the devil's schemes. Please be aware Where the devil seems and wants to turn you in on yourself to keep you from crying out to God for help. of the devil Let it be. Comfort. Comfort for the soul is one of the blessings of salvation. Sometimes we forget that. A comfort for the soul, an experiential comfort for the soul is one of the blessings of salvation, but it must be sought through prayer. It will only come through the warfare of prayer. The building of prayer life is spiritual Warfare. Absolutely. Anyone who has tried to build a consistent, faithful prayer life knows it is warfare. This warfare. Nothing in us, naturally speaking. Naturally speaking, nothing in us wants to humbly fall down before the throne of God and cry out to Him for help and cry out to Him for mercy. And shout aloud, I need your help today. Nothing naturally in us wants to do that. It's only the Spirit within us that will drive us to do that. And how many things in the world and culture around us are encouraging us to do that? This is warfare, spiritual warfare. Comfort for the soul is one of the blessings of salvation, but it must be sought through prayer. Letter C. Assume that God is teaching you. Assume that God is teaching you times of worry, times of anxiety, times of stress, any kind of inner turmoil, inner suffering because of our weakness. Because of our sin, because we live in a world that's under the curse of sin and death and the judgment of God. The wrath of God is being revealed. We're surrounded by suffering and violence and sin and all kinds of wickedness. Through our sufferings, through our trials. Assume God is teaching us. Assume God is disciplining us. Assume that God is bringing you through a trial to mature you, to strengthen you. Because he has a purpose in that. Psalm 119 verse 71. The psalmist says that it is good for me that I was afflicted, in order that I might learn your statutes. In other words, the trial, the affliction, brought the psalmist to another stage of obedience The affliction led to learning his statutes. Letter D finally. If you want to make progress in battling the worry and the anxiety and the stress and the inner turm turmoil, you want to make progress So that those things don't come to define who you are, you must give yourself over to crying out to God. That's the marching orders. That's the practical application for all of us. Give ourselves over to crying out to God, which is a good place to end on a sermon on obedience. There'll be zero obedience in my life apart from God granting me that obedience. And the more we cry out to God for obedience, The more we cry out to God for repentance, the more we cry out to God for comfort for the soul, for rest for the soul, and on and on and on. in the things of Christ. The more we cry out to God, He'll hear and He will answer those prayers, God is faithful and God is working, and God is not only mighty to save, praise Jesus. He's mighty to save. But brothers and sisters, God is mighty to sanctify his children. She must cry out to him. You must cry out to him. And so must I. Lift our eyes to the hills. Where does our help come from? Our help comes from the Lord who made the heaven and the earth. Psalm 121. Brothers and sisters, friends and neighbors, if he made the heavens, heavens, and if he made the earth, he can help us. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus Thanks for his life, for his death, for his resurrection, and for the free salvation that he offers to any lost sinner not only in the world, but in this very room. I pray that you would turn hearts to Christ on the basis of his death, on the basis of his resurrection. Stir their hearts and change their hearts to turn from sin to serve Christ, to turn from unbelief, to believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.