The words we'll examine tonight come out of 1 Peter chapter 2, verses 13 through 20. 1 Peter chapter 2. 13 through 20. Royal subjects. That's who we are. It's part of our identity. We are royal subjects. This leads us into a deep study and examination tonight of what it means to be a subject. We understand that our royal status comes on behalf of the blood of Christ. It comes on behalf that we are in the family of God, that we have been adopted, grafted in. He looks at us and he says, you are mine. Look with me in chapter 2, verse 9. It says, But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own passion. That's our identity. That should fire us up. We should get real motivated. We should recognize the uniqueness and the beauty that we are a holy nation, a royal priesthood. But then we wake up the next morning and we go into the world. And we see, well, wait, I I am this royal priesthood. I am a holy nation. And yet I have a governor and a president over me. I have a boss that's giving me instructions. So, beloved, what are we to do with this? Well, that's why Peter takes the time here in the middle of this letter to build us up, to get our eyes and our understanding focused on our identity as Christians. The hope we have in Christ, and now he's going to give us instructions of how shall we live in this world. We're going to be covering this for the next few weeks, this understanding of submission to authority. So tonight, while we will work through the text, my goal is to present a framework and an understanding of what it means to submit to authority. So then, as we go through the other parts of 1 Peter and we start to talk about these different areas that we are submitting to authority, we'll have a better understanding of what that means for a Christian. I think of it like this. If anyone played a sport in high school, want to live my good old glory days, volleyball all-star, kind of a big deal My wife won't let me hang up my awards in the house. I try every once in a while. But I thought you're about to shout something. But w If you ever played a sport or you just maybe you were uh a spelling bee champion, that was never me. Uh or anything that you just you know, you after school you went and competed and you won. You were victorious. You're on this high, right? If the next day you came back to school, you were you were all hyped up. Like, you can't tell me what to do. We just won the state champion I'm the greatest volleyball player to ever walk down Lancaster County. Whatever it is. Like you you get all hyped up and then what happens? You went right back into class and you still had to do your math test. Yeah, you won, but you're still living in this reality of the world where God has placed you And that's what we see here. We're all hyped up. We're all excited, as we should be, that we are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, and now we have to live within this society. And Peter's giving us instructions of how we are to do that. So let us look at 1 Peter 2, starting in verse 13. He says, be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the Emperor as Supreme. or to governors as sent by him to punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. For this is the will of God, that by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. Honor everyone. Love the Brotherhood. Fear God. Honor the Emperor. Servants Be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust. For this is a gracious thing, when, mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it if when you sin and are beaten for it, you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it, you endure? This is a gracious thing in the sight of God. I hope as I read this and you think about that this is the reality that Peter is calling us to live in, it causes us to breathe a little heavy. There's some challenging things here. Very challenging words for us to read and comprehend and to apply into our own lives. And we need to slow down tonight and focus on the understanding of uh the human institutions, what it means to be subject within those human institutions And then what are the limitations to those two categories? And the reason I find this so important is because texts like this have been abused throughout history. Whenever we start to talk about submission and authority within society, wicked men will take it and twist it and use it for their own glory. There's endless stories of how in the early days of the United States how the slave owners would use 1 Peter chapter 2 verse 18. Is there to to keep their slaves under control? It was a wicked thing. What they would do is they would set up churches, because they were good, godly men. They had slaves and they wanted their slaves to hear the gospel. They would preach the gospel to them, have a minister come in and preach the gospel. These slaves would then come to Christ, and then the slave master would constantly point back to 1 Peter 2, verse 18. Is this a tool of oppression? It's a tool of holding control over people. And we see the wickedness of that throughout society and throughout history within our own country. But we also see this understanding and the wicked use of the submission to the civil authority within society. I think many of us lived uh a majority of our lives never thinking about what it meant to submit to the civil authority or to the authorities at all. It was it's kinda easy. You just woke up and you did it. You just got your tax stub and you paid it. Your teachers told you to do something and you did it. And then it felt like the whole world shifted in 2020, and now we start wrestling with this idea. And and now we sort of had to process what doesn't it mean to submit to the government. And I praise God that we live in this time in history. That we are the Christians, that God has st uh stirred up in us, has sparked uh something in our minds that we are re-examining scripture that we have just ignored or passed over because we are living in kind of this common everything was good way of life. And God has used things within s history to draw us back to his word. So let us wrestle with it well tonight. So what is a human institution? Simply put, a human institution, as we see in verse 13, it says, be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution. A human institution is a government, it's a form of government, and it is the way God has structured the world. It is a form of government. An institution is a form of government and is the way God has structured the world. Now when we hear government, we immediately think about the White House. That's a modern understanding of that word. Institution, authority, government was a very common language that you would use within the household. You have the government of your household. You have a leader structure. You have a structure of rules and instruction. You have those underneath the leaders that obey, right, children? You obey, follow the instructions that are given to them. We see this in the civil realm. This is where it's most clear to us. We have the civil structure where we have governors and and leaders that we've elect in the US system and they reign over us and they make laws and we are following after those laws and those instructions that they've given? But Peter addresses some other areas. We saw here he talks about servants and masters. So this is the structure that God has given. There's servant and a master relationship. There's instruction there. We'll talk about a little more, but there's a sense of a workplace structure. Everyone has a boss. Even the CEO has a boss at some level. He's paying taxes, right? There's some there's some accountability that he's responding to. So we see it there. The household we already talked about, and Peter will address that later. And also the church. There's a structure to the church. We aren't Quakers. We don't just gather together, sit down, and then whoever the spirit stirs up stands up and talks for a little bit, and then sits down, and the next person stands up. up. There's order, there's structure, there's authority and submission built into all of these systems. And when we hear submission, when we hear authority, we get a little antsy. I don't like that I don't like to submit. I don't like the authority structure. But we see this is God's ordained system for our world. We see a institution built, an authority structure built since the beginning. In the garden, was there someone that was the authority and someone that was to submit to the authority? Yeah, you have God, and you have Adam and Eve. Right, and then we see the drama that comes out of that and the fall of man, and then immediately we see another institution established. We see the family structure established. We have Adam and Eve as the parents, and then they have children. We see their children working and living. And they're receiving their instruction of what right worship and wrong worship looks like from their parents. We see that passed down. Throughout history, the Old Testament, we then see Israel called out of Egypt and Moses. Now he's the authority figure. And then Israel submitting to him. He establishes judges and we see the judges as an authority figure, and then there's the submission of the people, and then we get into where the kings start to show up in Israel and The king, that's really easy for us to hear. We understand there's a authority figure and then a submission. That's we see that throughout history And then we get to the New Testament. And once again, we see these kings and these governors ruling over the people and the people submitting. And then we see Jesus The King of Kings, right? The Lord of Lords. Did you ever recognize his submission to the Father? He's the imagery that we look to to understand what righteous submission looks like. Now, he's part of the triune God. He's the second person of the Trinity. He is fully God. He is no less valuable than God, but in his earthly ministry, for that point in history, he submits to the will of the Father. He submits to the Father. And this uniqueness, and we'll talk about this in two weeks, but we see this uniqueness of a submission and an authority system within the triune God. So when we hear language about being subject and submitting to authority, we should not be caught off guard. It's God's system It's a government that God uses to structure the world. Now why is this? Why do we have these structures? Order. Could you imagine right now? Imagine if we just got rid of all government in our society. From the president all the way down to the mayor of Jarrett'sville. I know there's not a mayor. There will be one day. We'll build a grocery store and we're getting a mayor. That's my two goals. But we see, right? What would happen in society? Would it get chaotic? There'd be unrest, right? There's there'd just be chaos involved. So we see that God ordained structure to society Parents, if you just stopped parenting, you just let your parent your kids do whatever they want, would it be chaos in your house? There'll be some messy floors, unkept beds, right? We see that the structure is God's method for keeping order. It's good for us The church we already talked about, if we just let the church do, each and every individual person do whatever they want, it would bring chaos and unrest. It's for our good that these governments have been established. And we must recognize that God is the one that establishes all the authorities. God is the one that establishes all of the authorities. Daniel 2, verse 21 says that God He removes kings and sets up kings. He removes kings and sets up kings. This should bring us a little peace every November when we go to the polling booth, right? We should take a little deep breath to recognize that the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords, is the one that is sovereign and in control of the elections Doesn't mean your person is going to get there. It means that God has ordained the person to be in that system. So what is the purpose and the benefit of this? We see here in verse Uh thirteen. It says, Be subject to the Lord's sake to every human institution, whether it be to the emperor or emperor as supreme, or to governors as sent by him. Here it is. To punish those who do evil and to praise those who do good. So what is, if we could narrow it down into one statement, what is the purpose of the human institution? It is to punish evil and praise good. Look with me in Romans 13. We already heard it read, but it's very similar language that comes out of there. Verse 2 of Romans 13, it says, therefore, whoever resists the authorities Yeah, resist the authorities, resist what God has appointed, and those who resist will incur judgment. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. It's not a terror to good conduct, but it's to bad. So when we're thinking about the governmental institution, the civil authority, this is what they're designed for. It's the purpose. So if the president comes to you and says, What is my purpose as the president? You can just point to scripture and say it's to punish wicked, punish the evildoer, and praise the good, reward the good. So that's the system. That's what it's intended for. Church. The church structure is the same. Peter makes it very clear in a few chapters that the leaders of a church are not to oppress and push down. They're to build up and to lift up the people. So it's the same idea. It's to punish the wicked, evil, all right, within the church structure. We're not allowing sin and false teaching to come in. We're building up a protection there. But also when we see Christians living godly lives, we are rejoicing in that. As your leaders, as your pastors, we rejoice as we see the Holy Spirit working within your life. We rejoice to see how God is blessing you, is maturing you, sanctifying you. We rejoice as as the leaders of this church, as pastors, we rejoice when we see souls being saved, sinners turning from sin and turning. To God. That's praising the good. Parents, is this your parenting model? Are you dealing with problems? Are you dealing with uh evil acts, wrongdoings, and then praising and rewarding the good? I know for myself, I'm often on this side of the parenting, the parenting side. Let me discipline. Let me discipline. Let me deal with the wrongdoing. But I'm also often forgetting to praise the good Right? And we we want that into our systems, and that's how God has structured the institutions to function That's the that's if we could build it from scratch, if everything was perfect, this is the exact role that a human institution should have. It should govern the people that God has entrusted to them, and it should punish the evil and reward the good. Why is this happening? Verse 15, for this is the will of God, that by doing good, by doing good you should put to silence the ignorance of foolish people. Live as people who are free, not using your freedom as a cover-up for evil, but living as servants of God. So if the institution was operating as God has uh instructed and has designed it to, us living as Christians would be joyful and easy. There would be ne there would never be pushback only There would never be a trial that we would face from the authorities, the institutions. It would be very easy living. It's punishing evil and rewarding good. I know I'm building a bit of a fairyland or a fairy tale in your minds right now, but we need to understand God's design for the institution. Because if we understand the design of authority and submission, we then understand why we're instructed to submit to it. And that's what we're going to examine here. So we have the human institutions, the government, the government system, and is the way that God has instructed or has structured the world. So what does it mean then to submit? Verse 13, it says, be subject. I gave away the hint. What does it mean to sub be a subject? It's to submit. It says, be subject for the Lord's sake to every human institution Verse 18, servants be subject to your masters. We can jump down to chapter 3, verse 1. Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands. We see this language. What does it mean to be a subject? I have three words for it. It's honor, respect, and submission. Honor, respect, and submission. That's what it means to be a subject. And beloved, that's what we are called to do to the civil realm, to the civil authorities that God has set over us. If you are a servant, that is what you are called to do to your masters. Right here. This is we don't need to twist it. We don't need to try to figure out some kind of loophole because we don't like the government. Speaking to myself. We don't need to find some loophole because we want to avoid doing what we're being told. Speaking to myself. What we need to see is that it The instructions here is for us to honor, respect, and be submissive. Submission. Why are we instructed to do this? I don't like this, Anthony. I don't like what Peter's telling us. Can't we do something else? Can't we start an uprising? Can't we all gather together and get our guns and and And march down the street to take over the White House. Can't we do something? I don't want to have to honor and respect and be submissive. That's the exact reason that God gives us this instruction. Because we're all g we we get all hyped up and we we start to understand this identity that we're a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. We get all fired up and we say, okay, we gotta we gotta take over the world with the sword. And we start just slicing. Well that's not how God's kingdom advances. It's a completely different sword that the Christian yields. It's not a steel blade that cuts off the heads of the enemies. The sword that God has given the church and the Christian is the sword of the Word of God. That pierces into the hearts of men, reveals their hearts and their souls, and presents the gospel and gives them faith. It's a completely different war that we are called to fight. And we need to understand this because we are so tempted that we gotta overthrow, we gotta destroy with power and might, because that's how we were conditioned in our flesh. But we're told to honor, respect , and submit. respon This is for the Lord's sake. Look in verse 13. It says, be subject. Why? For the Lord's sake. For the Lord's sake, the Lord is the one that has established that authority over you. He's the one that has established that authority over you. Therefore, live in submission to it. Live within that realm. Honor, respect, and submit to that authority because God is the one that has established that authority. It is honoring to God when we live in the society as subjects. As we understand our identity as a chosen race, royal priesthood, holy nation, and we're living in the society, in this world, as subjects, it's glorifying to God. It's a very important aspect. So when you have a command given to you from an authority, we'll talk about the limitations of that, but when you have the command given and you submit to it, you respect them and you honor them with your conduct, you are glorifying God. God. It's for his glory. But it's not only that, we see there's a another purpose for why we are to be subject. That's in verse 15. It says, For this is the will of God that by doing good, so being subject, by doing good, you should put to silence the ignorance of foolishness We must recognize that in this time uh the gospel has gone forth and in It's changing lives and now these people are coming into the church. The Ecclesia. It's a very political word. We have we've molded it and now we say the word church, good hard German word. It's a good word. But it's it's uh completely eliminated the understanding of what that word was when it said that it was the gathering of the people of God. The ecclesia of God was the gathering. And it had a political sense to it. It it had power. That this was a movement happening within the society. And still is today. It's a movement happening within society. The church, us as the gathered people of God, is a movement that's happening. And what often happens with movements is they turn into riots. And riots bring destruction to society. So as the early Christians are understanding that they're part of this political movement, the ecclesi of God, the gathering of his people, what's the natural progression is this temptation to riot. than to destroy. And Peter's warning them of that. And Peter recognizes that this will be the accusation that the world will bring against them. So what the Jews are going to bring against the Christians earlier pretty early on in the church uh life is that the the Jews are gonna go to the emperor and say, Look, these Christians, they're not Jewish, they're not with us. And they're not worshiping you. They want to bring an uprising. They want to overthrow the kingdom. This Jesus guy talked about building his own kingdom. He talked about this kingdom coming. Be aware of these Christians. And what Peter's instructing them is that if we live as subjects within the authority that's over us, those accusations are lies. And they're going to be put to silence. So when the Jews of that time they would go to the emperor and say, look at these Christians, they're about to start an uprising. They're a new political party that wants to take over the world. They're gonna come in here with swords and cut your head off, Caesar. You need to deal with them. Caesar's going to send someone to go and investigate. He's going to get down there and see it, and he's saying, Well, that's not true. These are peaceful subjects. They've obeyed the commands and the laws that I've given them. They're paying their taxes. There's no uprising starting hat here. So this idea of being subject is to eliminate the lies of the world. Beloved, we live in the same reality We start talking about uh wanting a Christian nation. We want people in our society, in our world to be Christian. What's the media immediately going to start saying? These Christians Want to take over the government. They want to destroy the Constitution. They want the church to be reign and supreme over the nation. It's just happened. We we just went through a uh a political season where this was the language being used. Be weary of these Christians that vote according to their biblical convictions. And what do we want to say is, yeah, we do vote according to our biblical convictions. We are Bible-believing Christians. We honor God, but we're not trying to overthrow the government by force. We're not trying to take over the nation by storming the capital. What we want is we want the advancement of the gospel. We want the advancement of the gospel. And that leads to the third thing of why we are to be subject Is for the transformation of the world. It's a transformation of the world. We see throughout history and even within the New Testament , That the Christians that are submit or subjects to the authority over them transform the society and the world they live in. They transform the world they live in. Why? It's because they're trying to live peaceful and God-honoring lives within the structure, which is an evangelistic tool and method to preach the gospel. And as that's happening, those that are living subject lives to the authorities, they're preaching the gospel and how they're living, it's transforming the authorities over them, which then transforms the society. in whole or in a wide range. We see this in Philemon that that Paul's he's instructing the slave-owning master He doesn't say free your slave. Break the bonds. He's not a slave anymore. What does anyone know his his instructions to the slave master in that short letter? The most important thing he says is treat this slave as a brother in Christ like you would treat me We see that the advancement of the gospel, as Christians live as subjects in this world and society, it starts to transform the societies they live in. It starts to transform the schools that they are students in. It starts to transform the civil government because there is an advancement of the gospel. We see governmental leaders coming to Christ and now making godly decisions. We we see uh CEOs and bosses coming to Christ and now running their corporations and their businesses as godly men and women. It transforms the society. We don't like this answer because we want the microwave answer. Right? No, I want to see society change right now. Right now. I want President Trump right now to bow before Christ and proclaim faith in Christ and then start to rule and make every decision according to that. Now, can God do that? Absolutely. We should be praying for that. But what's happening is it's a slow drip. It's a slow drip throughout generations and generations. That by three, four generations from now, it will be more common that we have godly men and women in our civil authority positions. It'll be more common throughout the world that there's less slavery and abuse of slaves and servants. Why? Because of preaching the gospel. The subject living of these Christians transforms the world that they are in. Jesus himself instructs us to think this way. What's the Lord's Prayer? The Lord's Prayer tells us to think about and ask for, hallowed be your name, where Hallowed be your name on earth as it is in heaven. Is God honored in heaven? Yeah. Easiest answer or question ever. Yes, absolutely. And here Jesus is instructing us to pray in this way and to believe that that will happen here on this earth. By the preaching of the gospel, not by a political movement, not by an overthrowing with the militia, but by subject Christians living within their society. Society, honoring and respecting, and submitting to the authorities over them. This is God's way of redeeming the world. It's God's way of advancing his kingdoms to the ends of the earth. We should see this. We should cling to it. It should give us a little bit more hope when we're dealing with authority over us. Should make us a little bit more understanding of why we're called to be subject. We should have this hope deep down in us in the belief that through the right living and conduct of our lives within Society that God will use that to transform the world around us. And we should believe that sinners will come to faith in Christ. He did it for us. Why can he not do it to those authorities over us? So we see the human institutions and what it is. We understand that the subject, we are to be subject to those authorities. This involves honoring and respecting and submission. Now we've got to talk about the limitations. I just built out the dream world. The perfect authorities, and they're just punishing evil and rewarding good perfectly. No issues there. And then we talked about the perfect subjects. We're just we're joyful every time we get a command, we obey it perfectly. There's no grumbling, complaining, there's perfectness there. But then we come into the reality of the world we live in. We come into the reality of the world we live in. And Peter addresses it right here, with the servant, to be subject to his master. He says, even in verse 18, he says, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust. This is a gracious thing when mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. For what credit is it if when you sin and are beaten for it you endure? But if when you do good and suffer for it, you endure? This is a gracious thing. In the sight of God. So we see we have these unjust systems at times. We don't have the perfect vision yet of authority and submission. So then do we just submit to the end? Do we just go along with it? Do we just say, yeah, whatever you say, government, whatever you tell us, slave master, we do it. We submit to you. That's what Peter tells us. We must submit. And this is what we see happening in the abuses of this text throughout Scripture. There's authority, there's submission, there's no qualifications, there's no questioning of the authority. But that's not what we see throughout the totality of Scripture, is it? We see that there's a limitation on the authority. There's a limitation on the submission to that authority. How is this possible? Why do I say this? It's because we see it throughout Scripture. We saw in Acts tonight. The apostles were being told, stop preaching the gospel. The authority figures, the society authority figures, were coming and saying, stop preaching the gospel, you're causing an uproar. And what did Peter, what did the apostles say to him? No. We're gonna we we fear God. We're gonna obey God, not man. We we see this understanding that there 's some form of limitation. We see in Exodus 1. 17, there's a disobeying. There's a disobeying of the authorities. The midwives, they hide the children from Pharaoh's instructions to put the children to death. They they lie about what happens, and then what does God do to the midwives? Does he punish them and say you didn't submit? The authorities told you to put them to death? What happens? Blesses them. He rejoices in what they have done. Because why? They feared the Lord. They feared God. So that is what our limitation is. I'm not going to give you if the government gets to this point, then we don't obey. That's a dangerous precedent to set from the pulpit. So what what is the limitation that we have? is the fear of God. That's our limitation. It's to fear God. Verse 17 it says, honor everyone, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the emperor. The fear of the Lord must be the instrument we use to make all of life's decisions. It's the instrument we use to make all of life's decisions I'm going to rattle through these quickly, but please write them down to examine of And we got power back If I go out, well it will be good. So the fear of God, it's uh I'm gonna list off some scriptures Of where we see that Christians or God fearers do not submit totally to the authority. So Exodus 1. 17, the midwives, already mentioned that one. Daniel. The book of Daniel has two great instances. The first one is in chapter 3. Everyone knows that story. Shadrach, Meshach, and Abednego not bowing down to the statue, the throne into the furnace. Daniel chapter 6, that's where Daniel rebels against the instructions from the governor, the king, and he prays to Yahweh with his windows open. He could have hit it. He could have shut the windows and prayed, and he would have been fine. But no, what does he do? He opens up the windows. Let's it be known. Acts 4, 18 through 20, we saw that. Or the Acts 5 one we did, but Acts 4 is a very similar story. Acts 4, 18 through 20. We're not going to obey your command to stop preaching the gospel. Acts 5, 27. Through 29 as well. And then Hebrews 11, 23 points back to Moses and what he had did had done as well. So we see this instruction in this example throughout History throughout Scripture is that the fear of God should limit our submission to the authorities over us. And I think if I narrowed it down, I would say if the authority is commanding us to sin, we don't submit. The authority is commanding us or instructing us to sin. We don't submit, but we continue to honor and respect. It's a really hard thing to parse out there, but we see this in verse 17 of our chapter 2. It says, Honor everyone, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the Emperor. That even in the instruction to sin and us rebelling against that sinning, we are still to honor and respect the authority. We don't start badmouthing him. Cussing him out. We don't start to s bring a rebellion and and fighting and then anything he says is wrong just because of this one instance. I think of the student in in school. If your student came home from school and they said, Hey mom, my teacher told me that one plus one is ten. What would you say? Is that right? Maddie, is that right? No. Now, do you think that as a good parent you go okay when you get back to school You call that teacher stupid and you don't listen to anything they tell you to do the rest of the day? The answer is no. That's not how you do that. There's still an honor and respect there But we don't want our children to think 1 plus 1 is 10. We don't want that to continue on. We're correcting that there. But we still would have our children honor and respect. Who they don't need to to fall for the lies. Now that's a really simple one, but then we start dealing with creation, the understanding. I had a philosophy teacher, day one of college I wasn't at a Christian university. He was saying that God is not real. This is day one. Now, I wasn't really a Christian at that time, so I was like, oh, that's cool. I'm okay with it. But what would we do in that situation? And could you imagine if then the the test came onto our desk and it says, Is God real? True or false? Well now we have to deal with that, right? I'm telling you, don't lie and don't submit to that teacher in that way of saying, yeah, God's not real, I just want my A. But you still should honor and respect the authority. They're set in that place. So now we get into the servant and subject and the master situation. The servant is to be subject to their master, even if the master is cruel. Now what I believe here is is being emphasized is that if you're a really good subject when everything is perfect and easy, That's not saying a whole lot about how you're living. It's easy to be subject to those you like. It's easy to to listen, to be submitted to and honor and respect those that are kind. Those that are giving you pay raises, those that are helping you and supporting you. But what about when they're unjust? How should you act? I believe that there is still honor and respect scattered throughout this text. Look at verse 19. For this is a gracious thing, when mindful of God one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly, for what credit is it if When you sin and are beaten for it, you endure. But if when you do good and suffer for it, you endure, this is a gracious thing in the sight of God. The submission to the authority, to recognize that there is an honor and respect even in an unjust system. And beloved, we live in a system like that. It shouldn't be that hard for us to understand. But you notice what's not said to the servant here. It doesn't say anything about don't correct it, don't fix the problem. Don't don't avoid the situation. It's not saying that because that's not the instructions we have. We see that Christians living in a society, living in the the human institutions. transforms the institutions they live in, and we should expect that there is a spiritual battle when we are submitting to an unjust ruler There's a spiritual battle there. We should be in deep, deep prayer for those over us. Scripture tells us that. We should be praying for our leaders, the civil institutions. We should be praying for those that are governing over us. Now, what is our prayers about when we're in that time of prayer? This is just, I hope, I hope they have a good day tomorrow. I hope they're a little bit nicer. No, our prayers for the leaders is a deep prayer for them to come and fear God. We want them to know the Lord. Why do we want them to know the Lord is so that we can live peaceful lives. How is that possible? Why would we be living peaceful lives? if they feared the Lord is because then they would be operating in the right structure of the system God has created, and they would be punishing wicked for the evil and praising or rewarding the good Then we can live peaceful lives. So our prayers for a transformation of the unjust wicked authorities over us And I go back to Philemon's letter because that's what Paul's instructing. He's not saying you are a sinner because you have this slave. But what he's saying is you are sinning if you as a Christian recognize your slave as a Christian and you continue to mistreat him. The transformation of the gospel, the transmitting of the gospel transforms the society. Verse 17 says: Honor everyone, love the brotherhood, fear God, honor the emperor. How much our society will change, and we won't have to deal with the limitations when our society, when our authorities fear God. Because then we love them as brothers in Christ. How much the society changes and the system of authority and uh submission changes when the gospel is going forth and transforming lives. The authority, if they're fearing God, isn't then making commandments for the subjects to then wrestle with if they can obey or not obey, because it may be going against the law of God. Now, how can we do this in our everyday lives, beloved, is we must be people of the Word of God. Do you know God and do you fear God to then know what a right and just decision looks like? Do you fear God that if you were one of those midwives and the uh Pharaoh came and said, put to death the males of the Israelites, would you fear God and would you know him enough to make that decision? That's a real complex and serious decision, but we are constantly making these minute decisions. Every hour of our lives. Right? Are we are we to walk this path? Are we to do this? Are we to obey this command? And are we are we able to process it through the lens of fearing God? In Sunday school, the young adults talked about Solomon and the wisdom he had from the Lord. He asked for wisdom and then he got into a really messy situation. Look there in 1 Kings chapter 3 and see the worst court case you could imagine with two prostitutes, a dead baby, a live baby, and a possibility of cutting the baby in half It's the worst court case you can imagine. And here, Solomon has the wisdom of God to make a just decision. But he has to know God. And too often we are coming into society and we're trying to make these decisions. Is this the limitation God has called us to And instead of knowing God, now we're having to pause everything, go back to the Word of God, examine it, study it, wrestle with it, and then make the decision. And often it's too late at that point. The culture has already moved on, the society's already moved on, you've already rebelled or not rebelled against the authority. We must be in the Word of God. We must be challenging ourselves with these situations regularly. Twenty twenty was a blessing from God to get us to start to think about things. What happens I didn't live in the US when twenty twenty happened, so my mind is the government came and said, I cannot leave my zip code and church will not open for three months. No ifs, ands, or buts. And then the only people that can do it is the Catholics after three months. So when I when I think of it, I'm thinking I had to process this. And learn what does it mean? Are we going to submit in this time? Maybe it was different here, but we should recognize that God blessed us. And has uh and given us the minds to start thinking about this stuff, start wrestling with it and challenging ourselves to think through it. But what mostly happens is we dealt with the issue, we've moved on, and we're not continuing. So, beloved, as we continue to study 1 Peter, we're going to have to wrestle with submitting to authorities. We're going to examine within the household wives and husbands. We'll we'll look at the the submission within the church as well. I want us to be people that are wrestling with this, struggling with it now, so that when we go into the world and we face the challenges, we're prepared for it. But here's the conclusion. How are we to do this? How can we live in this world? Is A we must r recognize that we are royal, we're a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. Christ is King over all authorities, over all nations, and he has called us to live as royal subjects in this world right now. And if we fear God, we will make the right decisions. In all things. Let's go before our Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We worship you. We understand your goodness. How great you are. Lord, I now ask that you strengthen us. Give us wisdom to make decisions. Give us wisdom to understand how to live as royal subjects in this world. May we seek to proclaim your kingdom and your gospel to the ends of the earth and how we live, how we interact with the authorities over us. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.