In Matthew 4, really the two main things that happen is the temptation of Christ in the wilderness and then the beginning of Jesus' public ministry. The last class, Jason did it, was Christ Baptism in chapter 3 That was John the Baptist's ministry and the baptism of Christ. Now chapter 4, which is pretty big, 25 verses. I'm going to try to get through it. This computer is on low and it's distracting me, so let me. There we go. Um I think we can get through it. So the temptation of Christ, and we'll look at the significance of that. The public ministry of Jesus begins with Look at the different aspects of that and the significance of that. And there's one thing I want to zoom in on. Actually, we'll do this first after we read the chapter, repentance. Repentance. And Jesus preaching part of this preaching, he preaches the kingdom and then he calls people to repentance. So I do want to zoom in on repentance and talk about what it is. And And uh that's always a fruitful study. Well, should be a fruitful study. Always should be a fruitful study. All right, let's go ahead and read the chapter. And then we'll back up and talk about it. As always, stop me anytime if you have questions or if anything's unclear. Verse 1: Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness. To be tempted by the devil. And after fasting, forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. And the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is written, man shall not live on bread alone. But by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the holy city. It's Jerusalem And set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down. For it is written, He will command his angels concerning you. and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone. Can we pause for a second? What What what's this is diabolical? Who's using the word of God there? Satan, yeah. Trying to misuse God 's word. That's basically the paradigm for false teachers. You listen to false teachers, the good ones, the effective ones. They use words from the Bible a lot and concepts from the Bible a lot, but they're twisting them to their own ends to harm people, not hurt people. There is a good way To use God's word, and then there's a way to misuse it in a bad way. Verse 7. Jesus said to him, Again it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test , which is a way of saying don't don't uh don't doubt God's goodness and don't doubt God's provision. Don't call into question that God will take care of you Don't put him to the test. Again, verse 8: Again, the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, All these I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Then he said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God. And him only shall you serve. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him Now, when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee, and leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum. By the sea. So that's northeast of Nazareth, basically coast of the Sea of Galilee. So this is way, way, way north northern Israel, basically into Gentile territory, which will come out here in verse thirteen Leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali, so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, which means Galilee of the nations, The people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, on them a light has dawned. From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent for the kingdom of heaven Heaven is at hand. A lot's going on here about kingdoms. Um, first of all, seeing a great light, uh, a light has dawned is the light of salvation. Jesus is that light that's dawned in Israel and for Israel and for the Gentile nations as well, the light of the world. Seen a great people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light. And when they see Jesus, when these Gentiles see Jesus, they're seeing the great light that was prophesied. On them, the light of redemption, their redemption has dawned. Redemption has for the whole world has dawned. Dawn is sun coming up All right, it's the beginning of the day, the day of salvation for the whole world. Quickly on those nation things, your kingdom You saw that in verse 15, Galilee of the nations, Galilee of the Gentiles. In that last temptation The devil offered Jesus the kingdoms of the world and their glory, so that would have been real kingdoms. That's not like a theoretical thing. That would have been like sovereignty over the Roman Empire and Egypt and all all the world kingdoms, all the world nations. This is the story throughout the Old Testament. By Genesis eleven, you have the world full of rebellious nations. Of nations and Kings, rulers, governors, military forces, and rebellion against God. Out of that, God calls Abraham and really launches and springs forward his plan of redemption. Um God creates one nation to set apart as his own kingdom, a kingdom of priests in the world to serve him, to worship him. He gives them a land grant, a royal land grant, the promised land. He creates this one nation for himself, but the rest of the world was left in darkness. In an act of judgment against the world, this comes from Romans 1, the world was left in darkness under the dominion of Satan. Satan offers this authority, this dominion to Christ, but Christ didn't come to Now it's questionable whether Satan has the authority to grant authority to Jesus. He obviously thinks he does, or he's lying. He's the father of lies. He had been given dominion over the nations of the world by God in judgment over the nations of the world. But that does not re mean that he has the authority to give that dominion. to the Sun because Satan doesn't ha God didn't give Satan ultimate authority. Satan's allowed to do what God enables him to do and allows him to do But God still has sovereign authority. So just because he's all what I'm trying to say is just because he offers these kingdoms and their glory to Christ doesn't mean he has the authority to do that. It's probably just trying to get Jesus to um believe him rather than God. Like he tries to get you to believe him rather than God and me to believe him rather than God. But he's offering him these kingdoms. Jesus came for the kingdoms of the world. He came for the nations of the world. But not to access them through satanic authority or through sinful means, by fleshly worldly means, but by suffering. And dying, and rising again, and ascending to the right hand of the Father. In other words, she came to gain the nations by redeeming the nation It's a plan of redemption. That is conquest. It's not a military conquest. So this dominion over the world is a really big deal throughout all of Scripture, throughout all of history. Right now Jesus does, having perfectly accomplished his work, he does sit at the right hand of the Father. This is the punchline of the gospel narratives that he has now received all authority in heaven. Heaven and on earth, he's seated in the highest seat of authority in the universe at the right hand of God. Um Let's, before we go and talk about the temptation, and we'll talk about the public ministry, just so we don't lose sight of those. I'll get them on the board. All right, the first section will be the temptation Kind of a good name, a traditional name, but the temptations fail. So it should maybe have a different name, like the obedience. This is about the faithfulness of Christ as the obedient Son of God. But traditionally, this is the temptation in the wilderness. Don't you wish more and more temptations in your in your life would fail? And then the beginning of his public ministry. And there's basically three elements to it which we'll come to Characterize just ministry in general. Paradigm for ministry. But first, let's zoom in on repentance, please. Where is that verse? Jesus preaching verse 17. From that time Jesus began to preach. So this is from the time where he left the wilderness after this Extreme fasting and still overcoming temptation. Now he comes out of that successful Faithful, obedient, and from that time he began to preach, saying, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Let's not forget that Jesus was a preacher. Jesus was a preacher, he was a teacher, he was a healer, miracle worker, he's the savior, redeemer. So many things you can say about him, but at the centerpiece of his ministry, is preaching, proclaiming, heralding, announcing boldly, clearly the kingdom of God and the salvation of God. This is what preaching is. It's the picture of a town crier who stands on a large box in the middle of the city and shouts aloud the news that everyone needs to hear, or it's a herald sent by the captain of the army back into the town to go to the town and to announce clearly and boldly with authority the authority that's been given to him. to announce the will of the commander or the news from the commander. It's boldly, publicly announcing and proclaiming God's will, confronting sinful man With the will of God and the word of God. Jesus was a preacher. Preaching is central to how God Saves sinners, sanctifies and strengthens the saved, and advances his kingdom and purifies his church This is why it's been a tradition since the dawn of the church era, preaching on the Lord's Day, but not only on the Lord's Day, but most Importantly and centrally, the preaching of God's Word on the Lord's day has been a staple of biblical Christianity since the first coming of Christ. Christ. And it will continue till the second coming of Christ. Jesus was a preacher. From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Now I know Jason talked about the kingdom of heaven, and I did in the earlier classes. This will come up over and over and over again in Matthew. Right now I just want to look at this word repent. Literally the Greek word means change your mind. Here there are different words in different places used for repentance. But I don't want us to think that repentance is um strictly an intellectual change. Like I now believe These Christian things are true. I didn't used to, but I've changed my mind. I now believe they're true. But you can believe that Christian things are true and not be saved. and not put your faith in Christ. It can be an intellectual endeavor. Where I hear these things and I agree with these things, God exists. I believe that. The Bible is true. I believe that. Jesus is God. I believe that. But you, if your heart is not changed by the gospel, these intellectual affirmations Do nothing for the soul. Even demons believe in the sense that they know theological truths And affirm theological truths, but they hate God and rebel against him rather than live for God. Repentance It's not simply an intellectual change that happens. It includes an intellectual change. You have to understand the word in the context of Scripture, how it's used One more thing, repentance is not. It is not just a change of behavior. A change of behavior results from repentance. But the change of change of behavior, the scripture says, is the fruit of repentance. We'll look at some of these verses. So first of all I have four points on this to talk about repentance. And chime in anytime if it's confusing, if it's new for you, if you have something to add to it, supplement what I'm saying, please. First of all, repentance is a change of mind. Of course it is. It includes a change of mind. This is the way it's used here So, one of the ways we change, we have a change of mind when we repent and turn to Christ in faith is we change our mind about ourselves. This probably is the first thing that happens. We didn't used to think that we were sinners who needed a savior. We've changed our mind. No, we know we're sinners. We know we need a savior. We didn't used to believe, think that Jesus died as a substitute for our sins on a cross, but now our minds have changed. We believe with all of our hearts that Christ died for us. on the cross as our substitute. We change our minds about ourselves. We change our minds about Christ. We do change our minds about Scripture. We change our minds about things in the world. The way we used to think about material things in the world should be should have changed. We should look at the world differently. So we change our minds in all kinds of ways. Here, turn, repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. It's a call, it is a call to a change of mind, to a new life. But centrally, repentance is a change of heart. Repentance is a change of heart. So I have some verses on this. Romans 2, 5 And in the scripture, the heart represents the essence of who you are. In the Bible, your heart is basically you, your inner self, your true self. I've heard this phrase before. It's the core of your being. Your heart. Romans two, five. But because of your hard and impenitent Heart. You are storing up wrath for yourself on the day of wrath when God's righteous judgment will be revealed. Obviously, you can spot the key phrase as the beginning of the sentence. Your hard and impenitent heart. Now hard is a metaphor there. Like literally this Lectern is hard. Heart too is symbolic. It's not talking about the the physical organ. Again, it's talking about the essence of who you are, your heart, what you're about, what you love, your identity, your spiritual identity and condition. What does it mean to have a, if that's what heart means, In the metaphor, what does the word hard mean? Stubborn, yes stubborn, stiff-necked. In fact, in verses where it's this same doctrine is expressed in literal languages, in literal words rather, that's the word. Stubborn, stubborn hearts, disobedient hearts, hearts that are hard like this lectern rather than soft like Plato Moldable to what God calls you to do. And since it's stubborn, since it's hard, it does not repent Im impenitent because of your hard and impenitent heart That's a heart that doesn't turn. A heart that doesn't repent. That's exactly what it's talking about. And uh the context is repentance, because look at the very end of verse 4. God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. Right? This is how verse 4 ends. God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. Then he just says the thing that's keeping them from repentance. A hard and impenitent heart. It's a hard heart. It's not repenting. It's not turning. So the point is the heart. Must repent. Or said in a different way, repentance occurs in the heart. Repentance occurs in the heart. 2 Corinthians 7, 10 Yeah , you're gonna take a shot. If you haven't picked it up over the last four and a half years. I reject an intellectualized version of the Christian faith. I have no interest in doctrine that's correct but cold and heartless. The heart must be captivated. And the heart must fully embrace and love and enjoy God and His Word. As preachers and many of you are teachers and leaders as well, we're not just trying to get people to do religious things to make God happy. We want hearts to be changed by God's Word, hearts to love God. This is the first open, this is the first commandment of God. This is the heart of all obedience. Love God. Love God with all of your heart, all of your soul, all of your mind, and all of your strength. That's the fruit of Repentance in the heart. What did I say? Second Corinthians seven ten. Oh boy. This is something else about the heart, about the inner man that supplements a change of mind, doesn't replace Doesn't supplant a change of mind. It supplements the change of mind, okay? Godly grief produces a repentance. That leads to salvation without regret. In other words, when you come to Christ, you don't regret it. And you're like, oh man, I wish I didn't come to him. I wish I didn't ha I wish I didn't come to Christ for the forgiveness of sins and the everlasting salvation of my soul. You don't have that regret. You have salvation without regret. Salvation doesn't come with regret. Salvation comes with rejoicing and freedom and happiness. Whereas worldly grief produces death. Just think of Judas. He was grieved by his sin, but it was a worldly grief. It was a self-absorbed grief. He did not repent. When Peter betrayed the Lord, he also had a grief, but that was a godly grief, and he repented and he was restored, and God used him in mighty ways. Now look at the order here. In verse 10 of 2 Corinthians 7, godly grief produces a repentance. Now that's interesting because there's something that happens Before the repentance. In fact, if you don't have this thing that comes first, you can't have repentance. Because it says this produces repentance. So, what is it that comes first? Godly grief, godly sorrow. Well now you teach. What's that? I'm gonna sit down and take a little water break. It's important, it has to be important, right? This produces repentance. Yeah, dismay it's a specific kind of broken heartedness. I'm dismayed because I've Broken God's law. Yeah, well why is that a big deal? Why should that break our hearts? He's a perfect and holy being. Right? So you have a godly grief. I love these words. Uh that that word you use dismay. I hadn't thought about that. We we dismay over ourselves because we've defamed a perfect and holy being. Think about so much of our life where we 're so worried about others defaming our name. Yet we defame God's name and and and don't have broken hearts over it Godly grief or godly sorrow, a brokenheartedness produces repentance This is why it's so important that we preach and when we share the Christian faith with our friends, we're sharing God's holiness. God's purity, which is revealed to us centrally through commandments. His commandments reflect his character. And as his law is preached, his law expressed in commandments, You could say morals. You could say you could just say re what God requires of mankind. It gives us a knowledge of sin. We've talked about this in our Romans class. We're not going to look at the verses tonight, but God the law gives us a knowledge of sin. There's a verse in Romans where that's as unbelievers it gives us a knowledge of sin. And then in Romans chapter 7, as believers, the law still gives us a knowledge of sin. So that we continue to go back to Christ, we continue to have a godly grief that produces a repentance in our life. This is why as we go through the years and go through the decades walking with the Lord, we don't repent less and less and less because we've gone come further along. We repent more and more and more. Because we know God more. We know of his holiness more. We know of his purity more. We have a deeper understanding of his commandments and his laws and what he requires. Therefore We also have a deeper understanding of the depth of our disobedience and the true nature, the grotesque nature of our lawbreaking. And it should break our hearts to sin, and that will produce a repentance. But if my heart's not broken, why would I repent? You can't re I'm not gonna turn from something if I don't if it's if I don't care about it. If it's not breaking my heart So this is something that happens in the heart as well. Godly grief that produces repentance. That leads to salvation. So, this is the repentance that accompanies saving faith. Yeah, faith, which is trusting in Christ for salvation, trusting in Christ alone for salvation. Not trusting in Christ plus my works or plus church involvement or anything like that or plus my baptism. Saving faith, trusting Christ alone for salvation, is always accompanied by true repentance. Which is it does include a change of mind, but the heart the essence of it is a change of heart that uh Is really sparked by this godly sorrow, and it leads to salvation. In one respect, you can say that the saving faith is the repentance. Because you turn from not believing Christ to believing Christ. Uh also would you say that the uh the God of Greek is the work of the spirit. Amen. Because otherwise the hardware's going to end having gone through. That's right. That's a great point. It's all the gift of God's grace. And that's in the book of Acts too, where that that I mean that's a key if if this were to be if this whole classroom repentance Brother, that would have to be one of the points that God gives repentance. He gave repentance to those in Israel. He gave repentance to the Gentiles, and that's important. It's all a gift of God. so that he gets the credit. He gets the glory. This is why we sing songs about God and not ourselves. Yeah, great point. Any other comments or questions on this? Yeah, that's right. Actu actually. He granted them repentance. If you look at it medically. What did you say medically? Medically. You see they they what God gives is the stint. Your heart is hard And you you will not be able to survive in the world without that stint that didn't put in there. But when that stint comes in, you're a new person. Well I'm gonna take your illustration and and uh raise you He takes out the old heart and puts in a new one. Right. Yeah, it's a transplant. He um he gives us it's it's in the it's I mean you're right. The the medical absolutely the medical or the the physical biological metaphor for the heart is uh essential to understanding this spiritual truth. And it's in the prophecies about the new covenant. It's in the prophecies of the kingdom of redemption. I'll give you a new heart I'll take out your old stony one, put in the soft flesh one. I'll give you I'll put my spirit within you. I'll give you a new heart and a new spirit. I'm not quoting those word for word or even in the right order, but that's the promises of the new covenant. Jeremiah, Ezekiel, it said most explicitly. Absolutely. So, brother, your point is crucial. That it's It's a change in the heart. Whatever whatever specific metaphor we use, what you're saying is it's a change of the heart. It's not adding certain beliefs and adding certain religious practices, but the heart has changed the s changed. But the heart has not changed. It's a new heart that leads to new it leads to a new love first and foremost. It leads to a new love, God. And it leads to a new hate. Sin. Namely my own sin. Okay. I have two more passages on the heart. But are there any other comments or questions before we go to them? Tom. Yeah. God's permission to tempt Job. Do you think he 's gonna have God the Father's permission to tempt Jesus? He was allowed to. I mean I I'm just not sure the events of Job are a paradigm for every single temptation ever. It could could be. I think the general point of Satan is only allowed to do what Satan Satan only has the authority to do what God allows him to do and in fact what God has Purpose and plan for him to do. Because it's God who's working out his plan in to perfection in all the details. Um I certainly think Yes, this was something that was um planned by God and carried out by God as part of his revelation of his son. It's it's a important part in the gospel narratives. It's a It's an important part. It's really the beginning of it comes right before Jesus launching his public ministry. And then the the symbolism of it, the the kind of the theological meaning of it that we'll look at later if we get to it Man, it's already seven thirty seven. How late you guys want to stay tonight? Joel two twelve Joel Hosea Joel Yet even now, declares the Lord, return to me with all your Heart which at the very least implies that they cannot return to him unless it involves the heart. Return to me with all your heart And then you have something of the outward manifestation of that. Fasting, weeping, mourning, and rend your hearts and not your garments. Another tributary we could study off are passages on the circumcision of the heart, how this was required. But uh you see here the godly sorrow, the lamenting of our own sin and guilt, and our the lamenting and dismaying of our own rebellion against the perfect and holy God. You see that. representatively are represented in actions outwardly, fasting, weeping, mourning And then here's the command, rend your heart, not your garments. So that in others don't just rend your garments and go through the whole motions that looks like outward that looks like repentance, but actually rend the heart. Break you need a broken heart. God treasures and God wants hearts that are broken over their sin if it leads them to look to Him as Savior. God wants people to see him and love him and worship him as Savior. Great, merciful, compassionate Savior. And the way we get there is by seeing our sin and being grieved by our sin. Christians are the people on earth who um grieve over our sin daily. It's a part of who we are. It's not something we'll do once a month. It's just a part of who we are, learning to see our sin and grieve over it, but always looking to Christ for his perfect forgiveness and salvation. And as we do that and going through life, it'll help us to repent more and more and be conformed to the likeness of Christ. And it'll also give us a greater and a deeper View of Christ's grace, his infinite grace, his infinite mercy, his infinite power. This is what God wants. 1 Samuel 7 :3 Well, it looks like this is gonna be a two-parter, huh? That's what happens when I miss a week. No, I know. I had the whole outline done, and today as I was looking over the notes and just doing my final prayers for it, this idea of repentance just captured my heart. Because I think so often it is seen as merely an intellectual thing, you change your mind, you believe new things, but just keep living how you're living. Or just a change in action. You didn't do you should do the Things, but now you do these things. Now you come to church. You didn't used to read your Bible, but now you read your Bible. It's all about actions and the performance of deeds and works. And even though on paper we would not a lot we would not affirm salvation By works, it can be lived out. You can be living as if your works make you righteous, and therefore they're the basis of your assurance Therefore, you never have assurance. You just keep going in circles of of despair, looking to your own works. Who man, this pastor can chase a rabbit, can't he? Good rabbits. Good rabbits. First Samuel 7:3. And Samuel said to all the house of Israel, If you are returning to the Lord with all your heart, that's the turning, that's the repentance. Then put away the foreign gods and the Ashtaroth from among you, and direct your heart to the Lord and serve him only. Turn in your heart and then bear the fruit of repentance. Put away your idols. So that it do no good to say that you turn to the Lord, or to say that you turn to the Lord with all your heart, and really, really sincerely feel like you do, but keep worshiping idols. So, change of mind, yes. But the essence of repentance, or as you say, repentance is a change of heart. We took this the different aspects of that. Now, um, really just zooming in on Well, what category to put this in? I'll tell you what I struggle with. The next line on that of scriptures we're going to go to. First I had them as verses under the heart. But they really come a step further of outward manifestation or the beginnings of the fruit of repentance. And it's confessing and forsaking sin. Confessing and forsaking sin. Psalm 32, 5. Now you won't confess sin, and you won't forsake sin until That change of heart occurs and you have that godly grief and that godly sorrow A sorrow that's from God by His Spirit, and um a sorrow that's oriented toward God and wants to wants to please him and wants to turn from sin. Psalm Thirty two I acknowledged my sin to you And I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity. It's confessing sin to God. And in our prayers, unless we're sinless or unless we don't care about our sin, which would be a tragedy, we're the people on earth who do care about our sin. Because we're we're born again, not because we're smarter, not because we're better than anyone else, but because God's given us the Holy Spirit, and we desire God and we desire holiness by his grace. We confess our sins We don't act like we're not sinners. I did not cover my iniquity. I didn't try to act like I wasn't guilty or anything. We confess our sins, but you won't do that until we're grieved by sin for the right reason. So confessing but also forsaking sin. Proverb twenty-eight, thirteen. Uh twenty eight thirteen Whoever conceals his transgressions, what are transgressions? Sins. Literally that word me is what? Yeah, law breaking. And that is sin. Transgression is sin. Um And it tells us what sin is at at a deeper level. It's violating God's law, which is basically um rebelling against God's character and Here's what it says: whoever conceals his transgressions will not prosper, but he who confesses and forsakes them will obtain mercy. And blessed is the one who fears the Lord always. But whoever hardens his heart will fall into calamity. So confessing and forsaking sin , that's the one who finds Mercy. And lastly, on my outline for this mini study, is this a study or is this just qualified as a rant? I'm joking. Uh repentance includes a change of mind, but in its essence, repentance is the change of the heart, as actually the receiving of a new heart. Um that will lead to the confessing and forsaking of sin. And it bears spiritual fruit. It's one thing to confess sin and forsake sin, but now what am I? Just a blank slate who's not doing anything? No, by God's grace, by God's Spirit, there's The production of spiritual fruit in the life. Luke three, three, and uh Luke three, eight and nine. that one in Proverbs though the confessing and the forsaking have to go together. You can't do one without the other. That's a great point. Yeah. The confessing and the forsaking go together, Denise says. You can't do one without the other. Well that's a great point. Otherwise, you know, by not forsaking, it just exposes that the confessing was a fraud. And look, none of us are perfect confessors. Don't become works righteousness believers only. None of us are perfect confessors of our sin. None of us are grieved by our sin the way we need to be, and no one none of us forsake the sin forsake sin the way we ought to. But we can do those things truly by God's grace, even though we don't do them perfectly. And those things are not the basis of our salvation. Those things are the result of salvation. So just because you don't have them perfectly or even maturely, don't expect these in a new believer the way you have them for walking with the Lord for 40 years. But the new believer should expect it. If you've been a believer for 40 years, you should be much further along than he or she. Spiritual fruit, Luke 3:8 and 9. Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. Let's just stop there. We don't have time to read the whole thing. So obviously, the fruits and the repentance are two different things. You bear the fruits that are in keeping with the repentance Don't come to do the outward sign of a repenter, which is baptism, if you're not bearing the fruits or have no desire to bear the fruits of repentance. Baptism won't do anything for these people. This is the context, John's baptism, which is a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins. So the fruit of repentance is different than the repentance. That's why it's The fruit of repentance. So fruit is obviously a metaphor. What's it a metaphor for? Just more than one answer. Works, yeah, good works. Obedience. Lifestyle. That's right, a lifestyle, pleasing to God, a godly lifestyle. Yeah, consequences. The fruits of repentance will be the results of the consequences of the repentance. Yeah, that's a great that's that's the logical flow of this whole thing. Um So John turns them away from baptism. They don't have a right. They're not entitled to receive baptism. And no one no one's entitled to salvation, are they? Salvation is a gift Baptism is a gift, it's a grace of God, it's an outward ordinance. It isn't it is a visible physical ritual. But these but this group of unrepentant Hypocrites don't have the right to command John to baptize them. John sends them away. Brood of brood of vipers. Who warned you to flee from the coming wrath? Bear fruits in keeping with repentance. Don't say to yourselves, Abraham's our father. I tell you, God is able from these stones to raise up children for Abraham. Even now the axe is laid to the root of the trees. Every tree, therefore, that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire, and you can't have good fruit unless you repent. He gives them this. Insane, insanely vivid metaphor for judgment. He's talking about them. The axe is laid to the root of the tree. And you're gonna be thrown down, cut down and thrown into the fire. One more on this. Acts twenty-six, nineteen through twenty Do you see how biblically Biblically, repentance is so much more and it's so much deeper than just you're changing your mind and believing new things. That's one piece of the pie. In fact, I would say that's one fruit of repentance. Acts 26 Nineteen through twenty. Paul talking about his conversion, give giving his uh Giving his defense, his apologia to King Agrippa. Therefore, O King Agrippa, I was not disobedient to the heavenly vision. That's good practice. Don't be disobedient to heavenly visions. But declared first to those in Damascus, then in Jerusalem, and throughout all the region of Judea, and also to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God. Performing deeds. Someone said this earlier: the deeds, the works, performing deeds in keeping with their repentance. So they repent and turn to God. And what results? Well, if they truly repent and turn to God, they'll perform deeds in keeping with their repentance. And if they don't, they won't. They could fake it. And it is possible to fake it not before God, just before each other. We can look religious in fr in front of each other. We can sound spiritual in front of each other and just go and live however we want. We know this about ourselves, right? Can fake it. But truly and in the eyes of God, the true fruits of repentance will only be there if there's first repentance Which is always accompanied by saving faith. It's always a result of the Spirit giving us new birth. We're born again through the preaching of the gospel. Um so there's my little study on repentance. Oh man. I I really thought we'd get through that in twenty to twenty-five minutes. But I think it's worth it. Because we're all we're talking about two things simultaneously when we talk about repentance. First of all, how the lost gets saved. Second of all, how the saved live every day. All right. God teaching us and showing us more and more his our sin and us Continuing to look to him, continuing to learn to trust in him more and more and see the magnitude of his grace. Um No, we don't have we don't have time. I tell you what, next time we meet, we'll just start right here With no background, we'll just come verse one, look at the temptation, and then come here. No background, no review, nothing, nothing about repentance. Until we get to that verse. Nothing at all. Something about repentance. Something about repentance. Yes re repentance is not off limits. Next study. Any any final thoughts or uh or questions? We have about five minutes left. Vince. interesting there with uh John's baptism and and saying no I won't baptize you guys because you're rotten. And I thought it's funny how today people are trying to on their own on their own terms and the true preachers are saying no we won't. It's not real. That's not, you know. But I thought it's an amazing pattern. Yeah, today there is a parallel. It can be a cultural thing. Uh being a Christian. can be uh a cultural identification. You uh you can identify as a Christian rather than a b Muslim or ra a Christian rather than a Buddhist or a Christian rather than an atheist just based on some vaguely Christian beliefs that you picked up along the way from living in America. And the parallel is the this group of Pharisees And but it wasn't them only, it wasn't just Pharisees and leaders. Uh thought because it was a heritage thing. Kind of a cultural thing, but more it was a lineage thing. Because they're children of Abraham. they have uh some special entitlement to to that baptism in that passage to the covenant blessings as some kind of entitlement to being children of God that others didn't have. But they're deceived about it. Yeah. There's always gonna be a parallel of that of people who think that they're saved and call themselves Christian and some of them sincerely believe it. Some are just doing it because It's a big Christian market out there and you can make a ton of cash in the multi billion dollar Christian book industry, music industry, all kinds of things. But anyway, you're always gonna have false professors It's a good point. I mean it should humble us. It should make us um look into our own hearts. Paul says that in Corinthians Examine your own heart. Let see whether you're in the faith. Otherwise you'd be a reprobate. Alright, last word. Who has it? Anyone? Any any final th questions? Jordan? at the end there about repentance it has what it has a first effect at the beginning of salvation right just like just like the gospel does for all of us each day so like there is a repentance aspect right there and then it's the rest of it Same with all of the gospel. There is a finished complete work to be done at the time we trust and then a continuous work until the end and through the end, right? Glorification lasts forever. So I just I thought that was an answer. Interesting thing that I was thinking through the different pieces of the gospel and its effects on our lives. And there is an immediate and then a continuous for the rest of our Christian lives. Yeah, and I love that point you brought out because that's the central point of all of it, this affection for Christ and this exalting of Christ. That will go on forever. Repentance won't go on forever. The repentance only is exists now because of the affection for Christ. Right? We have an affection for Christ and we want to we want to love him and glorify him. Therefore, we're grieved by our sin and want to repent from it. And once we repent for it, the way we repent from it is by his power and grace through the gospel, causes us to go back right back again and exalt him and worship him even more. So that's a great point to end on, Jordan. Thanks for bringing that up. Uh have true repentance and go back and have true repentance again, but then go back and say, Ah, true repentance. Are you able to be saved and unsaved? Thank you. I think there 's yes. Yeah. Somebody understands you. Yeah. My interpreter. Thank you, Malik. Yeah, I just have to do that. Yes, I had I mean almost more here where I wasn't really repented. I was just living in my skin and didn't have a side of price because that cycle you were talking about if you're not not having a side of price, you're not gonna see yourself in that price and then you're not gonna have repetitions because you don't have that um causing Mm-hmm. Yeah, you're gonna have down seasons and you can you can be caught in a snare of sin. Um you can have a season of apathy, but God will restore his children. And um yeah. Uh so yeah the Christian the Christian life is is a battle. It's not a series of unending victories where God is showing us uh how successful we can be at repenting, and so we end up glorifying ourselves. But it's a series of failures. It's a s it's seeing our weakness over and over again. It's seeing it's seeing our the depth of our depravity in over and over again, but in newer and deeper ways and part of the way God may reveal that to us is through a season where He where He leaves us to our sin for a season. Forward to the time that we will see him and be like him. There will be no more problems with any kind of sin in any way, shape, or form. Because we will be We like him, yeah, for sure. That's that's that to me that's the greatest thought in the world. I want to go over time a little bit because this for me and you think about for you and maybe if we have time you can talk afterwards. When the believer is in that season of unrepentance, like you're asking about, like you clarified for me, right? When you're when you're in a season that's marked by unrepentance Still if you're a believer di you're good you'll know about it and at some level you'll be grieved by it, you'll be upset by it, you'll be wondering, why can't why God wh what's happening? Why can't I turn from this? Help me. And at some level you'll be crying out. So that may be underneath the surface, but if the Holy Spirit is living in you, that you you will not be okay with it. You won't be completely hardened. Now you've got to be careful with it because there is something you there is a there is a way of you can train yourself unintentionally, you can train yourself to be okay with that. To be okay with the unre with an unrepentant lifestyle, and it it can really spiral out of control. And but that's when you know you have to have faith that God will Restore his children. The answer in those seasons is not to try harder at repentance. The answer in those seasons is to look to Christ. Keep looking to Christ for help. This is one of the things God is teaching us and wants to teach us to look to Christ for all things, not just to ourselves, and not just to try to cover it up with religion and saying the right things and saying spiritual things to people think we're spiritual and quoting Bible verses. Anyway, uh let's let's pray. Father