This morning the words we'll examine come out of Revelation chapter 3, verses 7 through 13. Revelation 3, 7 through 13. This has been my mini-series. It's been a few months now of looking at the letters written to the churches in Revelation. This is to the Church of Philadelphia. Praise God, this is the only one I can pronounce well and correctly, so we'll have a little bit better time this morning. But recognize that this is the second or last church, and in this church, God is Praising them and encouraging them. This church is weak in a lot of ways and they need the encouragement They need to have their eyes on Christ and to see what he has done for them and will accomplish for them. Before we read, let's just put our minds here. This may be offensive to some of us, as it is supposed to be, but do you recognize that we come from a weak line of people? Like we are weak people, and we are from a a family tree of weak people. Now I'm not addressing your individual family. Don't don't hear me, I'm not offending your family. But if we let's think about our history as a nation. Our history as a nation, we come from some weak lines in a lot of ways, some some meek people. They weren't the most powerful. We know th th the from the history books the Revolutionary War. It wasn't that uh the US had the strongest army Actually, for the majority of that war, it appeared as though America was going to lose. They were going to be British and drinking tea for the rest of our lives. But for whatever reason, through that history this weak group of people uh overcame. Uh we see it uh th in today's world as well. It's We think about, oh, the most powerful people, the the politicians and the the richest companies, they're the most powerful, but who has the most influence in your life? It's your weak friends to your left and right. And just so you know, your friend is thinking you as that weak friend who's encouraging them and strengthening them. It's the the mothers and the teachers that are raising up the children in the next generation. It's not the the companies, it's not the government that's doing it. It's not the rich and the powerful, but it's quote-unquote weak people. Blood of the church comes from an extremely weak line of people. Think about, we celebrated Easter last week. Think about who were the first people to see the resurrected Christ. Few women who were going there not because they thought he was alive, but because they wanted to care for the dead body This weak line has then flourished and bloomed an international church that we are now a part of. These weak disciples who doubted the resurrected Christ and said, Oh, show us your hands. Let us see our marks. Let us see where the nails were put in. Unless you do that, I'm not going to believe. These are weak men. Weak women. They weren't the politicians. They weren't the elite class of the society, but we see throughout history But these weak people God used for miraculous and wonderful works. And today, as we examine this church in Philadelphia, we see a very weak church. Beloved, I want us to think and to ponder ourselves and place ourselves in the feet of this shoes of this church. How weak do you feel today? How weak do you feel? You feel like the the world is more powerful, it's overcoming you. Or maybe you when I ask how weak do you feel, you go right to your salvation. I've sinned. I can't memorize my scriptures. I keep making the same mistakes and I I doubt I I don't know if I'm saved. This this whole Christianity thing is is frustrating and I am not perfect and it and I see all these people at church that they look so perfect and if you go on their their uh Instagram and their Facebook they're living these perfect lives and you're saying I'm weak, I'm not A great Christian, so obviously I'm not a Christian. Well, friends, if you were in that category, you're not alone. What I want you to do is I want you to lift your head up and see Christ this morning. I want you to see that who you are is based on who Christ has made you. Your power, your strength is not based off of a political position. The strength and the position of the church in society is not based off of our wealth, but it's based off of the power of God, the creator of the universe. Who what other power do you want? I'd rather be a child of God than be the President of the United States. I'd rather be a child of God than be the CEO of Google. Now, if you want to put me in as the CEO of Google, I got some changes to make. But the better identity is to be a child of God, and as we read about this church That's what they need to know. They need to be encouraged that they're children of God. That they are in the kingdom of God. That the attacks of the enemies, the lies of the enemy, saying you're not good enough, you're not one of us, is a lie. And we must find our identity in Christ alone. So join me as we read Revelation chapter 3, starting in verse 7. And to the angel of the church in Philadelphia, right? The words are the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens. I know your works. Behold, I've set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name Behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie. Behold. I will make them come and bow down before your feet, and they will learn that I have loved you. Because you have kept my word about patient endurance. I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world, to try those who dwell on the earth. I'm coming soon. Hold fast what you have, so that no one may seize your crown The one who conquers, I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem. Which comes down from my God out of heaven in my own new name. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches If you've been following along or you know the letters to the churches in Revelation, you'll recognize that this one is a bit unique in how it is written. This is the only one, for the most part, it's the only one. Arguably, there's one other, but right now it's the only one that God commands and does not correct. Jesus says, I know your works, I know your faith, I know your patience, I know your endurance. And he never says, but you've got to correct this. All the other legs we see that you're doing good here, you need to address this. Sometimes he doesn't even have to address what they're doing good because they've strayed so far away that he says, you need to fix this. You need to address this, but here to the church in Philadelphia. He's encouraging. He's encouraging this weak, pathetic church. It's not the biggest in strength. It's not the biggest in numbers. It's not the richest of the letters of the churches. But here he says You've done well. Hold fast. Endure. You are mine. And he encourages them on two things. In verse 8, it says, I know your works. And then the second part of verse 8 says, I know that you have but a little power, and yet you have kept my word and have not denied my name. Notice the two aspects there. Faith and works. Belief and works. With some of the other churches we saw, they had really good theology. They know all the facts about who God is. They knew all the scriptures. They knew exactly who Jesus was, but they had no life to them. There is no living. There is no doing. The works of their faith was dead. We see James that that means then their faith is dead. And then we see other churches. They were all about love. They were known for their kindness and their good works within the region, but they had no knowledge of God. It is a false worship. But here, this little puny, weak church knows God and is living in the knowledge of who Christ is. They're holding fast to their faith and they're living it out. They are the definition of what it means to be a follower of Christ. To know, to believe, and to live. To know, believe, and live. Now why is, or how is Jesus able to encourage his church? We see the title of the sermon is the true one. We 'll see that these are the words of Christ to his church. That brings encouragement to the church. It brings hope to this little church in all their weakness. And all their understanding of how little power they have, they know that the true one, we see that in verse 7, it says, the words of the Holy One, the true one. He's the one that's telling them that they are his. That's who we want to hear from. Beloved, you don't want to be known as a Christian just because the world has told you that. You don't want to be known as a Christian saying your identity as a Christian is because the pastors have said you're a Christian. Your identity as a Christian must be based off of the truth and the reality that the true one, the Messiah, the one that has defeated sin and death, looks at you and says, You are mine. We want the approval. We want the recognition of the true one. And that's what happens here. So we see that Christ's words are to encourage. There's four aspects of the encouragement we'll see this morning. One is that he has the keys. That's a very important one. He has the keys of the kingdom. We'll address that. The second encouragement is that he will make the enemies bow down. He will make the enemies bow down. Beloved, I pray that that's an encouragement for us this morning. Third is that he will keep the trial from the church. He will keep the trial from the church. And I want to reword that a little bit and I'll dress why, but he will bring the church through the trials. So I think we see both. We see that he will keep the trial from the church, but he will also bring his church through Through the trial. And then number four, he redeems. He redeems. Now let's look at the words of the true one and how he encourages the church in Philadelphia. And may we be encouraged this morning, beloved So the first thing is that he has the keys. Verse 7 we see at the end that says the words of the Holy One, the true one, who has the key of David, who opens and no one will shut, who shuts and no one opens. I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I know that you have but little power, and yet you have kept my word, and have not denied my name. There's two aspects of the ownership of these keys that we must see. One is that Christ has the keys. He owns the keys. Now, if I have the keys to your house, who owns your house? Your name may be on the deed. Your name may you may be the one paying the bills, but if I could just walk in there whenever I want Go to your pantry, eat your snacks, thank you. Use your electricity. You know, there's an ownership there that's happening. And what if you don't have any keys to your house and it's just my keys? We see that the one that has the keys has the ownership. He has the ownership, and we see that he has the key of David. The end of verse 7, who has the key of David. We see this imagery is coming out of Isaiah 22, 22. In Isaiah 22 it's talking about a prophet and that that prophet will have the key of David on his shoulder. And here we see that he has the rule and the reign of the kingdom of Israel at that time. He's the one that controls it. He's the owner of it. And we see in Revelation 3 that Christ has the key of David. Who owns all things? Christ. Who rules all nations? Christ. Who holds the keys of heaven and hell? Christ Love it. This is part of the encouragement we need to see. Is that our mess our Messiah, our Savior, the one that has died for us, has brought us new life, is the one that controls the keys. He controls the keys. Now this is emphasized even more to this church because he controls and owns the kingdom, and he controls and owns the keys to the kingdom. Now, why is this so important for this church? It's because, and we'll examine this a little bit later, this church is surrounded by a community of Jewish people. They're surrounded by Jewish people that are worshiping in the synagogues. And at this time, the early Christians would still go to the synagogues. They were still considered Jewish. And they would go to the synagogues and worship there on the Sabbath, and then they would gather together throughout the week as the church, those following Christ as Christians. And we saw that there became a rift between them, the Jewish uh worshippers and the Christian worshippers that were still going to the synagogues to worship. And what happened is the the Jewish congregant and the Jewish leaders kicked out the Christians and said, No, you can't be Jewish. You can't be part of this kingdom. You're not a child of God if you're going to worship Christ. There's this this riff that is happening there. And while that sounds bad, we must recognize it's it's even worse when we understand the historical context So in Rome at the time, you had to worship Caesar. There was a form of worship that had to occur. And the Jewish people were granted a waiver. They were given special treatment. That they didn't have to worship Caesar, they still had to pay an incense, they still had to give to Caesar, but they could still worship Yahweh and not be persecuted or punished by the Roman authorities for not worshiping Caesar. They were one of the only religious groups in all of Rome that had this special treatment. So here we see these these Christians Who are still worshiping in the Jewish synagogue are now being kicked out of the synagogue. They're being kicked out of Judaism. The Jewish leaders are saying, you're not part of us. And now they're about to lose the special treatment from Rome. They're now about to have to worship Caesar or receive a punishment. Now punishment was often death. So these Christians in this small church are going through an identity crisis. They're about to lose their protection from the government, and they're gonna have to fight and not worship Caesar, they're gonna have to stand firm and worship Christ. And him alone. And they've lost the relationships with their Jewish uh friends and family that they once had There's an identity crisis here, and that's why Jesus announces that he has the key of David. He owns the keys While the Jewish leaders are pointing at the Christians and saying, you're not in the kingdom. You don't belong to God. Their statements and their opinions have no meaning in the eyes of God. It's based on Christ. Your entrance into the kingdom is through Christ. Your entrance, your identity as a child, as a son and daughter of God is based on Christ. He owns the keys. He controls the keys. He continues on and says, he who opens and no one shuts, who shuts and no one opens. And then he repeats that again in verse 8. Behold, I have set before you an open door, which no one is able to shut. I've set before you an open door which no one is able to shut. So as we're understanding the historical context, the The Jews are saying, no, you're not part of God's kingdom. You're not God's children because you're worshiping Jesus. What's being announced is he's the one that has opened the door for them to enter Christ is the one that has opened up the gates, has opened the door of the kingdom of God for the Gentiles to enter in, for those that worship Christ to enter in. Where do I get this from? Acts 14, verse 27 says, He has opened a door of faith to the Gentiles. Beloved, we don't grasp the historical shift and shakeup that happened at the death and resurrection of Christ. For most of us, the reality that we are children of God is extra amazing because throughout most of history, it was more based on an ethnicity or an identity, a bloodline. or people group that you functioned with and that you were circumcised with. But now in Christ even the Gentiles come into the kingdom. They come in through Christ, faith in Christ. Just like the Jews come into the kingdom, it's through Christ So as we see that he's the one that has opened the door, what he's saying is don't allow anyone to shut your door. Don't allow anyone to say that they control who enters into the kingdom of God. Don't allow anyone to tell you that they're the ones that get to decide who's a Christian and who's not, who 's the child of God and who's not. Your identity as a Christian must be based in faith in Jesus Christ. Beloved, maybe you're your worst enemy right now. Maybe you're the one that's shutting the door on your salvation. You're saying, oh, I'm a sinner. I'm I just I'm not strong enough. I've doubted. I've lost my hope. Yeah, I I I have faith and I walk down the aisle and I was baptized and I go to church, but the pastors don't know about the sin I do and commit throughout the week. I'm just not worthy of salvation. You're right. You're right. But it's Christ that has opened up the kingdom. It's Christ that has given you salvation. It's his victory. It's his death and resurrection that has given you new life. Don't be your worst enemy. If your faith is in Christ, you recognize that you are a sinner in need of salvation You recognize that because of your sin, you deserve the just punishment of death and separation from God. You recognize that Christ came, died on the cross, resurrected from the dead, forgiving your sins, beloved. The door is wide open. Don't allow the enemy. Don't allow the world to say that there's something else you've got to accomplish. You got to be better. You got to try harder. Rest in Christ. He's the one that opens and shuts the door. But I believe in verse 8 he continues this theory and this analogy to broaden it from he's the one that controls the entrance into the kingdom. So he's also the one that opens up the doors for the proclamation of the gospel. He opens up the doors for the proclamation of the gospel. Verse 8, I know your works. Behold, I have set before you an open door which no one is able to shut. The door's open. Preach the gospel. Proclaim Christ. Just because the Jewish leaders of the time are saying, no, you're not one of us. Christ is a liar. He's dead. He's in shoel. He's in hell. That's what the Jewish leaders are saying. Don't they say some more filthy things about him later on? He's saying, No, the door's open, preach the gospel. If the opportunity is there, take the opportunity. Do the work of an evangelist. Proclaim the gospel. Proclaim Christ. He's the one that has given you the opportunities. Now, this should encourage us as we think about sharing the gospel. Often we get all tied up in knots about, uh, I'm not sharing, I don't know how to talk to my friends or my neighbors, and I I I squandered this opportunity and I messed up. God is sovereign, beloved. He's sovereign. He's given you the wisdom you have. He's given you the strength and the ability to share the gospel when it's appropriate. He's the one that's given you the words to share, and he's the one that gives you the opportunities to share Don't focus inward. Look to him. Recognize his work in the world around you. This should also give us hope. We can get so down as Christians. As we look at the media and the world around us, they appear so powerful. Obviously Satan's winning. Clearly he has the victory. The church is shrinking. It's getting worse. Well, that's not what we read in Scripture. The door 's open. The door 's open for the church to advance. The door 's open for the gospel to go forth. Satan can't stop the advancement of the gospel. The enemy can't stop the church growing. The enemy cannot squander, crush, or destroy the kingdom of God. Let us take hope that our God is the one that holds the keys. Our Savior Jesus holds the keys. He has opened the door for us to enter into the kingdom. And he keeps the door open and no one can shut it. Whom he calls will enter. Whom he says are his enemies will be his enemies. We see in Romans 9:18, he says, so then he has mercy on whomever he wills, and he hardens whomever he wills. He hardens the hearts of whomever he wills. Beloved, the saints that are his are his. The rebel that are against him are against him. And it's his work to bring salvation and victory. It's his work to bring them into the kingdom. It's his work that has brought us into the kingdom, and we rejoice in this reality. So the first encouragement to the church is that Christ has the keys. The gate of the kingdom is open to all who believe in Christ. Number two, he will make enemies bow down. Look with me in verse 9. It says, Behold. I will make those of the synagogue of Satan who say that they are Jews and are not, but lie. Behold, I will make them come and bow down before your feet, and they will learn that I have loved you. This verse can stumble us and cause some tension within us and maybe even some confusion of What's happening here? These that say they're they're in the synagogue of Satan and they say they're Jews, but they're not. Remember the historical context. The early church still identified as Jewish and they were part of the synagogue. The synagogue and the leaders Kick them out because of their they rejected Christ. The Jewish leaders reject Christ and they said you're not part of us So we see this identity crisis happening, and what happens is Christ comes in to encourage them. Those that have kicked you out, those that said you're not worthy, those that said you're not part of the kingdom, those that said you're not God's children. They will bow down before you. Now we have known throughout all of Scripture that Judaism and the Jewish identity was not strictly based on ethnicity It's not strictly based on ethnicity. From the call of Abraham to the circumcision, we see that there's a mixed multitude circumcised with Abraham. He had all these servants that weren't from his line, his genealogy, and they were circumcised. And then we see throughout the Old Testament, God gives us wonderful stories of these non-Hebrews, these non-Israelites coming into The Israelite community and being God fearers, being worshippers of God. And then we get to the New Testament And we see this ethnicity division that appeared so strong in the time of Jesus starting to be crumbled and destroyed at the resurrection of Christ. Romans 2, let me read that quickly. Romans 2, 28 through 29 is a very good verse or a few verses for us to hold on to to understand what's happening in Revelation 3. Romans 2, 28 says, For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly, nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew, alright, so now we're going to get the definition of what it means to be a Jew. Who is the Jew? But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart, by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man, but from God. So what's happening here? Beloved, let me make it simple for us. If you were in Christ, you would be considered a true Jew. You're considered a true Jew. You are a child of God. Now what we see is occurring here in Philadelphia. Is that the Jewish leaders are saying, no, you're not a child of God. And what Jesus is saying, the true Jew is the one circumcised of the heart, the one that has been transformed by the working of the Spirit, that is born again of Christ. That's the true Jew, and those that are Jewish by ethnicity and by the form of worship, but are denying Jesus, they're not a true Jew. According to Romans. And this is encouragement to this church because from most of their lives they have recognized that the Jewish leaders were the leaders of their religion. So, for your religious leaders to now be saying you're not part of God's family, you're not in the kingdom of God because you worship Christ, they're crushed by this. They don't know what to do. And we see that there's encouragement here. First, Christ points out that the synagogue, the false worship of Judaism, behold, I will make those of the synagogue of Satan. He calls it a synagogue of Satan. Well, wait God, aren't you the one that established Judaism? Aren't you the one that has set up the temple worship and given them the order of worship? Yes. He's also the one that has transformed it and brought the new covenant through the death and resurrection of Christ. We see this transformation happening here. The false worship, denying of Christ, the false worship of God, the denying of Christ that's happening in the synagogue is considered a satanic, demonic, and evil form of worship. And beloved, we must recognize any idea of Judaism going back and sacrificing animals in some form of salvation is mocking and saying that Christ's sacrifice is not sufficient. We must see that it's in Christ Jesus that anyone enters into forgiveness and peace with God. And he's pointing out that those that are opposed to Christ are enemies. This should not stir us up any more than to recognize that there are enemies of Christ, and then there are children of God. Enemies of God, children of God. Those against Christ, those in Christ. And we see that all of the enemies will bow before them. All the enemies will bow before them. Who are your enemies today? Maybe it's your conscience. Maybe your conscience is battling against you, that you're falling for the lies of the enemy, saying you're not good enough, you're a sinner, there's no way that faith is enough to save you. Maybe it's the world. Maybe you're in a you're you're living in the world that's saying you're doing this this Christianity thing and going to church, but really don't you just want to partake in all the fun we're having out here? You'd be happier. Just follow your joy. What makes you happy? What do you think will give you an identity? Follow after that. Well, recognize that those that oppose Christ will bow before him. In Psalm 110, 1, it says, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. This is Christ. He sits at the right hand of the Father until what? The enemies become his footstool. The enemies bow down to him. So then, why is Christ saying that they will bow down before your feet to the church in Philadelphia? Why is he saying this? It's an encouragement to them. It's an encouragement to them to recognize that the enemy will bow down to Christ, and because you belong to Christ, they then will bow down to you. He dwells within you. You are in his likeness. You are his children. And they will bow down before you in worship of Christ. Or you can look at it this way, maybe this helps you. If there's a a great army marching into Jarretttsville, that's what we talked about in Sunday school. If there's tanks rolling into Jarretttsville , And and we would run out there and say, Whoever's leading this great army, they're the most powerful and we'd we'd start to worship them. Are we worshiping the tanks and the soldiers, or are they worshiping the king that is being paraded in the victory lab? It's worshiping of the king. They're not bowing to the soldiers, but in that time it appears as though they're worshiping the soldiers. Well, likewise, we see that the enemies will bow down to him and worship Christ. They'll see who he is. They'll see that they are defeated. And we are partakers in that. Now, why is this important? Beloved, we must recognize that the enemy is not more powerful than God. is not more powerful than our Savior. When the attacks are coming in, when it appears as though the world is winning, May we have hope. May we know in the end they will lose. They will lose either by their status being transformed from rebel to child of God, or they will be destroyed and defeated in the end. There is a great victory. And we celebrate in this great victory because it has been accomplished, won, and sustained by Christ Jesus. Philippians 2 reminds us that every knee shall bow at the name of Christ. Every knee shall bow at the name of Christ. It's a great hope we have. The enemies will not last forever. The rebel will not last forever, but all, all will bow at the name of Christ. So let's take hope. Let's be strengthened. Let's be encouraged this morning as we see and feel the attacks of the enemy around us. May we know that our Lord reigns and they will bow before him. The third encouragement that comes to the church from the true one is that he will keep the trial from the church. And my rewording that I wrote the first one as well is that he will bring his church through trials. Look in verse 10 with me. It says, Because you have kept my word about patient endurance, I will keep you from the hour of trial that is coming on the whole world. To try those who dwell on the earth. I'm coming soon. Hold fast what you have so that no one may seize your crown. Hold fast what you have so that no one may seize your crown. We see that there's a trial coming to this church. And it's a little debate, but historically we recognize that this church faced some great trials. The world around them was shaken up in many ways. There was great attacks from armies and enemies. The culture in the city of Philadelphia was shaken by many trials, and through all of that we see that Christ sustained the church. Christ gets the church through the trials. They're not destroyed by the attacks. They're not destroyed by the punishment that is poured out upon the world. There's a historical context of the Jewish people receiving a judgment upon them. We see that the Jewish temple is completely destroyed by the Roman army. It's quite interesting how before the Jewish religion was very intertwined and mixed with Roman government and authority. We see that's how Jesus was crucified. And but we know throughout history and uh throughout scripture that that has always been a fractured relationship. It's always been messed up, but we see that as the church, as Christianity comes onto the scene, Judaism really clings to the Roman Empire to try to destroy and get rid of Christianity. And that fails, and we start to see Judaism rise up, and there's a a huge schism that happens between uh it's called the Jewish Rebellion, one of many, but the Jewish rebellion happens, and now there's the These militia attacks and battles happening between the Roman Empire and the nation of Israel. And we see that happening up throughout history, especially within the early church. And what's being prophesied here is the coming frustration that's going to happen between Rome and Judaism. That schism 's about to happen. And Jesus is prophesying and telling the church about it. And that the church, Christians, won't be destroyed because of the schism. Now we see Judaism's temple being completely flattened, melted, and destroyed. And if you're seeing that, even as a Christian at that time, you may be going, well, wait, maybe we're done for. If the temple's destroyed, maybe we're done for And what Christ is doing is giving them hope that through this trial, this time that is hard, this time that is confusing, Christ is the one that gets you through. Christ is the one that will protect you. So, in the historical context, we see that the church doesn't go through the trial the same way. They don't take on the same punishment that happens around the world in that time But we recognize as Christians today that God is the one that gets us through a multitude of trials, a multitude of pain and suffering around us. And we know that the trials is what God uses to strengthen us, to mold us, to give us hope and strengthen our faith in Him. 1 Peter chapter 5, verses, and we're going to start in verse 6 and read through 11. But he says, humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. Casting all your anxieties on him, because he cares for you. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. So we see that the devil wants to destroy us. Verse 9. Resist him, firm in your faith knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm , strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen. Beloved, have you ever faced a trial in your life? Are you facing it right now, maybe? God's the one that gets you through. He sustains. He strengthens. He confirms. Stand firm in your faith. He gets us through the trials. He gives us hope. He gives us meaning in this world. I think and as we look at the the world around us it hurts sometimes, but we must recognize that God's the one that has allowed it. He's the one orchestrating it for our strength and encouragement. He's growing and molding and shaping us through these trials. Now he's not tempting us, he's not destroying us, but he's strengthening us. And then we take it to the fullest conclusion. The worst trial. Let's say the worst trial is that death comes upon you. What happens? At death you enter into glory. At death, we enter into glory as Christians. So, how powerful is the trial? It's ultimately not. We recognize that he's the one that strengthens and brings us through. But in the end, if we die, we enter into his presence. Praise God. May we rejoice in this reality. And the entrance into his presence is the very crown of which he's telling them not to to allow to get seized. At the end of verse eleven he says, Hold fast what you have. You have faith in Christ. You have the identity as a Christian. You have the word of God. Hold fast to what you have, so that no one may seize your crown. James 1. 13 tells us the crown of life to those who love him. God gives the crown of life, eternal life, the crown. He gives it to those who love him. Love Christ Jesus. Hold fast to that, beloved. Through the trials, hold fast that you love Christ. The pain of this world, hold fast that Christ has died for you. And the suffering of this world, hold fast. That Christ rose from the dead and has given you new life. Beloved, we must not allow the world to seize it. The enemy wants to take it from you. He wants you to lose faith. He wants you to doubt your salvation. He wants you to give up hope in Christ. Don't allow him to take it. This idea of seizing is the snatching, the taking it, the ripping out of your hand. We must hold fast to it. We must cling to it. You must cherish your faith in Christ. You must cherish your identity as being born again by the working of the Holy Spirit. Cherish that you are God's children. Cherish that you are forgiven and in Christ Jesus. Cherish that He has poured out His blood to wash you and make you clean. Beloved, hold fast. It will get you through the trials. It will get you through the hard times. The last encouraging words of the true one is the reminder that he's the one that redeems. Look with me in the last two verses, starting in verse 12. The one who conquers. I will make him a pillar in the temple of my God. Never shall he go out of it, and I will write on him the name of my God. In the name of the city of my God, the new Jerusalem, which comes down from my God out of heaven, in my own new name. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. So be encouraged, beloved, that he's the one that has redeemed us. And he sets us up in his kingdom. Now the first imagery he uses is one of a pillar. Now pillars the strength of the building. The pillars the the structural piece that holds up everything else of the building. How encouraging it is to that weak, pathetic, powerless church that has faith in Christ that's being told you're going to be a pillar in the kingdom. Well, the the synagogue saying you're not even part of the kingdom. Rather, Christ is saying you are part of the strength of the kingdom. That you are you are rooted in there. And for this church, there's uh Philadelphia sat at the base of a volcano, and because of that, it was very prone to earthquakes And many times the the city had been destroyed due to earthquakes. Uh if you've ever been in one, you know that the ground shakes and the more intense it is, it collapses and and crumbles uh the the buildings and and the structures of the society So when they're being told you're the pillar, you're the thing that will stand against the earthquakes, you're the thing that will hold up and not be destroyed. And along with that, they're thinking about the pillars that are in the temple. Solomon's temple is magnificent and has these pillars that are freestanding. And the world's come in to see it and to awe and to think about how amazing that structure is, and that's going to be destroyed By human hands. But here he's saying, No, I will make you. You will be a pillar in God's kingdom. Beloved, I don't care how strong you are physically. I don't care how rich you are. I don't care how much authority and power you have in this culture. If your identity is in Christ Jesus, you are a pillar in the kingdom of God. You have strength. From Christ. You have strength from the Holy Spirit. Stand firm. Puff out your chest a little bit. Be bold. You are firm in the kingdom of God because of he's the one that has opened the door and brought you in. The second thing is that you are brought into the temple. Never shall he go out of it. Excuse me, let me back up. I will make him a pillar in the temple of God. It will be a pillar in the temple of God. Now, previously the temple was divided into a lot of different sections And us as Gentiles would have only been able to get into a specific piece of the temple. And then only the high priest could have gotten all the way into the Holy of Holies, into the presence of God. But we know at Christ, all of that is eradicated, and we know that we are the dwelling place of God. You are his temple. He dwells within you. And we see the advancement of the kingdom of God, we know that that grows and advances. Beloved, we must recognize the beauty and the understanding that we are part of the temple of God. This is foreign to the Jewish uh religion. This idea that God would dwell within them. No, no, no. God dwells behind that curtain and only one guy gets to go in there and deal with God. And we just sit out here and hope that it's going well. But now through Christ that's completely been eradicated and shifted, then now Christ dwells within us and we are his temple. Should be an encouragement. Remember, they're going to see the temple get destroyed in their lifetime. They're going to see it get plundered and flattened. And here they're being told that they're part of the temple of God. They're being encouraged. And then the identity of God is set on that. Oh beloved, how sweet this is for us to hear. That God places his identity on you. He calls you his. He says, this is my son, my daughter, whom I love. who is peace with me, who is righteous before me, and all this is done through Christ. We see in the middle of twelve, it says, and I will write on him the name of my God, and the name of the city of my God, the New Jerusalem. The identity, your identity is in Christ Jesus. This should be a huge encouragement for us that your identity is in Christ. The tax of the world, the trials we face, the pain of this world, when all else fades away, when all the pain is crushing down on you, you can stand up and say, I am a child of God. I have peace between me and the Creator because of the blood of Christ. Oh, what sweet words this is for us to hold on to. And then lastly, that we will dwell with God forever. This imagery of the city of God and the new Jerusalem, which comes down from heaven, from God, out of heaven. We see that this means that we will dwell with God forever. All the pain, all the suffering of this lifetime will go away. We see this in Revelation 21. This is where we'll wrap it up here. Revelation 21. We see the promise of our dwelling with God. Revelation 21, verse 1. Then I saw a new heaven and a new earth, for the first heaven, and the first earth had passed away, and the sea was no more. And I saw the holy city, New Jerusalem. coming down out of heaven from God, prepared as a bride, adorned for her husband. I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold The dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe away every tear from their eyes. And death shall be no more, neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain any more, for the former things have passed away. The new Jerusalem coming down out of heaven, adorned, prepared as a bride adorned for her husband. Beloved, who is the bride of Christ? The church, you and I, the corporate church, is the bride of Christ. And we are not a shabby bride. We're not ugly. We're beautiful. Look yourself in the mirror and tell yourself you're beautiful in Christ. Handsome in Christ. In Christ. When we enter in his presence, it's not like we are limping in and we're all scuffed up by our sin. No, we're washed clean. We're given new life in Christ. We are his beautiful bride of which he will dwell with forever. You and I will be in the presence of God forever. He has taken away our pain and our suffering, our mourning, the sin. We will rejoice in his presence. Beloved, this gives us hope today. This gives us hope today. You are a bride getting dressed for the great ceremony. You are the bride that is preparing your hair and your nails and your makeup to enter into the presence of God. That takes time. But trust me, it takes time for my bride to get prepared, to get ready. And we see that this is God's work, but one day we will enter into his presence He will look at us, his church, and say, this is my bride. And you are mine, and I'm yours. Beloved, maybe we'd be encouraged. Well, we aren't the most powerful, we don't have the most wealth, we don't have the most knowledge, we still are sinners. Dealing with the sin around us, but we must recognize that we are saints, made righteous in Christ. May we have hope. May we see the glorious and wondrous work of our God. How Christ is the one that will get us through Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for our redemption. We thank you that you have made us yours. You've lifted us up. Lord, I pray that as we go into this world, as we go back into the rhythm of life, remind us of the hope we have in you. Remind us of the faith that has grounded and rooted us in your kingdom. We pray this in Christ's name.