Let me invite you to open with me to 2 Samuel chapter 6. We're going to be looking this evening at verses 1 through 15. Second Samuel chapter six verses one through fifteen. In case you somehow didn't know, we happen to be in an election year. somehow missed that. One of the fun things we get to deal with each election cycle are campaign promises. If elected, here's what I'll do. And there are often, you know, some usual suspects. I'll lower taxes, balance the budget, create jobs, win so much we'll get tired of winning, you know, that sort of thing. And campaign promises, the point of them is they're always giving you a sense of some how a person intends to govern. They're almost trying to give you a sense of who they are. If they were to rise to the position of authority that they're seeking, What would they do with that authority? How would they wield it? Of course we know that in our day, campaign promises, unfortunately, are often pretty empty. Often they're they're just talk, just a way to get your vote. But they're always this attempt to present a sort of vision of how someone intends to lead and intends to use the position of authority, the office that they're after. Well, as we come to this text tonight in 2 Samuel, the question I want us to consider is this. When God's anointed king rises to the throne, rises to a position of power, what does he do? with his authority. How does the man after God's own heart lead God's people? Last week you You saw in 2 Samuel chapter 2, David being anointed as king over Judah. And in chapter 5, he is anointed as king over all of Israel. All twelve tribes united under one king. God had preserved him and blessed him through suffering, through trial, even through exile as he was in the land of the Philistines. But now God has put him on the throne to rule and to reign over Israel and to lead them in the fear of the Lord. Now we won't read this for time's sake, but in chapter five, we get kind of this summary of the newly enthroned King David securing his kingdom and defeating the enemies of God. So it's just a survey of a couple things that happen in chapter five. He captures and takes the city of Jerusalem from the Jebuzites. The pagan king of Tyre sends him tribute in order for him to be able to build his palace. And God gives David this decisive victory against the Philistines, the foes that had really plagued Israel for the entire book of Samuel. And in chapter 5, verse 12, we read this. And David knew that the Lord had established him king over Israel, and that he had exalted his kingdom for the sake of his people Israel. So David sees what is happening with his kingship being established, and he rightly interprets his rise to the throne theologically. He recognized that it's the work of God's hand. For the good of God's people. And so again we come to this question. When God's anointed is established as king over God's What I want us to see this evening, and you have it there on your outlines, is the main point we're going to consider. The Lord's anointed restores the proper worship of the God. We're going to see in this text David go and retrieve the ark of God, and he's going to bring it back to this central place of prominence in the life of Israel. And what's going on is symbolically David is being put forth as the one who restores the presence of God and the worship of God amongst the people of God in Israel. And as we have throughout this series, we're going to see how this passage and what David accomplishes is pointing beyond itself. And pointing to another king who fully and eternally restores the presence of God and the worship of God among his new covenant people. This David and what he does to restore the worship of God is pointing forward to a better David, the final David, the son of David. But let's look now to the text reading in 2 Samuel chapter 6, beginning in verse 1. David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand. And David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baal Judah to bring up from there the ark of God. which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits enthroned on the cherubim. And they carried the ark of God on a new cart, and brought it out of the house of Abinadab, which was on the hill And Uzzah and Ahio, the sons of Abinadab, were driving the new carts with the Ark of God, and Ahio went before the ark. And David and all the house of Israel were celebrating before the Lord with songs and lyres and harps and tambourines and castanets and cymbals. And when they came to the threshing floor, Of Nakon, Uzzah put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, for the oxen stumbled. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against him. And God struck him down because of his error, and he died there beside the Ark of God. And David was angry because the Lord had broken out against Uzzah and that place is called Perez Uzza to this day. And David was afraid of the Lord that day, and he said, How can the ark of the Lord come to me? So David was not willing to take the ark of the Lord into the city of David, but David took it aside to the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite, and the ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Gittite three months. And the Lord blessed Obed-Edom and all his household. And it was told King David, The Lord has blessed the household of Obed-Edom and all that belongs to him. Because of the ark of God. So David went and brought up the ark of God from the house of Obed-Edom to the city of David with rejoicing. And when those who bore the ark of the Lord had gone six steps, he sacrificed an ox and a fattened animal. And David danced before the Lord with all his might. And David was wearing a linen ephod. So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the horn. So we walk through this text. This evening, I want us to consider from it three realities about the God whom we worship, whose worship is restored to us through a king that he appoints and anoints. We're going to see first that God's holiness calls for trembling. Secondly, we're going to see that God's presence leads to blessing. And then finally, we're going to see that God's people respond by Celebrating. So firstly, we see that God's holiness calls for trembling. As the king prepares to bring the ark into Jerusalem, we're first going to be given this stunning reminder of who this God is, whose presence is being brought into Jerusalem. Jerusalem symbolized through this ark. And what we're going to see clearly and emphatically is that this God is holy. That is to say, he is totally other. He is set apart. He's not like us in all our sin, in all our weakness, and in all our imperfections. No, our God is utterly perfect and glorious. Theologian Wayne Grudham defines this attribute of God's holiness in a way that I think I think is helpful for us. It's not just that God is set apart, but it's that God is set apart from sin and He is devoted to seeking His own Glory. God is set apart in perfection, and therefore he's devoted to magnifying his own perfection for the good of his people. And therefore, because God is holy, because he is perfect and set apart. God himself, this is important for us to see to understand this text, God Himself is the one who sets the terms upon which he is approached in word. We are not free, friends, to approach holy God in any way that we like. God must speak. God must initiate God must define the relationship by which we are able to know Him. And as King David sets out here to bring the ark into Jerusalem. The holiness of the God of Israel is just going to be vividly put on display for us. So first we see verses one and two kind of set the scene for us. Look there with me. David again gathered all the chosen men of Israel, thirty thousand, and David arose and went with all the people who were with him from Baal Judah to bring up from there the ark of God, which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits enthroned on the cherubim. So David he rises up with thirty thousand men with him, and they go to bring the ark of the Lord into Jerusalem. Now earlier in First Samuel, uh we read that the Ark had been captured by the Philistines in battle. It went on this kind of fun little tour of the Philistine territory, causing, you know, widespread terror and panic. Panic and plague, as one does. The Philistines kind of played this fun game of hot potato with the Ark. Eventually, though, they return it to the people of Israel. But it still, when it was returned to Israel, it actually wasn't in the place where it was supposed to be. We read in 1 Samuel chapter 7, verses 1 and 2. That for twenty years the ark was housed at the house of Abinadab. And we read there that all the house of Israel lamented after the Lord. So the ark, it's in the territory of Israel, but it's not in the center of the life and the worship of God's people. But now the rightful king is going to bring it back. He's going to lead this work of restoration where this symbol of God's very presence is going to be brought back into the center of the heart and the life of the people of God. See here that the king is leading the people of God to know and to worship him rightly, which is exactly what the king was commanded to do. to do under the law. But we're going to see that before the ark is brought into Jerusalem, the people of Israel are going to get this vivid reminder of just who this God is whom they worship Notice that in verse 2, even as the ark is described, it's the holiness of God that's front and center in the description. It's called there in verse 2 the Ark of God, which is called by the name of the Lord of hosts, who sits enthroned on the cherubim. So see first, if you see that word Lord there, it probably is capitalized in your Bibles, capital L-O-R-D. The narrator here invokes the covenant name of God. Yahweh, I am who I am, the the one who is totally self-existent, who depends on no one and nothing else for his existence. And upon whom everything else in all of the universe depends. But not only is he the Lord, I am who I am, no, he's the Lord of hosts. This is a military term. It's signifying God as the mighty commander of angelic armies. And then notice that in the very design of the ark, the Lord is depicted as sitting enthroned on the cherubim. So you have this imagery of the ark depicting God as the exalted King of kings. Kings, who's surrounded by these glorious angelic beings. And their very purpose is to magnify the holiness of God. You see that very same imagery in other parts of your Bible. The purpose of all this imagery is to say to the people of Israel, your God, the God who has made himself known to you, he is unfathomably greater than you. He is totally other. He's not like the gods of the nations. No, he's set apart from you, Israel, and he's set apart above all things, and above all people. And it's this God whose presence King David is symbolically bringing into Jerusalem as he goes to retrieve the ark. In verse 3, then we're told how they're going to move the ark. We read there that they carried it on a new cart. It was driven by oxen. And these two men, Aza and Ahio, were driving it. And at first glance, that seems like just kind of an innocuous detail. Okay, they're using a card. Great. But I want you to see that from the very beginning of this story, the author here is signaling trouble. Because recognize that God had prescribed in his law how the ark was to be moved. And it was not on a cart. In Exodus chapter 25, verses 12 through 15, God had instructed the people of Israel that the ark was to be fashioned with four rings. There would be two poles running through the rings. And the ark, when it was moved, was to be carried using the poles on the shoulders of the Levites. And even more specifically, the sons of Kohath were given the responsibility of carrying the things pertaining to the worship of the Lord. But that's not what's happening here. Th there are so many areas of life where we kinda think, you know, whatever gets the job done is fine and just get the results. You know, if you come to my house to fix something thing. I don't really care, you know, what kind of drill you use, if there are different kinds of drills, I'm ignorant of such matters. But that's not the mindset that we ever have when we approach the Lord of hosts. No, because our God is holy, our God prescribes how he is to be approached in worship and how the things of worship to be hand are to be handled. So see here that the presence of a cart, it seems like this inconsequential detail. But in the context of God's law and God's old covenant people, it really represents this crisis of obedience Before a holy God. There's this question lingering in the air by the presence of this cart. Is God's word and all of God's word to be taken seriously by By God's people. Well, in verses 6 and 7, see that this crisis of obedience comes to a boiling point. So they come to the threshing floor of Nakon. And we read there that Utza put out his hand to the ark of God and took hold of it, so the oxen stumbled. And then verse 7, see the consequence. The anger of the Lord was kindled against Uzzah, and God struck him there, struck him down there because of his error, and he died there beside the ark. of God. So they're going along, the oxen stumbles, Uzza puts out his hand to steady the ark. The anger of the Lord is kindled and he strikes him dead on the spot. And now here's the thing, we're not told that Uzza had any sort of like malice or ill intent in his heart. This was probably just nothing more than a knee-jerk reaction. You see a stumbling thing like when I see a kid running toward a corner of a uh a table, put out your hand. And perhaps, perhaps we read this and we're tempted to think, isn't this Isn't this just slightly too harsh a reaction on the part of God? But remember that this ark represents the very presence of Almighty. Mighty God, and that this God is holy and therefore is totally set apart from sin. Therefore, no sinner, no sinner may approach God on their own terms, even as a sort of knee-jerk reaction. And live. No sinner may approach holy God on their terms and live. Think of the glorious scene of Israel at Mount Sinai. You remember there, the whole mountain is covered with this thick smoke, and Moses is warned by God, don't let anybody touch the mountain or they will die. Well, I want you to see that the same truth that's proclaimed in that scene is on display in this seemingly ordinary act of steadying a cart. No sinner, no sinner may approach holy God. I I love how R. C. Sprohl summarizes this scene. He writes The presumptuous sin of Uzza was that he assumed his hands were less polluted. Well, friends, our God is holy, and we are sinners. His holiness is not a thing to be taken lightly. He sets the terms upon which he is to be a approached in worship. And we need to recognize that God has not changed. He he hasn't somehow become less holy than he was at this moment in history. Let's be honest, we're sometimes kind of tempted to Think that way, aren't we? We wouldn't probably admit that. But His Holiness still calls for the same response of trembling reverence. The holiness of God, our Almighty, glorious God. It's not just a doctrine for God's people under the old covenant. Think of Hebrews chapter 12, verses 28 to 29. We're called to offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and with awe. For our God is a consuming fire. I wonder does that thought ever cross your mind as you're getting in the car on Sunday morning? That I'm going to be with God's people and to be in the presence of a God who is a consuming fire Well that prompts another question. How is it, how is it that what we read earlier in the service can be true? If that's who our God is, if that's his absolute holiness, and if that's the depth of our sin, that even a hand touching an ark can be a death sentence. How is it that we can have of all things confidence to enter into his presence, to draw near with a full assurance of faith? Well it's the answer to that question that's at the very heart of the Christian faith. And we're going to consider it in just a moment. But for right now, I just want us to see the absolute holiness of our God and really the problem that God's holiness creates for us. Because we are sinners. We are stained. We are unholy. We are unclean. And God cannot tolerate any impurity in his presence. But here's the other side of it. that. To be in the presence of God is the very thing that we need for life itself. So how do we reconcile these things? Our God is holy. We can't come into his presence in our sin, but we need to be in God's presence in order to experience life itself. Well, this brings us to point number two. Point number two, so we saw God's holiness calls for trembling. Point number two, God's presence leads to blessing. In verses 8 through 10 we see that this dramatic scene with Uzzah created something of a crisis. David is angry and afraid. And now we're not told exactly where David's anger. is directed, whether it's at God, whether it's at Uzzah, even whether it's at himself. But nevertheless, see that in his great fear before the Lord, he's unwilling to bring the ark into Jerusalem. We see this in verse nine. And David was afraid of the Lord that day, and he said, How can the ark of the Lord come to me? In other words, if this is who God is, if this is how holy he is How can the ark possibly come to me? Won't more, you know, death and calamity just inevitably ensue? In verse 10, then we read that David, he's unwilling to bring the ark into Jerusalem. But he takes to the side to the house of Obed-Edom the Git. But then see what happens in verse eleven. And the ark of the Lord remained in the house of Obed-Edom the Git Three months, and the Lord blessed Obed Edom and all his household. So David had been too fearful to bring the ark into Jerusalem. But where the ark had been placed, there was abundant b blessing being poured out. While the ark is present with them, Obed Edom and his whole household, they're experiencing this magnificent blessing from the hand of God. And see this broad theme. Where God's presence is, there God's blessing is. In verse twelve we see that David hears of the blessing that's come upon this house of Obed Edom. And it's this that's going to lead David to go back and to bring the ark all the way up to Jerusalem. In verse thirteen, then, we're given this detail that when those who bore the ark had gone six steps He sacrificed an ox and a fattened animal. And what the author is doing is the author is indicating that this time they were carrying the ark according to what had been prescribed in the law. It's on the shoulders of the Levites. It's accompanied by the right sacrifices. It's not just put back on the carts. And what follows, and what we'll see under point number three, is this scene of just more and more celebrating as the Ark of God, the presence of God, is brought into Jerusalem. But I just want us to see this broad theme of what's taking place here. God 's anointed king is bringing God's presence back into the center of God's kingdom. In order for the people of God to experience the blessing of God. You see that pro progression there. The blessing of God being brought through the presence of God. And this scene is just one example of a theme that we really see all throughout Scripture. Really from the first pages all the way up to the very end. Which is that to be in God's presence is to experience and to know life and blessing, but to be cut off from God's presence is to experience Death itself. You see this theme play out from the beginning in the Garden of Eden. Adam and Eve they walked in the joy of God's very presence. But the consequence of their sin was to be cast out of the God's presence. God's presence, to be cast out into a world under the curse, to dwell in death, both spiritual and physical death. And sinful man cannot make for himself a way back into God's presence. Because In the scene of the garden, the presence of God, it's guarded by a flaming sword. They can't make for themselves a way back into God's presence. Our sin, friends, removes us from the presence of God, and to be away from the presence of God is to be condemned to death. And this theme of God's presence is really just woven all throughout the pages of Scripture. Give you just a few examples. Psalm fifty-one, verse eleven. David himself, when he cries out to God in repentance in response to his sin, he says to God, Cast me not away. From your presence. In the book of Ecclesiastes , the author's whole thesis is that life lived under the sun Which in Ecclesiastes is code for life lived without regard for the presence of God. That's a life that's vain. That's a life that's empty. But the life that's lived in the fear of the Lord, with regard for God's presence over all things, that's the life of wisdom and of flourishing. And consider the exile when when Judah was judged for her sin and her covenant breaking against God, carried off into Babylon. It's not only that they're being depicted physically as being removed from the land, it's also depicted spiritually as this removal from the presence of God as they're carried off into exile. So so see this broad theme that is rooted in this text here. We were made to enjoy life in the presence of Almighty God. But our sin Sin has made us outcasts. Our sin has made us exiles under the curse of sin. Our sin has made us worthy of death. And therefore, in this state, if we We, like Uzzah, dared to enter into God's presence on our own terms, whether that's through the steadying of an ark or trying to get to God through our good works. The consequence of that action is death. So see this dilemma. Sinful man cannot enter into the presence of holy God and live But God's presence is the only place in which there is life. That's that's the great dilemma of man in his sin. But friends, we know that from the beginning, God has initiated a plan to restore sinful man back into a right relationship with him in his presence forever. And just like this scene in 2 Samuel, he does this, he accomplishes this through a king, through a king whom he would send. Whose work on behalf of his people would restore the proper worship of God and the presence of God in never-ending fellowship with God for all eternity. Well, friends, we rejoice in the fact that God sent his son, Jesus Christ, the better David, the true son of David. To live the life that we couldn't live, to die the death we deserve to face eternally, to rise again in order to make a way for sinners. to be brought back into the blessed presence of God, both now and forever. And this is the good news of the gospel On the cross, Jesus Christ fully bore the guilt that removed us from God's presence, and by faith we receive his righteousness. His perfection, his holiness as a free gift. And on that basis, we are justified. We are declared righteous. And what that means is that if our faith is in Christ, we now have a legal right to stand before God and never to be cast out. We have a legal right to enter into the presence of God on the basis of Christ's righteousness credited to us as a free gift. And no one can take that from you, Christian. That's the good news of Romans chapter 8. You hear Paul there say, who shall bring any charge against God's elect? In other words, if your faith is in Christ Jesus, no one can go to God and say about you, Oh yeah, that person, they don't belong with you, God. See how sinful they were this week? You see the thing that they've been struggling with for years and years and years? Clearly they don't belong with you. Well God looks at you, Christian, and if your hope is in Christ Jesus, he sees the perfect righteousness of his Son. And on that basis, there's no condemnation, and you will never be cast out of the presence of God. Of God. That's the good news of the gospel. Through faith in Christ Jesus, we have a mediator who brings us back into the presence of Holy Spirit. Holy God. And we need to see that that's true now. Oh, we think about that in terms of eternity, but that's true now. We read in Ephesians chapter 2, verse 6, that if we're in Christ We've been made alive, we've been raised up, and we've been seated in the heavenly places with Christ Jesus So by faith, right now, Christian, you are seated with Jesus in the heavenly presence of the triune God because you are united to Christ by You have access into God's presence right now, at this very moment. And not only is this true now, but this is how your story is Consider Revelation chapter 21, verse 3. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God So through sin, we were exiled away from the presence of God, but through Christ, God's people will dwell with him in his presence and experience all the blessings of being his. For all eternity, free from any remnant of the curse of sin. The story of Scripture is God restoring his people into his presence for all eternity. So today, Christian, perhaps you feel distant from God. Perhaps it feels like he's indifferent to your struggles or disinterested in you coming before him in prayer. Perhaps it feels like you don't have access to God because look at how terribly sinful my week has been. See that in Christ Jesus you have access by faith into the very presence, the very throne room of God. God. King Jesus has secured this for you by his blood, and no one can take that from you, Christian. So go to him. Go to him with confidence, child of God. Draw near in full assurance in the good times of life and in the times where God feels impossibly distant. Go to him. It's your right in Christ Jesus to do so. So what King David accomplishes is he brings the ark into Jerusalem. It's like this beam of light that's pointing forward to what the son of David would accomplish for his people once for all. And so see that the better king restores the worship of God. By making a way for sinners to enter into his presence, not through a physical arc, but through his death and resurrection. Well, how should we respond? What I want us to see finally from the text is we should respond with abundance joy. This brings us to point number three. Point number three, God's people responds to this great weighty truth by celebrating. Back in our text in 2 Samuel, look at verses 14 through 15. And David danced before the Lord with all his might. And David was wearing a linen ephod. So David and all the house of Israel brought up the ark of the Lord with shouting and with the sound of the horn. So we're in this scene of the presence of God, therefore the worship of God, being restored in Israel through the king bringing the ark of God's presence into Jerusalem. Oh, and we need to see that this is a scene of celebration. They are rejoicing. We see that David is leading the way by dancing before the Lord with all his might. And now I'll give a demonstration. Well we'll save that for Wednesday. But they're rejoicing. It's this triumphal, exuberant scene of celebration as the ark of God is brought into Jerusalem. Jerusalem. And we need to see that this is exactly how God's people should respond. The anointed king is on the throne. The Lord has secured his kingdom through these military victories. And now the Ark of the presence of God is being restored as the centerpiece of Israel's life as a nation. Happy celebration is the right result. response here. We won't read all of what follows, but if you go on in the chapter, you you see that David, one of his wives, is kind of incensed by her husband and his mighty dancing. She seems to think that he's acting shamefully, as though this kind of outward expression of joy is somehow beneath the dignity of the king. But David, how dare you let anyone know that you're happy about what the Lord is doing. How undignified. But look at David's response in verse 21. And David said to Mikal , It was before the Lord who chose me above your father and above all his house to appoint me as prince over Israel, the people of the Lord, and I will celebrate before the Lord. When the king restores the worship of God, the right response is to celebrate with joy. Well think then about what our king has done. When we gather for worship each week, we gather in the name of King Jesus, who has made worship possible by restoring us into a right relationship with God. By faith we enter together into the very throne room of heaven. How should our hearts respond? Friends, our hearts should respond with abundant joy. Our weekly gathering is this celebration of all that King Jesus has secured for us. Now we're not dancing in linen ethids, but we are rejoicing as the word is proclaimed, as the gospel in which we stand is spoken. As the songs that we sing that give expression to the truths of the gospel, as we do all these things, they ought to lead by the work of the Spirit in us to a heart response of great joy. And here's the thing. If you can believe it, it's not wrong for that heart response to be expressed outwardly. You are in fact allowed to have emotions in church. I don't know if we knew that, but it's true. You're allowed to make it known when we sing God's praises, when we sit under his word, and when we remember his gospel, you are allowed to make everyone around you known that you're happy about it. Now I'm I'm being a little bit tongue-in-cheek here and I I recognize we're all wired differently. Uh not all of us express our emotions outwardly in the same way, and that's fine. But I want us to see that it is right and it is fitting. To respond in worship to God with a heart of gospel-soaked celebration. Celebration and joy and happiness is a right tone to celebrate. as people whose lives have been transformed by the gospel and who recognize that Jesus is King over all. That's a right response. Now in saying all this, we do need to see that this joy that we have, it is indeed a response to something that God has done. It does us no good to have kind of the outward marks of celebration if the substance of what we celebrate and why we celebrate is absence. So we must beware, to be sure, a kind of you know manufactured Christless joy. And we recognize that this is a problem in many churches. There are many churches that kind of try to strike the emotion, conjure the emotion of joy and happiness, but only with kind of a vague reference to why in the world we should be so happy. And the response and the result can often be kind of a shallow, self-centered preaching and singing. So, in other words, our joy and our celebration It is a joy and it is a celebration that sings a lot about blood and about death. Because those are the means by which we are brought into the presence of God. And it's also a joy and a celebration that can handle honestly All the emotions of life, including the deepest sorrows of the heart. If you have trouble reconciling those two things, how can we celebrate And be deeply, deeply sorrowful. Let me just encourage you, look to the Psalms. You see that over and over again. The psalmist pouring out his heart into the depths of sorrow, but saying, You are enthroned as king, God, and so I'm going to celebrate and rejoice. And we need to recognize, church, that we often gather together with the saints with hearts that are just miserable. Oh, we live in a sin-cursed world and there are many things that make us sorrowful. But recognize in those moments when you are in the depths of misery. The joy of the believers in Christ Jesus around you are a way that God intends to minister to you. Because here's what's happening in those moments. In those moments when you are miserable, when you are gathered together on a Sunday morning and you cannot possibly see the goodness of God, you're gathering together with other people who aren't miserable. seeing it, who by faith are seeing the joy that they have in Christ rightly. And let that be a a beacon of hope for you. If these saints in Christ can see it, that means that I will one day see it again. I might not be able to see it now But the gospel that saved them is the gospel that has saved me, and therefore I might be miserable right now, but that misery is not the end of my story, because I belong to Jesus. Christian, be served by the joy of those around you when you gather So we recognize there is a kind of counterfeit joy. There is a counterfeit joy that only has the external marks of celebration but is missing any real substance. But let me be honest, I just don't think that's the temptation we daily, weekly face in this church. So let me just exhort you. Don't let the abuse or the manipulation of emotions in some places lead you to believe that emotions themselves are the problem. No, God desires us to feel things Deeply. God desires us to be moved by his truths and by his gospel and to overflow with a right, a fitting joy and celebration. Just one final exhortation on this point. Our gathering together in the name of Jesus each week is this celebration of the work of Christ. Then where should our focus be? Should it be on everything that we have to do in order to make sure the service goes perfectly? Or if any of us struggle with that, I certainly do. Should it be on the ugly red upholstery? That was, I'm sure, wonderful in at the time. Uh should it be on the the style of music that this obnoxious whippersnapper just keeps making us sing? Or should it be on the substance of Jesus? Himself, who ministers to us by his word and by his spirit as the saints are gathered together. When I uh taught high schoolers I can remember early on in the school year, one one class, I was just kind of baring my soul, laboring to make some very, very important point from the Word of God. And I I look up and through masked faces it was directly. during COVID, I see that they're all laughing. And the thing I was talking about had was not a laughing matter. And so I kind of stopped class. I'm like, guys, what in the world is going on? And I found out that they hadn't really heard a word that I had said. They were just counting and tallying and making bets about how many sips of water I was going to take during class. Well good grief, nothing just kind of takes the wind out of your sails as a teacher, as a preacher, quite like that. But my point is, when we gather together as the redeemed people of God, let's learn to focus on the right things. May we not be so fixated on externals that we miss the substance. And friends, here's the thing. If you struggle with that, if you struggle to be focused on the right things, pray. Ask God to focus your heart. And to satisfy your soul. Many of us are detail-oriented people, and it's hard to turn the part of our minds off that focuses on details. But pray. Pray Psalm 90, verse 14. God, satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love. Because God's will for you, Christian, is to rejoice with his people with a gospel joy as you're gathered together with the saints in his presence. That's the work we do now, and that's the work we will do for eternity. So as we conclude, I just want us to see that while King David restored the worship of God by bringing the ark into Jerusalem, King Jesus restores the true worship of God, not by moving a physical ark, but by transforming our hearts. Our worship is a worship in spirit and in truth. It's not bound to a location or to a set of furniture. But no, it's a reality of the heart accomplished by the gospel. And so the point, the application for us there is that as we seek to live lives of worship in the presence of Almighty God, it's all about the work of Christ. Jesus. If we go from this passage and we think, okay, I'm gonna work really, really hard at being joyful and I'm gonna muscle up some joy in my life. It won't work. We'll sputter out. No, the application is look to Christ Jesus and allow his word and his spirit to minister to us and to shape us into his likeness. Because friends, it's through him, through him, and never bypassing him, that we offer acceptable worship to our God. Pray together. Father, we thank you that you have made a way for us to enter into your presence. And we confess by faith that in your presence there is fullness of joy. We thank you that we experience that now in part and that we will experience it for eternity. Father, I pray that that would be true and that it would be vibrant in each heart here this evening. Lord, if there are any who are lost, who are hearing this message preached, God may you, by your word and by your spirit, bring about the conviction of sin and the conversion of sinners And God, would each of us be built up in Christ Jesus? And would we long for the day, God, when we will be in your presence for eternity? Never to be cast out again. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.