Welcome everyone. We are still in our series of these last days. We will be in 2 Timothy 3. 2 Timothy 3, beginning with verses 1 through 9, but then also looking at uh The rest of that chapter, 2 Timothy 3, 1 through 9 , calling this Study, they will not get very far. They will not get very far. That is a phrase from the ESV Now, if you have a New American Standard Bible, here's the title for the study. They will not make further progress. They will not make further progress. Is that a better title? The key word or the operative word in both phrases is this: not Okay, they will not get very far. They will not make further progress. And if you have a King James Bible, here's your title for the study. They shall proceed no further. In other words, whatever group of people that Paul is referring to when he makes that statement He's saying this, they will not succeed. Ultimately, they will not succeed. It may appear that way from a human perspective. But they will not get very far. They will not make further progress. They shall proceed no further. Let's pray. Father, we thank you, and I pray that this evening you would Humble us under the authority of your word, that you would illumine our minds by the power of your Holy Spirit. I pray you would enrich our hearts with the compassion and the love of the Lord Jesus Christ, I pray that you would give us a greater confidence in His power, in His purpose and plan. I pray that you would bless us by your word and spirit this evening. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen Okay, let's begin reading in 2 Timothy 3 verse 1. But understand this. Uh oh, and by the way, what I'll do is I'll give you phrases or words to circle or highlight or underline or just remember, the choice is yours. But understand this that in the last days, so there's your first phrase to make a note of, in the last days, there will come times of difficulty. There's here's your next one. Times. Plural. Times. Also could be translated seasons. For people will be lovers of self, lovers of money, proud, arrogant, abusive, disobedient to their parents, ungrateful, unholy, heartless, unappeasable, slanderous. Without self-control, brutal, not loving, treacherous, reckless, swollen with conceit Lovers of pleasure rather than lovers of God having the appearance of godliness looking religious In other words, they look religious, they have the outward form, the outward appearance, the show of godliness, but denying its power. Oh, I was thinking about this. I didn't count these out. Maybe you could do it. But if we were to have to do a sermon on this, it'd need to be like a fifteen point sermon or a sixteen point sermon just to point out and define and illustrate and give application for each of these different subcategories of wickedness that he's talking about here. Different manifestations of sin. So someone count those up for me. Verse six. Well, the end of it. Avoid such people. And then verse six, for among them are those who creep into households And capture weak women burdened with sins and led astray by various passions. That means busy in sexual immorality and infidelity is what that is Verse 7, always learning, never able to arrive at a knowledge of truth. They look really smart and intellectual, they seem intellectual, and they seem on top of things. Great speakers, false teachers are some of the greatest, most persuasive, most intellectually sounding, intellectually sounding people in the world. Always learning, but they do not have the truth. Do not have a knowledge of truth. Just as Janice and Jambries opposed Moses. So these men also oppose the truth, men corrupted in mind and disqualified regarding the faith. They're fakers, infiltrators. But they will not get very far. Circle that phrase. They will not make further progress. They shall proceed no further. They will not get very far. For their folly will be plain to all As was that of those two men, Janice and Jambries. God is going to expose their folly And even though they are under a delusion and trapped in wickedness, God in his providence and sovereignty by the by his word and spirit is going to expose their folly, make it plain to all they will not get very far. And that does not minimize or discount the wickedness of of what of their folly. And the influence that they could have, but they will not get very far. They will not get very far. Verse 10 Oh no, no, no, we'll save that. Although, no, uh there was one phrase I wanted us to look at. Yeah, no, let's keep reading. Let's keep reading. You, however, you, however, Timothy, Paul talking to Timothy Have followed my teaching, my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness, my persecutions. and sufferings that happened to me in Antioch, at Iconium, and at Lystra, which persecutions I endured. Yet from them all the Lord rescued me. The Lord rescued me. Indeed, all who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. Don't equate being persecuted with Failing. Don't equate being persecuted for the faith as losing But those who desire to live a godly life in Christ Jesus will be persecuted. And we don't equate Christ's death on the cross as losing, it is victory. He laid down his life on his own accord. He was not defeated by the Prince of Darkness. Verse 13. While evil people and impostors now that's important. Circle that. Underline it, whatever you're doing. Evil people and impostors will go on from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. And we'll stop there. The thing that's going from bad to worse are these evil people and impostors. This is a personal degeneration into lies and wickedness. of these evil people and impostors. And look at it the end of that verse. They are deceiving But they are themselves being deceived. They're deceiving, and they're being deceived. They are liars with an appearance of godliness But wicked, evil people, impostors, I call them infiltrators, but they're impostors And this is about their personal spiritual degeneration. They go from bad to worse. And that's important. I'll try to make clear why that's So important to catch that phrase later on. Alright, so there's our passage. 2 Timothy 3, 1 through, I said 1 through 9, but that was 1 through 13 to get us started. There is one understanding of this church age, right? These last days in between Christ's first coming and Christ's second coming. There's one interpretation of of that of these last days that believes that the world is getting In ever increasingly worse and worse and worse and worse, and then it basically becomes a hellscape on earth And then Christ returns. And this passage is one of the main passages, not the only one, but I think it's the main passage that's used to teach that view of history. I've been teaching a different view of history. If you have had a keen ear to hear, I've been teaching that these last days is defined by Christ as King, and he's building his church. Evil will not prevail against him. He the gates of Hades will not be able to stop him. And the kingdom is going to grow and grow and grow and expand and expand and expand, and then there'll be a final rebellion, a final persecution, and then Christ will return. And so the reason I want to deal with this passage tonight is to show from the text that this is not teaching the ever increasing that that ever increasing wickedness is the definitive mark of the church age. Does wickedness increase? Yes. In some ways. Is there going to be persecution and false teaching throughout the last days? Yes. But those aren't the definitive marks of the last days. And really, if I only had one point One lesson tonight, it would be that I d just want to show us that from the words in this passage, right, the nouns The verbs, the adjectives, what other kinds of words are there? The adverbs, the prepositions. I just want to show us that the words in this passage Do not teach that the last days are defined by ever-increasing, unstoppable wickedness, degeneration of the whole world, and then Christ returns. If you if you see that in other passages, my office is the second door on the right, set up an appointment, come in, just have an open Bible And have some time on your hands. But that's the application point. I believe that the scripture teaches the success of the Great Commission. That God has purpose to disciple the nations in Christ through the power of the gospel, through the power of the Spirit, and He is going to accomplish that purpose. Does that mean that the world is free of persecution and false teachers and suffering and martyrdom? Absolutely not. But this is the story of the book of Acts. Persecution increases as the gospel and the kingdom spreads and has more success because the darkness Hates the light, and the darkness rages against the light, and evil powers hate God and all that represents God. And so as the kingdom spreads and the gospel changes hearts to love God, and the kingdom spreads, and the kingdom spreads, the darkness reacts with rage against the light. And so yes, if you uh I'll just give you an illustration and then I'll get into some cross-references and try to look at the those words and phrases I had us circle. But if you can picture The uh picture a nation before Christian missionaries brought the gospel to that nation. Just pick it pick a number Out of a hat. Let's just say there's a million people in that nation. All right. No Bibles, no gospel, no true worship. No biblical churches, no one knows the Lord, no one knows Christ. Is there wickedness in that nation? Yes, there's wickedness in that nation. That nation is a stronghold of Satan. But you know what there's not in that nation? There's not the persecution of Christians. There's not an explicit hatred of the gospel of Jesus Christ. And there's not um blatant political or otherwise social warring against the saints of God. So when missionaries come in and preach the gospel and God changed his hearts And he brings Bibles into that nation and creates true worshipers in that nation and plants true biblical churches in that nation. The light has come in. Christ has stormed the stronghold of Satan and has brought his kingdom to bear upon that nation. And so let's say it goes from a million lost people To uh that same population, but let's just say a hundred thousand true believers Well now certain things have increased. Certain wickedness has increased. What wickedness? Persecution of the saints. Hatred of the Bible, explicit and blatant hatred of the gospel, hatred for the one true living God. So yes, and now there are martyrs. There are martyrs. And you know what? Some churches have even some church buildings have been burnt down. And some of those Christians have been thrown into prison. So persecution has increased. And now, guess what? You know what else we didn't have before those missionaries came? You didn't have false teachers inside of churches posing as true believers, leading people astray, using God's word in a twisted diabolical way to lead people astray. But now, now you have them also. So yes, those things have increased But it's in response to God through Christ spreading his kingdom. The definitive reality of the last days Is Jesus Christ his King. And He has supreme authority in heaven and on earth. And He has a purpose to disciple the nations through His church, through His gospel, by the power of His Spirit. He's going to accomplish that goal. And so those those particular expressions of wickedness do increase. But we need to understand the context of how they increase. The context is the greater work, the definitive work Of the Almighty God who will not be stopped in doing what he wants to do. Alright. Will the world get worse and worse, ever increasing, ever spreading unstoppable wickedness? Or not? So, just run through some cross-references quickly, summarizing, not reading, and but I'll throw the verses out there. That the kingdom of God is like a mustard seed that starts very tiny, but it spreads and spreads and grows and grows, becomes large. Matthew 13, 31 and 32. Daniel 2, 35, a prophecy about the kingdom of God, it starts as a rock that strikes the kingdoms of the world and shatters them to pieces, and that rock becomes a great mountain that spreads and quote. fills the whole earth kingdom of God. First Corinthians fifteen twenty-five, Paul Describing the last days, the days since Christ's ascension, as Christ subduing his enemies. Christ is not currently being subdued by his enemies, losing and losing and losing ground to Satan. With the world spiraling out of his control, but then he'll swoop in at the end and save it all. Absolutely not. There will be a consummate work at the end. Of course, there will be And 1 Corinthians 15, 25 is referencing Psalm 110, sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. The Father saying, Sit at my right hand, refers to the ascension of Christ and his athronement in heaven, which begins making his enemies his footstool. Matthew sixteen eighteen, Christ will build his church in the gates of Hades, which is specifically um the curse and the power of death, but that is representative of the enemies of God. First Corinthians fifteen twenty-three through twenty-six bears that out But they will not prevail against him. They will not be able to stop him. Matthew 28, 18 through 19, Christ giving the great commission to disciple the nations. And he says that all authority on heaven and on earth has been given to him, and it says that he is with his church to accomplish this goal. Psalm 22, 27 through 28. I'll read this one. All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord. That's important because whatever period of history this is describing, repentance is happening. Repentance is happening All the ends of the earth shall remember and turn to the Lord, and all the families of the nations shall worship before you. And then the psalmist gives us the reason. For kingship belongs to the Lord. And he rules over the nations. Isaiah 11 9. For the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord. As the waters cover the sea. It's a prophecy of the day of the Messiah, the day of Christ as King. And the waters do not cover the sea as a little drop here or a sprinkle there, or as one preacher uh said, you know, a few puddles, but the waters cover the sea pervasively. So this is talking about the knowledge of the Lord, the knowledge of the glory of the Lord, spreading and spreading and spreading. Not saying that every single person in the world is going to be saved. So don't let the devil get in our heads and uh work these kind of philosophical gymnastics to mit miss the point that The gospel is going to spread. The kingdom is going to spread. God has a purpose to disciple the nations in Christ And he's going to accomplish that purpose. Quickly, but I'd like you to flip here, if you're up for it, Romans 15. Romans 15, 8 through 13 You'll see why this is important. Old Old Testament Scripture Is referenced and cited here in the context of its new covenant fulfillment. For I tell you that Christ became a servant to the circumcised to show God's truthfulness. It would have been ethnic Jews. We talked about that last week. He was a servant to them. In order to confirm the promises given to the patriarchs. To confirm the promises given to the patriarchs. In order that the Gentiles might glorify God for his mercy. Now this is profound, and it actually it's so simple. God fulfills his promises to the Jews. believing Jews, and then Gentiles are also made heirs of those very same promises. Okay? As it is written, as it is written, therefore I will praise you among the Gentiles and sing your name. And again it is said, rejoice, O Gentiles, with his people. By the way, you probably know this, but Gentiles means nations. Okay? It's referring to the Gentile nations. Every nation, every people other than national Israel, that's what that's talking about, they too are made heirs of the promises given to the patriarchs. So those promises are fulfilled in Christ, received by believing Israel, and then the nations, the Great Commission brings that message to the nations, and the nations are brought also. into the fellowship. And again, praise the Lord all you Gentiles, and let all peoples extol him. And again Isaiah says, The root of Jesse will come, even he who arises to rule the Gentiles, in him Will the Gentiles hope? John one five, the light shines in the darkness And the darkness has not overcome it. Now that's the paradigm we need to have solidified in our minds when we think about the light versus the darkness, God versus evil. versus Satan and all that he represents. The light shines in the darkness and the darkness does not and cannot overcome it. The darkness cannot stop what God is doing. And then John 3. 19. This is the judgment, or this is the verdict. The light has come into the world. But people loved darkness rather than light. And then it gives us Gives us the reason because their works were evil. Now that's one of the things the light does does when it shines into the darkness is It swells up hatred against it, but that's only one of the things the light does When it shines in the darkness. What's the other thing the light does when it shines in the darkness? It saves some and transfers them into the kingdom of light Which, if you are in Christ, that has happened to you. We once were of darkness, but now we are children of light in the Lord And uh Colossians 1 16 or 1 6, Colossians 1 6, talking about the gospel. I believe the last two words of Colossians 1 5, the gospel, which has come to you. As indeed in the whole world is bearing fruit and increasing As it also does among you, since you heard it and understood the grace of God in its truth. With the true grace of God. Paul says to the church at Colossae that this gospel is borne fruit. In you, in your midst, it's advancing, it's increasing in you and in your midst. And he says this, that's happening in quote the world. The gospel is bearing fruit. The gospel is bearing fruit and increasing. So, the last days back at uh if you went to that Romans passage, we can be back now, 2 Timothy. We'll get right into this verse. But all that was was because of this phrase in 2 Timothy 3. 1 in the last days. The last days is defined by the Lordship of Christ and by the purpose that Christ is fulfilling. And we are in the last days. Hebrews 1. 2. In these last days, he's spoken to us by his son. Hebrews 9. 26. As it is, he's appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself, the end of the ages. I'll just give you some more here. Isaiah 2, 2 and 3, a prophecy about the latter days. God establishes his kingdom. 1 Peter 1. 20. Christ manifests in the last times. 1 John 2. 18. It's the last hour. We know that it's the last hour. 1 Corinthians 10, 11 , Paul talking about the church on whom the end of the ages has come. Acts 2. 17. Peter begins the sermon, and in the last days it shall be, God declares that I will pour out my spirit on all flesh Peter is referring to what was happening on that day as marking the beginning of the last days. And we know that because later in that sermon In verse thirty-three, he says, speaking of Christ, and he says, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God, and having received From the Father, the promise of the Holy Spirit has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing This historically unique and climactic outpouring and indwelling of the Holy Spirit that is one of the markers of the last days that was prophesied. in the old covenant has now begun. It is the last days. And Christ, in his death and resurrection and ascension and pouring out of the Spirit, proves and marks it is the last days. Second Timothy three, verse one. Understand this in the last days there will come times of difficulty Times of difficulty. So the picture here is something that happens within the last days. And the word here is times, kairos, often translated seasons. And uh we see this later in the verse, form of this word, or uh passage rather. In chapter 4, verses 1 and 5, it's not, he's not saying that the entire all of the last days is defined by W what he's describing here, but within the last days, times, plural, that's very important, times, different seasons will be characterized by the things he's about to explain. But look in chapter 4, verse 1. I charge you in the presence of God and of Jesus Christ, so this is Paul giving a charge to Timothy. Of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing And his kingdom. So in light of Christ's return, in light of his glorious appearing, in light of his kingdom, which has been inaugurated but not brought to its final form, verse 2, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season, in season and out of season. And um that is a farming metaphor. Sometimes there are seasons of harvest and seasons of fruitfulness, and then there are seasons of drought Or just not even seasons of drought, but just seasons of the year where you're not reaping a harvest because it's not that season, it's not that time. And so within the last days you have seasons that are Paul could say you could say in season, gospel fruitfulness, God giving a harvest, or out of season, which would be from a human perspective, you're not seeing that harvest You're not seeing that fruitfulness. But either way, you must preach the word. Preaching the word and the Spirit blessing the preaching of the Word is the only way you can get back in season. We don't turn to a different method or turn to a worldly philosophy when we think, by our worldly measures, that the gospel is out of season. That happens quite a bit. Right? We judge things. It's not growing fast enough, as fast as we want it, it's not big enough, it's not as big as we want it, it's not exciting enough, it's not As exciting as we want it. So we turn to this method or this strategy or this principle, try to draw people with this and draw people with that. But We ought not to do so. We must preach the word. But anyway, there's in-season and out-of-season, different seasons of gospel fruitfulness. Either way preach the word. Going back to verse 1 of chapter 3, in the last days there will come times of difficulty. So we know from the New Testament as a whole what the what characterizes the last days. The spread of God's kingdom through the gospel. But there are going to be times of difficulty, seasons of difficulty, where there is A an increasing wickedness explicitly against What God is doing. And the two primary components of that will be lies and false teachers within the church, and then persecution and hatred from outside of the church. Those two things. And one of the reasons I wanted to talk about this topic, I think it's helpful for us to understand uh helpful for us in understanding the last days and the time that we live in and helpful to understanding our calling. I think it gives us hope. And trust and confidence that the gospel is the power of God, that God wants to save people, that God will save people, that the church will grow, even when it doesn't look like it. But also because I believe we have entered into one of these seasons of difficulty, one of these times of difficulty, when there's an increased hostility to the things of God, culturally, socially And then the amount of false teachers and the success of false teachers posing as True ambassadors of Christ right now is off the charts. Crazy in America So we are in one of these s seasons of difficulty in my estimation, in my personal estimation, through observation and through looking at what's going on in our in our culture and society and trying to make the best judgment. that I can make in my limited wisdom. But so within the last days, plural, not singular, plural seasons, times of difficulty will come. And in but in season and out of season, so you can think of staggered seasons, right? A season of incredible difficulty. And there you might you might be able to say that within that season also, that uh from the perspective of visible gospel success, that might be what Paul says is out of season. But you must preach the word, preach the word, preach the word. In God's timing and in God's way, the gospel will be in season. And you'll start to see more of an increased godliness, sanctifying power of the gospel. And visible growth of the kingdom. Alright, that's my fur that's the first Argument to say that this is not talking about ever increasing wickedness within the last days as a definitive mark, a defining mark of history. But he's talking about plural seasons that will come in and within the last days. Let me pause for questions just to make sure I've been clear and not confusing in what the basic premise of what I'm trying to get across is. So give me headshakes if it's or nods. Okay, nods, good? Oh it has nineteen if we were to do those marks of wickedness. Yeah, nineteen point sermon. Yeah, so if you're writing a sermon on that, you've got to discipline yourself. You've got to say what, I've got even if you do two and a half minutes on each one Boy, you're forty-five, forty-six minutes, whatever it would be, and you haven't even done your introduction and your conclusion yet, and you've got to find time to preach the gospel in there. It's a beast. You probably would do a series just on that Just on that uh what is it verse all the way from verse one to ver through verse uh five and then you could start your we'd have to do a series in there if you really want to handle all those things. And make specific practical application and examples of how that's happening now. And then your next sermon could be this. Avoid such people. Okay, well, how do we do that? So anyway, seasons, plural. That that word is used uh many times in the New Testament, but it's particular eras, particular times. In Galatians 4:10, you observe days and months and seasons and years. Days and months and seasons and years. It's not an ongoing, nonstop observ observation of different things, but particular seasons. Matthew 21, 41, the end of the uh The tenants, parable of the tenants. They said to him, He will put those wretches to a miserable death and let out the vineyard, rent out the vineyard to other tenants who will give him the fruits in their season. Fruits in their seasons. It's a particular time of the year. It's a particular season of the year. It doesn't define everything all the time. It's an era, a defined particular era. Okay, so are we good on that? We can move on? I don't know why I always look at you, Jason, when I 'm asking for permission. Sir, can we move on to our next point? Yeah. Need that stamp of approval. Um Now, second argument is Paul's talking to Timothy about things in Timothy's day that Timothy is going to deal with. Timothy, you must endure and persevere through these things. Verse 5. Having the appearance of godliness, but denying its power, avoids such people. Timothy Avoid such people. This is something Timothy must endure. These pe what he just described. And also verses 10 and 11, key word here. Starts with a why. See if you can pick it out. You, however. Have followed my teaching and my conduct, my aim in life, my faith, my patience, my love, my steadfastness, my persecutions and sufferings that happened to me. At Antioch and Iconium and Lystra, which persecutions I endured, yet from all of them the Lord rescued me. Paul says, This has happened to me. The Lord has rescued me and persevered me through these. You follow my example. You, Timothy, you must endure these things. And then finally, verse fourteen, but as for you, you see, Paul Is setting Timothy and what he needs to be about in contrast with the impostors and infiltrators, the fakers, the hypocrites, the liars, the pawns and agents of Satan. But as for you, you continue in what you've learned and have firmly believed, knowing from whom you've learned it. You must continue in the truth and endure these things. Timothy didn't have an easy ministry, but that doesn't mean it was a failed ministry. Being persecuted and being hated for the truth and even being martyred for the truth does not mean that you lost. Does not mean that the gospel failed. So, seasons, plural, but also these are things that Timothy is going to have to endure Paul's addressing a particular season. And he even says that later on in the passage. Let me go to it now. Check off of my outline. We did that. We did that and go to verse uh three in chapter four. For the time is coming You can cross out the word the if you'd like. It's not in the Greek text. The definite article is not there. It is uh time. is coming. I believe what Paul is telling Timothy, and based on the context, it seems obvious, the season is upon you. It's coming, but it's already here. I've been dealing with it. The time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching, having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers to their own passions And we'll turn away from listening to the truth, and we'll wander off in the midst. But as for you, again, in the midst of this happening, Timothy, it's going to happen in Timothy's day. In the midst of this happening, as for you, always be sober-minded and endure suffering and do the work of an evangelist and fulfill your ministry. You must be sober-minded, you must be focused. You must endure the suffering as it comes. You must do the work of an evangelist. It'd be real tempting and real easy to give up on evangelism or to not believe in evangelism. When increased wickedness and increased hatred for the word of truth is happening all around you, even infiltrating the church. It says fulfill your ministry. In other words, don't give up. Stay the course. Fulfill the work that the Lord has laid out for you and apportioned to you for your time here. So a season of this sort had come upon Timothy in his context. Now verse 13 we already looked at, but we'll look at verse 13 again. This is talking chapter 3, verse 13. This is the central verse in making that interpretation that this passage is teaching an ever increasing wickedness. The world spiraling out of control and getting worse and worse and worse, and then Christ returns. This passage as a whole is used to teach that, but the centerpiece of the argument is Verse 13. While evil people and impostors go on from bad to worse, deceiving and being deceived. So from bad to worse. But I want you to look closely. At the words in the sentence, it is not saying that there will be an ever-increasing number of evil people and impostors, and it does not say that the percentage Of evil people and impostors will increase. It's about what happens to the evil people and impostors themselves. They go from bad to worse. And isn't it true? You know that sin is not self-correcting You know that it is degenerative and destructive by its nature. Sin left to itself, indulging in itself, will become more sinful and more sinful as it has opportunity. Becomes more empowered. The point is about what happens to the evil people and imposters. They go from bad to worse. So it's not it just says nothing about an ever increasing number or percentage of these people. It says nothing about the ever-increasing power and influence of these people, let alone saying that these are the ones now who have a grip on history and all things are working out according to their plan. It doesn't say anything of the sort. And it doesn't say that the whole world or the whole age will go from bad to worse. Evil people and impostors will go from bad to worse. In these seasons, in these particular seasons. They cannot stop the gospel. They will be exposed for what they are. That's why I chose that phrase. Excuse me, as the title in verse 9, they will not get very far. They will not get very far. From a worldly perspective, from a limited perspective. We look at some of the things going on in our culture and some of the things going on in churches and society, government, all over the world, some of the things going on And we just we just think that there's there's no way this could be overcome. But that's not the perspective of faith. That's the exact same thing the ten of the spies said. When they return from spying out the promised land. There's too many of them. It's too fortified. They're too strong. We could never defeat them And who were the two that had a different perspective? You all know it. It was who and who? Caleb and Joshua. And what differentiated Caleb and Joshua from the other ten spies was not that Caleb and Joshua believed that Israel was strong enough to defeat the enemies. That's not what made them different. They did not believe Israel was strong enough to defeat the enemies. Joshua and Caleb believed that God was strong enough to defeat the enemy. You see, that's the perspective of faith. The thing that differentiated David from all of Israel was not that David thought that he was a good enough fighter to defeat Goliath. David believed that God would defeat Goliath based on God's power, based on God's covenant promises. You see, that's the perspective of faith. We walk by faith and not by sight. And so from a worldly perspective, we look at some of the things that are going on, we say there's no way the gospel can be fruitful in this context. Shame on us. We preach the word in season and out of season. We do not give up. We do not have a plan B. So it will not get very far. Let me go back to these other just so you don't feel left out, okay? You New American standard people They will not make further progress. You King James people, they shall proceed no further. In God's time And in God's way, and by God's power alone, He will expose them for the frauds that they are, and He will stop them in their tracks. Christ is building his church, and the gates of Hades will not prevail against him. We've got to believe that. We're called to have faith, not just for personal salvation. Are we called to have faith for personal salvation? Well, of course. That's what's called coming to faith. But that's not the only thing we're called to have faith in. We're called to have faith in God that He will accomplish His purposes. The whole Bible is about this. God reveals his word. Will you have faith and trust in his word or not? God says he's going to do this. Will you have faith and trust that he's going to do it or not? God says, I'm going to give you this I've given you the land. I've given them into your hand. Will we believe him or not? The kingdom of God is like a mustard seed that's going to spread and spread and spread and spread until Christ disciples the nations. Do we believe Him or not? We've been studying the last days, if you want to, just in it in terms of a conceptual summary. Not getting all the details in there. If you want a conceptual summary of my personal, which I believe is biblical, at least to my knowledge it is, because If God showed me how it wasn't biblical, I I would like to think that I would repent and change. But on a conceptual level, to summarize My approach to the last days that we are in is this. I want to believe that God is going to do what God said and purposed He's going to do. Alright? That's where I want to be. And if I cannot work out all the details and if I cannot explain all the secret providences behind what's going on in the world and the culture and the government and the false churches and all that I'm not called to explain all of that. We're called to proclaim the word and proclaim the gospel and to urge you all to come to Christ for repentance, trusting that God will accomplish what God wants to accomplish. This is about an eternal kingdom. Heaven forbid we start judging things from a worldly perspective. It's the opposite of the walk of faith. Well , seasons, plural, within the last days. Uh and Timothy personally in his day is going to be e enduring some of these things. This from bad to worse is specifically it's talking about what's happening to these evil people and imposters. Not that they are ever increasing, not that they have ever increasing power and influence. This is not what's happening to the world as a whole. It's about them, the point's about them, and then finally they will not succeed. Ultimately, God will stop them in their tracks at the appointed time, and they will be exposed. Final point here on this page. Well the final point and then I have a separate Bible study for application, which I think you'll enjoy. Although we have uh ten minutes left. So uh the final point here These seasons will bring suffering, but suffering does not mean failure. Christ went through suffering and death unto glory and exaltation. So these things will bring suffering for us, but suffering does not mean failure in the kingdom of God. 2 Timothy 2, 8 through 10. Remember Jesus Christ. Now Paul again talking to Timothy. Timothy, remember Jesus Christ, risen from the dead, the offspring of David, as preached in my gospel, for which I am suffering. Bound with chains as a criminal. Literally, suffering, bound with chains as a criminal. This next phrase is one of the most encouraging phrases for me. As a man, as a pastor, whatever. But the word of God is not bound. You can bind the servant of God. You cannot bind the word of God The gospel is not bound. Therefore, I endure everything for the sake of the elect, that they also may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus with eternal glory. So he'll endure and he will suffer. He does not equate that with failure. He is not giving up, and he does not doubt for one moment. The power, the transforming power, and the success the sure success of God's Word and pre- specifically preaching and teaching of God's Word, centered in the ministries of local churches. Which how God is organizing and arranging and advancing his kingdom, okay? Local assemblies, local congregations, local churches. of saved people. The word of God is not bound. Don't ever think it. God speaks forth his word and it does not return to him for it. It accomplishes exactly what God has purposed for it to accomplish. Also 2 Timothy four 16 through 18. 2 Timothy 4 16 through 18. At my first defense. No one came to stand by me. All deserted me. But may it not be charged against them. The Lord stood by me. And strengthen me, so that through me the message might be fully proclaimed and all the Gentiles might hear it. Paul was a focused man, if nothing else. No one stood by him. They all deserted him. But the Lord didn't leave him, according to the Lord's promise in the Great Commission. I'm with you always, even to the end of the age. And now he see what does he see through this? He sees that the through him the message might be fully proclaimed and all the Gentiles might hear it. So I was rescued from the lion's mouth. I was rescued from the lion's mouth. The Lord will rescue me from every evil deed and bring me safely into his heavenly kingdom. To him be the glory forever and ever. Amen. Failure is nowhere in Paul's perspective here. It's success either way. For him personally, spiritually, because he knows where he's going, but also for the kingdom because he knows what the word of God can do and will do according to God's purpose He's resting in God's purpose. And probably when he says I was rescued from the lion's mouth, uh there were one of the forms of persecution in uh here in the ancient church would have been being thrown into the gladiator pit. All sometimes it historians write. Killed, thrown to the lions. And so it may be an allusion to that. Could be strictly metaphorical. Paul doesn't expound on it. That there was uh Just persecution and danger and the schemes of Satan trying to destroy him. And God rescued him. But either way, my point is just for this for tonight. God rescued him. God rescued him. And failure, uh so being um abandoned by everyone doesn't mean failure because the word of God is still going forth forth And one more here, Philippians 1, 12 through 14. This is a powerful little little verse. Philippians 1 12 through 14 gives you a little more specific idea of what Paul is referring to here when he sees his imprisonments as for the advance of the gospel. He doesn't see it as something that hinders the gospel. He just had that perspective about him. He just believed that no matter what happens, God is the one working it out for good. They meant it for evil. God meant it for good. The Lord meant it for good. So Philippians 1, 12 through 14, I want you to know, brethren. That what has happened to me has really served to advance the gospel. Is that failure or success? That's success. So that it has become known throughout the whole Imperial Guard and to all the rest that my imprisonment is for Christ. So he was imprisoned. Imprisoned? And he sees it as imprisonment for Christ. Isn't that amazing? Imprisonment not thinking that Christ had abandoned him, not thinking that he had failed, not thinking that God had stopped working through him and h his circumstances. In our culture, we want God to make uh all transform all of our circumstances to be about us. But we should see with the perspective of faith that all of our circumstances God is Using and shaping for him and for his glory and his kingdom through us in whatever way he chooses. But so he would have been on house arrest and the the guards would have been on a rotation. And by this point Paul's able to say, the whole guard has heard the gospel. And so he sees his imprisonment as an advance for the gospel because it's given him more people to share the gospel with, specific people to share the gospel with that he might not have otherwise come into contact with. So Christ succeeded and accomplished his his plan on earth, his purpose on earth through suffering and death. The book of Acts, the church, the story of the church is the same way. The story of Joseph is the same way. And the application is when we talk about these times of increased wickedness and uh rampant false teaching and impostors within the church, and seems like looming uh persecution, looming persecution, in terms of uh restrictions or whatever from the state authorities. W we don't know what's in the future But it seems like we've arrived or are about to arrive at one of these seasons, one of these times. And so the application is this for the last three minutes We must be ready for battle like never before. We are locked in an epic battle, not an eternal battle, because there is going to be a decisive end. of this, but in an epic battle between God and Satan, between the light and the dark We must be ready for battle like never before. But we do not prepare ourselves for battle like a worldly kingdom or like a geopolitical nation or army. Ephesians 6, 10 through 20, the armor of God. And the first section is on the battle itself. Ephesians 6, beginning in verse 10. Finally, be strong in the Lord and in the strength of his might. Now that's where we need to be. Lord, make us strong in you. This is with the strength of your might. Put on the whole armor of God, that you may ab that you may be able to stand against the schemes of the devil. Brothers and sisters, that's where we are. We must Be standing against, and be evermore ready to stand against the schemes of the devil. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness, against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places Therefore, take up the whole armor of God that you may be able to withstand in this evil day. And having done all, stand firm. Section 2. Being dressed for battle, ready to fight the actual armor, beginning in verse 14. Stand, therefore. That seems to be a key word in this passage, right? Stand, stand against, stand firm, withstand. Stand, therefore, having fastened on the belt of truth And having put on the breastplate of righteousness, or the belt of God's truth, the breastplate of righteousness Just because of the time, I cannot expound on each of these, but I'll continue to read through them. Verse 15 And as boots for your feet, having put on the readiness given by the gospel of peace, in all circumstances, take up the shield of faith With which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one and take the helmet of salvation. So the armor just for battle The defensive armor that we need to it has all to do with the truth of God and the spiritual realities that have been fulfilled in Christ and given to us in Christ. Spiritual armor, spiritual shield also, spiritual defense for a spiritual battle. And finally, section three, the weaponry The weaponry. You do not go into battle just with armor and a shield. What else do you need? You need some kind of weapon. Of offense. So the so the first section, the battle itself, the spiritual battle, the second section, this armor dressed for battle, and finally this third section, the weaponry, taking up arms against the darkness Verse 17 in the middle, and taking up, taking up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. The sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Just another way of saying what he said , what Paul said to Timothy, preach the word in season and out of season. Don't stop wielding this. We must take up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. Verse 18. Verse 18. Praying at all times in the Spirit. Praying at all times in the Spirit. With all prayer and supplication. Now to that end, to that end, right, taking up the sword of the Spirit and praying at all times, to that end, keep alert with all perseverance. Don't drift off into a spiritual slumber, making supplication for all the saints and for me that the words may be given to me in opening my mouth boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. Which is the centerpiece of taking up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. The teaching and preaching of Scripture as a whole, but the centerpiece of that is teaching and preaching of the gospel. For which I am I love this, an ambassador in chains. He's in chains, which means he's prisoner, but he sees that as just another way to be an ambassador I'm an ambassador in chains that I may declare it boldly as I ought to speak. Now for both aspects of the weaponry, the word of God and prayer The reality and the power and the presence of the Holy Spirit is critical. We take up the sword of the Holy Spirit, which is the Word of God. And our prayer and our goal is that when we are preaching and teaching, and when in Sunday schools, uh classes, or any anywhere the word is being taught, that it's not just us who's wielding the word. But the Holy Spirit of God who is wielding the Word and using the Word to change minds and change hearts and bring sinners under conviction and bring them to conversion to a settled rest in Christ. You see, it cannot be just people doing religious things. It must be the Holy Spirit in our ministries of the Word and in our prayers, and of course in our lives sanctifying us to live holy lives. Holy lives of contentment, godliness, and peace and tranquility, that we might give a good example A good witness, a good faithful witness for Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for what you're doing in Christ. I pray that you would encourage us Give us a settled rest in Christ as our personal Savior, but a bold confidence and strength, trusting that He is going to do what He's purposed to do. To build his church, complete his church on his timeline and in his way. Help us to believe. Help us to believe and get us ready for the battle ahead. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.