Let's go ahead and turn to Luke chapter 14. And today we're looking at Luke 14, 25 to 33. Calling this the cost of discipleship. It's very important to remember that we're talking about something that results from salvation. Not something that helps to earn us salvation and not something that helps us to keep our salvation. We've talked about conviction, which is when The Spirit shows us in our hearts that we're sinners who need a Savior. And then we also have talked about conversion, which is when we embrace the Savior by faith and are saved And then we talked about sanctification. After we're saved, that work of sanctification, this ongoing work of the Spirit in our hearts. To conform us to the likeness of Christ, and in our minds, to conform and renew our minds according to the Word of God Today we're talking about discipleship. Discipleship is the fruit of conversion. It's the fruit of sanctification. You might say it's the practical application in our lives. of that inward work of sanctification. And I'd like for all of us, as led by the Spirit, as we come under the Word, to examine our hearts this morning. To examine our lives this morning. Let the Word of God and let the Spirit of God teach us and help us and bring us forward. And in all things, let us look to Christ as the remedy. Let us look to Christ as the answer. Let look to Christ this morning, brothers and sisters, as a helper, as your very best friend, because he's the best thing we have going. Let's pray. Father, we come under your word, and we know that only by your spirit will this word have the right impact within us. But God, that's what we're asking for, for your word to have an impact within us. Would you prove yourself as merciful this morning? Would you prove yourself as living? And active , powerful, and faithful, that as your word goes forth it will do its work within us. Oh God, don't let us go through the motions. Please We beg you, please do not let us go through the motions. Father, we pray for your name and for your glory that your word would get through. As these are the words of life. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Just a few things about discipleship, and then we'll read the passage and open it up. Discipleship is the practice Of giving up your life in order to live for Jesus, but seeing it as gain, not as loss And I'll repeat that. It's the opposite of our natural way of thinking. It's the opposite of the way of the world. Discipleship is giving up our lives in order to live for Jesus. But we see it as gain, not as loss. When I was young, I made all kinds of sacrifices to do well at school. And I made all kinds of sacrifices to play sports and to do well at sports, to do the best that I could. And I worked, I got a job at a young age and made all kinds of sacrifices so that I could have money to buy some things that I wanted to to wear what I wanted to wear. I made all kinds of sacrifices so that I could go and do things that I wanted to do. Go hang out with friends and go places and do things with friends that I wanted to do. You've made all kinds of sacrifices in your life. to get things, to do things that you enjoy, that you want, and so have I. Discipleship is relinquishing all that we are, and it's relinquishing all that we have, and it's relinquishing all that we do. For the sake of Jesus Christ, and we don't see it as the short end of a bad deal. We don't see it as loss, but we see it as gain. We relinquish everything for Christ. And we see it as gain, not loss. We do not see that we've been cheated. We do not feel like we've been scorned when we give up everything for Christ. We feel like we are utterly victorious because we're recipients of God's love. There's nothing greater than that. The best thing that could ever happen to a human being is to be loved by God. To be ex to experience the love of God that He's revealed in Jesus Christ. And when you have that, you have everything, and it can never be taken away from you. So we relinquish All that we are and all that we have and all that we do, we lay it down to live for Christ and not ourselves, and we see it as gain, not loss. Are you awake yet this morning, church? This is discipleship. Discipleship is not just learning how to do things at church. That's a very small part. That's a slither, sliver of what discipleship is. Discipleship is much broader and much deeper. Luke 14, 25 to 33, on the cost of discipleship. Now, great crowds accompanied him. Accompanied Jesus, in other words. And he turned and said to them, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother, And wife and children and brothers and sisters. Yes , even his own life. He cannot be my disciple. Whoever does not bear his own cross and come after me cannot be my disciple. For which of you desiring to build a tower? Does not first sit down and count the cost whether he has enough to complete it. Otherwise, when he's laid the foundation and is not able To finish, all who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king Going out to encounter another king in war. Will not sit down first and deliberate whether he's able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand. And if not, while the other is a great way off, he would send a delegation and ask for terms of peace. So, therefore, any one of you who does not renounce All that he has cannot be my disciple. Well he's mo if anything else, he's most certainly talking about the conditions of being a disciple because he said multiple times, cannot be my disciple. If this or that, end of verse twenty-six, cannot be my disciple. The end of verse thirty-three again, cannot be my disciple. It's talking about things that are required. The essential nature of what discipleship is. Two major sections this morning will be Roman numeral one, the call of discipleship. That'll be first. Just Defining it. What is the call of discipleship? And then the second major section, which will be much longer than the first, will be the cost of discipleship. Because that's What this passage is about. It's about the cost of discipleship. First of all, the call of discipleship. Just want to talk about the word disciple, verse 26. The very end, see the word, disciple. Verse 27, the very end, you see the word again, disciple And then at verse 33, again, at the end of verse 33, my disciple, three times. My disciple, my disciple, my disciple. It's very important that we know what that word means. It means student. It means follower. We all know what a disciple is. You could be a disciple of, you can go to karate school, you're a disciple of the teacher. You could learn the violin and you have a teacher. You're a disciple of the violin. It means student. It means follower. It means learning Learning, a process of learning, to be a student of Jesus means learning to honor Him in all areas of life. It means learning to walk in the Spirit in all areas of life. And if you've been trying to do that, you know that that takes time. And you know that that takes effort. And you know that you'll need encouragement along the way. And so therefore you'll you'll also know that other people need encouragement along the way. It's a process of learning. To be a student of Jesus, to be a follower of Jesus, and thank God that He's gracious, and thank God that He has the ability to do things that we cannot do. But as we go through life, He chips away and he fine-tunes our hearts, minds, words, and behaviors to learn how to honor Jesus in all areas of life and to walk in the Spirit in all areas of life. Parents, if you have children, do you want them to only be respectful at home and then act however they want in other places? School, sports. out with friends, or do you want them to be respectful in all areas of life? Husbands, wives, do you want your spouse To be faithful only at home? Or do you want them to be faithful wherever they are, whoever they're with? Do you want them to represent you? First, you, your marriage, and your home first, or do you want them to only behave that way at home and then go out and live however in the world? Obviously Parents want their children to be respectful in all areas of life, not just the home. And husbands and wives want their spouses to be faithful wherever they are in all areas of life, not just at home. Friends. Do you want your friends just to speak well of you when they're with you? Or do you want your friends to speak well of you and not slander you and not gossip about you wherever they are? Discipleship is the same way. It's a relationship with Jesus. It's learning to live for Jesus in all areas of life. home, work, school, hobbies, church, as a citizen of the United States or wherever you're a citizen, in all spheres of life, all areas of life to seek the honor of Christ and to represent Christ's interests, not our own, in all areas of life. A, B, C, D, as we talk about this call of discipleship But first, for just a second, contemplate why Jesus would start talking about this cost of discipleship right now. The clue is in verse 25. Great crowds accompanied him. Great crowds accompanied him Do you think that everyone who was there in those great crowds truly believed? Was truly a follower of Jesus Truly loved God, truly was living for God? No. Jesus' ministry gained a lot of attention because of the miracles, because of the power, because of the word of mouth, because of the attention and all that was going on. Great crowds, massive mobs of people, crowds. This were happening today. This would be all over the news. These out-of-control mobs filling the streets. It was that were hard to control. Great crowds accompanied him, but for many, many different reasons. Some just out of interest. Some just to see what's going on. Some out of selfish reasons, just to get something good, to get a blessing. So in the midst of great crowds accompanying him, following him, it's very important that Jesus clearly defines what it means. To come after him and to follow him. Same thing's true today. There are many, many people who pour into churches, who consider themselves Christians, who call themselves Christians and believe that they are saved. But do we really know what a life changed by Christ looks like? We have to. The call of discipleship, first of all, we're called to imitate Christ called to imitate Christ. Not the values and principles and pursuits of the world around us or of the selfish pursuits within us, but we're called to imitate Christ. Matthew 10 24 and 25. Jesus says, a disciple is not above his teacher, nor is a servant above his master. It is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher and the servant to be like his master. And if they've called the master of the house Beezelbub , How much more will they malign those of his household? Matthew 10, 25. The disciple is to be like his teacher. The disciple is to be like his master. The servant is to be like his master. And that's what we're praying for, for ourselves. God, make me like Christ. God, whatever you do, do not leave me to my own devices. Do not leave us to our own desires, but make us like Christ. Conform us to the likeness of Christ. The child of God has this pressing, growing desire to reflect Christ and not his own sinful flesh. Amen? The disciple is called to imitate Christ, the disciple is called to honor Christ in all things. 1 Peter 4, verse 11. Whoever speaks as one who speaks the oracles of God, and whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies In order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. The way we speak should honor Christ, and the way we serve should honor Christ, and the motives, the reasons we're coming to church should honor Christ, and the way we're speaking about each other should honor Christ. Everything that we do and say, we should be seeking to honor Christ. So that, as Peter says, 1 Peter 4, verse 11, so that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, isn't that what we want? For God to be glorified? Well if we're seeking to honor ourselves, it's not bringing glory to God. We seek to honor Christ in all things. We seek to imitate imitate Christ. Let us see the call of discipleship is To join God in his great work. We are called to join God in His great work. This comes from 2 Corinthians 5. 21. This is an incredible phrase in here. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 and then 6. 1. It's the end of a chapter, the beginning of a new one. 521 and then 6. 1. For our sake, he made him to be sin who knew no sin. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Working together with him. Then, we appeal to you not to receive the grace of God in vain. The key phrase was from chapter 6, verse 1, working together with him. The first verse, which was 2 Corinthians 5. 21, was about God sending the Son to die for our sins and to justify us by faith. For our sake, He, God the Father, made him to be sin. That's Christ dying on the cross who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. And then right after saying that, about what God did, and that we become the righteousness of God, Paul writes this, working together with him. That's how Paul thought about ministry. We're working together with God. We've joined God in God's great work in the world, which is to make Himself known through His Word, through His Spirit, through His gospel, through His servants, through His church. God's great work in the world. Friends, is to make himself known, to put on display his mercy, to put on display his love, to put on display his grace to put on display his power and his authority. God's great work is to make himself known. That's what we mean when we say all things are for the glory of God. Man's great work is to behold the glory of God and praise him for his glory. God's great work is to manifest himself in to make known his glory, to shine forth his glory like the sun shines forth on the earth. And our great work is to respond in faith and love and adoration for this great God. That's what Christianity is about. It's about seeing God as He has made himself known in the gospel. What is ministry? Is it me just doing things that make me feel good? Is it you just doing things that you enjoy? No. Ministry is joining God in God's great work. The church exists for God's glory, not for our glory. If we're existing for our glory , We're no longer the church. We're no longer functioning as a church ought to function. Church exists for God's glory. We just we've got to be there in our hearts. Always making a self-conscious effort to be motivated by, to be fueled by, God making himself known. Otherwise, everything just deteriorates into external religion. Got to keep God at the center. The disciple is called to imitate Christ. The disciple is called to honor Christ in all things, speaking, serving, whatever. The disciple is called to join God in his great work. Forgive the rabbit I'm about to chase. You almost made it. I was almost the letter D. But I have been thinking thinking about this for some time now. Joining God in his great work, his great work is making himself known in Christ and all that. Think of congregational worship along those same lines. So just picture heaven. And what what's happening in heaven? What heaven is all about. You have the incarnate and exalted Christ at the right hand of God, he's the Savior of the world. As the king of all things in the universe, everything in heaven is focused on and oriented around Christ All of the praises, all of the songs, all of the service, everything that's being adored and magnified in heaven is all about Christ. God's glory, the glorious throne of God, and the incarnate ascended Christ manifesting the glorious the glory of God through that, and everything in heaven is a response to that. Now, congregational worship is joining heaven in that great work. That's what congregational worship is on earth, so it's by faith, not by sight. We're joining heaven in the great work of beholding Christ and worshiping him. That's what preaching is for, to exalt Christ. That's what the singing is for, to exalt Christ. And this is what the prayers are for, to exalt Christ, that he may be exalted. Brethren, that he may be exalted in our hearts as our supreme love, that he may be exalted in our minds as our only hope, as the only source of truth. Congregational worship is joining heaven and magnifying and making much of Christ. And I've got to share with you that As we get up in the morning and get ourselves ready and get in the car and drive to church, that should be on our hearts. That we're going to join all of heaven in magnifying Christ. And then finding fulfillment and joy and peace and hope in that. This is why we're here. That's a good rabbit to Chase. Jason? Good rabbit? That's what it's all about. Friends, that's what it's all about. Now that's boring to you. I've got bad news about eternity. It's a it's a gradual progressive thing this sanctification, isn't it? Is God refines Refines our hearts and renews our minds to value what he values and to love what he loves And to seek what he wants us to seek. Now we'll get the letter D. The disciple is called to deny himself. We deny ourselves and we keep our souls. We we gain eternity, we gain God, we gain the security of our souls, but in in another sense we deny ourselves. Matthew 16, 24 through 26 Jesus told his disciples, if anyone will come after me, let him anybody know it? Deny himself Just in case you thought I was making it up. That's in the Bible. It's the it's the complete opposite of the message of the world. Right? Deny yourself. Polar opposite. What's the message of the world? Whatever you do, live for yourself. Live for yourself. Live for yourself. Don't let any outside authority or outside voice or influence affect you. Live for yourself. Your feelings, your opinions, your future. You deserve it. You must do this. It's the highest virtue, according to the spirit of the age. Live for yourself. Pursue life for yourself. Here comes Jesus. If anyone would follow me, deny himself. Deny himself. Take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. And what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul But what shall a man give in return for his soul? Well, that's the gain, isn't it? Our soul? The right standing of our soul? Our soul reconciled to God in Christ? The forgiveness of sins? The hope of heaven? The hope of a resurrection body? The hope of being sinless one day The hope of not being under this curse of sin and death one day, and the suffering, and the sickness, and the division, and the torment that it brings to live under the curse of sin and death to be gone one day That's the game. But in this age, and according to the principles and values of the flesh, deny yourself Would you deny yourself to gain eternity? That's discipleship. And that's what Jesus says. If anyone will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Discipleship is the practice, which means practical application, is the practice of giving up our lives to live for Christ. And seeing it as gain, not loss. Have you heard the call of discipleship? If you heard the call , the ears of your heart heard the call of discipleship to follow Christ. To relinquish all that you are, and to relinquish all that you have, and to relinquish all that you do to him, and see that you got the good end of the deal. Have you heard the call of discipleship? Well, let's move to Roman numeral two, the cost of discipleship. The cost of discipleship, and I've got four of these from the text. First of all, discipleship will cost you the primacy of earthly loves. Primacy means what's primary. Primacy means it comes in first place. Discipleship will cost you the primacy of earthly loves Verse 26, Jesus says, If anyone comes to me and does not hate his own father and mother, and wife and children, and brothers and sisters, and yes Even his own life, he cannot be my disciple. When we come to Jesus, all other relationships Immediately become subordinate. Immediately they become subordinate, which means they're not primary. So discipleship will cost you the primacy of earthly relationships or of earthly loves. Does Jesus want us to literally hate our families and literally hate ourselves? Obviously, a resounding no from all of Scripture, all of the Old Testament, all of the New Testament. God calls and commands us to love Others as ourselves, to love our enemies, to love those who persecute us, to pray for those who would hate us. In fact, being a disciple of Christ will make us more loving. to those in our closest relationships and just to people in general. It will make us more loving. Well what's the problem? The problem is the world has a different definition of love than what God does. So sometimes the love is interpreted as hate. Jesus is speaking in a hyperbole, which is a figure of speech. It's a figure of speech that really exaggerates, just to get the point across. Some examples. It's the hottest day ever. No, it's not. It was really hot, okay? That's just a hyperbole. This is the worst pizza ever. No, it's not. It's very bad pizza, okay? But this is the way we talk. Hyperbole is a normal part of communication. Everyone hates me. No, they don't. Everyone doesn't hate you. Nothing can ever goes right for me. That's not true. You're still breathing. Wait, hyperbole. An exaggeration to make sure the point gets across. Now the question is, what point is he getting across? Here's the point. When you're a disciple Your love for Jesus is so strong. Your devotion to Jesus is so clear and it so clearly reorients Your life. It's so strong your love for Jesus that the world will interpret it as hate. The world will interpret it as, hey, when you turn to Jesus, family can see it as a personal slight against them. When you turn to Jesus, friends and co-workers can now see you as someone who's hateful to the world around you and especially hateful to certain groups within culture. Just because You believe that what Jesus says is true is actually true. Your commitment will be misinterpreted as hate. That's part of the cost of discipleship When you turn to Jesus, a spouse can say, that is not who I married. I did not marry a Christian. When you turn to Jesus, parents can say, that is not how we raised you. That is not what our family is about. When you turn to Jesus, your children can say, you're such a hypocrite. I've seen how you live. I've seen it up close, you hypocrite. When you turn to Jesus, siblings can say, you know, you're such a traitor. Do you even care about our family anymore? You're so self-righteous, you hypocrite Because you've turned to Jesus to be saved by Him and to follow Him. You see, your love can for Jesus and its practical application to your life will be interpreted as hate. Friends will say, I guess you just don't love us anymore. Guess you just don't want to spend time with us anymore. You're too good for us anymore. When we came to Jesus, all of our relationships immediately became subordinates. That can happen in church too. If you prioritize the word of God , In obedience to Christ, over church tradition, it can be interpreted as you don't love us. Turn backwards in Luke to chapter eight, verse nineteen. Jesus is talking. And on the scene in verse 19, then his mother and his brothers came to him. But they could not reach him because of the crowd, and he was told, Your mother and your brothers are standing outside desiring to see you. But he answered them, My mother and my brothers are those who hear the word of God and do it. He has a new f he has a family above and beyond his earthly family. He's not saying he doesn't care about his mother, and he's not saying he doesn't care about his brothers. His brothers at first didn't believe in him. They were converted later on. But Jesus' primary family is the family of faith. Those who join him in his work, disciples, those are his mother. You are his mother and his brothers And his sisters. And his family. The church is the household of God. The church is the family of God. You can go back to chapter fourteen It's not just about being seen as hateful, but it really is true that if it comes down to Jesus and anyone else, our ultimate allegiance is to Jesus. This is the confession, the profession of faith, that our ultimate allegiance is to Jesus. We honor him first in our hearts Discipleship will cost you the primacy of earthly loves. It's not gonna it may actually cost you the relationship itself, being to be interpreted as a hate-mongerer And he says in there, even his own life, toward the end of verse 26. Even his own life. It's not our own comfort, it's not our own name, it's not our own glory, it's not our own purpose that we're living for, but it's Christ's. Christ's name, Christ's glory, Christ's purpose. So even our even our relationship with ourselves, so to speak, is subordinate. It's subordinate to Jesus Christ. In other words, He's the Master, He's the teacher, He's the Lord. Letter B. Discipleship will cost you the necessity of earthly comforts. The necessity of earthly comforts. Not necessarily that you lose all earthly comforts, but Seeking and requiring earthly comforts or a certain amount of earthly comforts for you to be fulfilled and to be happy in life. That 's got to go. The necessity of earthly comforts. Verse 27, the very beginning. Whoever does not bear his own cross, let's just camp out here. To bear a cross. A Roman cross was used for public executions. This is what's in view. A Roman cross. It was used for public executions. It was used for public executions that would bring extended pain and that would bring extended and drawn out shame publicly. It was used to make an example of criminals who the government saw as a threat To society. This is what the cross is. So if you hung on a cross, you were openly rejected as your suffering. You're openly rejected, you're openly mocked, and openly assaulted by the world that's passing by as you're dying on a Roman cross. So, what would it have been to bear your cross? To bear your cross, you know it from the story of Jesus, carrying his cross to his own public execution. To bear your cross. To carry your cross. That's what he says, 27, whoever does not bear his cross, to bear your cross is to carry the instrument of your own rejection from the world. And you carry the reason why people will mock you. Obviously, that reason is your faith in Christ and your allegiance to Christ and your love for God through Christ. To bear your cross is to carry the instrument of why the world mocks. To carry your cross is to bear the instrument, to carry the instrument of why the world will assault you and persecute you and reject you. and slander you to bear a cross. Christians are always on the way, as it were. Always on the road to being rejected, mocked, assaulted by the world. The cross we carry is our faith in Christ. Faith in Christ. You must bear this cross. You know, if we thought just like the world, there would be no problem. If we would just go with the flow of the culture, there'd be no problem. If we just would fall in line, go with the flow and agree with the world around us, there would be no cross to bear. Brothers and sisters, if you're in Christ, you have seen things that you cannot unsee, and you have heard things that the world hasn't heard. You've seen the love of God. You've seen your sin and a need for a savior, and you cannot unsee it. Your heart has felt things that you cannot unfeel, that the world has never felt. You have felt the mercy of Jesus Christ. It has melted your heart. It has transformed your life. It set you on a new path. You are a new creation in Christ. Your eyes have seen the glory of heaven through faith in Christ, and you are not going back to the ways of the world. So the world doesn't accept you or who you are. You know, in Christ you disagree with the world about everything Did you know that? You disagree with the world about everything meaningful. Every topic if you burrow burrow down way deep underneath, you disagree with the world about everything. You disagree with the world about grass. Because the world doesn't believe that God created grass. You believe that God created grass. So whatever it is, you disagree with the world. You disagree with the world about what makes life worth living. Amen? Are you awake? What is it that makes life worth living? Well, here's your answer over here. Here's the world's answer way over there. You disagree with the world about what brings joy and peace. You disagree about what satisfies the soul's deepest longings. You disagree about what is right and what is wrong. You disagree about what is wise, what is foolish, about what the purpose of life is. The purpose of life in the world's perspective is earthly comforts and the approval of man. But in Christ, you know that the purpose of life is eternal heavenly comforts and the approval of God. Just in a different category. So accept that. It'll make the road a little easier. We just accept that God has called you out of the world and He's set you apart. He's consecrated you to live a different kind of life. In Christ you disagree with your old self about everything too. Do you remember that? Remember that old self Didn't care about God. Didn't care about what the Bible had to say. Blinded to our sin, blinded to our guilt. Well, the Holy Spirit has changed our hearts And in Christ we disagree with our old self about what we deserve. We disagree with our old self about who we are and what we are, naturally speaking. We disagree with our old self about where we're headed in life. God's love for us, God's love for us has radically reoriented Our lives from the inside out. That's discipleship. Used to be like a ship at sea, just lost at sea, w going wherever And in Christ, we have direction, we have a purpose, we have a God, we have a homeland, and we're sailing straight for that homeland. Not to be deterred by the world around us. Discipleship will cost you the primacy of earthly loves, and since it's bearing a cross, it will Cost us the necessity of earthly comforts. Not that they're wrong, not that we don't have any earthly comforts. By God's grace we have a lot of earthly comforts. But in our hearts we don't need them to have joy and peace. All we need is Christ. Letter C. Discipleship will cost you the autonomy of earthly pursuits. The autonomy of earthly pursuits. Autonomy means self-governing. It just means doing things our own way. That's what autonomy means. Uh, the cost of discipleship includes the autonomy of earthly pursuits. Now this is a lengthy section from twenty-seven The end of verse 27, all the way down to through verse 32, where he uses these two illustrations. And as we're reading, I want you to think about the point of these illustrations. Verse 27 in the middle, and come after me, bear's cross and come after me, cannot be my disciple. For which of you desiring To build a tower does not first sit down and count the cost whether he has enough to complete it. Otherwise, when he's laid a foundation and is not able to finish. All who see it begin to mock him, saying, This man began to build and was not able to finish. Or what king, going out to encounter another king in war, will not sit down first and deliberate, whether he's able with ten thousand to meet him who comes against him with twenty thousand. And if not, in other words, if he's not able to meet him, if not, while the other is yet a great way off, he sends a delegation and asks for terms of peace. The point is that you can't be a disciple of Christ unless you know what that is. Unless you know what it entails, you cannot be a disciple of Christ. Christ. You need to know what you're getting into. Like the man who wanted to build a tower. He needs to know what he's getting into. Like the king who wants to go out to war. He needs to know what he's getting into. Otherwise, he will fail. The builder who doesn't count the cost of the tower will fail. The king who doesn't count the cost of the battle will fail And of these great crowds that are amassing themselves to Jesus for various reasons, if they Try to live for Jesus or try to follow Jesus in his ministry and have no clue what they're getting into, they'll fail. How can you pursue something when you don't know what it is, when you don't know what it will cost? That's the point of the illustrations, is that you need to know what you're getting into. But if you do know what you're getting into, if you do know what discipleship is, you can pursue it by faith in Christ. If you do know what discipleship is, you can pursue it through prayer. Desperate prayer. If you do know what discipleship is, and you have counted the cost You can pursue it by looking to God for help. You know, one of the ways to summarize the entire Christian life is just it 's an ongoing pursuit of going to God for help. In all kinds of situations, spiritual, temporal, issues, whatever, go into God for help. Go into God for help. If you do know what discipleship is. You can pursue it by humbling yourself and by admitting that you cannot do it alone. Just like we couldn't take our sins away by ourselves, we also cannot advance in sanctification by ourselves And just like we cannot advance in sanctification by ourselves, we cannot advance in discipleship by ourselves. Go to God for help. Go to God. Humble yourself before God. And ask God to do what you cannot do. But you must count the cost so that you know what you're asking for. Jesus came for the weak, not the powerful. Jesus came for the sinner, not the righteous. Jesus came for the humble, not the proud. And all we have is the death of Christ. It's the only thing that can get rid of the guilt of our sins before holy God. All we have is the blood of Christ shed for us to make us right before God. And we have the Holy Spirit in our hearts to help us along in sanctification. to help us along in discipleship. But it's all from God. It's all through Christ. It's all by the Spirit. 1 Peter 3. 18. Christ also suffered once for sins. The righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. I love that phrase, 1 Peter 3. 18, that he might bring us to God. Beloved, that's what Jesus has done. He's brought us to God. There was no other road. There was no other path. There was no other option. Except for eternal damnation. But Jesus has brought us to God. Discipleship is not the road to salvation. Rather, discipleship issues from salvation. It is a fruit of conversion. It is the practical outworking of sanctification. That's important to get that right. Otherwise, if we try to put discipleship first, we'll just become religious functionaries, just doing the external things. The discipleship is just the practical application, the practical implementation of the inward work that God is doing. And finally And quickly, letter D, discipleship will cost you the supremacy of earthly things. Now you still have earthly things. Raise your hand if you still have earthly things But what discipleship costs us is the supremacy of earthly things in our lives. We're not materialists any longer. Materialism still lives within us, though, doesn't it? The sin still resides within us. Here's what he says in verse 33. So therefore, any one of you who does not renounce all that he has cannot be my disciple. You renounce All that you have, whether you have a little or whether you have a lot by the world's measure, we renounce it all. In other words, we're relinquishing and we're acknowledging that all of this is from God and for God We're not living for things. We're not depending on things. In verse 13 of chapter 16, which you can flip over, it's either one page forward or two pages forward. 1613, Jesus says, No servant can serve two masters. Either he will hate the one and love the other, or he'll be devoted to the one and despise the other. You cannot serve God and money. It doesn't say you can't have God and money, but you can't serve God and money. God can't be your master if money is still your master. God is can't be your master. God's not your master if anything else is your master. Anything. Matthew 6, 19 through 20, do not lay up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy and where thieves break in and steal. But lay up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in and steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will also be. So where is your heart? And where is your treasure? Discipleship is this practice of giving up our lives to live for Jesus. But we do not see it as loss. Beloved of God, we do not see it as loss, we see it as gain. Because in Christ, God has given us everything that is good and worth living for. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus. I pray for the lost here that you would save them. I pray for the saved that you continue to sanctify us. I pray for each of us in our discipleship that we would look to you as the source and fuel of all obedience. Change our hearts, purify our hearts, take our lives and make them yours, we pray. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.