We are going to be in a couple of passages. First, put a marker on Proverbs chapter 2. And then open up to Romans 6. Proverbs chapter 2, marker. That's where we'll be for most of the time. That's the Main text for this evening. Then Romans six. Before our preaching time, I wanted to talk with you a little bit about the plan for evening services just regarding the preaching, which Man, it's almost November, so we'll be implementing this before you know it. Jason is going to be preaching the first Sunday P. M. service every month, and then Anthony has the other ones And um I think the plan is for whenever there's a fifth Sunday, I put myself in there to take the fifth Sunday, but I told them I reserve the right to plug them in if the spirit so leads me to do so. Um but they need opportunities. They have been given the the preaching gift and they need to fan into flame the gift that God has given them. Uh so pray for them and uh that's the plan Again, that's just on the horizon. Let's go ahead and pray once more before we come under the Word of God. During this time. Father, we uh again we thank you for your word, and I pray that you'd give us a fresh, a fresh preaching, a fresh delivery of your word into our hearts and into our minds. Remind us of your goodness. Remind us of our duty before you. Remind us of the joy that we have in Christ. Remind us of the love that you have for us and remind us of the love that we're called to have for one another. Remind us of your holiness and remind us also of your mercy and grace. Remind us of your infinite, infinite compassion For us, for sinners, and help us in our time of need, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen. I've called this message the practical relevance of wisdom. There's Been this belief, there's been this approach to Christianity the past several decades. It's been called easy believism. If you've heard of that phrase, easy believism. It's also been called decisionism. And easy believism or decisionism is the practice where salvation is treated as merely an intellectual belief But the heart is not changed for God. It's mere intellectual assent, mere intellectual agreement But the heart is not changed by the Holy Spirit, and you go off and continue to live however you want to live, thinking that you've been saved. But that's not the biblical picture of Salvation. Saving faith is also transforming faith. The grace that forgives Sin is also the grace that dethrones the power of sin in our hearts, so that sin is no longer our master. In other words, the grace that justifies is also the grace that sanctifies. I wanted to begin this message. This way tonight because of the great emphasis that I put on the sermon this morning, but in other sermons as well, of that salvation is by faith alone. Yes, that's absolutely true. I'll never back off of that, but we have to have a biblical definition of faith. Salvation by faith alone Is also salvation that changes the heart to love God and live for God. And this is why we're in Romans 6. Romans 6, 1 through 4, to begin. What shall we say then? Are we to continue in sin that grace may abound? By no means. How can we, who died to sin, still live in it Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried, therefore, with him by baptism into death, in order that, just as Christ was raised from the dead by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life Walk in newness of life. We are saved by faith alone, not by works. And saved by faith alone, we then walk in newness of life. We have died to sin. How Paul esque. How can we who died to sin walk in it Still live in it. Verse 2. How can we who died to sin still live in it? The answer is. We do not live in sin. We still sin, but we don't live in sin. We don't live as slaves to sin. In other words The child of God walks in the fear of the Lord, and the child of God walks in the wisdom of the Lord, seeking after the wisdom of the Lord. This is how it connects. with our series on wisdom. You can go to Proverbs chapter 2 and our passage tonight, Proverbs 2, 1 through 5. Children of God, walk in the fear of the Lord. When we were lost, we did not have the fear of the Lord before us. And we did ha we had no concern, no desire to walk in the wisdom of the Lord. But born again, children of God, saved by faith alone and not by works, we have new hearts. That we walk in the fear of the Lord and we walk in the wisdom of the Lord. Now here's the passage. It's a long passage to get us started. In Proverbs 2, 1 through 15. My son. If you receive my words and treasure up my commandments with you, making your ear attentive to wisdom and inclining your heart to understanding, yes, if you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding. If you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. For the Lord gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He's a shield to those who walk in integrity, guarding the paths of justice and watching over the saints. Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity and every good path. For wisdom will come into your heart And knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. Discretion will watch over you. Understanding will guard you. Delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech, who forsake the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness, Who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil, men whose paths are crooked and who are devious in their ways This is speaking something of the hearts and the life of the child of God. Does that look like a mere intellectual agreement where the heart's not changed? Couldn't be further from the truth. The uh the practical relevance of wisdom, godliness Practically applied to all areas of life. That should be our goal. That should be our goal in our lives. Godliness, Christ-likeness applied in all areas of life. You're experiencing confusion? You need God's wisdom. You're stressed out, you need wisdom from God. There's a conflict in your life Probably need wisdom from God and how to deal with it properly. If you're experiencing worry and anxiety, wisdom from God. If there's a conscience issue that you need to make and you're having a difficult decision on where you land on an important issue of conscience, you need wisdom from God. If you need to show tough love in a relationship, and we've all been there, you need wisdom from God. If someone else is showing you tough love in a relationship, you also need wisdom from God. If you're going through suffering, you need wisdom from God. All areas of life, all situations of life, we need wisdom. Now here's how this passage Breaks down. First of all, we'll look at our duty to pursue wisdom. Brothers and sisters, we have a God-given duty to pursue wisdom, to seek it out. To go to God and ask for it. Number one, our duty to pursue wisdom. Number two, God's faithfulness to grant wisdom. God is faithful to grant wisdom to those who ask. He will show us the way. He will be our guide. Number one, our duty to pursue wisdom. Number two, God's faithfulness to grant wisdom. And number three, the practical benefits of receiving wisdom. First of all, our duty to pursue wisdom, this comes from verses one through five. One through five. And first of all, I want you to notice the conditional structure or the conditional statement that's here in verses 1 through 5. A conditional statement is a if -then statement If A, then B. If this, then that. So in our duty to pursue wisdom, look at the conditional nature of the situation. Verse 1. My son, if you receive my words. Verse three Yes, if You call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding. This is the one who's who has a learning spirit to receive what's being taught. If you receive my words. It's also someone who is calling out for, crying out for, and lifting their voice for insight and understanding. Number uh verse 4. If, if You seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures. If, if, if. Now look at verse 5. Then Then you will understand the fear of the Lord, and find the knowledge of God. And also, we'll cheat down and look at verse 9. Then you will understand righteousness and justice and on and on. If then We have a duty to pursue wisdom. If we do not pursue wisdom, we will not attain to wisdom. If you receive my words If you call out for insight, if you seek it like silver, then you'll attain to wisdom and find understanding. So what's the What's the clear and obvious implication? If we don't receive God's words If we don't call out for insight, if we don't raise our voice for understanding, if we don't seek wisdom like silver and search for it as hidden treasures, will we find the wisdom that God has to give? No way. No way. So there's a duty to pursue wisdom, and there's there's a conditional Nature of pursuing wisdom. In other words, if if you seek it, God will give it. If you don't seek it, you won't find it. First of all, we um We must seek wisdom with a humble and learning spirit. This may be the foundational Point in terms of our attitude or our posture before God, to have a humble learning spirit. This comes again from verse. 1. The very first part of verse 1, verse 1a. My son, if you receive my words, it's just another way of saying it, if you'll have a learning spirit Instead of batting the words of the wise man away, swatting it away, and hardening our heart to God's wisdom, however it comes to us. We receive God's words. And then also in the beginning of verse 2. Verse 2a, making your ear attentive to wisdom A learning spirit, an attentive ear, ears that are open, ears that are listening. And tuned in to God's wisdom coming into our lives. Without God's wisdom in our lives, we would just continue to live in the foolishness of our own selfish desires. In the self-serving way of the flesh. So we have to have a humble learning spirit. Second of all, we have to esteem wisdom highly We have to esteem wisdom highly. We hold it in high regard. We see it as something that is valuable. That we want to attain. This comes from verse 1b, which is the second part of verse 1. Here's what he says: treasure up my commandments with you. Treasure up. Store up. What's treasure? Is treasure how's treasure different than garbage? It's has value. It's something that you see is valuable. It's something that is valuable. Treasure it up. Store it up. Like you would later on, he says silver, but that's seeking. So We have to esteem wisdom highly. Esteem wisdom highly. And also the second part of verse 2. Inclining your heart. to understanding. I like that phrase. Inclining your heart to understanding. It's an inclination of the heart. It's a leaning of the inner self that leans toward wisdom. There's a humble learning spirit that esteems highly Biblical wisdom and the heart is leaning in that direction. It's inclined. It's the complete opposite of who we were when we were lost. We were inclined to folly. We were inclined to selfishness. But with new hearts in Christ, we're inclined to Understanding to wisdom. So a humble learning spirit, that's part of our duty in pursuing wisdom. Esteeming wisdom highly. It's part of our duty to pursue wisdom. And third and finally, underneath this duty to pursue wisdom, is we must seek wisdom deliberately. Seek wisdom deliberately, which is taking the next step. It's one step to esteem it highly, but it's the next step to seek it deliberately. Verses 3 through 5. You see the Proactive seeking of wisdom, verse 3 to 5. Yes If you call out for insight and raise your voice for understanding, if you seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures, then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. How often have you prayed for wisdom? How often have you cried out to the Lord God Almighty for wisdom this past week, this past month? This should be a part of our Of our daily lives crying out to God for wisdom. Wisdom in this situation. Wisdom in this relationship. Wisdom in this decision. This matter of conscience How do I deal with this issue at work? How do I deal with this issue at school? How do I deal with this issue at home with the family or with the extended family or at church? Crying out to God for wisdom. We've all lived the life of a thousand blunders. But as we learn gradually to humble ourselves and go to God for wisdom and cry out to God for wisdom, Over time, those blunders will decrease. Now we'll never be perfect. But there is a maturing that can happen. There is a growing in wisdom that can happen Matthew 7, 7 through 11. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be opened. Or which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, will give him a stone? It's a good question, isn't it? You have a son Y you love 'em, it's your job to care for 'em. They're hungry. They need nourishment. They ask for bread. What kind of sick trick is this? Give 'em a stone. Which one of you, if his son asks him for bread, we'll give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, we'll give him a serpent. That's even worse than giving him a s a stone. If then you who are evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your Father who is in heaven give good things to those who ask him Ask, it will be given. Seek and you'll find. Knock, and it'll be opened to you. One more here, James 1, 5 through 8. If any of you lacks wisdom, let him ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given to him. But let him ask in faith with no doubting. For the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that's driven and tossed by the wind. He's over here, he's over there, he's believing, he's not believing, he's trusting God's goodness. He's forgetting God's goodness. He's crying out for wisdom. He completely doesn't care about wisdom. He's left. He's right. He's all over the place. He's up. He's down. Like a wave of the sea that's driven and tossed by the wind, but he's not grounded and steadied and anchored by faith in Christ, believing the goodness of God. Believing the goodness of God is a foundation of prayer life. Remembering that God is good. And that's what he says. Let him ask God who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given to him. Now back in verse 7, still in James 1, verse 7, for that person must not suppose that he will receive anything from the Lord. He's a double-minded man, unstable in all his ways. So he's praying, but he's not praying in faith. It's not genuine prayer. The uh the duty to pursue wisdom We must have a humble learning spirit. We must esteem wisdom highly. We know what it means to esteem something highly. Your favorite food, your favorite restaurant, your favorite team, your favorite hobby, your favorite show. Right, we know what it means to esteem something highly As children of God, we must esteem biblical wisdom from God's word highly. We must treasure it and we must seek it deliberately Verse 5 gives the it gives the other side of that conditional. Then you will understand the fear of the Lord and find the knowledge of God. And it bring it brings us right into the next point of God's faithfulness to grant wisdom. Verses 6 through 8. God is faithful to grant wisdom. To those who seek for it and ask for it in faith. Verse 6: For the Lord gives wisdom From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. He is a shield to those who walk in integrity, guarding the paths of justice Watching over the way of his saints. I love how active God is in those verses. God gives wisdom. From his mouth come knowledge and understanding. He is the one who, verse 7. stores up sound wisdom for the upright. It's a picture of God as this storehouse of wisdom waiting for you to come and collect a portion of what he has stored up. He stores up sound wisdom for the upright. God is active in the lives of his children. I love this picture of how active God is. Continuing, still in verse 7. How about this image? He is a shield to those who walk in integrity. God is a shield of protection. He'll protect us from falling prey to temptation. He'll protect us from being ensnared by sin. He'll protect us from falling away and giving up our profession of faith. God is our shield. He is a strong and mighty shield for those who walk in integrity, which means those who walk through faith in Christ by the power of the Holy Spirit. No, that's not people who are inherently good. Alright? That ship has sailed This is for his children, for those who are trusting in Christ, have been saved by faith, have been filled with the Holy Spirit, and by virtue of the blood of Christ, they are children of God. God 's our shield. Could you imagine if God wasn't there to help us and protect us in our battle against sin? Can you imagine if God wasn't there to strengthen us and help us and be our shield? In our daily battle against temptation, against the flaming arrows of Satan, Against the persecutions and the discouragements of life and the w uh in in this life under the curse of sin and death, the discouragements, oh the discouragements, brethren, brethren. And the distractions, the potential distractions in this world, where would we be if God were not our shield? Tremble at the thought. Verse eight Still on this action of God in our lives, guarding The path of justice. That means God will keep you on the path. You keep looking to Christ Keep crying out for help. Keep depending on the Spirit. God will keep you on the path. We're proactive in our walk with the Lord. to advance in our sanctification. And we're proactive to progress and grow in our discipleship, our practical discipleship. Living for Christ in all areas of life. But we we better remember at every step of the way, God is keeping us on the path. God gets the glory. God gets the credit. God is doing the work. We worship God. He guards us. He guards our path. So guard our footsteps. And this l this one, last but not least, the last part of verse eight. Last but not least, watching over the way of the saints. Now it's parallel to guarding the path of justice. But it brings another aspect, a little different imagery there, watching over the way of his saints. Think of um A parent watching over their child at the playground. Child's playing, but you're watching over them to make sure they don't jump off of a 15-foot in uh you know, monkey bars or something like that. I mean w they don't understand that they'll get seriously hurt. So you have to watch over your child to make sure you can keep them safe and keep them from doing Something that will hurt them. God is faithful to forgive any sinner that comes To Christ in faith. God is faithful to fulfill every promise that He's ever made in His Word to His people. God is faithful to use his word and to use his church to advance his kingdom in the world. God is faithful. We could come up with a long list, beloved. A long list. Chronicle the faithfulness of our God and Father. And this point is about God's faithfulness. He is faithful to grant wisdom. We've all been in situations where we don't know what to do We've all been in situations we just we just feel like we just throw our hands up and give up. There's nothing I can do. What do we do? Well we can go to God. God will grant wisdom. He's faithful to grant wisdom. Five nuts to bolts, rubber meets the road, practical application To seek wisdom, trusting the Lord to be faithful to grant wisdom. Because this is the first two points. Our duty to seek wisdom or duty to pursue wisdom and then secondly God's faithfulness to grant wisdom. So here you go. One, two, three, four, five. One. Make sure you have a steady diet of the Word of God. You knew that was going to be first. Proactively, responsibly, passionately Get yourself a steady diet of the Word of God. Sound biblical teaching. Sound biblical preaching, centered on the biblical gospel, filled with the Spirit. A habit of reading the Word. A steady diet of the Word of God. Second, a steady diet of Prayer. Steady diet of prayer. Talking to God. Pouring out your heart to God. Doing the things specifically that are talked about in this passage. Verse 3, call out for insight. Raise your voice for understanding. Ask God for wisdom. A steady diet of the Word, a steady diet of prayer. Number three, a steady diet of Christ -centered congregational worship. A steady diet of Christ-centered congregational worship. Biblical worship. We'll get a good dose of the word there. We'll get a good dose of participating in prayer there. The Spirit is at work in the congregational worship. A steady diet of the word, of prayer, of Christ-centered biblical worship. Number four, a steady diet of spirit-filled, encouraging Christian fellowship. A steady diet of spirit-filled, encouraging Christian fellowship. We all need encouragement. Amen? We all need encouragement. And if we know that about ourselves, we also know it about others that others need encouragement. So be proactive in encouraging others. And seeking to build others up. We all need to have a steady diet of spirit-filled, encouraging Christian fellowship Number five, a steady diet of seeking counsel from mature believers Seeking counsel from mature believers. And sometimes you don't seek it, but in God's providence, he sends it just right to your doorstep when you need it most. And that's why we just need to train our hearts to have a humble learning spirit so that when God sends a messenger to us with his wisdom We're ready to receive it, to receive gracious , counsel from mature believers who will tell us the truth In love. Tell us the truth in love with the heart with a gentle spirit that to maybe restore us in the situation. Biblical counsel for mature believers. So steady diet. It's really spiritual disciplines, isn't it? Steady diet of the word, a steady diet of prayer A steady diet of Christ-centered congregational worship, a steady diet of spirit-filled, encouraging Christian fellowship, which also comes with a reminder to us that we need to be encouragers and we need to be led by the Spirit So that we can be a part of creating a spirit-filled, encouraging Christian fellowship, so that others can come into that spirit-filled, encouraging Christian fellowship and be built up in the faith. And a steady diet of seeking or andor receiving good counsel, biblical counsel from mature believers. We do have a duty to pursue wisdom. Thank God that he's faithful to grant wisdom to those who pursue it. Thank God that he grants wisdom to natural-born fools. Thank God. Number three, the practical benefits of receiving wisdom. We'll begin uh this point on verses nine and ten Then you will understand righteousness and justice and equity, every good path. For wisdom will come into your hearts, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. Just as a side note, I really, really, really Convicted about this first part of verse 10, wisdom will come into your hearts. The idea of wisdom coming and taking up residence in our hearts. It's the internalization of biblical principles. It's the internalization of God 's morals and ethics. Wisdom will come into our hearts. Love that phrase. Wisdom will come into your hearts. The practical benefits of receiving wisdom are many. What's summarized in verse Nine is a grasp of biblical ethics. What's right and what's wrong What's just and what's unjust, what's good and what's evil. We live in a time and culture where where these things are said to not even exist anymore. Whatever you desire in the moment, whatever you feel is good for you, well that's what's right. And the only thing that's wrong is anyone who tells you otherwise But there is a such thing as morals, objective morals, absolute mor Morality, biblical ethics. It's based on God's character. It comes to us in Scripture. And he gives four categories, four broad categories. This is not all the categories of biblical ethics, but he gives four. First of all, he says righteousness. Then you will understand righteousness. We do not come out of the womb understanding righteousness. And we do not come out of the baptismal waters, experts in righteousness. Learning about righteousness is part of our sanctification. It's part of our growth in the Lord and our growing gradual understanding of His Word. Righteousness is anything that conforms to God's law. That's what righteousness is. means, is that which is in conformity with the law of God, with the character of God, righteousness Something is good if it's a reflection of God in some way. Something is bad if it's the opposite of God's character or if it's the opposite of God in some way. Ethics is based on the being of God, the character of God. Anything that's in line with or reflection of God is good. Anything that's the opposite of God or the opposite of God's character, bad, evil, wicked. Righteousness. That's righteousness 101. If we don't understand that, we'll we'll never understand anything about practical righteousness, morals, ethics. But he not only says righteousness, he says justice. Very closely related to righteousness. Justice means understanding proper consequences and proper penalties for lawlessness. There's consequences for unrighteousness. There's penalties for unrighteousness for violating God's character. Justice. And then he says equity, which means fairness. Fairness when dealing with people. It means honesty when dealing with people. Do you know what equity is? Equity is the opposite of favoritism. Equity is the opposite of showing partiality to people. It's the right treatment of others because that's what's right Not that this person gets this because I I think more highly of them, but this person gets something that's much, much lesser, maybe even gets ignored or oppressed because they're not what this other person over here is. That's favoritism. Paul says in Romans, favoritism is not of God. Equity, fairness, honesty. Don't be a cheat. Don't be a liar. Don't show favoritism. But strive for the right treatment of others. Then he says every good path. Well that covers it all, doesn't it? Every good path. That's why I stressed it earlier in the message, and I say this often when talking about discipleship, it's living for the Lord in all areas of life. Godly wisdom. It's godliness in all areas of life. It's striving for Christ-likeness in all areas of life. Every good path. Every good path. I believe this is talking about growing in discernment. Growing in discerning the will of God in any situation. We need to grow in that. Amen? We need to grow in that. So every good path, any any path, any path, to make sure you're on the good path, to be able to discern the good path. Here's this decision that lies in front of me. Here's this conflict that lies in front of me. How will I deal with it? To be able to discern, here's the good path. Discerning the will of God in various situations. It's uh, here's another way of saying it, maybe a simpler way, it's maturing in decision-making. Maturing in decision-making for the honor of God. Discerning the will of God in various situations. That's every good path. Don't want to be on the bad path. The path of folly. The path of unrighteousness. The path of injustice The path of favoritism instead of equity, we want to be on every good path. We want to be on paths that honor the Lord How can we how can we get on that path? How can we stay on that path? Well here's our closing point. It's a bonus point. Because I told you at the beginning we had three The way we get on this path, the way we stay on this path, the way we um advance on this path The way we mature on this path, the way we persevere to the end of this path, is by the guiding and guarding hand of God. Period. That's it. The guiding and the guarding hand of God. Period. Verses 10 through 15. See if this comes out to you. For wisdom will come into your heart, and knowledge will be pleasant to your soul. Discretion will watch over you. Understanding will guard you, delivering you from the way of evil. That means keeping you on the right path, delivering you from the way of evil. Discretion, this understanding, this knowledge, this wisdom that God has given, delivering you from the way of evil, from men of perverted speech. That's a good example, isn't it? Wisdom, by God's guidance and by God's guarding hand, the wisdom will keep us away from bad influences Verse 13, from those who forsake the paths of uprightness, to walk in the ways of darkness. Who rejoice in doing evil and delight in the perverseness of evil, men whose paths are crooked and who are devious in their ways Bad company corrupts good morals. And it's God's guiding and guarding hand, and the wisdom and the discretion, the discernment, the knowledge, the understanding. That come from him that will guide us and guard us to keep us away from bad influences that will take us in on the bad path as the opposite of What he said earlier, God is in every good path or every right path. It is the grace of God to give us wisdom. It is the grace of God to give us wisdom. I want to close this evening's message with uh Reading from Titus chapter 2. Turn to Titus chapter 2. I want to look at verses 11 to 14 with you in order to close. Titus two, eleven to fourteen. I think it's a good reminder that the thing that transforms us Spiritually, is the grace of God and the gospel of God, not rules and regulations and law. Law God's law tells us what's right and wrong, but God's law does not have the power to transform us spiritually. God 's grace in the gospel alone has the power to give us new hearts, and God's grace in the gospel alone has the power to gradually conform us to the likeness of Christ. Law does not sanctify. It's an important reminder whenever we're talking about principles of ethics and morals and biblical wisdom. Titus 2, verse 11 through verse 14. Interesting here, you'll see that the result is good works. Good works are not the cause at the beginning. Good works are the res the result at the end. Verse eleven, for the grace of God has appeared Bringing salvation for all people. Training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions. And to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age, waiting for our blessed hope, the appearing of the glory of our great God and Savior Jesus Christ. who gave himself for us, to redeem us from all lawlessness, and to purify for himself a people for his own possession, who are zealous for good works. One of the things I love about this passage is it begins with for the grace of God because that's the cause of everything else that's going to follow. For the grace of God has brought this salvation, and this grace, verse 12, trains us to renounce ungodliness, and this grace of God trains us to renounce worldly passions. This grace of God, still in verse 12, trains us and helps us and matures us to live self-controlled, upright, godly lives. It's grace that enables us and trains us to live for God. Verse 14 is a powerful, powerful paradigm For how spiritual growth occurs within us. Christ gave himself for us to redeem us from lawlessness. And look at this. to purify for himself a people. Who's the one doing the purification? Jesus is the one purifying us. We must never trust in ourselves for spiritual growth. We must never take our eyes off Christ. Every day, fix your eyes on Christ To be conformed to his image and likeness. And of the many things that will result of this, one of the things that will result is the end of verse 14 Zealous for good works. Christians should be fired up about doing good works. We just must be we should be never see our good works. as the ground of our salvation or as even part of the ground. If they're not one molecule in this foundation of how we're saved and made right before God. It is a hundred percent, hundred percent the perfect life of Christ the sacrificial death of Christ, and the risen Christ interceding for us before the throne of God. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would increase within us a hunger for your word. I pray that you would increase for us a zeal for biblical wisdom. a commitment, a newfound, revived commitment to pursue wisdom daily as is our duty. To cry out for insight, to cry out deliberately and diligently for knowledge and discernment. Father, we pray And we're trusting, trusting in your power, in the purifying power of your son and your spirit to conform us to his likeness. And Father, this would be to your glory and your honor and your name and your kingdom in the world. It's in Christ we pray, Amen