We're in Jude verses fourteen to nineteen, understanding false teachers understanding false teachers, which is to me from a biblical perspective. How do we understand the presence of false teachers? How do they fit into God's plan? And like any issue, we're better off if we come at it from a biblical mindset, from a bib a biblical perspective. Marriage is like that, friendships are like that, churches like that, to have a mindset, to have an understanding shaped by Scripture. That's what we're talking about today. Understanding false teachers But that's part of our spiritual growth. Church, individual, child of God, it's part of our spiritual growth. We've always got to remember that right at the center of this thing is personal spiritual. Spiritual growth. This can never just be about the formal public worship. This can never just be about good relationships or a sense of community. This can never just be about working together to do good works and good deeds. It's got to be at the heart. It's got to be about personal spiritual growth. A relationship with Jesus. A living relationship with Jesus But part of that growth is growing in discernment and understanding false teachers. Let's go ahead and read Jude 14 to 19, and then we'll get into the message. Verse fourteen It was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam, prophesied, saying, Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousands. of his holy ones, to execute judgment on all, and to convict all the ungodly, of all their deeds of ungodliness, that they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners Have spoken against him. These are grumblers, malcontents, following their own sinful desires They are loudmouth boasters, showing favoritism to gain advantage. But you must remember, beloved The predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They said to you, In the last time there will be scoffers. Following their own ungodly passions. It is these who cause divisions. Worldly people, devoid of the spirit. Brethren, is that not the last thing that we want to be? Devoid of the Spirit? We want to be filled with the Holy Spirit. Spirit. And we want to be led by the Holy Spirit. And we want to keep in step with the Holy Spirit. All of those come from Galatians and other places. But this group of false teachers that Jude has been going on about, he's been going on about it's a really big deal. We need to have discernment when it comes to false teachers. They're devoid of the spirit. Quick review, I've been doing this every week. Quick review on the purpose of Jude comes from verse 3. He says I was eager to write to you about our common salvation, but I found it necessary to write, appealing to you, to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. Saints. That's the purpose of Jude. It is an urging, it is a strong appeal that we contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. That means for the Christian faith, for the gospel of Jesus Christ and the surrounding doctrines of that gospel, that God gave to the church through Jesus, through the apostles, that we now have in the New Testament contend for the faith. That's the purpose of Jesus. to urge us to contend for the faith, to not be afraid to do that, to not be ashamed of doing that, to actually know how to do that by being built up in Scripture And you see the context of why that is Jude's purpose in verse 4. So verse 3 is his purpose. Verse 4 is the situation that calls for that purpose. For certain people have crept in unnoticed, who long ago were designated for this condemnation. Ungodly people. And now you see just how bad it is. And who exactly he's talking about the second part of verse 4. Who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality And deny our only master and Lord, Jesus Christ. You see their duh their uh their problem, their wickedness has um A practical side and a doctrinal side. The practical side is they're using God's grace As a license for sin and immorality. That's why he says they pervert, they pervert the grace of God into sensuality. And that's unbiblical. Uh that's uh that's completely opposite of what the grace of God is designed to do. Brothers and sisters The grace of God puts sin to death. The grace of God does not lead us to multiply sin in our lives and be content with that The grace of God, through the Lord Jesus Christ, by the power of the Holy Spirit, slays sin. It does not stoke sin. To burn brighter, but that's what these false teachers were doing. It's a practical problem, but it's also a doctrinal problem. I mean, could you get worse than this doctrinal problem at the end of verse 4? They deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. So you see the purpose to contend for the faith and this critical situation of false teachers who are using the message of grace as a license for sin. And they're denying the lordship of Christ. They're denying the authority of Christ. May it never be. I mean, let's be as far away from both of those as possible. The main point that I want to talk about today is about how the presence of false teachers in the church Should make us zealous for discernment, but should never make us worried about the church. It should make us zealous for discernment. It should make us passionate. about knowing the truth. It should make us passionate about spotting what's unbiblical. It should make us passionate about doing away with what's unbiblical. Zealous for discernment, but also not worried about the church. That's the tendency of the flesh. The flesh is prone to get anxious and to be worried. And would the flesh will judge my outward appearance and see the prevalence of false teachers and the popularity of false teachers And the influence of false teachers, and the flesh will get worried and act as if God is failing or act as if the church is dying. But that's contrary to Scripture. That's contrary to Scripture. We want to be zealous for discernment, but not be worried. Not be worried about the church. The church is safe and secure in the hands of God. The Lord Jesus is building his church All the forces of darkness cannot stop him from building and perfectly completing his church on his timeline. And he will build his church to perfection and to completion. At the end of the age, he'll return with his church for the rest of his church that's still on the earth at that time. We have a passage for that later in the message. And he will gather his entire church and he will glorify his entire church in his presence for all eternity. Jesus will not fail. So we don't look at the outward appearance in the moment. For any reason, will we ever get worried about the church as if God were failing? God is going to complete his purpose in exactly, brothers and sisters, in exactly the way he's mapped it out from all eternity. Are you with me, church? God is sovereign. God is king. God is in control. God is the one at the helm. He has his hands on the steering wheel. So the main point is that the presence of false teachers should make us zealous for discernment. And I hope that you are. But not worried about the church or the future of the church. And I hope that you're not. I hope that you're not. I hope you know the church is okay. Um I've broken this down, surprise, surprise, into three points In understanding false teachers. To understand the presence of false teachers in the church. First of all, we have to understand that they are the fulfillment of prophecy. That's number one. To have a biblical mindset about false teachers, to understand the presence of false teachers in the church, we have to grasp their presence Is the fulfillment of prophecy. That's what Jude says first in this passage. First look at the beginning of verse 14. It was also about these. Now in the context, obviously the these is referring to the false teachers that he's been talking about for several verses. It was also about these that Enoch, the seventh from Adam Prophesy. Enoch predicted it. Enoch promised it. Enoch here is put forth as a prophet. We'll talk just a moment about Enoch in just a few In just a minute or so. Fulfillment of prophecy that comes from verse 14. Enoch prophesied about them. But also verses 17 and 18. Verses 17 and 18. You must remember, beloved, the predictions, which is a synonym for prophecies, the predictions of the apostles of our Lord Jesus Christ. They said to you, In the last time there will be scoffers, following their own ungodly passions. So as far back as Enoch To as recently for the audience of Jude, as recently within their own lifetime, the apostles who themselves got this word from Jesus. As far back as Enid, I mean this is all throughout history is the point. All throughout the scripture is the point. He's he's bookending History. As far back as Enoch to as recently as the apostles, this has been prophesied. This has been predicted. They are the fulfillment of prophecy. Now there's rich application there. And we'll get to it. But first, a word about Enoch. This comes from Genesis 5, 22 to 24. It says in the passage in Jude, he's the seventh from Adam A seventh generation from Adam, from the creation of the world. Just seven generations later, you have Enoch. In Genesis 5, 22 Moses writes this Enoch walked with God after he fathered Methuselah three hundred years And had other sons and daughters. Thus all the days of Enoch were three hundred and sixty-five years. Enoch walked with God, and he was not, for God took him. Now you probably want me to zoom in on that mysterious part at the end. He was not for God took him, where you have this uh looks like a precursor of the ascension. You have Enoch taken up into the presence of God. without experiencing bodily death. We don't get details on that. That's what it appears like. This is a miracle, a supernatural miracle. I guess there's the only kind of miracles there are, huh Well, redundancy sometimes helps to bring the point home that this isn't something that everybody experiences. He was not, for God took him. But the main thing they said about Enoch in this short verse was said twice is that he walked with God. Which is just an idiom for this was a believer. Enoch was a believer. Enoch walked with God. Do you walk with God? Do you have faith in Jesus Christ? Have you been saved? From sin and saved from death and saved from final judgment. Has God filled your heart with the Holy Spirit so that you're striving to obey Jesus Christ? That's walking with God. Walking with God is something that Enoch did in his life on this earth. He walked with God. And we know the only way to do that is by faith. He was a believer. And in Jude, we find out he also functioned as a prophet. And that's not expounded in the Old Testament. In the Old Testament, well all through scripture, you get all you often get summaries, you don't get all the details But we do get a detail in Jude that he prophesied. He prophesied. Part of that prophecy was in regards to these false teachers in the church, at least in the ancient church, although false teachers persist throughout all the last days. Which began at the inauguration of the church and will go all the way till the return of Christ. It was also about these that Enoch the seventh from Adam prophesied. That's verse fourteen. Verse 17, you must remember, beloved, the predictions of our of the apostles of our Lord Jesus. And if it was prophesied, and if it was predicted, we know that God is not caught by surprise God is not caught off guard by the presence of false teachers in his church. He knew ahead of time. God is not nervous because there are so many false teachers in the church. God is not wringing his hands up in heaven. What are we going to do? Because of the presence of false teachers in the church. He prophesied it. He predicted it through his servants, through his m through his his mouthpieces. He's been doing it as far back as Enoch Rather, God is just as confident as God has always been about his own ability to accomplish his purposes And we want to draw our confidence from God and not be discouraged by the presence of false teachers. The presence of false teachers, I have three applications of The presence of false teachers. Number one is just one more reminder of the faithfulness of God. It's a reminder of the faithfulness of God. That God keeps his word. Isn't that the deeper issue here? It's God who's keeping his word. Because he prophesied it, he predicted it So now that it's happening, it's actually the fulfillment of what God spoke. This is God being faithful to his word. That this is the way it's going to happen. This is what you're going to see. So when you see it, we should have one more reminder Embedded in our mind, God keeps his word. God is faithful. God knows what he is talking about. And everything he predicts comes to pass. Everything he prophesies comes to pass. His word does not return void, it accomplishes exactly what it set out to accomplish. Do you remember this morning that God is faithful? Do you remember this morning? Are you resting this morning that God is faithful to his promises? He's faithful to his word. This is not a side issue. I'll just pick one. This is where our assurance comes from. Because God promises that all who believe in Christ have the hope of eternal life. Now, if it's possible for God to go back on a promise, if it's possible for God to fail in fulfilling his promise, we could have no assurance. Maybe God will, maybe God won't. Maybe I'll inherit eternal life, maybe I won't. Maybe our sins are forgiven, maybe they're not. You see, but if God is always faithful to his word, if God always keeps his promises, and he does always keep his promise, If God is faithful, if God is true, and you believe in Christ, then all of your sins, all the guilt of all your sins is erased forever. And you have been reconciled to God, and you do have the hope of eternal life, and none can take that away from you. You see, the faithfulness of God is the foundation of everything, all of our assurance, all of our hope, all of our joy. God is faithful. And what we herald, not just me, not just Pastor Anthony, not just Jason, not just the preachers, not just the Sunday school teachers, what we want to herald, herald to the world around us. Is that all who believe in Jesus Christ are saved for all eternity. That's what we voice. That's what we want to be a loudspeaker for that in the community. So when I see false teachers, and when you see false teachers, we should not be worried as if God is failing. No, in fact, God is keeping his promises. And he's predicted this, he's prophesied this for our benefit that we'd be reminded of his faithfulness. Are you with Joshua in Joshua 21, 45, when he says, Not one word of all the good promises that the Lord has made to the house of Israel has failed. All has come to pass. And it's come to pass because God promised that it would come to pass. Secondly, second application, not only is the presence of false teachers a reminder of God's faithfulness, but friends, it's also a reminder of God's omniscience. Omniscience. Which is a fancy word for this. God knows everything. God's knowledge is without limits. God knows everything. He possesses all knowledge. Because how can God tell the future if God does not know the future? How can God say with 100% accuracy, this is going to happen in the future if He doesn't know if that's going to happen or not? And we make predictions like that. Peddlers of religion and false prophets make predictions like that. And by the way, they make a ton of cash doing just that. Well, God speaks the future. Dearly beloved brothers and sisters, it's because he knows the future. And he knows the future because he's mapped out the future. He wants us to know that he is omniscient. 1 John 3. 20, John writes, Whenever our hearts condemn us, God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything. God knows everything. He knows everything. 1 John 3. 20. Also Psalm 145 147 verse 5. Great is our Lord and abundant in power. His understanding is beyond measure. Do you believe that God is all powerful? He's called the Almighty. Do you believe that God is Almighty? Do you believe in the omniscience of God? Third , I've been alluding to this the whole time, but I want to draw it out in a particular way. Third, the presence of false teachers reminds us not only of God's faithfulness, not only of God's omniscience, but also of God's sovereignty. His sovereignty. That means his kingship over everything. Sovereignty. That means his sovereign rule over all things in heaven and on earth Sovereignty, the sovereign rule of God. Here's what that means: it means the supreme authority of God over everything else. Of course, that's right, because he created everything else. Nothing else would exist if God did not bring it into existence. But what's the big deal? What does that even mean that God is sovereign? Well, it is a big deal, and I'll tell you why. It means that God is working out his purpose on earth exactly like he planned it, and nothing can stop him. Sovereignty is supposed to encourage us. Sovereignty is supposed to make us do cartwheels down the street for how happy we are. If you can't do them down the street like I can't, you just do cartwheels on your heart. Sovereignty is meant to buttress our assurance. Assurance is based on the promises of God. Based on the faithfulness of God. But you have the sovereignty of God, his sovereign, supreme authority over everything, that he is working out his purpose on earth exactly as he planned it, and none can stop him. And I when I say working out his purpose on earth, yeah, that's big picture stuff of h his church and his kingdom and everything that he's doing on earth. But I hope we also receive that word in a personalized way. Because if he's working out all things according to his purpose, if he's accomplishing his purpose in all the earth to perfection and nothing can stop him, then he's also working out his purpose in your heart and nothing can stop him. So if he has saved you, he is going to continue to sanctify you. He's going to continue to mature you. He's going to continue to use you as his instrument. And he is going to bring you safely home into glory by the power of his spirit, because he's sovereign. He is working out. God is working out his purpose. on earth and he's working out his purpose in your life and nothing can stop it. Are you happy about that? Are you happy about that? The most important ministry in the life of the Christian is God's ministry in the heart of the Christian. That's always first. I've said that before. I hope that's start that that nail is starting to get hammered into the heart. That's always first. Our ministry for God is always second. Our ministry to each other is always second. First is God's ministry to us. God's ministry in us. That's got to be first. Otherwise, I'm telling you, otherwise, everything just degenerates into outward religion. And the flesh loves it. The flesh, the sinful flesh, loves outward religion. That keeps us numb and keeps us oblivious to internal spiritual realities. But it's the internal spiritual realities that's the heart of Christianity. And anything outward is just the expression of that, just the overflow of that, just the practical application of that. Scripture puts a big emphasis on the heart. Have you read Scripture lately? It's all about the heart. God's work in the heart, in the heart loving God, and the heart wanting God, and the heart resting in God. And the heart being filled with joy because of God. And the heart being filled with gratitude because of God. And the heart worshiping God. The heart, the heart, the heart. It's all about the hearts. A reminder that God is faithful. A reminder that God is omniscient. A reminder that God is sovereign. Working out his purpose and nothing can stop him. Hopefully that zooms us all into working out his purpose in us and nothing can stop him. False teachers are the fulfillment of prophecy. Don't catch God off guard. God is not worried, so they should not catch us off guard. And we should not be worried. Number two, they also are a reminder of coming judgment. False teachers, the presence of false teachers in the church, are a reminder of coming judgment. Now, this is intriguing to me because this Is the um the prophecy of Enoch that Jude is alluding to He says Enoch prophesied, and then he goes right into the prophecy. Here's what he says, verse end of verse 14. Behold, the Lord comes with ten thousand. of his holy ones, to execute judgment on all, and to convict all the ungodly of all their deeds of ungodliness. That they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoken against him. Well, you don't need a degree to pick out the key word in that prophecy. Ungodly. Judgment against the ungodly. It's intriguing to me that what Jude refers to as a prophecy about false teachers. In every sense, is a prophecy of final judgment. Now there's several aspects to Enoch's prophecy. Number one, you can look at the end of verse 14 The first aspect of Enoch's prophecy is that the Lord is going to return with a host of angels. And also with the church in glory. Now in the text it says, Behold the Lord comes with ten thousands, plural, not ten thousand, ten thousands of his holy ones. Now if we study that out in scripture we see that God return or Christ returns in judgment. You say God returns in judgment. I don't have a problem with that because Jesus is God. But to be precise, it's the Son who comes The incarnate, exalted Son will return from heaven in judgment, final judgment. We zoom out and scripture teaches he comes with angels, but he also comes with saints who had already died bodily and had been reigning with him in heaven. Now the angels part you can look at Matthew 13, 41 to 42 two. This is where Jesus interprets the parable of the weeds. What in the world is the parable of the weeds? Well, in your own devotions, you've got to go just start reading Matthew 13. You won't miss it. And Jesus interprets this parable, and he says, The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of this kingdom all causes of sin and all lawbreakers, and throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of tears. So it's the sun coming and along with angels bringing about judgment, in the parable of the weeds and in the interpretation, it's clear that this is the end of the age. This is the end of the age when the sun comes back. And he comes back with angels. But scripture also teaches that when Jesus returns, he returns with his church. Now I know that you know he returns for his church. For the church that is alive at the time of his return. But Scripture also teaches that Jesus returns with his church. In other words, when Christians die, when believers throughout all history have died, they're all in heaven. They're all with Jesus in heaven. When Jesus returns at the end of the age, he's not going to leave them in heaven. He's going to bring them with him. And so this comes from 1 Thessalonians 4, 14. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. That's Jesus returning with his church for the rest of his church. And what's the point? The point is when Jesus returns, he gathers his whole church and he glorifies his whole church to be with him Forever. It's actually those souls who return with him. They receive their resurrection bodies first. And then right after that, the Christians who are still alive. I mean ultimately we all receive a resurrection body. Amen. Good news. So if you get wrong on the final exam Well I shouldn't I shouldn't make fun of that point, because that point's revealed in Scripture. The dead in Christ will rise first. And then those who are alive at his coming then will also receive resurrection bodies So the Lord is going to return with a host of holy ones, angels, and with the church in glory. The next thing that's said in Enoch's prophecy is he's coming to execute judgment on all. Verse 15, to execute judgment on all. Well, I got really creative in summarizing that point, right? Coming to execute judgment on all. Everybody's accountable to God. Because the earth is God's, because life comes from God, because God is holy, because God is righteous He's the creator of the world. He's the king over the world. He's the lawgiver to the world. Therefore, he's the judge over the world. And we are all accountable to God to obey him He's coming to execute judgment on all. Number three, he's coming to convict, convict the godless for their rebellious deeds and for their rebellious words. This comes the rest of verse 15. To convict All the ungodly, of all their deeds of ungodliness that they have committed in such an ungodly way, and of all the harsh things that ungodly sinners have spoke against him It's coming to convict the godless. I don't have time to work through these passages, but if you look at other scriptures We are all going to be judged for our words. We are all going to be judged for our secrets. We are all going to be judged for our works. Done in the flesh, every with every secret thing, whether good or evil, says in the book of Ecclesiastes. And we can never be ashamed or afraid to preach this reality of coming judgment. Well because that's what people need to be saved from. It's only by God's grace that we're saved, that we're spared from that coming judgment. But that's the question of scripture. That's the question of scripture. This judgment is coming. We're all accountable to God. We're all lawbreakers. We're all guilty. We all deserve death because the wages of sin is death. Now, this judgment is coming. Now, how in the world will we be spared from that coming judgment? How in the world will we make it through? How will we be saved when the judgment comes? And you know the answer Through the blood of Jesus Christ, through the death and resurrection of the Lord Jesus Christ. He paid for our sins so that on the day of judgment we wouldn't have to. He lived a perfectly righteous life so that on the day of judgment we have a righteousness to stand before God with, so that God could judge us as righteous on the basis of Christ's righteousness. So that God could that God can bring down his gavel and declare us innocent. Can you imagine this? Sinners like us. God brings down the gavel in his heavenly courtroom and declares us innocent and righteous. Why? Because of the blood of Christ. Because of the blood of Christ, where he died in our place to erase the guilt of our sin. But, but, and hopefully this strengthens the point. You can be declared righteous in God's eyes. You can be declared forgiven in God's eyes long before the final judgment. As soon as you put your faith in Jesus, as soon as you put your faith in Jesus for salvation, all the guilt of all your sin is erased. You don't have to wait. The worst thing you want to do is wait. The last thing you want to do is wait for the final judgment. You're declared innocent now through faith in Jesus Christ. And it's on the basis, again, on the basis of God's faithfulness that when that final judgment comes, you can have confidence. John says in 1 John, you have confidence for the day of judgment. And the perfect love of God through Christ will do away with all fear in our hearts that we're going to face that judgment. When that day comes. Friend, will you be spared? Will you be saved? Put your faith in Jesus Christ. Have your sins forgiven. Be reconciled to God now because there is no later. You know, none of us are promised tomorrow. You may have a tomorrow, you may have another decade, two decades, three decades. But don't miss the urgency. You are not promised tomorrow. God is not obligated to give us one more chance and another chance and another chance and another chance. We already deserve death. But he's given the opportunity. He's given the opportunity, the window of grace, to turn to Christ and be saved, so that you can have confidence in the day of judgment. But that window will not always be open. Are you going to live forever? No one's gonna live forever. So be saved. There's a reminder of coming judgment. So the it's the fulfillment of prophecy. John three sixteen God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. That's why God sent Jesus. So that you would not perish when the day of judgment comes, but have eternal life. That your inheritance would be eternal life in the glory in the presence of God, the glorious fellowship with God forever. Inherit that. Don't inherit perishing. And finally, finally, false teachers not only the fulfillment of prophecy, not only the reminder of coming judgment, but also they are a source of strife. and division in the church. Strife and division in the church. Quite interesting to me and quite convicting to be honest, because when he When Jude flushes out, wants to give some details about the false teachers, he doesn't list their doctrinal errors. What does he list? He just lists different aspects of their godlessness, different aspects of their wickedness, and the vileness, the corruption. That they bring into the church. They are a source of strife and division in the church. Look first at verse 16. These are grumblers Malcontents, following their own sinful desires , loudmouth boasters Showing favoritism to gain advantage. And then go down to verse 19. It is these who cause divisions, worldly people, devoid of the spirit. Now remember, these in the context, these are teachers. These are preachers. These are leaders striving for more authority, striving for more influence in the church, not outside, this isn't false religions outside the church, this is in the church. Infiltrators, godless, wicked liars, infiltrators in the church. The grumblers We know who grumblers are. They're complainers. They're fault finders. They're nitpickers. And they like to stir up doubt and stir up rebellious spirit in others. Verse 18, also scoffers. Falls in with this. Grumblers. You know what grumblers are? Grumblers are all of us when we're walking according to the flesh rather than according to the spirit. Man, it's easy to grumble about stuff. Tell me that's not one of the easiest things in the world, easiest things in our families, easiest things in the local church. Find something that's not quite right and grumble, grumble, grumble, grumble, grumble Will we be real? Can we be real? It's easy to grumble. The flesh is prone to grumbling. Why? Because the press uh the flesh, the sinful flesh, loves that rush of self-superiority. And grumbling about other stuff and and other people and other people's ministries. It's not quite right. I wouldn't have done it that way These these people are grumblers. They're also discontent, which we know is closely related to the grumbling because you have the discontent, the malcontent is in the heart, and then the grumbling, yeah, just spews it. On everyone else, like acid. They lack the peace of Christ, they're discontent. They lack the joy of the Spirit, they're discontent, they're malcontents. In the spirit, we should have contentment. Godliness with contentment is great gain. That's true riches. You know, we've been reconciled to God. We have the hope of eternal life to share with God forever. Can we be content? I mean, if there's anything we should be able to be, it's content, but only by the Spirit. They follow their own sinful desires. Now that's said twice. That's at verse verse 16. It's also said in verse 18, following their own ungodly desires. When it comes to following desires Uh there 's only one of two options when it comes to following desires. Right. God 's Or mine. That's it. We've all gotta pick one. We've all gotta pick a path Am I going to be about God's desires? Or am I going to be about my desires? Again, only by the Spirit And also these uh grumbling, malcontent, following their own sinful desires, also arrogant, but vocally arrogant. Again, verse 16 loudmouth boasters. So braggers, we've all known people in our lives are braggers. Loudmouth boasters. Know-it-alls, speaking highly of themselves. They're trying to do it in a way where it doesn't seem like they're speaking highly of themselves, but they really just want you to know how great they are. What they've accomplished. The insecure guy he's always talking about how much money he has. we we think true riches is others approving of us. We think that true joy is going to come from others speaking highly of us or oh others thinking highly of us. The only approval that matters is the approval that comes from God. Brothers and sisters, are you with me? Don't live for the approval of others. If we do that, we will all be loudmouth boasters, seeking our own glory. Finally, favoritism. Grumbling, malcontents, following their own desires, loudmouth boasters. And favoritism, favoritism, he says still, verse sixteen, showing favoritism to gain advantage. Driven by greed, driven by their own self selfish desires, by their own self-glory, they use all kinds of favoritism to gain an advantage. Now, we'll wrap this up in a nice tidy bow in less than a minute In understanding false teachers, which is part of our discernment, part of our spiritual growth, let's remember, church, number one, the fulfillment of prophecy It doesn't catch God off guard as part of his plan. Number two, they're a reminder of coming judgment. Let's let that be grateful for the salvation we've received. But also have a growing burden for the lost and the growing zeal for evangelism so that others would be spared of this coming judgment and be saved by the blood of Christ. Number three These false teachers are a source of strife and division in the church. Sometimes that's hard to spot because we're so enthralled by outward religion, things that look impressive outwardly. But you've got that's why you've got to grow in discernment. Now what's the church to do? How do we contend for the faith against these false teachers? How do we combat the satanic presence of these false teachers? Well, the next paragraph in Jude answers that That will be the message next week, Lord willing. But I want to preview it in verse twenty, because it's a really nice window into where we're where we need to go in order to contend for the faith once for all delivered. To the saints, to the church. Verse 20. But you beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith, just hard stop right there. That's the way to deal with It. We build ourselves up. We seek the Lord's favor. We seek the Lord's wisdom. We seek the Lord's power. We we bury ourselves in God's word. We call upon God in prayer over and over again that God would build us up in the most holy faith of our Lord Jesus Christ. If God doesn't build the house, the builders work in vain. Let us go to God, and that's what we'll expand on and open up. Next week, when we get to that paragraph, we must be built up in the faith. We, me, you, individuals, must be built up in the most holy faith. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would strengthen our faith, strengthen our trust in your word, deepen our hunger for your word, deepen our love for Jesus. Pray that you would deepen and Greatly intensify our sense of need for your Holy Spirit. Give us a zeal for discernment, but help us to not be worried about the church. Give us a burden for the loss. Give us a passion for your kingdom. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.