For the preaching today, let's turn to 1 John 2, 15 through 17. 1 John 2 15 through 17, continuing in the series on our confidence that we have in Christ, confidence that our sins are forgiven. confidence that we've been reconciled to God, confidence that we have received the gift of eternal life. You know, the other theme The converse theme of that is important throughout the book of 1 John 2. As much as God wants his children to have A true confidence and a true assurance. God also does not want unbelievers to have a false confidence. Or a false assurance. And it's in that vein that our passage this morning comes. 1 John 2. 15. Now, uh 2. 15 through 17. I'm simply calling this message a fork in the road. Alright, because we all come to this spiritual fork in the road in our lives, at least we should. Over here is worldly living. You could go this way at that fork in the road, live for the world. Live for the things in the world, or you can come on this other road, this other path at this fork in the road, and live for God, and live for Christ, and live by faith, and look live for eternity, not for things. And live with the well-being of our soul in mind, not the approval of the world in mind. So, friends, we all come to this spiritual fork in the road. To act like it's not there will not help us. A fork in the road, will we live for God or will we live for something else? Let's read this short passage in 1 John 2, 15 through 17. Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world The desires of the flesh and the desires of the eyes And the pride of life is not from the Father, but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. There is a spiritual fork in the road. To one side, the way of worldly living, to the other side, the way of life in Christ, which is by faith. It's the way of eternal life. Let's pray together. Father, again, once again we come to you. We express our desperate need for you to work in our hearts, for you to work in our minds, for you to work in our lives. We pray that you would bless the preaching of your word. We pray that you would bless the hearing of your word And we pray, Father, that you would bear spiritual fruit inside of us by the power of your word. We publicly Freely confess that we need your help. And we ask for your help by your love and faithfulness. In the name of Jesus, we lift this prayer. Amen. This passage starts with a command. It starts with an exhortation. From God that He drops like a bomb on the American dream. That's all about the here and now It's all about the stuff we can accumulate. It's all about the bottom line. That's all about the approval of others. And appearances, and how the world measures us and how successful we've been or not been. And here comes God on this American dream, and he destroys it with this. Do not love the world or the things in the world. Now do you see how this is a bombshell? We we Have grown up in and we exist in this sea of a culture that says the exact opposite. That says your number one priority in life would be to love the world and love the things in the world, and whatever you do, try and get the world to love you back with its own value system and measures of success. God says, don't Do not love the world or the things in the world. Now, if we're going to understand this command, we have to understand at the very least two things. What does he mean by the world? And what does he mean by love? What does he mean by the world? And what does he mean by love when he says, do not love the world or the things in the world? First of all, the world. He doesn't mean the planet. And he doesn't mean people in general. He means that part of humanity that's still enslaved to sin. It's a spiritual kingdom that he's talking about. It's the kingdom of Satan. It's the kingdom of darkness. It's that mass of humanity that each and every one of us used to belong to before God saved us. Amen. This mass of humanity that's still under the ruling power of sin, the world, and its system of values That contradict the values of Scripture. And it's collections of treasures that are not really treasures, they're just temporarily treasures. And it's layer upon layer upon layer of lies about God and who He is And what he requires. Lies about us, about mankind, about who we are, what we're like, and what we need. And lies about the meaning of existence, the meaning of human existence, the world, this spiritual kingdom of darkness 1 John 5. 19, if you flip just a few pages over, it's either two pages or three pages in your scripture. 1 John 5, 19 brings this out. And it's important because if you were to study this, you'll find that the word world is used in different ways. Oh, that's true for many kinds of words, many words. In different contexts, they're used in different ways. Here World is that part of humanity still enslaved to the power of sin, under the curse of sin and death. 1 John 5. 19 We know that we are from God, and the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. You see it? The kingdom of Satan The whole world lies in the power of the evil one. Now that's not an unqualified statement. If you're in Christ, do you lie in the power of the evil one? No. The whole world lies in the power of the evil one. It's a qualified statement. It's a specific spiritual kingdom There's two spiritual kingdoms at work and active on planet Earth. The kingdom of God or the kingdom of Christ. And the kingdom of Satan manifests in rebellion, manifest in deceptions, manifest in unbelief. 1 John 5. 19, the whole world lies in the power of the evil one. That means anyone who's not in Christ is still under the enslaving power of sin. I hate to keep doing these plugs all the time because it disrupts the flow of the sermon. But again, a burden for the lost, a burden for the lost. We must cultivate a burden for the lost. Because we don't want this for people. We don't want it for our children. We don't want it for our friends. We don't want it for our family. We don't want it for our neighbors. To be enslaved to the lies and to the power of the evil one. 2 Corinthians 4, 4a, which just means the first part of verse 4. 2 Corinthians 4, 4a. In this case, The God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelievers. The God of this world Has blinded the minds of unbelievers. So the mind is in a unique way in the unbeliever enslaved to the power of sin. What way is that? It's blinded. It doesn't see the goodness of God the way it should. It doesn't see the grace of God. It doesn't rejoice in the mercy of God the way that it should the God of this world. Again, that's a qualified statement. What does the who does the Bible teach says Who does the Bible teach that has all authority in heaven and on earth? Christ, who's been seated far above all spiritual rule. Present, future, Christ, Ephesians 1, the last paragraph. Who is the sovereign Lord over all things? All nations, all leaders, boundaries of nations? Who's the sovereign Lord over all things? Christ, God through Christ, not Satan. Satan does not have sovereign authority over the universe, over the world. This is a qualified statement. He's ruler of the kingdom of darkness, which is one spiritual kingdom in the world. One more under this point. Ephesians two, verses one and two Paul is writing to Christians and he tells them about their past. And he says, You were dead in trespasses and sins, in which you once walked. Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. That's another way of referring to Satan. You are following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air. The spirit that is now at work In the sons of disobedience. In other words, that spirit is still at work. It's no longer at work in you because you've been redeemed by the blood of Christ. You've been born again by the Holy Spirit. But that spirit Of unbelief that was at once ruling in us is still ruling in all the world, that part of humanity still enslaved. to the power of sin. And that's what the Bible teaches us about mankind naturally speaking. That we're enslaved to the power of sin. Of course, the message of society is the opposite. This world around us just says, No, you're not. The pride within us says, No, you're not. That's not a problem. So here comes the Word of God telling us the truth about ourselves. And don't you love friends and family who have the courage and the love to tell you the truth? And not just to come at you with flattery and lies, which is really they're showing a c concern more for Their reputation and how they're perceived rather than your well-being. And God tells us the truth. The world, that part of humanity still enslaved to the power of sin. John writes, Do not love it. Don't love it. And don't love the things in it. The world is a value system. The world is a value system marked by rejecting God and reveling in sin. In our culture, do we revel in sin? We reject God and revel in sin. This is the value system of the world. It's the culture 's group effort To live self-governed, self -seeking, self-serving, and self Exalting lives. That's the world. The world system of unbelief. John says, don't do it. Don't Live like you're a part of that world system. I've just given away the definition of what love means. Don't love it, and don't love the things in it. That's the world. Now he says, do not love. Don't live for a kingdom that you do not belong to. Your citizenship is in fill in the blank for me. Heaven, where Christ is. Your life is hidden with God in Christ Don't live for a kingdom that you do not belong to. You can contrast this command that John gives us here where he says, Don't love the world or the things in the world. You can contrast that with God's greatest commandment, which is to love him. Love the Lord your God with all of your heart, all of your strengths, all of your soul, all of your might. Love God most. Live for Him Live for God as God ought to be lived for. Don't live for the world and the things in the world. Seek God as your hope and joy. Not the things in the world as our hope and joy, which is our we know that's our natural tendency. Things and stuff and appearances and people's opinions. Seek God as our hope and joy. Stake your future on God, friend, brother, sister. Stake your destiny, stake your future on God, not on things. Things will not last forever. Even if they could, they still couldn't help us. This is the insanity, the foolishness of materialism. Even if you as an individual could acquire all the things that you could ever dream of and all the wealth you could ever dream of and even if you could have all of that treasure and all of those things and all that wealth for eternity it still couldn't fulfill your soul. It's not the amount of stuff that we have, and it's not the length of time that we get to keep that stuff. The problem is the stuff. Created things cannot help us. Only the creator can help us. He is our joy, he is our hope, and we stake our future on the God of eternity, our lives and existence. will continue once these bodies die. Are you with me, Church? Are you with me? We live for eternity. So if we live for eternity, we cannot simultaneously Live for the here and now. We cannot love the world or the things in the world, in the way that he's talking about it, here. Adore God, treasure God, pour your affections, church. Pour your affections and pour all of your energies into knowing God and being transformed by his Spirit. That's the meaning of life. That's the purpose of life. To know God and to be conformed to the likeness of Christ by the power of God. As a manifestation of his glory and grace. What is it that you attach yourself to? In order to find and experience a sense of identity and security. What is it? I'll ask the question again. What is it that you use? Don't think theory. Don't think philosophy. Don't think other people. Burrow into your heart and receive the question. What is it that you attach yourself to to find a sense of identity and security in life? That's what you love. In the way that he's using the word here, love, that's what you love. That's what you've given yourself over to Do not love the world or the things in the world. stored up for us with with the hope that He's given us. Why would we go back and live for the kingdom of darkness that we're so thankful that God saved us out of? And that's what salvation is. Listen to this. Colossians 1, 13 and 14. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. And he's transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son. You see that there? Two kingdoms, two spiritual kingdoms. He's delivered us, which means rescued. He's rescued us from the domain of darkness, transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Praise God that he sent Jesus. Praise God that Jesus was obedient. Praise God that he was obedient. Even up to death on a cross, and praise God for the supernatural achievement of Christ at the cross, where he bore our sins in his body. On the cross so that we could be forgiven. Jesus bore your sins as he hung on the cross and suffered. Jesus Bore which your guilt, which means your guilt and my guilt was credited to his account on the cross as he suffered As he experienced the real excruciating pain of crucifixion on a Roman cross, he was bearing your sin, he was bearing your guilt. Why? So that you could know God. So that you can have a relationship with God that will last forever. Now, why? Why would we go back and live for things as if they're better than God? Better than the one that created them? God created the universe. Let's just look at one itty-bitty. Itty bitty. There's a theological word for you, brother. Itty-bitty. Infinitesimal. There you go. Ittty bitty piece of the universe, the sun. The sun Just a dot, just a speck in this grand universe that God has created. Now think about the power of the sun. We can't even look at it as far away as we are. You can't even look at the sun without being damaged. The power of the sun. And it's not even the biggest star or the brightest star And we're talking about the being that created the sun and all the stars and all the universe and humanity And we live for collectibles. And we and we live worried about what the neighbors are going to think about us and what the people at school are going to think about us. And whether the insane, wicked culture around us approves of what we believe What insanity is this? With all that God is and all that God has given us for now and eternity, that we would love the world or the things in the world? Let it not be so. When people see Christians and how we live and what we value and what we seek, they should see something different. In the words of Scripture, we should shine like lights in the world. We have a different value system Why? Because he's delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. I hope that you remember more than what I'm about to say this morning. But if you only remember one thing this morning, please remember this. That God forgives sins. And the way that God forgives sins is by sending Jesus to die on a cross for sins. And the way that you can receive that forgiveness of sins Is by trusting in Christ as your Savior. Remember that God forgives sins. He forgives sinners. Think of think of an eraser, just erasing all of the record of all of your sins. This is the gospel. This is central to being transferred from that domain of darkness. Into the kingdom of Christ, God's beloved Son. Share one more verse on this, then we'll move to the next section. That sound good? Alright. Lots of nods. I like that. You're tuned in. Very good. 95 % of the time you all pass the test of attentiveness. You know, there's a great weight actually I think in scripture there's more weight put on uh the importance of hearing the word more than preaching the word. And that's that's for all of us. All of us. It's our duty and our joy to hear the word of God. And church, you do a great job of that. Matthew 6, 33 and 34. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. And all these things will be added to you simply means God will take care of what you need. He'll take care of your daily needs according to his wisdom Not according to our selfish desires and what we think we need. But God will take care of us. Jesus says, seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. Which would be the opposite which would be the opposite of seeking first the kingdom of Satan and his wickedness, which is the default position of humanity. While we're in Matthew, let me do Matthew 7, 13, and 14, since we're on this idea of a fork in the road. With the kingdom of Satan to the left and the kingdom of God and his grace to the right. Jesus says in Matthew 7:13, Enter by the narrow gates, for the gate is wide And the way is easy. That leads to destruction. And those who enter by it are many. The gate is narrow, and the way is hard. It leads to life. And those who find it are few. It's fraught with temptations and trials and difficulties and discouragements and spiritual warfare in battle. That's what it means that the way is hard. It doesn't mean it's hard to earn your way to God's favor. No, no, that's not what the road is. The road is of being saved by grace, not by works. But as we walk in the grace of God and we exist in a world that hates God and doesn't want us to live for Him, it becomes difficult, sometimes difficult beyond words. But there is a fork in the road. The one side there's a A narrow gate and a hard way is the way to life. On the other side is a wide gate and an easy way. It's the side that leads to destruction. Back in First John two verse fifteen The bombshell command. Do not love the world or the things in the world. And now all we have to do is talk a little bit about the why. About the what and about the how. Why is this such a uh such an important thing for him to say and for us to hear? That's the why What what does this look like? What does loving the world and the things of the world look like? What are what are the symptoms? In other words, why, what, and then how? How do we how do we escape this? How do you escape this if you're caught up in it? Worldly living. Is it too late? You 're already on this one path. Is it too late to come onto the other path? Previewing it, it's never too late. So you draw your last breath. It's not too late to get on the road of grace. You do it today. Something that has to happen in the heart Putting your faith in Christ. Alright, first of all, why? Why is this a critically important message to us? Look at the second part of verse 15. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. Now that should have sirens Red alert going off in our minds. Because if if I do not have the love of the Father in me, I am not a child of God. I am not saved. If I do not have the love of God in me, the love of the Father in me, I'm not saved. This is everything. This is a warning. This is so important because just like God wants believers to have a true assurance, he does not want unbelievers to have a false assurance. It's like a good doctor. A good doctor, if you're very, very sick, he wants you to know that you're sick. A bad doctor doesn't really care. A good doctor, if you're healthy, is really happy to tell you how healthy you are and to encourage you. A bad doctor doesn't care. An object cannot be a ball. And a sphere or uh and a cube. Cannot be a ball and a cube at the same time. Cannot coexist. It can be one or the other. It can be a ball or it can be a cube. But it cannot be both. Let's take a ball. A ball cannot be red and cannot be blue at the same time. It could either be red, it could either be blue. Can't be both. Now you're probably thinking, well it could be half red and half blue. That's not what we're talking about. Cannot be all red and it cannot be all blue. Cannot be not talking about purple, okay? It cannot be all red and all blue at the same time. Those cannot coexist. Let's take a red ball. A red ball cannot be rock solid and squishy at the same time. It cannot coexist. And this warning is talking about two things that cannot coexist. Things that cannot coexist in a person. A person cannot live for God and for the world. A person cannot love the world and the things of the world and have the love of the Father in them. This is why this is so important. The love of the Father. First of all, it's a generous love. Four verses from the book of First John To give us a little bit of a window into the love of the Father. Chapter 2, 25, later in this same chapter The love of the Father is a generous love. Here's 225. And this is the promise that He made to us Eternal life. And you see the last word in verse 24 is Father, the promise he made to us It's eternal life. It's the greatest gift. It's the most generous thing God could have done. His love is a generous love. Now look at chapter 3, verse 1. His love is an adopting love. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called children of God. And so we are. It's a generous love. It's given us the gift of eternal life. It's nowhere else we can get that gift. It's an adopting love. God has made us former rebels against him. He's made us his beloved children. Third, it's a saving love or a redeeming love. Chapter 4, verses 9 and 10. Flip the page. Chapter 4, verses 9 and 10. Who wants to know what love is? Well, here we go. Verse 9. In this the love of God was made manifest among us. That God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. And this is love, not that we have loved God, but that he loved us. And send his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Propitiation is the blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. So propitiation for our sins means our sins have been forgiven. That's what that means. And that's been accomplished by the death of Christ. The love of the Father is a generous love. The love of the Father is an adopting love. He makes us his children. The love of the Father is a saving love. It's a redeeming love. And finally. Chapter four verse thirteen just a little bit a little bit lower down It's a renewing love. God's love, the love of the Father within us is a renewing love, which means we cannot receive the love of the Father and still be the same people we always were. Cannot happen. Literally cannot happen. This is not hyperbole. We cannot receive the love of the Father within us. We cannot have the love of the Father within us and still be enslaved. to sin. Still be the same people we used to be. His love is a renewing love. First John four Verse 13. By this we know that we abide in him, and he in us, because he has given us of his Spirit. He's given us of his spirit. He's given us of his holy spirit. So that we now love things that God loves. And we now hate things that God hates, and we now, by the work of the Spirit within us, have a new joy, and we have a new system of ethics, and we have a new belief system. The Holy Spirit of God has renewed us. This is the love of the Father. We don't have the authority to define what God's love does or doesn't do to people that He saves. The Bible tells us that His saving grace, that his saving love transforms sinners by the work of the Spirit. Therefore Back in 1 John chapter 2. Therefore, John says, if anyone loves the world The love of the Father is not in him. So if A person's life, if your life is a given over to worldly living, loving the world and the things of the world, what you need is to come to Jesus and be saved. Not to do good works and try and earn your way over onto this other path, this other road, but to admit That you are enslaved to the power of sin. Admit that you've rebelled against God. Humble yourself. You see, there's no salvation unless you come through Humility. You must come through this door of humility and humble yourself before God. Lord, I am a sinner. I am corrupt. Inwardly, outwardly, verbally, in actions, I'm guilty before you. I deserve your wrath, and I'm dropping everything and believing in Christ. There's no salvation apart from humility that you could have it today. Again, it is something That happens inside of your heart, where you come to grips with your slavery to sin and lay it all before Christ. And trust fully in the blood of Christ. And just like that, you can have the same confidence that we've been talking about week after week after week in Christ. confidence that your sins are forgiven. In Christ, confident that you've been reconciled to God. In Christ, confident that you have received the gift. Of eternal life. The love of the Father. Is the love of the Father in you? So why is this such a critically important thing for John to say? What's more important than that? What's more important than being reconciled to God? What's more important than coming to dwell with God forever after we die? This is everything. But not only the why, also the what. What are the symptoms? What does this look like of worldly living? Of loving the world and loving the things in the world. What does it look like? Verse 16 tells us All that is in the world. So now he defines what he meant when he said things in the world. He says, don't love the world of the things in the world. Now he says all that is in the world. No, he tells us. Three things. The desires of the flesh. Desires of the eyes and the pride of life. It's not from the Father, but it's from the world. So if those things are ruling within our hearts, it's not from the Father, where's it from? It's from the world. The lust of the flesh, or the passions of the flesh, is the first one he says. Not exclusively, but primarily and representatively, sexual immoralities of all kinds. And violence and hostility of all kinds. The lust of the flesh, the natural, fallen inclination of natural man. That's what that is. Passions of the flesh. The world devotes itself to different desires than children of God. The world devotes itself to a different system of ethics. And morality. You've seen the news, you know it's true. Then the children of God. Give you some homework here. Titus 2, 11 through 14 maps that out in some detail. The lust of the flesh. And then he says the lust of the eyes. Not exclusively, but primarily, and this could be summarized in greed. And selfishness, and just generally speaking, materialism. Things that we see, we've got to have it. Things that we see other people have, we're a little bit upset that we don't. Selfishness. It's mine. I love when my children say stuff like this. That's my seat. Why are you sitting here? That's my seat. I'm thinking that's not your seat. You didn't pay for that seat. And it's not my seat either. It's a wooden chair. I didn't make wood. That's my room. Get out of my room. It's not your room. You're given the blessing and the privilege of being able to sleep in that area. It's not yours We all do it. The illustrations are funny with the children, but you drive like this You drive like this. We think we're entitled you think you're entitled to like the certain diameter around your vehicle where if you're approaching an intersection or about to come out to the road, everybody else just needs to be on notice that you're about to come out. How come people in North Harford County don't use blankers? I've never ever driven in a place like this. Now I'm from South Jersey. We drive like maniacs. I'm not ashamed to say it. But friends, we use our blankers. We all have this inborn sense of entitlement. The lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes. It 's greed, this selfishness, this materialism. You know, just as children of God have a different set of desires and a different set of ethics, we also have a different perspective on material things. We have a different perspective on stuff, and we have a different perspective on riches and money, so that we're not slaves to the lust of the eyes. Just like we're not slaves to the lust of the flesh. And then he says the pride of life or the pride of living. This natural-born super high view of ourselves. And it goes it goes uh it's hand goes hand in hand with our natural born low view of God. Here we are way up here. Here God is way down here. And if we're ever going to live for him, well he's got to prove himself to me. He's got to prove that his ways are good ways. And if he doesn't measure up I'll just go my own way. Olife that naturally accompanies us, this high view of ourselves, and just like brothers and sisters, just like children of God have a different set of desires And we have a different set of ethics than the world, and we also have a different perspective on material things and riches than the world. We also have a different opinion about ourselves. Because by his grace and by his power, God has humbled us and God has shown us the truth about ourselves. We know we are weak. We know we are sinners. We know we are corrupt. We know that our ways are not the right ways. We know that our opinions aren't the absolute truth of everything. We know that our feelings Don't get to define the nature and meaning of human existence. We have a different opinion about ourselves, that we're sinners in need of grace. Jesus said, Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, and whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Do not love the world or the things in the world. Why is that so important? Because if you love the world The love of the Father is not in you. What does it look like? What are the symptoms? And I woke up with some symptoms this morning, sore throat, runny nose. So I generally know what that is. It could be a little bit of a cold, or it could just be allergies from mulling the grass. If I had different symptoms, if my stomach was hurting and churning and my face was turning green, it would be symptoms of something else. Well, here's the symptoms for loving the world or the things of the world. Lust of the flesh, lust of the eyes, the pride of life. That's the what? What does it look like? Now how? How do you escape if you're caught up in it? How does a man who's drowning escape? Well, he's got to cry out for help and just hope that someone hears him and has the ability to help him. But how do we escape if we're caught up in worldly living? Verse 17. The world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. Well now here's w it's more than just how do we escape, it's uh the primary reason why you should escape. Because all this is It's going to be gone one day. The moment of our death will be separated from all these worldly things. That we think are gaining us something. But he gives us the answer as to what do we do? What do we do? Does the will of God. That's the answer. You can underline that. Whoever does the will of God That's turning from our sin, putting our faith in Jesus Christ. That's number one. That's got to be first Never you will never understand the message of Christianity. You'll never understand the message that comes from this church, from our church, until you're able to stop thinking in terms of outward religion. We're talking about the salvation of the soul. The salvation of the soul. So turn from sin, put your faith in Christ and be saved forever. And no one and nothing can take that away from you. And then walk as the child of God under grace. You know, join join this whole thing. Get in on this whole thing like the rest of us. Growing in the Word of God. Growing in love. Growing in faith. Growing in serving in the church. Growing, walking with the Lord, growing in prayer. How do you escape? How do you escape? There's one step. Humble yourself and believe in Christ. In other words, do the will of God. That's the will of God. God has a plan. He has a way. He's provided a way. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the way that you've provided not only a way to know you. But also a way to live differently on earth in this massive rebellion. And Father, we confess. We're not better than any other person that's ever existed. It's by your grace That we've been saved. It's by your power that we've been able to grow in our faith. It's by your word and by your spirit and for your name and for your glory. So, Father, we thank you For those who were able to see this fork in the road in the eyes of their heart this morning, those who've not come on to the road of grace, Yet, I pray that they would. And I'm not praying that they would do it on their own strength, but I'm praying that you would do this work. Father, reach forth in power and change the heart. And save the lost for your name and for your glory. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.