The words we'll examine this morning come out of Revelation chapter 3, verses 14 through 20. Revelation 3, 14 through 23. It's the conclusion of my mini-series through the seven letters to the seven churches in Revelation. We've started all the way back in chapter 2, and we've traced through as God has given John a vision to write these letters to these churches. And each letter that he writes is to a specific church and has a specific purpose and meaning to the church. And And the church here at the end of chapter 3, Laodicea, may be the church that has the most specific information regarding the status of the church. Some of the letters had encouragement to the church. You're doing well, you're doing really well in these areas, but you need to improve on this section of your living and operating as a church. There's a church within these letters that is complimented. You are doing well. Keep fighting, keep going. I know that the attacks of the enemy are all around you, but God will sustain you. And here to this church, there's no compliments. There's no good job here, but you need to improve. What's happening in this letter is strictly a rebuke. A challenge to the church, calling out the church, calling them to examine their own hearts, to recognize who they are, and understanding who Christ is. And their relationship to him. I titled this sermon, Are You Near Christ? I guess that's not much of a title, it's more of a question. Are you near Christ? We have to ask ourselves this as we study this letter, and this is what John's doing. This is the vision that God gave to John to ask the church and Laodicea, are you near Christ? Now, for many of us in this church, the answer was, the quick answer was yes. Of course we're near Christ. We're Christians. We gather together for worship. We do things in honor of God. We study the scriptures. But John continues to ask the question, are you near Christ? He's we're gonna see this imagery he uses that the Lord gave him in this letter is to draw the attention that we're not talking about the physical nearness to Christ. But what about your heart? What is the posture of your heart towards the Lord? We see this in marriage counseling quite often Someone will come into our office and say, we're having I'm having this struggle with my spouse. He or she just doesn't feel present. Feels cold. They just seem to be somewhere else. Now , the wisdom and counseling there isn't for me to go, well, where are they? Where are they sleeping at? Where's their house at? Why aren't they coming home? Because that's not the issue being presented. The spouse is often in the home, sleeping in the same bed, eating at the same table, but there's a feeling of uh disconnectedness, right? There's a feeling that while the person is physically present, they're not there That's what the Lord is saying to this church. You may physically be there. You may be showing up on Sundays to church. You may be doing things within the community that sound good, but you are not. Spiritually present. You are not near the Lord. So, church, let us ask ourselves: Are you near Christ? Are you near him? I'm not talking about sitting in the pews right now. I'm not talking about your your Bible study practices. Talking about is your heart near the Lord? Is your focus on him? Are your desires after him? Or are you just living religion? Just living in religion. You're just functioning. You know that going to church is good. You know that paying uh into the offering plate is good. You know that being kind to your neighbor is good. And you're doing religion. You look good, but your heart is not there. You're far from the Lord if this is the case. You're far from the Lord, and we're going to see some. Some gruesome language and what the Lord says he will do or is doing to those that are not near him. So join me as we read Revelation chapter three, starting in verse 14. And to the angel of the church in Laodicea, write the words of the Amen, the faithful and the true witness, the beginning of God's creation. I know your works. You are neither cold nor hot. With that you were either cold or hot. So, because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. For you say I am rich. I have prospered, and I need nothing, not realizing that you are wretched, pitiable, pitiful, poor, blind, and naked, I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire. so that you may be rich in w in white garments, so that you may clothe yourself, and the shame of your nakedness may not be seen. It's have to anoint your eyes so that you may see. Those whom I love, I reprove and discipline. So be jealous and repent. Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come in to him and eat with him. And he with me. The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my father on his throne. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. This letter opens up the very standard way that all seven letters to the churches have in Revelation. It opens up with the identity of the one sending the letter. And this letter uses a phrase that's not found And the imagery that's found in Revelation 1. All the other letters use the image that John had and who Christ was as he looked into the heavens. They use that imagery to describe who Jesus is. But this one starts a little bit farther back in Revelation 1 and uses some language that is unique to only this part of all of Scripture. And when we ask, are we near to Christ, are you near to Christ, we need to know and understand who Christ is. That's why the letter starts this way. It says, the words of the Amen. The words of the Amen. This is the unique language. This is the only place that this language and title of the Amen is used throughout Scripture. And we hear this word all the time, we finish most, if not all, of our prayers with Amen. Sometimes Two of our loudest ameners are not here this morning. Sometimes if we're preaching and uh you'll hear an amen out of the the back, right? It comes out of nowhere. You're like, well, why do we do that? What does this title mean? Well simply put, the Amen, or Amen in itself is so it be. You know, after a prayer, we make a prayer, we we pray out to God, and then we say Amen, just stating, let it be, so it be. This is what we are calling for. Or another phrase is, it is true. It is true. This is what we've prayed. It is true that this is what we want, and this is often why we have the response of Amen. Within preaching, when someone is preaching and you agree with what they say and uh the Lord stirs up in you to to affirm it and to agree with it out loud, this is why we cry out with Amen Right? Amen? Thank you, Dave. You got it. I knew you would understand what I want. Okay, anytime I want it. But it's true. So now take this understanding of that word, and now we're applying the title to the Lord. To Christ. He is the so it be. It is true. He is the it is true. Now why are we giving this title? Where does truth come from? From the Lord, yeah. It's from God. It's not from the world. You know, we have we have universities and colleges and schools and and philosophers and they're all trying to figure out truth and and make this truth and and define what is true. Well the only way they're doing that is because they've received wisdom from the Lord. Ultimate truth, all of truth, comes from God. And here, the identity of the Amen, that it is true, is placed on the Son. Why is this? It's because Jesus, in his incarnation, he comes to the earth, lives a perfect life, and his living, in his functioning. We are seeing and understanding in person what truth is. What a relationship with God is. Jesus is the demonstration, the glimpse, the revelation of the truth. We don't need to search the world and ask all the philosophers We need to understand what is true. Tell me, philosophers, what is true? How do we know what is true as we go to the source of truth? We go to the one that is identified as the truth. It's important for this church to hear this title of the Lord. Because what they're about to hear is harsh words. They need to be reminded that this is the truth. The one speaking to you is the truth. But he continues on with the titles. So we have the Amen, and then it goes to the faithful and true witness. The faithful and true witness. So again, this imagery, this title is hung on to Jesus. He is the faithful and true witness to the world. In his incarnation to the world, the world sees God. Jesus reveals God to the world. And he is fulfilling what Israel failed to do. Sometimes we miss this, that part of the purpose of Israel, that God instructed Israel, this is your purpose, is to reveal God to the nations. They are to live and function and operate as a nation in such a way that the pagan Gentile nations see Yahweh. And they failed in this task. They rebelled against God. They broke the law of God. They lived and did how they wanted to and followed after their own passions. And here, Christ is the fulfillment of the Completing what Israel was to complete. You can write this down, Isaiah 42, verses 6 through 7, and Isaiah 49, verse 6 tells Israel what their purpose is. That you are to live in such a way, walking in the statutes of the Lord, so that the nations see God. You are to be a witness to the nations. And in their failure of this, we see: here comes Jesus, the fulfillment of the prophecy, the fulfillment of the law, and he is the faithful and true witness to the world. Now, why is this important? Is this title from the true and faithful witness is now talking to the church and about to tell them that they are failing in how they're living. They're failing as being the witness to the world. They're failing to proclaim the glory of God to the world. And he's drawing their attention back that if you drink from the fountain, If you drink from Christ, if you're near Christ, you will then be part of that witness to the world. Then the last title we have in Revelation 3:14. of who Christ is, so that he's the beginning of God's creation. There's two aspects to this beginning of the creation. We have the historical one that goes all the way back to the beginning of creation, all the way back to Genesis 1. We know that Christ The triune God, Christ being the second person of the Trinity, is present and active in the creation of all things. Right? Christ is the creator. See that throughout Scripture that He is the creator, He's active in the creation, and that all of creation is started from Him. So you and I Christ created us. The trees, the earth, the sky, the heavens, the seas, the fish. Christ created it. But we also have a redemption, a historical redemption aspect that Christ is the beginning of creation, God's creation, the new creation, the new heavens, and the new earth. This is identified in Christ. Now, where is this placed in history or within Scripture? When Christ died on the cross, bearing our sins, taking the penalty of death that we deserve to pay. What happens? He's then buried into the tomb. Three days later, he resurrects from the dead, defeating sin and death. What is he? He is the first fruit of many. His resurrection is a glimpse, so prophecy, it's the fulfillment of what will happen for us. We too are resurrected, saints. Spiritually, we are resurrected. When you come to faith in Christ, you are resurrected. You are made new. You are a new creation. How are you a new creation? Is it by your own works? No, it's not by your own accomplishment. It's not by how hard you prayed. It's not by the aisle you walked down, or it's not by your baptism. You are a new creation by the work of Christ. He created you new. He made you alive. But not only that, we see that this new creation spreads to all of creation. That Christ is redeeming all of creation. The fallen nature that happened in Genesis 3 that we've been studying for the last few weeks. The Pastor Matt's been working through the fall of man, but we also have seen glimpses, or maybe not just glimpses. Shouts of God's mercy even within the fall of man. That God is redeeming all of creation. And we see at the end of the book of Revelation the fulfillment of that totality The totality of the redemption. That Christ is the beginning of that redemption. That sin and death will be destroyed. Satan and Christ's enemies will be cast into the lake of fire, and we will dwell with Christ, our Lord, forever, without pain and suffering. No sickness, no death. Oh, what a glorious truth this is: that our Lord Jesus Christ is the beginning of that creation. We're living in his newness. We're living in his likeness. Now, the reason that these titles are given is to prick the hearts of the church in Laodicea and to stir them up to recognize that they're not living like new creations. They're not drinking from the fountain of Christ. They're not drawing near to Christ, but that they have come to Christ, at least by title. They've professed faith in some form, said, yes, we're Christians, yes, we're part of the church in Laodicea, but they're living as though Christ has no meaning in their lives. They're living as though Christ isn't the beginning of their new creation, that they can find their identity and their life in something else. That's why we must be rooted in who this Christ is that we are to draw near. And now, as we get into verse 15, we'll see the critique to this church. And let us use this critique as signs of being far from Christ. If you're sitting in here and you're trying to answer this question, are you near Christ? Let's use the language in the book of Revelation here to try to help us answer this question. So are we near Christ? Let's look as how John presents this to them. Verse 15. He says, I know your works. This is the Lord speaking to the church. I know your works. You are neither cold nor hot With that, you were either cold or hot, or I wish you were either cold or hot. Verse 16: So because you are lukewarm and neither hot nor cold, I will spit you out of my mouth. Some harsh language there. Just the uh there's another translation that I think is maybe a little better to show the emphasis of what the Lord does is that he will vomit you out of his mouth. A little more gruesome. My wife doesn't like that word, so I'll stick with spit out. But hear the seriousness there It's not just this idea of like, oh, you're kind of not that bad or not that good, and that's a problem. No, there's a serious issue with the church. But we must understand this historical church in its context to understand this verse 15. I've heard many times pastors and preachers proclaiming that this passage is saying you must either be really passionate for God, you must be on fire for God, or he wishes you were completely cold and dead from God. had no passion for him. And at face value how we often use hot and cold, that maybe makes sense. You know, someone that's hot is really passionate, fired up, has a lot of zeal and energy, and those that are cold are are not so passionate. Aren't aren't really connected. But if we start to think about that, that doesn't quite make sense for how the Lord talks. Is the Lord really saying he wishes you were either on fire for him and passionate for him, or he wishes that you were cold and dead to him? But because you're neither of those, that's when he's going to spit you out. What do we see is that there's not this trinary, but we have a binary. You're either in Christ or you're out of Christ. Those out of Christ receive the penalty. So we can't go with the hot or cold, it's just uh you're fired up and passionate for the Lord or you're not passionate. But we must understand what's happening in this verse in this town. Laodicea sits in a region that didn't have its own system of streams. and flow of water. So what they would do is they would pipe in their water with aqueducts from two different regions. These two regions, one was about five miles away, and the other region was about seven miles away. And from one city, they would take this cold, cold, fret refreshing water, and they would pipe it in to the city. And then from the other city, they would take the they had these hot springs. These hot springs were used for medical purposes. It would be used to heal and strengthen someone that was sick or had ailments And so they would take that water from that town, that hot , that hot water, and they would pipe it in through the aqueducts. Now what happens if cold or hot water is piped in from five miles away? What happens when the cold water gets to the city? It's lost its coldness. What happens when that hot water arrives to the city over five, seven miles away? Loses its hotness. We understand this context that the Laodiceans would have heard, and they heard this letter, that would have made a lot of sense to them. They don't drink of the cool, refreshing water. That alivens them and strengthens them. They don't drink of the hot spring water that is used for medicine and it heals them and gives them life. They drink this lukewarm whatever that's neither refreshing nor healing. And here the Lord is pointing to this church and saying, hey church! You're neither refreshing nor healing to the world. The society around you is not being refreshed by the truth of the Word of God They're not receiving a cold drink of water that brings life into them. No, you're lukewarm. Oh, church? You're not bringing this healing, this healing liquid that is filled with this hot mineral water that just brings life and can heal the ailments of the sick. No, you're lukewarm. You have no value. You're not bringing life, refreshment, and healing to the world around you. Because we understand this context, this historical context, this verse starts to make more sense. We start to understand understands that the issue is not that they're either not passionate or too passionate for the Lord and they're kind of just in the middle, but the issue is that they're too far away from the source of the water. They're not near the Lord. They're too far from the refreshingness of the Lord, and they're too far from the healingness of the Lord. They've drifted away from the Lord. They've tasted the refreshing water. They've tasted the healing water. And now they've drifted away. So, what does the Lord say in verse 16? So, because you are lukewarm and neither refreshing nor healing, I will spit you out of my mouth. I will vomit you out of my mouth. So think about that context, that hot uh water that's coming from the other city, uh it's it's heated up by natural springs, and those natural springs also have a lot of minerals in it and that's what is part of the healing aspect of that water. But as it flows into Laodicea, it's lost its temperature and now it's just real mineral water. It's lukewarm. If you've ever drank in water that's real uh hard, I don't understand how water is hard, but I know that's a term. Or real calcified, it has a lot of minerals in it, you taste it. When it hits your gut if you're not prepared for it, you Reject it and spit it out. Think about that cold water, you're you're you're you're hiking or running or you've been working in the garden in the yard. In August, and you come inside and you're ready for that cold sip of water that's going to bring you refreshment in life. And what happens? It's lukewarm. You spit it out. It's disgusting. You don't want it. It's not doing the purpose that it's designed for. That's what the Lord is saying to the church. You're not functioning and doing And completing the function and purpose of why you were designed. Church, North Hartford Baptist Church, are we a refreshment to the world around us? Is the gospel we preach, the way we live our lives, refreshing to the world around us? To those that are hurting and in pain, to those that are suffering. To those that are in need, to those that are lost, to those that are seeking for something greater, for those that are looking for an identity, are we a church that brings refreshment to the world around us? Are we a church that brings hope to the downcast? Are we a church that lifts the head of those that are weeping? Are we near the Lord? Do we see this call in our lives? North Hartford Baptist Church. Are we a church that is here for healing the sick and the hurting? Are we here for healing and bringing life to those that are dead in sin? Are we the type of church that preaches the gospel that brings life, vitality to the dead world that wants to live and stay in their death? We have both responsibilities. We can't just pick or choose. We are to do both. We are to be refreshing to the world because we have the law of God, the word of God, the truth of the gospel. The world wants everything else, but we have the true refreshment. And likewise we have the gospel that brings life to the dead, to the sick, and the hurting. We heal by the preaching of the word and the way we live as Christians. So how do we know if we're far from the Lord is if we have strayed away from the call that we have as Christians Are you just functioning? Are you just living as a Christian? Not living like living it out, but I'm saying are you just functioning? You're just doing religion. You come in on Sundays, you check the box, you you worship here, you may even have an emotional event happen while you're sitting in church, and you go home and you're not swearing, you're not stealing, you're living a okay life. But it's just kind of bland. It's lukewarm. It's not refreshing. It's not bringing life to you. It's not healing. It's not ref it's not healing and bringing new life to you It's just there. That's what religion is. Religion is the lukewarm living of Christianity. When we just do religion, we just go with the flow, we do the traditions. But we want refreshment. We want life and healing. We must go to the source. We must go to the source. Now, who is that source? It's Christ Jesus. How are we going to be refreshed? How are we going to be healed? How are we going to take the refreshment and the healing to the world? Because we must be close to the source. Not the five, seven miles away from the fountain, but we want to be drinking right out of that fountain. We want the fresh water that refreshes. We want the fresh water that heals. So we must ask, what has driven us away from the Lord? What reasons are you far from the Lord? We see the the signs of being far from the Lord. And here we're sitting in the church right now. You're sitting on a preaching. You may be going, Okay, I think I'm far from the Lord, but I don't understand how I got here. Well, let's look at what Jesus says to the church in Laodicea. Look at verse 17. For you say, I am rich, I have prospered, and I need nothing. I am rich, I am prospered, I've prospered, and I need nothing. Jump down to verse 19. Those whom I love I reprove and discipline, so be zealous and repent. I believe our issues, or what the reasons are that have drawn us or pushed us away from the Lord, or caused us to be far from the Lord, is we believe we are self-sufficient and we have failed to repent of our sin. We believe that we are self-sufficient and we have failed to repent of our sin. I am rich, I've prospered, and I need nothing. Verse 17, once again, we need a little insight to the historical church that's being uh written to. Laodicea was a very wealthy church, a wealthy city. It sat right on the crossroads. It was used as the one of the trade capitals of the region. Because all the cities were around it, they would come and meet in Laodicea, they would make their trades, and wherever there's trading, there's bankers, and wherever there's bankers, there's wealth going back and forth. And this is why the Lord uses this language to this church. It's because they understand what riches and wealth look like. This isn't a poor region. It's a very wealthy region. They they understand the the riches of the world and the fulfillment of having those riches within this world and the f reality that they need nothing. Another nice little historical fact of Laodicea is that uh back in the day when something devastating happened, uh like an earthquake that would destroy the city If you were within the Roman Empire, Rome would show up with uh money and finances and labor to help you restore your city. And in the early 60 A. D. Laodicea went through a major earthquake that destroyed a lot of the city. And Rome shows up as as the rescuers, right? That's what the government does. They are here to save and rescue. They show up with the wealth. And what does Laodicea go say to them? Go home, we don't need you. Laodicea is famous in this time for being the city that didn't take the wealth from Rome to rebuild their city. They sent them back to Rome and said, we're going to rebuild ourselves, and sure enough, they did. So this church is well aware of what self-sufficient looks like in society. Now, what does Jesus do is he points to this physical, historical way of living and says, this is your spiritual reality as well. You're acting spiritually just like you act within the world and as a city. You think you have all the riches You think you've prospered, you've you've overcome, and you have the wealth you need for the rest of your life, and you think you need nothing. Beloved, what happens when we spiritually live this way? I don't need anything. I don't, I have it all. I'm rich. I got it all figured out. I have all my problems solved. So we start to drift away from the Lord. And I believe this happens to believers. The issue is we come to Christ, we see his goodness, we see how he has redeemed us and brought us new life, and we recognize that we have been saved by faith. By grace in Christ Jesus, grace in him, through our faith in him, we recognize that Christ is the one that saved us and made us alive. And then what do we do? We say, okay, now I'm going to go live on my own Thank you, Jesus, for saving me. But now I got to go figure this out. I'm strong enough. I can do this. I am going to go live and be religious without Jesus. And he's saying, this is the problem you have. This is your identity. This is who you think you are, and this is what has driven you far from the Lord. Beloved, when we start to find ourselves and be self-reliant on ourselves, that's when you start to drift far from the Lord. When you think, okay, I just have all the scriptures memorized, I know all the facts of Sunday school. I go to all the church services, I'm doing all of this, I've accomplished all of this. Beloved, that's when you're starting to drift away from the Lord. Instead, are we going and saying, I have the word of God which He has blessed us with and given us. He's given me the wisdom and the brain to learn these facts and truths. of who Christ is and his goodness. He's blessed me with the finances to have and to use. He's blessed me with the job and the family and the church. We must recognize that is God's blessings. that we have all these things, not because of who we are or what we have done. The issue the reason that we're drifting far from the Lord is because we're self reliant. The second part is that we're unrepentant. We're unrepentant. It's interesting that Jesus doesn't point that out here within their issues, but then he talks to them about being repentant. When we have unrepentant sin in our lives, it drives us far from the Lord. It pushes us way away from the Lord. Why? It's because we don't want to deal with our sin We don't want to deal with it. We don't want to have to get rid of it because we like it. We don't want to kick it out of our lives and fight against it because we we enjoy the earthly pleasures it has brought us The Lord's not near to sin. The Lord isn't partaking in our sin. So then we drift farther and farther away from the Lord. The reasons we're far from the Lord is we're self-reliant and unrepentant. Kurt, can you think of anywhere in this world, in history, in society, of a place that is wealthy, prospered, and needs of nothing? Yeah, right here. We're living in it. We're living in one of the greatest societies throughout all of history. In wealth and prosperity, health. Care for the needy. We have it all right here. So what do we see in the American church? The dying church, the cold, lukewarm church. The church isn't refreshing. It's not healing. Christians aren't refreshing or healing because we've become self-reliant. We live in a society that has bred this into us. So what are we to do? What is Christ's solution to this problem which we find ourselves in today? Well, let us see. Notice that I phrased it Christ's solution. It's his solution. This isn't a five-point checklist. This is what you need to do to better yourself. To solve your problems, you need to do these twelve steps. To solve your problems, you need to do these works. No, the solution. The solution from being far from the source of life and refreshment is to draw near to the source of life. It's Christ. Our solution is Christ. Our solution is at the fountainhead. Our solution is the one that has given us life. Our solution is the one that has brought us new life. Our solution is the one that has made us new, has taken away our sins. Our solution is the one that has brought all of things and made all things new in him. Our solution is Christ Jesus. Verse 18, I counsel you to buy from me gold refined by fire, so that you may be rich. You see, he's starting to take these parallel of the reasons that you're far from the Lord and showing that you don't need the wealth of the earth, you don't need the wealth of the world, but you need the wealth of Christ within you. Come to me, find riches in me. Find clothing in me. Find fulfillment and the taking away of shame and nakedness in me. Find the ointment for your eyes and the healing for you in me It's all in Christ Jesus. We must find fulfillment in Christ Jesus. Our fulfillment must be in Him. Our healing must be in Him. Our life must be in H Now the question is how do we do this? How do we get to him? Well let's look in verse 20. Verse 20 is may maybe one of the most misused and abused verses in all of Revelation. Because what do we do with verse 20 is we put it at the end of our tracks. Right? We go out and evangelize. The Lord is knocking. You're going to answer? The Lord is knocking on the door, open up the door, and we use Revelation 3. 20 as this evangelistic tool. But who is this letter to? The church. The church. This isn't an evangelistic tool. This is a sharp rebuke against the church. You say you're in Christ. You say you're in communion with the Lord. Then why is He standing outside your door? Verse 20: Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door, I will come into him and eat with him, and he with me. So, how do we draw near to the Lord as we seek communion with Him? We seek communion with Him through the study of His Word, through prayer, through seeking after His wisdom in our lives. We seek Him. He is near. He's not physically far away from us. It's our hearts. Our hearts need to be transformed and made new by him. The work of the Holy Spirit within us brings us life and draws us near to him. We must recognize that we should enjoy and rejoice in our new identity. Look in verse 21 and 22. He says, The one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me. on my throne, as I also conquered and sat down with my Father on his throne. He who has an ear let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will grant him to sit with me on my throne. Beloved, if you are in Christ, that's your identity. You're sitting with him on the throne in heaven. And then notice he connects it with him sitting with the Heavenly Father in heaven. The relationship identity that's given here should strengthen us. When you recognize and understand that you are a child of God, that you have been redeemed by His blood, you start to draw close to Him. You start to deal with your sin. Start to confess and repent of it, turning to Him. You start to realize that your self-sufficientness of this world that you think is perfect and strong isn't going to last into eternity. And you start to draw closer to him. And this is the joy of the Christian life. It's the joy of the Christian life. Is that we drink from the fountainhead That brings us refreshment. We drink from the fountainhead that brings us healing. We drink from the fountainhead that has brought us new life and every aspect of our lives. Is drinking right out of that fountain. Not out of religion, not out of doing, but out of being in the presence of our Lord. So we will transition surely to singing and then taking communion. And this is a clear image of what it means to be near the Lord. We're communing with him as we take the elements. You come to this table. And what was it? Did you work and labor over picking the grapes and making the juice? Did you labor over the bread and the sweat of your brow was the way you got this bread? No, it was because it was given to you. So when we come to this table of communion, we draw close to the Lord. We're reminded that it is his grace and his mercy in our lives that we have anything. It's his grace and his mercy in our lives that we are born again. And we want to take this communion and be reminded that we are sitting at the table of our Lord. We're dining with him in his presence. presence, not as enemies, but as children, as ones he loved, ones he died for, and once he is in heaven as our mediator. This is a reminder of our glorious identity. And if we want to draw near to the Lord, we must be reminded regularly of our identity as Christians. You're in here this morning and you say, well, I don't even know the Lord. I don't even, I've never even tasted out of the fountain of life and healing. Please come talk to me, but this is your opportunity to turn to the Lord. There's not an action, there's not a requirement in your heart you believe that Jesus died in your place, a penalty that you deserve to pay. You turn to him in faith, believing that he is the only way to life. For those that are already saints and you're you you've been challenged and say, You know, I feel that I am far from the Lord right now. Don't come up with a program. Don't come up with works and a system to solve your problem. Draw near to the Lord. He's present. He's at the door knocking. He 's not far away from you. Draw near to him. Be reminded of your salvation and be strengthened in that. And church, may we be a church that draws off of the fountain of Christ to proclaim his goodness. to the world around us, trusting and believing that that fountain will water the dead and bring them to life as well. Let us go before our Lord in prayer. Oh holy God, we thank you for your truth. We thank you for your healing and your refreshing water. We thank you that you've brought us life and made us anew. Lord, if any of us have drifted far away from you, we ask you to draw us in. Show us our weaknesses, show us our sins. Reveal our need for you. May we draw close. May this church, North Harford Baptist Church, be an instrument of good and a blessing to the world around us. Use us to refresh the world around us. Use us to bring healing to the world around us as we proclaim the gospel of Christ, as we preach your word, as we live in your kingdom here on earth. Lord, we pray that we see the growth and advancement of your kingdom day by day. We pray all this in the name of Christ. Amen.