The message today is from 3 John verses 9 through 12. That's 3rd John 9 through 12. If you don't know where that is, just go to the go to the end of your Bible, right before the book of Revelation. Just flip backwards a couple pages. You'll a couple pages. You'll come to 3rd John, which fits on one page in most Bibles. 3 John 9 through 12, the topic is evil in the church. Why would we want to even talk about that? Evil in the church. Well, because that's what the passage gets to. And that's what we do here. That's the mainstay here is uh preaching through Scripture, evil in the church, evil behavior that has crept into the church of the living God. And just a good reminder straight from the title, God cares about our behavior, not only at home. Also at school and at work and also in the church, the fellowship of the saints. God cares about our behavior. We need to be a people of the word Therefore, we must be not only hearers of the word, but doers of the word. Does James says in James 1 22, be doers of the word and not hearers only, thus deceived Let's read the passage before we go into a time of prayer and then into the message. Third John 9 through 12. I've written something to the church. But the atrophies, who loves to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority. So if I come, I will bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that, he refuses to welcome the brothers and also stops those who want to and puts them out of the church. Beloved, do not imitate evil, but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God, and whoever does evil has not seen God. Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone, and from the truth itself. We also add our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true. Let's pray. Father, I pray you would open up our hearts to this passage and open up this passage for our minds. I pray that you would have an impact on our will this morning by the power of your word, not only to see the meaning But to see the personal and practical application. Father, let us not imitate evil. But imitate what is good. To seek what is good, to shun what is evil. Father, we pray that you help us before all things show us Christ this morning. We pray through your word, through the preaching of your word. Would you show us the risen Christ who lives and reigns in heaven as a sufficient Savior for sinners? Show us the message and the meaning of his death on the cross, whereby he made atonement for our sins, to forgive us, to wash away our guilt, to separate our sins from us. Father, we pray that you would show us Christ, and in seeing him, we'd be conformed to his likeness. Deepen our love for you through the preaching of your word. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Well, did this guy stand out to you in the passage? Diotrophes? Did it come through what kind of man Diotrophes is? Did it come through what kind of behavior? defines deotrophies in the church. That's why I called the title of this message Evil in the Church because you haven't A specific example of specific evil behavior that's crept into the church. And you saw what John the Apostle says. He says, I'm coming, I'll deal with him. Evil in the church. We are called to kill evil and to cultivate goodness in our hearts. Through faith in Christ. I will repeat it. Yes, Jason, I will repeat the main exhortation for this morning. We are called as children of Almighty God to kill evil. And to cultivate goodness within our hearts. Now you've got to add this last phrase this last phrase. Through faith in Christ. In other words, if you want to do that, it's only going to be by looking to Christ. And by His power and by His grace, He transforms us, He enables us. To kill evil that resides within our hearts. He enables us to cultivate goodness within our hearts. And then he enables us by his spirit to implement that goodness in all areas of life, which is our practical discipleship We are called to kill evil and cultivate goodness in our lives through faith in Christ. There you go. That's the purpose of Christian living right there. To do that for the glory of God, according to God's word. Now that brings us into the first major heading. Christian behavior in a nutshell. This comes from verse 11. Tried to make the bridge from the text to the message, from the text to this to this point as simple and straightforward as possible. Christian behavior in a nutshell. Verse eleven, Beloved, do not imitate evil, but imitate good Whoever does good is from God. Whoever does evil has not seen God. If if the behavior is marked by evil, if the life is characterized by evil, if I'm still a slave to evil, I've not been brought into a relationship with God. God is not my redeemer yet. Now that's you. You can be redeemed through faith in Christ. Just like I was redeemed through faith in Christ when I was evil, when I was a slave to wickedness, God saved me by his grace. But there's a difference between saved people and lost people. Beloved, beloved is the first word in verse 11. He's talking to Christians. Those beloved Beloved of God, those who have been united to God's beloved Son. Beloved, beloved. Now here's the command: do not imitate evil, but imitate good. We are called to kill evil within our hearts. We are called to run away from ungodliness in our lives. We are called, on the other hand, to cultivate goodness. To flee from wickedness and to pursue godliness in our lives. Beloved, do not imitate evil, but imitate good. Whoever does good is from God. You see the good in our hearts, and the good in our words, and the good, the truly good In our lives is a result of knowing God. And knowing God is a result of God's grace. Knowing God is a result of the gospel. Praise God, the gospel changing our hearts. The preaching of the cross of Jesus Christ infiltrated our hearts and changed our hearts so that we would no longer be slaves to sin. But we would be enslaved to Christ as obedient children. Aren't you happy about that, church, this morning? Are you happy that God has saved you? Do not imitate what is evil, beloved, but imitate what is good. Imitate good Because whoever does good is from God. Whoever does evil has not seen God. That's Christian behavior in a nutshell. That which is good is that which reflects God's character and God's will. That which is evil is that which reflects sin 's character and sin 's will. That which is good is a reflection of God. It reflects who God is, God's identity, God's character, God's morals, so to speak, God's ethics. So to speak. God's will, God's character is the definition of what is good. So anything in the world that's truly good, anything in our hearts. minds, words, behaviors that's truly good is good because it reflects God's character and God's will. Now how do we know God's character and how do we know God's will? God's word. It's the only path to knowing what is good versus what is evil is because God has taught us, He's revealed to us in His Word. That which reflects God's character and God's will. That's the definition of goodness. There's no standard of goodness outside of God that God's accountable to. Are you awake this morning? There's no standard of righteousness above God that God's on the hook, that God's accountable to, that we put God on trial to see if He measures up to our standard of righteousness. God is the standard of righteousness. He's the definition of goodness. Now that's not the mindset. That's why I raise my voice. Because that's not the mindset of the culture. That's not the air we breathe. That's not the natural inclination. That's not the natural belief of man because we're corrupt and we think we're the definition of righteousness and we're the definition of goodness and so we'll make a God in our own image and say, well that's righteous and that's good, that's idolatry God is the definition of righteousness. God is the good. He is the right. He is the holy. He is the just. God is And anything else is only good insofar as it reflects God's character and God's will. Boy, if I keep going this way, I'll never get to my second point. And that would be okay. I mean, if there's ever a point to preach, it's that God is the definition of goodness and holiness. Since God has saved you, beloved, flee wickedness by faith in Christ. Since you are spill filled, not spilled, you're filled. Since you are filled with the Spirit Of holiness. I guess I was combining spirit and filled. That's my new word. You're spilled. Spirit filled. Since you're filled with the Spirit of Holiness, and if you are a believer in Christ, brother, sister, you are filled with the Holy Spirit You are filled with the Spirit of holiness, and since you are filled with the Spirit of holiness, run away from acts of unholiness through faith in Christ. Brethren, since you are loved of God, and since you love God Do not give yourself over to things that are hated by God and hate God. Pursue the good. Imitate what is good. Do not imitate what is evil. Now by faith, we're called to kill evil and cultivate goodness. Now that only happens by the power of the gospel. There's no set of rules, there's no legislation that can enable us or that can empower us to godliness only by the transforming power of Christ through the gospel. Can we kill evil and cultivate goodness? And I want to talk about that some more. And I've got eight subheadings underneath of this. Called to kill evil and cultivate goodness. Would have been nice if it was seven, a nice round biblical number of fullness or ten biblical number of God's completion of a particular thing. We're going eight, alright? By faith, we're called to kill evil and cultivate goodness. Number one, because we have been saved. That's got to be first. We're not called to kill evil and cultivate goodness so that we might be saved, or so that God would forgive us. No, God forgives us and God saves us apart from works, apart from anything that we do or earn or merit. And as a result of that We can be sanctified because we have been saved. In fact, that's in the passage. The end of verse 11. Whoever does good is what? It's from God. You see? The from God comes first, the doing God is the result. You don't do good first and then they're reconciled to God. No, that can't happen. That's backward. We're reconciled to God by a powerful act of grace through Christ And what results is goodness, spirit born goodness for the glory of God. Titus two, eleven and twelve The grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people , training us to renounce ungodliness and worldly passions And to live self-controlled, upright, and godly lives in the present age Titus two, eleven and twelve. It's the grace of God that has appeared. It's the grace of God that trains us, that enables us. To renounce ungodliness. It's the grace of God that enables us to renounce worldly passions. It's the grace of God that enables us to live self-controlled lives. It's the grace of God that enables us to live upright lives. It's the grace of God that enables us to live godly lives in this present age given over to Satan. It's the grace of God that enables us To kill evil and cultivate goodness in our hearts, minds, words, and lives for the glory of God. It's the grace of God, not the law of God The law of God can show us that we're sinners. The law of God shows us that we need a Savior, but only the grace of God and the gospel of God can create holiness and kill and slay and put to death. What is wicked? That's why we always preach the gospel. We don't wait till we meet lost people to preach the gospel. We always preach the gospel Because we always need Christ put before us, because we always need Christ to transform us into his likeness by the power of the gospel Yes, there's saving grace, but there's also sanctifying grace. And the power source, fuel source, spiritual energy source of sanctification is the very same gospel. That saved us. Because we have been saved. Number two, called to kill evil and cultivate goodness. Number two, because we are children of God. Now Ephesians 5, 1 through 2 says this. Therefore be imitators of God, which is just another way of saying imitate what is good. Ephesians 5, 1 to 2. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. That's Ephesians 5, 1 through 2. The imitators of God as God's beloved children. Again, beloved children comes first and then imitating God. You don't imitate God to become a beloved child of God. You become a beloved child of God through faith in Jesus Christ. And as a result of faith in Jesus Christ, now imitate God None of us imitate God perfectly in this life, but you will in the next, brothers and sisters. Read this verse too again of Ephesians one or Ephesians five rather. Walk in love as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. You see first Christ is the fragrant offering. First, Christ is the sacrifice to God. And he saves us, and now we, through faith in Christ, now our lives become a fragrant offering. Our lives become a sacrifice to God. We kill evil, cultivate goodness because we have been saved. Number one, because we are children of God. Number two. And number three, because both evil and goodness live within us. So for that reason we have to be proactive in killing evil for the very reason that evil lives within us and evil will never Stop fighting to get you away from the will of God. As long as you draw breath in this life, the sinful flesh will be trying to get you off the path of serving God and on the path of sinful pleasures. 1 Peter 2 11. Beloved, I urge you, as sojourners and exiles, abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. Isn't that powerful? Isn't that powerful? Two things living within us. Two things abiding, working, waging war even within you. One, the passions of the flesh. Whose flesh? Your flesh is waging war within you, as my flesh is waging war within me. Abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. Not somebody else's soul, and here not waging war against the church, and here not waging war against God, I guess it's always against God in one way or another, but directly immediately the passions of the flesh waging war against your soul and the passions of my flesh waging war against my soul. Therefore, we must be proactive in killing evil and cultivating goodness through faith in Christ. Always through faith in Christ. Otherwise, we'll slip right back into the way of works and legalism. And the way of works and legalism don't help us walk in true holiness. They actually stir up and stoke up the passions of the flesh all the more. Both evil and good live within us, therefore, we must be proactive in killing evil and cultivating goodness. Number four, one way we can practical way to kill evil, cultivate goodness, is by pursuing peace. Pursuing peace. Blessed are the peacemakers. Read this in a book one time, not the peace stakers, and not the peace breakers, but the peace Makers, Psalm 34, 14. Turn away from evil and do good. Seek peace and pursue it. Now that's a parallel statement He uh Psalm 34, 14, you turn away from evil and do good. Now here's the parallel statement, seek peace and pursue it. One practical, concrete way that each of us Can seek to kill evil behavior and cultivate good behavior is by seeking peace, pursuing peace, making peace. rather than conflict and dissension and disagreement. Number five, kill evil and cultivate goodness another practical way is by seeking the good of others. Now that'll get our hearts right. Where we come seeking the good of others for the glory of God, not just our own good. Isaiah 1, 16 -17 Wash yourselves, make yourselves clean, and remove the evil of your deeds from before my eyes Cease doing evil. Rather, learn to do good, learn to seek justice, correct oppression, bring justice to the fatherless, and plead the widow's cause. Killing evil and cultivating goodness begins as an internal spiritual thing, but it always makes its way to our behavior, doesn't it? It always makes its way to the way we treat others. It always makes its way to the way we care for others, not just ourselves. That we'll seek the good of others, not just our own good. Number six, by faith, called to kill evil, cultivate goodness, can only happen, number six, can only happen with genuine humility. It can only happen with genuine humil humility. If there's a uh a sense of uh of pride, of arrogant, selfish pride You'll never ever be able to move one inch in the way of good behavior for the glory of God. James 1, 19 to 21 Know this, my beloved brothers. Let everyone be quick to hear and slow to speak. Well, don't you wish like me that you are better at that? And slow to anger. Don't you wish, like me , that you were better at that? And now verse 20, James 1, verse 20, for the anger of man does not produce the righteousness of God. Therefore, put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness and Receive with meekness the implanted word, which is able to save your souls. Receive with meekness, receive with humility, receive with gentleness the implanted word, which is the word of the gospel that lives within our hearts. Humility, humility precedes this moving forward in sanctification. Number seven Killing evil, cultivating goodness, number seven, can only happen by God's power. That's why we pray in Matthew 6. 13. Lead us not to temptation, but deliver us from evil. If God doesn't deliver us from evil, we dive headlong into it every single time. If God doesn't direct us away from temptation, our whole lives will just be running from one temptation to the other be. because of the corruption of the flesh which is waging war against our souls. Lead us not to temptation. Deliver us from evil. Number eight. Finally, we got there. Praise the Lord. Number eight. Called to kill evil and cultivate goodness. Only can happen by experience over time. By experience, over time. Discernment must be learned. Maturity comes with time. Sanctification takes time. Growing in obedience takes time. Romans 12, 2. Do not be conformed to this world, which is another way of saying don't imitate evil. Do not be conformed to this world, but rather be transformed by the renewal of your mind, that by testing, that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good. And acceptable and perfect. It's through testing, it's through trials that God will teach us discernment. It's over time, it's by experience that we'll learn how to discern the will of God. to discern what is good, to discern what is acceptable, to discern what is perfect, which is another way of saying holy and in accordance with God's character. Over time, through testing. Part of that process is of testings and trials and all the ups and downs and all the stumbles and falls and all the failures that come in our lives. Part of that is to teach us To trust in God more and more over time. We do not come out of baptismal waters or three months later or three years later and are fully mature and trusting God the way we need to trust God. We must grow in that. We must have our faith deepened. We must have our faith strengthened and that will happen. So you can't be impatient on this. The growth will come. The maturity will come. Be faithful what God has put on your plate today. Seek God's word today. Cry out to God to help for help today. And then tomorrow do the same thing. And over time, over time. God will bring the discernment and he'll bring the growth and he'll bring the sanctification and you'll be able to look back and you'll see all the evil that God has slain in your heart, mind, words, and life, and all the goodness that God has powerfully cultivated in your heart, mind, words, and life. But over time, I'm trying to say, over time, be patient. Wait on the Lord. He is faithful. He is faithful. Only by experience and over only through time. Well that's Christian behavior in a nutshell. Do not imitate evil, but imitate what is good. Kill evil. Cultivate goodness through faith in Christ. Number two. Do you want number two? That was good. I like that conviction. Yes! Well, you're going to get it no matter what All right. Evil behavior in the church is number two. That's Christian behavior in a nutshell. Let's see the atrophies and how he measures up. Evil behavior in the church is your second major heading. And that comes from verses 9 through 10. See if you can spot the problem. The Apostle John writes, I have written something to the church. Which was the first way where the apostolic um word of God got to local churches. Apostolic writers sending letters and writing books. I've written something to the church, but Diatrophes, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority. Major, major problem. Major problem. Do not ig does not acknowledge his authority. We'll talk more about that, but um Let's finish up verse 10 for right now. Verse 10, so John says, So if I come I'll bring up what he is doing, talking wicked nonsense against us. And not content with that. Boy, he's really piling it on now, isn't he? Not content with that, he refuses to welcome the brothers and stops those who want to and puts them out of the church. Now the brothers, where it says he refuses to welcome the brothers, in the context, that's uh traveling evangelists, that's the missionaries that John had just got done saying. It's it's good, it's right, it's proper, it's a faithful thing you do in showing hospitality to them and in supporting them. And when you s when you send them off Send them off in a way that's worthy of God. Support them in their traveling for the gospel, in their traveling for the kingdom of God. Here Diography is refusing to welcome those evangelists. And not only that, what else is he doing? He's trying to stop people who are welcoming those evangelists. He refuses to welcome the brothers and also stops those who want to. Wickedness in the church. Here you have these brothers and sisters in the church, and they want to show hospitality to missionaries, and they want to support the work of missionaries, and they want to they want that fellowship with biblical Evangelists traveling the world for the glory of God. Theotrophes tries to stop them. And then what does theotrophes do if those people don't listen? He kicks them out of the church. This is the behavior of the devil in the church. These are not small things. And you see, you knew it was coming. You knew it was coming the second John said that the autrophes rejects apostolic authority. That's the first domino And if we were to reject the authority of the Bible, that would be the first domino for us. That's exactly what happened. Theotrophes is rejecting the authority of the apostles. Well, there you go. It's just inevitable that the manifestation of his wickedness will come further and further out in his behavior in the church Evil behavior in the church. Brothers and sisters, we must have the discernment to identify evil Satan-filled behavior in the church. We must have the discernment to identify it. And we must have the spiritual-mindedness to deal with it biblically. By spiritual-mindedness I mean a wisdom that comes from Scripture. And I mean the compassion, the compassion of Christ. And I mean the patience. And we we don't have patience. Oh we'll just we'll always be fighting with each other over something. We've got to have patience. We've got to have compassion. We've got to have grace. But we've got to have a biblical biblical conviction. And we've got to have a biblical Knowledge so that we can deal with wickedness That's having a horrible impact in the body life of the church. We've got to be able to discern it, identify it, and deal with it with the spiritual mindset. Can't speak the truth if we're not grounded in truth. And we can't speak the truth in love if we're not walking in love. So let's stick to the truth Let's be grounded in the truth. Let's each one of us be growing in the truth. Amen. And let's be walking in love. And let each one of us be growing in love. Amen. And so that no matter what happens, we'll be able to speak the truth in love, to discern evil behavior, but deal with it, deal with it in a way that honors God. We could all deal with stuff we disagree with or we could all deal with the wrong behavior. It's easy to deal with it in a way that dishonors God. It's easy to deal with it in the flesh. But we want to deal with it. We want to deal with people like theotrophes in a way that honors God. Now there's two telltale signs of the atrophy 's wickedness. Two telltale signs I've already said them. So just rehash them and point them out once again from the text, just so it's clear. Number one, selfish pride. And number two, a rejection of apostolic authority. There's your two telltale signs. selfish pride. Verse 9. Diotrophes who loves to put himself first. The ESV says he likes to put himself The King James says he loves to have the preeminence, or to be technical, he loveth to have the preeminence. New American standard, he loves to be first. And that's the most accurate one. It's actually one word here. It's a phrase in the translation. Likes to put himself first or loves to be first, but it's in fact it's one word. It's a compound verb. And it literally means love's firstness or love 's preeminence. Selfish pride. Selfish pride. And um it's it's led him to do some horrible things, including at the end of verse 10, the audacity. The audacity to kick people out of the church because they're not doing what Diotrophe tells them to do. Or rather, they're trying to do something Diotrophe tells them not to do. And he tries to put them out of the fellowship. No individual in the church has that authority. That's why it's called church discipline, not pastor discipline Not deacon discipline, but church discipline, and there's a passage in Matthew eighteen that outlines that process. Selfish pride. He loves to put himself first. Well, that's just the guy who has to get his way. That's just a power-hungry guy. And then um number two, he rejects apostolic authority. Though this just goes all the way through the passage. Verse 9. I've written something to the church. Right now, that's a letter that comes from an apostle, which is the way God first got his inspired word out to the ancient church when they didn't have the completed New Testament. God used his apostles and those in the apostolic circle to write books and send letters to churches. So John writes a letter. It's not like me writing a letter. It's not like my newsletter. It's not like you writing a letter. This is the word of God coming through the apostles to the church. John says, I've written something to the church, but Theotrophice, who likes to put himself first, does not acknowledge our authority. Theotrophist does not acknowledge the authority of God's appointed messengers. He rejects apostolic authority. But it's even it goes even further than that. Verse ten John says, so if I come, I'll bring up what he's doing. So John will confront theotrophies. John will shepherd, if you will, the church through this difficult situation. What else does he say about theostrophes in the middle of verse 10? Talking wicked nonsense against us, slandering the apostles. Now it'd be bad enough if he just didn't accept the apostles' authority. That'd be bad enough to reject the authority of God's appointed messengers. But now he's he he goes to the next level. He goes to the next level. And that's what sin always does. Sin doesn't self-correct. Sin just snowballs. Sin begets sin. It's only the spirit can uh beget that which is spiritual. He slanders John. He slanders the apostles. He rejects their authority. He's talking wicked nonsense against them and who knows what he's saying. gossiping on the apostles. Can you imagine? Can you imagine? It's a rejection of biblical authority. You know, what's the takeaway? Well, there's all kinds of takeaways. One thing we could say is that power-hungry men should never be leading in the church Power-hungry women should never be leading women's ministries in the church. Those who love to have the preeminence, those who have to be first. Those who functionally, functionally, they're behaving as if they are the authority rather than God's word. They can't be leaders in the church. People who have to get their own way. Controlling power-hungry men should never be leading in the church. 1 Peter 5, 2 and 3. Peter says Shepherd the flock of God. He's talking to the elders here. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. Exercising oversight. Alright, that's good. Oversight's good. Leadership's good. We all need leaders. We all need oversight. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly, as God would have you. Not for shameful gain, but eagerly. Now is verse 3. domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock. Isn't that interesting? You can either be a good example to the flock or you can be domineering over those under your charge. That'd be a con a control freak diotrophies, power hungry, satanically inspired, rejecting the authority of the will of God, leadership in the church. God gets no glory with that. Boy, this deatrophies is a real problem. He's the central character of this passage of Scripture. And what he needs is a warning. He needs a warning Selfish pride is the root of division. And for the good of the church, for the health of the church, for the glory of God, he needs a warning. In Titus three, verses ten and eleven, Paul says this, as for a person who stirs up division, After warning him once and then twice, have nothing more to do with him, knowing that such a person is warped and sinful and he is self-condemned. You warn them once, if there's no repentance, you warn them a second time, if there's no repentance, you have nothing to do with them. They're warped, and they're caught in the snare of sin. And then that would take us to Matthew 18 for a process of church discipline, which is just fellowshipping, which is what that person needs at that point too. Not only to guard the church. For the glory of God. But that's the best way to serve that person according to God's will. We need to commit our hearts to dealing with sin in the church, but we must commit ourselves to dealing with sin in the church. Biblically. And that process is laid out in Matthew 18. Go to the person, speak to them about what you've seen, speak to them about the sin. And the goal is repentance and restoration. If there's none, you bring two or three witnesses to help out. And the goal is repentance, the goal is restoration. And if there's none, then you bring it before the church. And there's a church wide or the church level uh discipline called to repentance, and if not, then disfellowshipping. Because there is evil behavior in the church And God has ways of dealing with that. Church is not a free-for-all, brothers and sisters. It's not meant to be a free-for-all. It's supposed to be a place of spiritual growth Supposed to be a place of worship. Supposed to be a place of peace. Supposed to be a place of love. Supposed to be a place of mutual support and encouragement and wisdom and helping each other along. And we can't just have people like Theotrophes coming in and running the show and ruining it. Because the church, if you haven't heard it lately, belongs to God. The church properly, properly, is not a man-made institution The church belongs to Christ. We are the body. He is the head. We are under his authority, and things are to operate and function as Christ wants them to operate and function. And it is not godly and it is not gracious to have the attitude, we just do whatever you want, say whatever you want, act however you want, I can lead however I want, be domineering if I want to, absolutely not. Do not imitate what is evil, but imitate what is good. Now I purposed for this third point. You know, I had to get a third point in here because you just need three points. this obsessive, compulsive, contemporary, pastoral. I've got to have three points. But I wanted to say something about Demetrius. So we'll make this third, we can't call it a major heading, but we'll call it a third heading that rounds us out. The importance of reputation. The importance of reputation Verse 12. Demetrius, you see the idea is on the other hand, Demetrius. You want to be the Demetrius. I want to be the Demetrius. Demetrius has received a good testimony from everyone and from the truth itself. And we also add our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true, three witnesses to the godly reputation of Demetrius. Demetrius. First, he's received a good testimony from everyone. That's just the people who know Demetrius. That's the people in this church. That's the people in this circle. There's a good testimony about Demetrius. He's not like theotrophes. But also a good testimony from the truth itself. That's a way of saying that Demetrius' behavior lines up with Scripture Demetrius is walking in a way that's worthy of his calling. He's walking a godly walk. Not perfectly, of course. He's just like me. He's just like you He's not perfect in his obedience, but he's walking in obedience, and he has a good reputation from those who know him and from the truth itself. The truth of God affirms Demetrius And then John says, representing the apostles, we also add our testimony, and you know that our testimony is true. Well, we want to be in the Demetrius camp. You know, a good reputation is important for children of God. First of all, it's a requirement for elders in the church. I won't won't read it, but First Timothy 3 7. Having a good reputation with outsiders is a requirement for elders or pastors. in the church. We can't be known as as uh guys who are given to losing our tempers. We can't be known as guys who are quarrelsome. We can't be known as guys who flirt with women who aren't our wives. We can't be known as drunkards. We can't be known as guys who um who don't hold up to our word. You say you're gonna be somewhere You say you're going to do something and then you just disappear and you're not faithful to your word. We can't be known as unreliable guys. We can't be known as liars. We can't be known as thieves. You have to have a good reputation as one of God's requirements for serving as elder or pastor in the church. Again, not perfection. But there is a difference between a life that's marked And characterized by ungodliness on the one hand in a life that's marked by spirit-born obedience. Any true obedience is spirit-born obedience. But um a good reputation is It's not just a requirement for pastors. It's the call for every Christian. A good reputation is part of your calling, church. 1 Peter 2. 12, the beginning. Peter writes, keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. And what's a synonym for conduct? Behavior. Keep your conduct, keep your behavior, the way you talk, the way you act, at work, school, hobbies, whatever. Keep your conduct honorable when you're out there in the world. And one more 2 Corinthians 8 21, we aim at what is honorable, not only in the Lord's sight, but also in the sight of man. Part of our calling is not to live for the approval of the world, but to have a good and godly reputation in the world, and to have a good example as part of our witness. And brothers and sisters, and I'll close on this. That good reputation that's part of our calling, seeking to imitate what is good rather than imitating what is evil, that's part of the way that God shines forth the light of Christ in the world And that's God's great work in the world, to shine forth the light of Christ for the salvation of souls. Part of that, not the whole thing, not the central thing, but part of that is a good, honorable reputation in the world, in the workplace, with your friends, the way we behave when we go out. Part of How God shines forth the glory and the transforming power of his son is through the honorable reputation. Reputation is important. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Thank you for his blood shed on the cross to forgive us our sins. Thank you for the Holy Spirit He's given us in our hearts. To help us live the way you've called us to live. Every day we fall short, and yet every day you're merciful And you are always ready to forgive. You're always ready to receive back. We praise you for that, God. We praise you for getting us on the path. We praise you for keeping us on the path. When we stray off, praise you for bringing us back, grabbing us by the neck, grabbing us with your spirit to bring us back on the way we should go for your glory and through faith in Christ. It's in his name that we pray. Amen.