Let's take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter two, verses eleven to sixteen. Ephesians chapter 2, verses 11 to 16. Today we're talking about Gentiles being united to Israel Gentiles being united to Israel. It's a little bit of a shift. Actually, it's a huge shift from last week. The first paragraph in Ephesians 2 was really radically focused on the individual salvation and the individual lost person being brought out of that lostness. into a relationship with God, the dynamics of that, and all the changes that happen because the individual is saved and brought to God. But here we're really zooming out not so much the individual but here a historical focus And maybe even a global focus. It's a part of our learning, part of understanding God's truth. Yes, we want to understand. Yes, we want to be radically focused on the individual, the soul, and what salvation looks like. But we have to understand the big picture too. Amen. We want to have a global perspective, a historic perspective. So that is what's going on in the passage today. Gentiles united to Israel. Think of a couple illustrations just to get the wheels turning. You can picture two people at odds with each other. Two people with a rift in the relationship. But then somehow there's a discussion, or maybe a friend steps in and enables them to be reconciled. And there takes those two friends at odds with each other and brings them together to be at peace. That's what we'll be looking at. Gentiles and Israel united together. You can think of two co-workers who have an issue. You've never been in that situation, right? None of you here have ever been at a drama with someone at work. There's a disagreement. There's a tension There's there's some kind of rift. But then may maybe you have a discussion, maybe you work it all out, or maybe someone else steps in and you're able to find peace. You're able to find unity, you're able to come together You've seen this in all kinds of different areas of life, two families. I mean whole families can be at odds with each other But then maybe a miracle happens and there's some good discussions and there's a reconciliation bringing the two that were once at odds, bringing them together at one. Isn't that a wonderful thing when it happens? Isn't it a wonderful thing to be reconciled to a loved one after an argument, after you say something you shouldn't say? After you do something you shouldn't do, after you really hurt this, you love this person so much, you hurt their feelings, what in the world? But you're able to have forgiveness. You're able to have reconciliation. Amen. Is this a beautiful thing? Well we're zooming out and we're looking at that same issue with Israel and the Gentile. By the way, Gentiles just means All the nations that were surrounding Israel, all the nations of the world outside of Israel. And we see here Gentiles, if you're not familiar with that, just think nations, alright? The old covenant, the old covenant in the Old Testament separated Gentiles from Israel. But the New Covenant in the New Testament unites Gentiles to Israel, and it does that in Christ. Now that's our main topic, so I'll read that again. The old covenant separated Gentiles from Israel, but the new covenant unites Gentiles to Israel, and it does that in Christ. That's actually a huge deal. It's a major storyline. In the Bible and the New Testament, and that's what we're going to see. By the way, a covenant, if you're not familiar with a covenant, a covenant is a legal agreement That establishes and governs a relationship, like a marriage bond is a marriage covenant. A covenant establishes a relationship and a covenant governs that relationship. And what you see in the Bible and the way God has worked out his plan is different covenants one after the other where he establishes and governs these relations his relationship with people. Not the only one, but the main one in the Old Testament is the Old Covenant with Israel. And then in the New Testament, you get the new covenant with the church. There's a little bit more background information for you, just so you know what you're hearing when we say the old covenant separated Gentiles from Israel, but the new covenant unites Gentiles to Israel in Christ. Let's go ahead and read this passage and you see in your own heart if that message, if that theme stands out to you as we read this. Ephesians 2, verse 11 to 16. Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh, called the uncircumcision, By what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at that time Separated from Christ, alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel, and strangers to the covenants of promise Having no hope and without God in the world. But now, in Christ Jesus You, who were once far off, have been brought near by the blood of Christ, for he himself is our peace. who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility By abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances that he might create In himself, one new man in place of the two, and so making peace And might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. The picture's clear. It's screaming off the page. You used to be divided, but now you've been united. Gentiles, you used to be far off, but now you've been brought near. in Christ. And if some of the things through you, right around verse 14-15 about the dividing wall of hostility, the law of commandments We'll get to this later, but what that's talking about is the old covenant. The design of the old covenant was to separate Israel, set Israel apart. But now that that old covenant is done away with, that's been abolished in Christ, the Gentiles now have been brought near, so that the two are now one. The old covenant separated Gentiles from Israel, but the new covenant unites Gentiles to Israel in Christ. Can you imagine This may be the hardest thing you ever tried to imagine. Imagine the Middle East if if masses, I mean hordes Of Jews and their leaders, and masses, overwhelming number of Muslims and their leaders All of them together would all find salvation in Jesus Christ and be filled with the Holy Spirit. I mean, could you imagine what that would lead to? What the result would be in the cities? The regional impact, the peace, the global implications? If you had mass conversion to Christ Mass conversion to Christ, and then what happens? The two become one, and there's peace. God would get a lot of glory for that. God would get a lot of glory for that. And don't forget the main passage in Ephesians that we started this whole series with. Ephesians 3, 21, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. To him be glory in the church. Now there's a lot of things in the church that God gets the glory for, but this is one of them. Jew and Gentile. And Gentiles from different nations, warring nations, come to Christ and they're made one in Christ. That displays the power of God. One of the things the gospel does is it creates more peace on planet Earth because it takes peoples who are at odds with each other and brings them together to be one in Christ and to worship God. in one accord. That's just one illustration. Hopefully that's a good illustration. And I hope we remember the general point. God glorifies himself, brothers and sisters. Not only by reconciling sinners to himself. Now he does that. Amen? God glorifies himself by reconciling sinners to himself. But never forget, God also glorifies himself by reconciling sinners. To sinners. And it doesn't have to be on a big scale. Think of our local church. What is going on here? What is happening? I mean, behind the scenes What is God doing? He's bringing different people from different backgrounds, maybe different beliefs and different family heritage. He's bringing us all together in Christ. He's bringing us together based on his truth, and he's bringing us together for his glory, not ours, and he's bringing us together by the work of his providence and by the work of his spirit in our hearts. So God gets glory for nations coming together. God gets glory for Jew and Gentile coming together in Christ. God gets glory for us coming together in Christ to have peace and unity and a sweet, precious. Spiritual joy together because of Christ. And I hope you have that in your heart when we gather together. A precious Holy Spirit forged joy in your heart. God gets all the glory. To him be glory in the church. 1 Corinthians 12. 13, Scripture says, you'll like this. For in one spirit we were all baptized into one body. Jews or Greeks. Slaves are free. All were made to drink of one spirit. And that's Spirit, capital S , that's the Holy Spirit. That's the Holy Spirit poured into our hearts, coming directly from the exalted Lord Jesus Christ. And that's how we can be one body. One spirit, we were baptized into one body, all made to drink of one Spirit. That's why we can't have clicks in the church and infighting in the church and ungodly divisions and divisiveness in the church. Because we all share one spirit. We've all been brought into one body under one Lord Jesus Christ for one purpose, his glory and his kingdom and his name. The old covenant separated Gentiles from Israel, but now the new covenant unites Gentiles to Israel. In Christ, in Christ, that's such an important qualifier. That was the important qualifier last week, wasn't it? In talking about individual salvation, this is all in Christ. In Christ, that you have this new life? Well, it's the same thing now, looking at the global perspective or the historical perspective. And you'll see on your outline really a simple flow. A simple roadmap for the rest of the body of this message. First of all, I just wanted to take a bird's eye view. Alright, we'll take a bird's eye view. We'll look at some keywords in here. Just to make this this picture, just to make this main point as abundantly clear as I possibly can, a bird's eye view, and then we'll look at the before picture. And then we'll look at the after picture. We all love those, right? Before and after picture. Old rusted car. And then you show the fully restored car. It's beautiful, beautiful paint job, beautiful detailing. An old house and the restored house. So we'll see the before and after picture. But first the bird's eye view. If you're still with me today, would you say amen? Alright, bird's eye view. And here we're just looking at some keywords. Alright, keywords. It's like we're twisting the lens to bring into clear focus so we know what we're looking at. Keywords, and the first couple of key words come in verse 11. Alright, verse 11 We see the word Gentiles, and then we'll also see the word uncircumcision. Verse 11. Therefore remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh Called the uncircumcision. Alright, so they did not have the Jewish circumcision because why? Because they were Gentiles. They weren't In the lineage of Abraham, of Israel, or of the southern kingdom Judah. They were Gentiles. They were part of and they come from the nations that were surrounding Israel. And that's what Gentiles means. It's the nations of the world other than Israel. It goes all the way back to Genesis 10 and 11, where you have that at that point, it's after Noah's flood, And the world repopulates, and the and the sinful leaders of the world try to create an authoritarian one world government. At the Tower of Babel, God comes down in judgment and he scathers the people. And then the world is arranged, in God's providence, God is the one who does this, the world is arranged in seventy nations. And it's the Gentile nations. Israel does not exist yet. We'll get to that in a little bit. But this is with the Gentiles. It goes back to Genesis 10 and 11, where you have a world. This is the world. Genesis 11. When you get to the end of Genesis 11. You have a world full of nations given over to idolatry. You have a world full of nations under the dominion of Satan. Under the power of darkness. That's what you have. That's the Gentiles. Psalm 96, 5. For all the gods, lowercase G, all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols. That's the Gentiles, and that's what it goes back to. In darkness, under Satan's dominion Now we live now, obviously we don't live then, but there's an application we can make when thinking about the dominion of darkness Application for us: in Christ, we are no longer under Satan's dominion. In Christ, we are no longer slaves to sin. Are you happy about that, church? That sin no longer has mastery over your heart, so that you keep listening to it over and over again, so that we keep believing its lies over and over again. So that we keep falling for its false promises over and over again. But rather, God has changed our hearts. And He's changed us to seek His truth. And He He's changed us so that we would love what God loves. Holy things, virtuous things, good things. And he's changed us by his spirit to hate what God hates. To hate that which defiles, to hate that which dishonors God. And instead of running to it and jumping into it, jumping into the darkness, we are repenting. We are turning, we are fleeing, we are running, and we're running away from the mastery of sin. We're running into the will of God, and that's God's will for our lives. For every single one of you. God's will for your life is to come to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ based on his life and death and resurrection. that you would come to faith in Christ and have a relationship with God, that you would be forgiven. And then after you have that new life in Christ, and that relationship with God. God's will is that you continue to grow in your faith and that you continue to learn how to live out that faith in all areas of life. That's called doing the will of God. And it's God's grace that enables any of us to do that. When we were under Satan's dominion, we were blinded and we could not see. But now we can see because of the Holy Spirit. When we were under the dominion of Satan, when I was under the dominion of Satan, my heart was hardened to the things of God I am talking granite, not even granite, diamond, hardness against the things of God. Let me live how I want to live and do what I want to do and seek what I want to seek. But then God's grace came in. and killed that old heart and gave me a new heart and filled me with the Holy Spirit and God by a supernatural power humbled me. So that's why God gets all the glory for my salvation and for your salvation. If you came in here not knowing Jesus, but while you're sitting in here, in your heart, you put your faith in Jesus, I want to tell you this, and mark it down, God gets all the glory for it. Amen? God gets the glory. Otherwise, we're just worshiping ourselves and just putting the language of God on the outside of it. When we were under Satan's dominion, we indulged in sin. But now, filled with the Spirit, we're turning from sin. And we should be crying out daily to God. To kill sin within us. It should be a steady stream, a steady river flowing through our prayer lives. God, sanctify me. Purify my lips, purify my eyes, sanctify, purify, consecrate my mind and my heart, my desires, my affections. My actions, my goals, God, sanctify me by your spirit. Every one of us should be begging God, pleading with God, oh God, sanctify me for your name and glory. And as God does that, as God faithfully and powerfully does that, what is he doing? He's making us more like Jesus. Very simple. He's making us more like Jesus to be more and more a reflection of his character. That's what the world needs most, is a reflection of God in the world. Well, Gentiles uncircumcision. What uh so think of all we just said about sin, and then and then take out all we just said about God's grace and salvation. Right? And then picture the world is covered in nations who only have the sin for the most part. There's exceptions you have for those who Are keen thinkers and you know your Bible. You have no kids to deck, you have Job, and you have Job's friends, you have exceptions, you do have believers But as far as nations, as far as the mass of humanity, you have 70 nations, Gentile nations, completely given to idolatry. Under the dominion of Satan and darkness. Now, next key word. Verse 11, and then into verse 12, you'll see the word circumcision, and you'll see the word Israel. Alright, end of verse eleven by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that you were at what at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the commonwealth of Israel. Alright? The Commonwealth or the citizenship. It's the body of citizens of Israel. Now, without going into all the background, when it says the circumcision, there was a group, there was a A sect in the early church called the Circumcision Party. And they were advocating for some false doctrine. They were saying that you had to be circumcised, you had to receive Jewish Circumcision in order to be saved. Word for word, scripture says that in the book of Acts. But that's not what the message is on today. In the general sense, what this is pointing out is the Jewish circumcision, the old covenant circumcision. that set Israel, set Jews apart from the Gentile nations, at least in one way, one visible, physical, concrete way. But it says the commonwealth of Israel, the citizenship of Israel. Now, if the Gentiles were the nations in the world other than Israel. Given totally to darkness, Israel is God's chosen nation, created by grace, and living under the old covenant. God had made himself known in numerous ways, in amazing ways, to Israel. And his mighty deeds, his miracles, the miracles of the prophets, just incredible. The Word of God, and God set Israel apart to be his chosen nation. And I'm going to rip through a lot of history real quickly here, once I wet my whistle. The nation was promised to Abram. Anyone guess on the chapter? The first chapter that happens, God promises this nation to Abram. Genesis, I hear the book. 12. Genesis 12. Build star here on the left. The nation was promised to Abram in Genesis 12. And then they were taken into Egypt, and the nation multiplied in Egypt to a great multitude. And then God redeemed and saved them from Egypt. This is all the early chapters of Exodus. And then the nation was given the old covenant, the Mosaic covenant. They were given the covenant and made officially into a nation under the old covenant. That's Exodus 20 to 24. And then, years later, the nation was given the land of Canaan as a free gift. And that's predominantly Joshua The promised land west of the Jordan River, but it even begins in Numbers with the promised land inheritance east of the Jordan River. And the main point is that the design of God's chosen nation, the design of Israel under the old covenant, was not unity with the nations. It was not unity with the nations, it was separation. It was distinction. It was not to be like the nations, but unlike the nations. It was not to be with the nations. But it was to be apart from the nations. It was not to imitate the darkness, but it was to shine the light of truth in the midst of the darkness. Deuteronomy 7:6, for you are a people holy to the Lord your God. The Lord your God has chosen you to be a people for his treasured possession. Out of all the peoples who are on the face of the earth. It's all under Satan's dominion because of the sovereignty of God, the judgment of God, all under the dominion of darkness, but you are to be holy unto the Lord. He chose you for his treasured possession. The nations were in darkness and idolatry, but the old covenant and the revelation of God separated Israel out from that. It was supposed to anyway. If you know the tragic story, what happened with Israel, they became like the nations. Even became worse than the nations in their treacherous idolatry. Leviticus 20, 24. But I have said to you, you shall inherit their land, and I will give it to you to possess. A land flowing with milk and honey. I am the Lord your God who has separated you from the peoples. This was the design of the old covenant. Separation, distinction, to be holy. Now there's some application of that principle to us as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. Child of God, you have been separated out from the fallen culture around you. God has set you apart. He has made you holy by giving you the Holy Spirit. He's called us to be holy as he is holy, that we would reflect his truth in the world, that we would not reflect the darkness of the culture back onto the culture, that we would not imitate The vileness and the grotesque immorality of the world around us, but that we be sanctified to the likeness of Christ. That is God's gift to us, and that is God's calling upon us. that we would be holy as he is holy. God still has a set-apart people. It's a different era, it's a different age, it's a different covenant, but the principle lives on. God has a people that He has chosen. God has a people that He has separated out to be distinct, to be different, to be holy for His name and honor. Well that was the design. You had the Gentile nations uncircumcised under darkness. You had the Commonwealth of Israel. circumcised and recipient of the revelation of God, chosen by God, given the covenant of God, given the worship of God, shown the glory of God. And now, more rapidly here, the final keywords in the bird's eye view, the first one is going to be this word, one O and E. Alright? One. Because if you're tracking along, the picture we just painted of life under the old covenant Was of utter distinction, utter separation, utter difference, the Gentiles and then Israel within. But now what a glory. What a wonder. Verse 14 Has made us both one. That's incredible. I mean we don't get that. If we could go into a time machine And travel back to that world. Walk around for, travel around, witness things for a couple months and see the distinction. See what see the difference, the separation under the old covenant, and then come back here, then we would understand a little bit more the magnitude of The two, the Gentile and the Jew, made one. But it's not just verse fourteen. Look at verse 15. Create in himself one new man in place of the two. One. One. Tattoo it on our brains. The two made one. But also look at verse sixteen Just in case you think I'm trying to make a bigger deal out of this than Paul actually does. Verse 16 might reconcile us both to God in what? In one body. Completely different picture of life under the new covenant than life under the old covenant. And now, two more keywords on the bird's eye view. tells us how this happened. The next two words are going to tell you, friend By what power the two are made one. Do you want to know? All right. Verse 13: the word blood You who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. And verse 16, the word cross. Might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. How is it the Gentiles given over to the reign of darkness and Jews under the old covenant, Jews under the law, how is it that they can be made one? Jesus died for them. Were you expecting something more advanced? Were you expecting some deep theology that's really hard to comprehend? Jesus died for Jews. Jesus died for Gentiles. And so when Jews come to faith in Jesus, and when Gentiles come to faith in Jesus, the Jews and the Gentiles are one in Jesus. And that's how the gospel is reshaping the world and will continue to reshape the world. The gospel creates more peace, it creates a cherishing of truth, it creates true worship. It creates more righteousness on earth, more obedience on earth. More and more you see the blessings of the kingdom of God, but it all tracks back to the blood of Christ, the power of the gospel. Now, the before picture, at this point, if you have a good grasp on the bird's eye view, and I hope that you do, I spent a lot of time on that on purpose. I'm not behind schedule at all, Brother Vince. I'm right on track. Because if you get that picture clear, all we have to do is read through the before picture in verses 11 to 12. Therefore, remember that at one time you Gentiles in the flesh called the uncircumcision, by what is called the circumcision, which is made in the flesh by hands. Remember that at one , remember that you were at that time, number one, separated from Christ. Number two, alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. Number three, strangers to the covenants of promise. Number four, having no hope. And number five, without God in the world. Welcome to the world of the Gentiles in the time of the old covenant. Listen, they didn't have Bibles. They didn't have local churches. They didn't have Christian friends, believing friends, out of the nations. That's the before picture. They were separated from Christ. Now Israel had the promise of the Savior. Israel had the revelation of the Savior, not in the flesh But they had the preincarnate revelation and promise of the Savior. And so though so that by faith they could trust God and know God and love God and serve God and experience the blessing of God. Gentile nations didn't have that When you go into the Gentile nations today, guess what? They have that. The gospel is being preached all over the world. God is being worshipped all over the world People are praying, crying out for the Holy Spirit, praying for revival all over the world, and it's still spreading and it's still growing. No longer separated from Christ, alienated from Israel. There's a second part of that. Alienated from that knowledge of God that they had. The teaching of righteousness and justice and mercy from the law of God. The teaching of the grace of God, the promise of salvation, the mercy and forgiveness of God that was put on full display in the temple worship and the sacrificial system. The truth, the truth about the one true living God and who he is, his holiness, his majesty, his wisdom, his power, his character. Gentile nations Didn't have that. Israel had that. And they were alienated, alienated. Also, they were strangers to the covenants of promise. And the covenants of promise again, the covenants that promised a Savior would come. Covenants that promised that salvation would spread to the world and establish the kingdom of God for the glory of God by the Spirit of God in all the earth. It also says they had no hope. It's hard for me to imagine ever going back to life when I had no hope. Why would I leave a life where I have hope in Christ and go back To a life without hope, when I had no genuine peace of heart, where I had no security for my soul Where I have no security, no assurance, no hope for life beyond death. Why would I go back? I had no escape from the finality of death. I had no escape from sin's tyranny. I had lots of fleeting treasures and lots of superficial pleasures, but no Genuine, authentic, living hope that could really help me. The world puts before us lots of counterfeit hopes. Lots of counterfeit hopes. But without Christ, we have no certain hope for our soul for our eternity. And it also says they were without God. This is all verse 12. They were without God. Now that's the worst one of all. But now the after picture. The after picture. Verse 13 to 16. But now in Christ Jesus. Don't you love that he says that first? I mean, this is the qualifier of everything. The change happens in Christ Jesus. And if we try to think of it in any other way, we'll get way off on our theology. We'll think about Israel wrong. We'll think about the church wrong. We'll think about the power of the gospel wrong. We'll think of the trajectory of history wrong if we get away from the in Christ. In Christ Jesus, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. He himself is our peace. who has made us both one and has broken down in his flesh the dividing wall of hostility, by abolishing the law of commandments expressed in ordinances, that he might create in himself one new man in place of the two so making peace and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. Brought near by the blood of Christ. Now, how does the blood of Christ bring Gentiles near to all the blessings of God? Because Jesus dying in the place of sinners Removes the guilt of our sin. That is the gospel. This is the heart of what the good news that the Bible has for us Of the good news that I have for you this morning, of the good news, church, that we have for the community, that by his blood, Jesus removes the guilt of our sin. Because he died in our place. He died as our substitute. And when you put your faith in Jesus, that instant The guilt of all your sin is removed, and you're reconciled to God. And then also you're made one with everybody else who's been reconciled to God. But without the blood of Christ, it cannot happen. Jesus, by dying in the place of sinners, removes the guilt of our sin before a holy God so that we can know Him and be His people. Made one with Israel, it says verse 14, made one with the Commonwealth. Verse 14 and 15 is talking again, I mentioned this earlier, about the old covenant is abolished. And when you read the New Covenant, you see that the, or you read the New Testament, rather, it's the story of the New Covenant being established And in the early chapters of Acts, that new covenant comes to Israel. And then in Acts chapter 10, the Gentiles are brought in. to Israel under the new covenant, but it's all in Christ. It's all because of the Holy Spirit. It's all through faith. And what that's called, the new covenant coming to Israel, Gentiles being brought into that. What that's called, brothers and sisters, is the church. That's what that's called. That's called the church. The assembly of God. The assembly of believers, true believers in God, under the new covenant, made one It says, Reconciled to God. Verse sixteen. Reconciled to God. And then To close, to close, the final point is really just summarizing the main point we've been hammering at all morning. Jew and Gentile in Christ are at peace as God's chosen people. You have to have the in Christ in there. You take Christ out, everything falls apart. Jew and Gentile in Christ. Are at peace as God's chosen people. Verse sixteen. In one body through the cross, thereby killing the hostility. Right? So no more hostility there. They're at peace. Go back to verse 14, the very beginning. He himself is our peace. So there's peace. There's no hot more hostility is going. Now we have peace. Verse 15. The end. One new man in place of the two, so making peace. Alright, peace and then peace and then no hostility. The two are one. There's one body. There's one new man. It's obvious. It's obvious. Whereas the old covenant separated Gentiles from Israel, the new covenant in Christ unites Gentiles to Israel. Now In this passage you have the two or one new man, and in this passage you have the two or one body. Later in this chapter, you can glance down and cheat, but But the sermon will be coming soon in the future. Later in this chapter, you have the two are made one household of faith, and you have the two are made one temple of the Holy Spirit. In Romans 11, you have the two are made into one olive tree in fellowship with God. In John 10, you have the two are one flock shepherded by Christ. Is this clear enough for us? In Matthew 11, Jesus speaks of the kingdom of God as one feast at one table, Jew and Gentile dining together in the kingdom of God. Revelation 1, 6. We are one kingdom of priests to Almighty God. One olive tree, one flock, one feast, one table, one kingdom, one man, one body. One household, one temple. 1 Peter 2. 9. To the church, you are a chosen race a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you, you church, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light What is that marvelous light? He's called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. It's the marvelous light of marvelous light of life and communion with God. Now I've just tried to put a radical emphasis on that for us. As your pastor, I'm doing the best I can to put a radical, unceasing emphasis on life in communion with God. Pray for me in that. Help me in that. Join me in that. It's all about the glory of God and learning to live and learning to enjoy the blessedness of life in communion with God through faith in Jesus Christ. Pray daily for the spread of the gospel so that more Jews and more Gentiles from all nations and tribes would find unity in Christ. Pray daily for the spread of the gospel. Cherish Christ deeply for the power of his blood. We do need a knowledge of Christ, but you know what else we need, church? A deep, deep cherishing in our hearts of Christ and the power of his blood. Because his blood is what makes peace between all peoples, even in households. Amen. Pray daily for the spread of the gospel. Cherish Christ deeply for the power of his blood. Third and final, cherish his church. As the place where sinners are united in him as a magnificent display of his glory. We live in a day where we need a great and widespread revival of professing Christians. Cherishing the local church as God cherishes the local church. Let's pray. God, thank you for your word. Thank you for the power, the blood of Jesus. Thank you for Thank you for saving us. Thank you for not leaving us to a destiny of darkness and death and judgment. Thank you for sending Jesus to die as our substitute. Thank you for bringing this message into our lives. I pray that anyone here does not know Christ. I pray that you'd stir their hearts. I pray that you'd start to awaken their hearts. To the things of Christ, to the reality of the soul, of eternity, of your holiness and judgment. Pray that you'll burden their hearts to want to seek you and to want to find salvation. And God, we pray that you'll bring them to faith in Christ for every single one of us. We pray that you would purify us and sanctify us. We also pray that you would strengthen us and give us endurance in all the trials of life. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Amen.