More of a Bible study than a sermon organization. tonight and there will be lots of cross-references. Don't feel pressure that you have to turn to every one of them because I'll read them Of course, if you want that challenge, you want to try and keep up. I try to give time to turn to the cross references when I mention them. Um, but when there's so many of them, it's hard to do that. So you can just listen to them and write them down and check them out in their greater context later on. But you could tur you when I'm listening I usually do turn to them, even if I'm a little bit late. I like if Pastor Anthony tells us to turn somewhere and he starts talking about it before I get there. I just listen to him and eventually I get there and dots can start to connect. Um but I say all that because I just don't want you to feel pressure that you have to turn there and where that becomes a distraction. 2 Samuel 7, 1 to 17. Alright, that's our text. But we'll also throw in for good measure verse 29. So 2 Samuel 7, 1 to 17, and then verse 29, God's covenant with David, or the Davidic covenant. The core of the Davidic covenant is God. promises David a son who will also be God's son and who will establish God's kingdom forever. So I'll repeat that because there's a lot of different elements. to this Davidic covenant and to God's promises and a lot of different ways this fits into the biblical story. But the the essence is that God promises David a son. Who also will be God's son. Alright, so David's son, but also God's son. And will establish God's kingdom forever, or rule over God's kingdom forever. And uh, you know, there's so many different aspects to this that could fill up a whole message time even even in our Bible study if we were doing it on Wednesday. One of those aspects would be looking at the short-term fulfillment in Solomon. Which is a real thing. Short term fulfillment in Solomon under the old covenant, but an eschatological or a long term fulfillment in Christ. Now we won't we won't draw all of that out. I do hope to get to the fulfillment in Christ But God 's God promises David a son, who will also be God's son, and who will establish God's kingdom forever. This is the heart of God's covenant with David. I guess we should probably summarize what a covenant is, right? For those who don't know what a covenant is or just want a refresher. I mean there's so many different aspects to biblical covenants But the shortest, clearest definition of a covenant is it's a formal agreement. Alright? Like a marriage covenant is a formal agreement between husband and wife. A church covenant is a formal agreement. between or amongst the church members. A covenant is a formal agreement, but it's a specific kind of agreement agreement. It's an agreement that establishes a relationship and then governs the relationship. So that's what a covenant is. The actual covenant in this passage, 2 Samuel 7, is 8 to 16. So for the reading that we'll begin with, we're just going to look at verses 8 through 16, where we see the words of the covenant from God. Alright, so 2 Samuel, 2 Samuel chapter 7, verse 8. Now therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David. Thus says the Lord of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep, that you should be prince over my people, Israel. And I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you. And I will make for you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth. And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, so that they may dwell in their own place and be disturbed no more. And violent men shall afflict them no more, as formerly, from the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel And I will give you rest from all your enemies. Moreover, the Lord declares to you that the Lord will make you a house. When your days are fulfilled, and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men, with the stripes of the sons of men But my steadfast love will not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you, and your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me Your throne shall be established forever. When we get to it, we'll probably talk a little bit more about it, but from verses fourteen and fourteen and following You see something. I was going to say something of a hint, but it's stronger than a hint. You see something of the short-term fulfillment that will come in Solomon Because there's sonship, but there's also the committing of iniquity, and then God's discipline that follows. That does not happen with Jesus. That definitely happens with Solomon. In fact, at the height of Solomon's reign, which is the height of Israel's dominion, Solomon uh commits for all of his sin and all of his iniquity, God disciplines him, and actually the kingdom dividing after Solomon from into the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom, that's God's discipline on Israel for Solomon's sin. God prophesies that and he prophesies that as judgment as discipline for Solomon's sin. So that sonship certainly applies to Solomon, not Christ But you also have in the sonship a throne and a kingdom that's established forever. That is the opposite. That definitely does not apply to Solomon Solomon didn't reign forever. Solomon's not still reigning. Solomon only reigned for about 40 years. About 40 years, not exactly 40 years. But Jesus is the one who reigns forever. Jesus is the one who sits and throned forever over the people of God. So you have a short term and a long term sonship right just in those few verses This is the climactic Old Testament covenant. This is the climactic covenant. God develops and he moves forward his redemptive purposes through covenants. Um this is one of those things that if we were just to take this one rabbit trail, it would take at least an hour just to get the basics of this in terms of looking at the cross references. But you have covenantal features in the Garden of Eden. You have the Noahic covenant. You have God's covenant with Abraham that's passed on to Isaac and Jacob. So it's the covenant with the fathers, the covenant with Abraham, Isaac and Jacob. And then you have the Mosaic Covenant. You also have probably the least talked about one, but it is in Scripture, that God's covenant with Levi. You can just you can just go on a Bible app and do a search for covenant with Levi and you will find scriptures that use that phrase and talk about that. That's the covenant with the um the covenant of the priesthood. That the descendants of Levi were set apart to serve as priests, that was their inheritance. And of course The new covenant. All of those are pointing to the new covenant. All of those are leading to the new covenant, the final covenant. The covenant with David is the climactic Old Testament covenant, like all covenants, it points forward to Christ Like all covenants, it's fulfilled in Christ. And that's why the phrase Son of David is so important in the gospel narratives. Son of David is one of the titles of Jesus. It became to the point because of Old Testament revelation and the climactic role of the Davidic covenant that to say you're waiting for the Son of David and to say you're waiting for the Christ Is the same thing. To say Jesus is the Son of David and to say Jesus is the Savior is the same thing The Son of David, the Savior, the Christ, the Son of God, the one we've been waiting for, the one all of Scripture has been promising and moving toward. Ever since Genesis 3. 15 where the Redeemer is promised, where victory over sin is is promised and certain by a seed of the woman. And then that identity and where that where that savior will come from, all of Scripture is about that. And it all is is terminating on Christ. I think I tried to map out a very modest goal. All right. Why are you laughing? For tonight. So what I Hopefully we can do three things. First, I want to walk through this whole passage, 1 to 17. It's just so we can get the story in our minds and just so we can look at again the various promises that God gives to David. So I just want to walk through Secondly, I want to demonstrate and prove, give biblical warrant for the use of calling this a covenant. Calling this God's covenant with David or the Davidic covenant. Because you d that phrase is not in the passage. So there we're gonna have to go to one of the Handful of passages in the Old Testament where God uses that phrase. But I think that's important to do All right, it's not a covenant just because I call it a covenant, or it's traditional to call it a covenant. Uh scripture tells us that this was a a covenant So number one, we'll just walk through the story, get familiar with the story, look again at God's promises to David. Number two, just this will be the shortest. Um section, just show from scripture that this is a covenant. This is God's covenant with David. And number three, finally, we'll talk about how this is fulfilled in Christ. And of course we'll have to, you know, just pick one aspect of that because that's the whole New Testament is telling that story. And we don't have time to do a New Testament survey tonight. Do we? Do we have We'll do some choice passages. So let's just walk through the story and get the story familiar to us. Many, if not most of you, already know this story, but it's good just to get ourselves uh reoriented with it. So the first thing we see is God is going to stop David from building a house for God. That's verses one to seven. God stops David from building a house for God. David has this goal. David has this idea. David has this purpose. And here comes God putting a stop to it. God stops David from doing what David wants to do, from what David thinks is right. God stops David from building a house for God. Verses 1 through 7. Now when the king lived in his house, and the Lord had given him rest from all his surrounding enemies, the king said to Nathan the prophet , See now, I dwell in the house of Cedar, but the ark of God dwells in a tent. And Nathan said to the king, Go, do all that is in your heart. But that same night the word of the Lord came to Nathan. Go and tell my servant David, thus says the Lord, Would you build me a house to dwell in? I have not lived in a house since the day I brought up the people of Israel from Egypt to this day But I have been moving about in a tent for my dwelling. In all the places where I have moved with all the people of Israel, did I speak a word with any of the judges of Israel? whom I commanded to Shepherd my people Israel, saying, Why have you not built me a house of cedar? That's a good question, isn't it? Did God ever ask them that? How come you haven't built me a house of cedar? Did God ever command them that? Build me a house of cedar? In the time of the judges In the time of the judges, that was one of the most wicked times in all of history, certainly Israel's history. This this this cycle of idolatry and sexual immorality and and unhinged violence And then eventually th the people would cry out to God for a savior and there'd be repentance and God would send them a savior and give them peace, give them rest, but then they'd fall right back into their idolatry. God was just looking for basic obedience. God never said build him a house. So he stops David in his tracks. I don't need a house of cedar is essentially what he's saying. God has been with David, he says. God has been with David. God has been with Israel. Despite not having a house, God has established David over his enemies without having a house. Now a house will come, a temple will come, but it will come when God wants it to come. And it will be built through the servants that God chooses. So this is first. David has this idea of building a house for the ark, for God's throne of cedar, and God stops him through the prophet Nathan. The word of the Lord came to Nathan. Stop this right now. Go tell David, stop this. So that's first. Now second, verses 8 to 11, God promises David that he will build a house for David. So he completely flips it around. He stops David from building a house for God, but he promises David God will build a house for him. Verses 8 to eleven. Now therefore, thus you shall say to my servant David, Thus says the Lord of hosts, I took you from the pasture, from following the sheep. That you should be prince over my people Israel. And I have been with you wherever you went, And have cut off all your enemies from before you, and I will make for you a great name, like the name of the great ones of the earth. And I will appoint a place for my people Israel, and will plant them, so that they may dwell in their own place, and be disturbed no more, and violent men shall afflict them no more as formerly From the time that I appointed judges over my people Israel, and I will give you rest from all your enemies. Moreover, the Lord declares to you that the Lord will make you a house So he'll make him a great name, like the names of the great ones. He'll appoint a place for Israel, give them dominion over their enemies, give them Victory, give them rest, and then in verse eleven, the end, the Lord will make you a house. The Lord will make you a house Um, the reign of David and the reign of Solomon taken together is Relatively speaking, that's the golden age for Israel. This is a time where well I took some notes just to summarize it. Um It's the time of a united kingdom. David was able to unite the kingdom. When David first began to reign, he reigned seven and a half years from Hebron just over Judah. But then he was able to unite the kingdom, and for thirty-three years he reigned from Jerusalem over all of Israel. Oh, and by the way, capturing Jerusalem and establishing a capital city of Jerusalem, that happened. uh defeating the enemies and actually expanding territory and exercising dominion over surrounding peoples. That happened. This is all in the reign of David and the reign of Solomon. They became incredibly prosperous. And, and this is not a small thing, they had godly rulers David, a man after God's own heart, and Solomon, also a believer, a man of wisdom and godliness, who walked in the fear of the Lord. And the temple was built. This glorious temple of Solomon was built. And it was it was the this is the high point. David's reign and Solomon's reign taken together. Before that was always trouble and enemies of God afflicting God's people because of their sin. And after that is always trouble. The divided kingdom, ongoing war, ongoing treaties with pagan nations and eventually northern kingdom Judgment upon them using Assyria into exile. Southern kingdom, judgment upon them using Babylon, exile So these short-term, these promises did see fulfillment in the short term in the kingdom of Israel, which is the kingdom of God under the Old Testament, or under the Old Covenant, rather. So you have God stops David from building a house for God. God promises David that he will build a house for David. That's verse 11. I will build you a house. The Lord will make you a house. Next, you see that God promises David a son. This would be 12 to 13. We'll also throw in verse 16 here. God promises David a son, not only a son to build that house, but to establish his kingdom forever. Verse twelve When your days are fulfilled, and you lie down with your fathers, I will raise up Your offspring after you, who shall come from your body, and I will establish his kingdom. He shall build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom Forever. Now down to verse sixteen, and your house and your kingdom shall be made sure forever before me. Your throne shall be established forever. Boy, that's um that word forever keeps popping up, doesn't it? It's one of the key words here. So God promises David his son not only to build that house, but to establish his kingdom forever. Now we've heard the story so many times When we saw in verse 11 where God says the Lord will make you a house, we already knew it was going to be after David's lifetime. But at this time, David doesn't know that yet. That's why the first thing he uh is said after that, when your days are fulfilled and when you lie down with your fathers. So David won't see the fulfillment of this, either short term or long term. David, this is going to be after you die After you lie down with your fathers, then I'll raise up your offspring after you, who will come from your body, and I'll establish his kingdom, and he shall build a house for my name. So this house is going to be for God, but this will be built not by David, but by David's Son. God promises David a son, not only to build this house, but to establish God's kingdom forever. So the kingdom that's here is the house for David. That's what's going to make David's gr name great, like the great ones of the earth. David's house will be a people. David's house will be a kingdom. God will have a house in this picture. It's just not built by David. And it's Solomon who's going to build that temple. And the Ark of God will go in the temple, that's God's throne, in God's holy place where God is worshipped, where prayers are made, where offerings are made, where incense is burnt, where the priests minister Where people come to worship and sing God's praises, where the law of God is read and studied and proclaimed and taught. Solomon will build that house. But Jesus builds the final house, the final temple, which is the church. And how timely. Anthony read one of those passages this morning in his sermon where The scripture calls the church God's temple. You are God's temple. So the thing that the architectural temple symbolized is realized in the church. It's fulfilled in the church, which is the presence of God with His people. And as those who are filled with the Holy Spirit of Christ, we do enjoy the greatest measure of communion with God that could ever be experienced on earth and that historically has ever been experienced on earth Communion with the exalted Christ. Having the Holy Spirit. That's why the big deal at the beginning of Acts is the pouring out of the Holy Spirit. Because that hadn't happened yet. The Spirit is working in the Old Testament. Always. The Spirit of God was working and involved in salvation. But not to the measure of the new covenant when we receive and we get to walk in the joy and newness of life of the Spirit of the risen Christ. So first, God stops David from building a house for God. And second, God promises David that he'll build a house for David. Third, God promises David a son. Not only a son that's going to build this house that David had wanted, but also a son that's going to establish God's kingdom forever. Here's called David's kingdom. This is what you see in the Davidic the Davidic covenant, the Davidic Messianic theology, David's kingdom is God's kingdom. God's kingdom is David's kingdom. God's throne is going to become David's throne. David's Sone is going to become God's throne. David's house that's prophesied is going to be God's house. God's house is going to be David's house. Because all of these are pointing to Christ And Christ is the representative king over the kingdom of God, and Christ is God. So that's why there's a merging, there's a coming together in these various elements. And finally, God promises that David's son will also be God's son. These to me are the most exciting and the most interesting. From a overall biblical perspective. God promises that David's son will also be God's son. Verse 14 and 15. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. When he commits iniquity, I will discipline him with the rod of men. With the stripes of the sons of men, but but my steadfast love will not depart from him as I took it from Saul, whom I put away from before you. Saul was not a believer Saul was not a son of God. Saul was an unbeliever. Saul was lost. And here you have a contrast between David's son, who will be a believer, who will be a son of God. A contrast between David's son and Saul. So David's son will be disciplined as a son. That's different than receiving judgment as an unbeliever. Discipline for a son is different than judgment on unbelievers. God's discipline for us is a sign that He loves us. God disciplines us because He loves us. This is clearly outlined in Scripture, especially the book of Hebrews. What kind of parent gives no energy to teaching their children or disciplining their children. That's called a negligent parent. Vince is going to thumbs down. Yeah, because discipline is because we love Discipline is because we love. And so when Solomon sins, he's disciplined out of God's love because he is a son of God. That wasn't true for Saul. And Look at verse 14, the first sentence in verse 14 I just want to point this out again because when we get to the last section, fulfilled in Christ, we're going to see this is quoted in the book of Hebrews. It's quoted in the book of Hebrews, and it's quoted as something that God the Father says to God the Son. Alright, and that's just one piece of the many pieces of evidence that this is fulfilled in Christ ultimately. When this verse is quoted, this Davidic covenant is quoted. And the author of Hebrews puts this verse on the lips of God the Father, speaking directly to God the Son, about the Son's eternal sonship and enthronement in heaven. All right. But we'll get there. But that's verse 14. I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. So that's the story God stops David from building this house for God. And God promises David he'll build him a house. We get the details of that in different ways. It's not a building, it's a kingdom. It's a great name. Then third, God promises David a son, not only that's going to build that house that David had wanted, but Establish his kingdom forever, and then finally God promises that David's son will also be God 's son Now, biblical warrant that this is a covenant. Turn to Psalm 89. Psalm 89, 3 and 4. And if you have a good study Bible or a commentary. And you were to start here and just look at some marginal references or cross references, you'll see other passages that use the language or that deal with this theology of the covenant with David. But for tonight's Tonight's purpose, just to give a little bit of biblical warrant, just to prove that this is a biblical concept and not something we're imposing on the text. Psalm eighty Psalm 89, 3 and 4 is what I have written down. I'm just scanning over it to see if there's any others I want to include. No, three and four for now is good. Um, you have said, I have made a covenant with my chosen one. I have sworn to David, my servant, I will establish your offspring forever and build your throne for all generations. Now, this is one of those interesting verses where it it's The Bible giving commentary on the Bible. The Bible making a comment, giving an interpretation of the Bible. Um and he is referring to The Davidic covenant, and that's where he calls it. In verse 3, I've made a covenant with my chosen one. I've sworn to David, my servant. That's a parallelism. David is the chosen one, his servant, and the covenant in verse three is the I've sworn later in verse three. And then scan down to verse twenty-eight. And twenty-nine, still Psalm eighty-nine, my steadfast love I will keep for him forever. And my covenant will stand firm for him. I will establish his offspring forever, and his throne as the days of the heaven, which is just another way of saying forever. This whole Psalm centers on the Davidic covenant as one instance, as one proof of God's love. And then here are all the details of God's love and and what he promised, what he swore, centered on this Davidic. covenant. And again, I just wanted to give you a snippet of that, just a little taste of that tonight. Study out the cross references, study out the marginal references, and you'll see more language about This Davidic covenant. But you'll see the central role of this because this is the climactic covenant of the Old Testament history, God's redemptive plan before Christ. So we've walked through the story. We've looked at a little bit of the biblical warrant. Now let's look at this fulfilled in Christ. Fulfilled in Christ. Turn to Hebrews 1. 5. Hebrews 1. 5. I mean the practical application should be apparent whenever we start talking about promises of the kingdom of God or um promises of an eternal kingdom. From first page to last page, the story of the New Testament is the kingdom of God has come in Christ, and through faith in him, we're citizens of that kingdom. And it's called the kingdom of God, it's called the kingdom of Christ, the kingdom of his beloved son, it's called the kingdom of heaven. It's called different Things, but it it was established in Christ, and through faith in him we're citizens of heaven. We're citizens of that kingdom. That's a really big deal because that's the only way to share in the blessings of forgiveness. That's the only way to share in the blessings of the hope of eternal life. Local churches are like kingdom outposts. We're little little miniature kingdoms, expressions of God's kingdom on earth. That's the way he's organized his kingdom on earth. It's no longer a geopolitical nation. It's uh numerous, multiple local churches spread and spreading all over the world. Hebrews 1. 5, we see the promised son, the promised son. Fulfilled in Christ, where the Son promised to David fulfilled in Christ. Hebrews 1:5. For to which of the angels Did God ever say, You are my son, today I have begotten you? So this can be a little confusing just because it's a u it's kind of unique. in the extent that Hebrews does this. It's not unique that it's the only place where this happens. But it's unique the extent that it does this and how important it is in the book. Talks about the God the God the Father's speaking to the Son. And he says, For which of the w for to which of the angels did God ever say You are my son today I have begotten you. So does God ever say that to an angel? Right. So that's the answer. None He said that to the sun. The whole first paragraph is about the sun and the excellency of the sun. And now he's continuing that argument He hasn't said this to angels. Angels aren't this glorious. Angels don't have this authority. Angels haven't achieved this redemption. The glory of the sun far exceeds the glory of angels. Or again, or again, middle of verse 5, middle of Hebrews 1. 5, or again, I will be to him a father, and he shall be to me a son. That's 2 Samuel seven. And it's the Father speaking to the Son. That's the construction of this whole section. Verse 5: For to which of the angels did God ever say? So this is God saying things to the Son. Then there's a whole series of them. It goes all the way up, all the way up through verse 13. Different things the Father says to the Son, different things the Father says about the Son, and one of those things is quoting the Davidic covenant. You are my son, today I've begotten you. Look at verse eight. Of the Son, he says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. And the scepter of uprightness is the scepter of your kingdom. Now that's not straight from that's from a psalm, that's not from the Davidic covenant. But it's the same idea. The everlasting kingdom, the everlasting throne. So the stone that was promised arrives in Christ. You know, this very point of theology that we're on is the thing that stumped the Pharisees once for all. There's lots of things that stumped the Pharisees, right? They were not nearly as knowledgeable as they thought. But this was Matthew twenty two, you can turn there, Matthew twenty two, this was like the climactic stumping of the Pharisees and publicly silencing the Pharisees. Matthew 22, 41 to 46 Jesus asked them a question about um the Christ and relating it, it ends he ends up relating it because of their answer to David. And who's the son of David? And they just can't grasp it. They just can't grasp how the son of David is the son of God and therefore equal to God. Matthew 22, 41. Now while the Pharisees were gathered together, Jesus asked them a question, saying, What do you think about the Christ? Whose son is he? They said to him, The son of David. Now let's just pause right there. Are they right or wrong about that? Right. But now if you ask them for the definition of the son of David Right? Because you could ask someone, that's that's like asking someone, do you believe that Jesus died on the cross? Lots of people would say yes, but then you ask, okay, well, what did he actually accomplish on the cross? There are lots of people who will say, well he's just setting the greatest example of love. He's setting the greatest example of sacrificial love. Yeah, but don't you also believe that he bore our sins in his body on that tree that he received the judgment of God. There are lots of people who deny that. So you can't just have the words, you can't just have the surface. You have to have the meaning. So they're right when they say the son of David. So that's why Jesus says verse forty-three, he said to them, How is it then that David, in the Spirit, calls him Lord? David Calling the son of David Lord. Right? How is it that David in the Spirit, which means under the inspiration of Scripture, we'd put in our modern life modern Language immediately David is functioning as a prophet. David is speaking the words of God, not just David's opinion. David says in the spirit Lord, he calls in Lord saying, verse 44, the Lord said to my Lord Sit at my right hand until I put your enemies under your feet. If then David calls him Lord, how is he his son? That was that stumped him. If David's calling him Lord, how can he be his son? Because the son is lesser. The heir is lesser. So why is David calling his heir, his descendant, Lord? Well, because his descendant is God in the flesh, that's why. But the Pharisees didn't believe that. They believed Jesus maybe was a prophet, or at least a potential prophet. They didn't believe he was the Son of God. They didn't believe he was God incarnate. Verse 46, and no one was able to answer him a word, nor from that day did anyone dare to ask him any more questions. They didn't have their Davidic theology or their messianic theology fully worked out. They knew in the scriptures at the superficial level, they knew the scriptures. That the Christ is going to be the son of David. The Christ will come in the house of David, will be an heir of David. But they didn't understand Sonship the way they needed to, that the son of David is also the son of God, and therefore the son of David is Lord over David. David's sins are forgiven by virtue of the sacrifice of the son of David. Jesus is the son of David. Over and over again in the gospel narratives. He's the son of David. So the Son who's promised is given in Christ. That's Hebrews 1 and Matthew 22. The throne that's promised. Is sat on by Christ, the throne that's promised. That was our reading, Acts 2. This is a central point. This is the last major Roman numeral point of Peter's sermon. That's Christ exalted and enthroned in heaven is the fulfillment of God's throne promise to David. Acts 2. Specifically 24 to 32. So the sun that's promised, fulfilled in Christ, the throne that's promised, fulfilled in Christ, the temple that's promised, fulfilled in Christ. Or the house of God, the house of God that's promised, is fulfilled in Christ, of course, because it's the Son who builds the house, it's the Son who builds the house, it's the Son who establishes the kingdom. And these ones I don't think you'll have, these are the ones I was talking about. You won't have time to turn to these, but 1 Corinthians 3, 16 and 17. Scripture calls the church God's temple, which means God calls the church God's temple. Do you not know that you are God's temple? And that God's Spirit dwells in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. For God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. That's why we don't hesitate to say that. We rejoice to say that You are God's temple. We are God's temple. Because we get that from Scripture. 2 Corinthians 6. 16 to 18. You'll get this twice today. What agreement has the temple of God with idols? For we are the temple of the living God. As God said, I will make my dwelling among them and walk among them, and I will be their God, and they shall be my people. And there's more to that. There's more that's um referencing Not referencing. That's quoting Leviticus 26, 12. There's more to that quote. But the point I want to make, it's sufficient just to say that, again, Paul Is quoting an old covenant promise about the temple, about God's dwelling with his people, and he's quoting it as being fulfilled in the church. Because he says, we are the temple of the living God, as God said, and then he gives the verse. So as God said here about his temple, we are that temple. And that's why in verse 7, or not verse 7, sorry, chapter 7, verse 1 He says, since we have these promises. Now that's intriguing. That should catch our attention. Since we have these promises. Because he just quoted quoted promises to Israel from the book of Leviticus. And he says, we, the church, have these promises. We are the benef beneficiaries. Of the fulfillment of these promises. They're fulfilled in Christ. We are the temple. Ephesians 2, there are more than these. I've just picked out my three favorites, the three clearest, I believe. But if you find a clearer one, I'm glad to add it to my list. Ephesians 2, 21 and 22, Paul is talking about the church And in the middle of a sentence talking about the church and what God is doing in the church, he says, in him in whom Christ Jesus the cornerstone, in whom the whole structure being joined together grows into a holy temple in the Lord. In him, you also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit A dwelling place for God, a house for God, the temple of God on earth. That's how high of a view we should have of the local church It's not a side issue. It's not a maybe if we get around to it. This is the way God has chosen to dwell upon the face of the earth that he made. Local churches, spirit-filled local churches are the temple of God. In the old covenant, you had one temple. Well you have the two false ones, false idolatrous , fake temples that Jeroboam set up in the northern kingdom. You had one real temple in Jerusalem, the city of God. But in the church age, who knows how many temples of God we have spread all over the world? I mean who knows? And they're continue to spread. It's just incredible w the power of the gospel. The infiltrating unstoppable power of the gospel to change hearts and establish local churches. Do you know there are churches that in North Korea? That's astounding. We would never think the gospel would be able to make it in there with the darkness there and the persecution. And the illegal nature. But um, and then sometimes I look at a map and I look at Greenland and I'm like, whoa, there are churches in Greenland I mean nothing can stop the gospel. It doesn't spread as quickly as we would want it to spread, does it? It's like our own sanctification. Man, I really wish I've been able to repent from some sins a whole lot more quicker than I'm able to. But God keeps us humble, doesn't He? And he keeps us leaning on him, and he keeps us looking to him, and he keeps us trusting in him and trusting in his wisdom. And we have to believe in his power, the power of the gospel, to build temples of God all over the earth. But the church is the temple of God. I mean there's just no arguing it. This is what Scripture says explicitly, explicitly, literally, we are the temple. So the promised son, the promised throne, the promised temple, fulfilled in Christ and the promised kingdom Philippians 3. 20, our citizenship is in heaven. Colossians 1. 13 to 14, we've been transferred into the kingdom of Christ. 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10. If you want these, just see me after. 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10, where God's chosen nation, his chosen race, his holy race, his holy nation. 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10. Romans fourteen, seventeen to nineteen , the one I want to close on, because this gets to the Spirit The spirit, the mindset, the ethic of the kingdom of God. Romans 14, 17 to 19. For the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking, But of righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men So then, let us pursue what makes for peace and mutual upbuilding. Well, let's all of us do that. Pursue. It's the idea of chasing after. Chasing after this thing you really, really want. It's just let us let us pursue what makes for peace and mutual upbuilding. It's in the it's in the a section on practical discipleship on debatable matters, matters of conscience. And that's why it says the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking. Food laws. That's what he's saying. It's not a matter of food laws. And it's not a matter it's it's don't get hung up on these debatable issues. Don't get hung up on these matters of personal conscience. It's just going to turn us against each other if we do that. He says the kingdom of God is not a matter of eating and drinking. But the kingdom of God is a matter of righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. So personal practical obedience. That's righteousness. Peace, being peacemakers, not being peace. This comes from a book. This language isn't mine. Um I think the name of the book is just called The Peacemaker. But not peace fakers and not peace breakers, but proactive peacemakers and joy. Joy in the Holy Spirit. That's what the kingdom of God is about. It is about spiritual blessings, it is about invisible blessings, it is about eternal blessings, it is about heaven, it is it is about the reign of Christ. And it is about theology and how Scripture fits together and how Scripture interprets Scripture. But you know what on the ground level Rubber meets the road, boots on the ground. The kingdom of God is about this. It's about righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. It's about pursuing what makes for peace and mutual upbuilding. That's what makes us faithful, spirit-filled citizens of the kingdom of God. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for all that you've done in Christ. Thank you for your word to us. Pray that your spirit will continue to transform us into the likeness of Christ. Let it be for your glory. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.