We invite you, church, to open with me to Joel chapter three. Joel chapter three, we'll be looking this evening at verses one. And as we begin to look at this passage tonight, I want to start by doing something that's maybe a little bit scary and invite you into my mind. Don't worry, I promise we won't stay there long. There's a situation that I face just about every week it seems, that every time absolutely Terrifies me. I'll be driving somewhere in Harford County. I'll look up in my rear view mirror and I'll notice that the car directly behind me is a And whenever this happens, I'm just like suddenly reminded of every wrong thing I've ever done in my entire life. Now I'm not a particularly reckless driver. I can still count on one hand the number of times I've been pulled over. But without fail in these situations, my conscience just becomes overrun with guilt. Now, where Patty Lynn and I live in Haberty Grace, because we are technically a city with an excellent White House. Don't let any of our pastors tell you differently. We have our own city police force. And so when I'm driving around that area and I look up and I see Black SUV with a yellow stripe on the side. Suddenly I'm convinced that I'm gonna be pulled over because when I was eight years old I hit my brother and took his tooth Here's the thing though. If I were driving here around Jarretttsville and I were to see that same Harity Grace police car, I wouldn't be bothered a bit. My conscience would be clear Why? Well, because I'm outside of their jurisdiction. They have an authority, the Haberde Grace Police Department has an authority that's bound by the geography of Haberty Grace. But you step outside that boundary and they have not the same kind of authority over you. It's it's regional and it's limited. Just like your boss can tell you what to do when you're at work, but they can't come to your house and tell you how to floss. At least they shouldn't. As we come to our text tonight in the book of Joel, one of the questions that we're going to be considering is where does God's authority end? Is it regional like a city police force? Or situational like a manager? Is he a provincial deity Thus far, just to remind us where we've been in the book of Joel, we've seen God proclaim a message of judgment and of repentance and of salvation to his people under the old covenant. The people of Judah. We've seen the judgment that he's brought against them because of their sin in the form of this plague of locusts He said that unless they repent and return to him, more judgment is coming. And in fact, he's going to use the surrounding nations as instruments of his judgment. We've also seen though God promised this future restoration and salvation for his people. One which would include a historic restoration of the land in their time, but one that was ultimately pointing forward to an even greater restoration and salvation, where God would pour out his spirits and where God would accomplish a final salvation. For all who call upon the name of the Lord. Saw that at the end of chapter 2. All of this, though, prompts a question for the people of Judah. What about the nations? What about their sin? God has said that he was going to use the nations as instruments of his judgment against the people of Judah. We see that elsewhere in God's word as well in the Old Testament. Do they just get off scot-free? Are they somehow outside of God's jurisdiction? Well, our passage this evening is going to give us a decisive answer to that. question it. And what we're going to see is that God rightly brings judgment against all sin, against all wickedness, and against all rebellion against God. Just as he brings salvation to all who call upon his name, he brings a right and just condemnation against all who persists in their He's the sovereign king over all of heaven and earth. So the nations, those who have oppressed and opposed his people, they won't go unpunished. And what we need to recognize is that what was true about the nations in Joel's day is also true about every single person who has ever lived. We're going to see tonight in this text a word of sobering clarity about the kind of judgment that all sin deserves before a holy and righteous God. We're also though going to see a word of great comfort. Because though God judges sin, we're also going to see that he is a refuge of salvation for his people. Therefore, even though we are sinners and we deserve condemnation and judgment, we can through faith rest with a an abiding and eternal confidence. And that's really the main point we're going to see this evening. If you have an outline, you can see it there. God brings certain judgment against all who oppose his rule, but he's a refuge of salvation for all who oppose. Let's read Joel chapter three beginning in verse one. For behold, in those days and at that time when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem, I will gather all the nations, and bring them down to the valley of Jehoshaphat, and I will enter into judgment with them there, on behalf of my people and my heritage Israel, because they have scattered them among the nations. And have divided up my land, and have cast lots for my people, and have traded a boy for a prostitute, and have sold a girl for wine and have drunkness. What are you to me, O Tyre and Sidon, and all the Regent of Calixia? Are you paying me back for something? If you're paying me back, I will return your payment on your own head swiftly and speedily. For you have taken my silver and my gold, and have carried my rich treasures into your temples. You have sold the people of Judah and Jerusalem to the temple. Behold, I will stir them up from the place to which you have sold them, and I will return your payment on your own hand. Head. I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the people of Judah, and they will sell them to the Sabaeans, to a nation far away, for the Lord has spoken. Proclaim this among the nations. Consecrate for war. Stir up the mighty men. Let all the men of war draw near. Let them come up. Beat your plowshares into swords. And your pruning hooks Into spears. Let the weak say, I am a warrior. Hasten and come, all you surrounding nations, and gather yourselves there. Bring down your warriors, O Lord. Let the nations stir themselves up and come up to the valley of the For there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. Put in the sickle for the harvest is ripe. Go in, tread, for the wine press is full. The vats overflow, for their evil is great. Multitudes, multitudes in the valley of decision, for the day of the Lord is near in the valley of decision. Decision. The sun and the moon are darkened, and the stars withdraw their shining. The Lord roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth wait. But the Lord is a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel. As we walk through this passage tonight, there are three realities that we're going to consider. We're gonna see first a certain judgment, secondly a stunning reversal, and then finally a sure rep. Turn first to consider God's certain judgment. So as God promises a future salvation for his people, one where he'll pour out his spirit on them. He also promises to bring Bring certain judgment against his enemies. Those who have opposed and have oppressed his people, he will oppose. one and two. Look at it again. It says, Behold, in those days and at that time when I restore the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem, I will gather all the nations and bring them down into the valley of Jehoshaphat. And I will Notice several things. Notice first of all the recipients of this judgment, all the nations. In other words, in our context, not Israel, not God's people who call upon his name, not those whose fortunes are going to be restored. And consider this. Consider the comfort that this would be. You're a citizen of Judah living in Joel's day. There are these surrounding wicked nations who seem all powerful, who are threatening you and attacking you and oppressing you. And it seems like they just have free reign to do whatever they want. However m things might seem though, Joel tells us here that these These surrounding nations, they are accountable to God. And this teaches us what the Bible says over and over again, which is that God is Lord over heaven and earth. His authority is not bound under the old covenant by the geography of Israel. And therefore, rest assured that he sees the sinful oppression of the nations against his people , he's going to call them into account. Now in the near context of our passage in Joel, this is referring to the the surrounding nations that were at that time opposing and oppressing the people of Judah. Oh, there is a broader theological reality though that we need to see that this point Which is one that's simple but one that we need to hear again and again. All people are accountable to God. Every single person you have ever met or ever will meet, regardless of whether or not they've ever set foot in a church or heard the name of Jesus, is accountable to God and will one day stand before Him for God. Those who, like these nations, persist in hard-hearted rebellion against their holy and righteous and all-powerful Creator. They will face his just judgment for sin. Scripture is not at all ambiguous about this. And we need to continue to have clarity on this point from God's word. There are some who will kind of throw out and brandish the phrase, well only God can judge me. As though that's some kind of a comfort. Friends, we should take no comfort whatsoever in that phrase. God has authority not only to bring judgment against his own people, but against all who have sinned against him. Which when we get to the third point So we see the recipients of this judgment. See next the place of judgment The place of judgment is in our passage the valley of Jehoshaphat. You see that in verse 2. You also see that in verse twelve. Literally the word means Yahweh judges. And then down in verse 14 it's called the Valley of Decision. And I love the imagery that this presents us with. So again, consider the nations, they've acted as though God has no authority, as though they can just do whatever they want. But he's going to gather them into the place where it's clear who's in charge. It's clear who judges. These nations, they've acted as though they're the ones who decide their own fate. As though they're the captains of their own souls. They'll be brought to the place where God and God alone are the ones. That's why it's called the Valley of Decision, because it's the valley of God's decision against them. It's not as though they get to decide their fate before God. God is the one who decides We need to recognize that every single sinner is on an eternal collision course with reality. And when we stand before God one day, no No one is going to doubt whether or not God has the right to judge. No one's gonna doubt whether or not God is really in charge. And the place of judgment here in Joel proclaims that to us loudly. See next the purpose of this judgment. The purpose of this judgment. I want you to look at the middle of verse 2. There he says, I will enter into judgment with them there, on behalf of my people. And my heritage, Israel. By judging the nations who have opposed Israel, God is going to vindicate his people Which means ultimately he is going to vindicate his own holy name. He's going to show that he is the true God who is over all. There was this assumption in the ancient world that if you defeat You get a really vivid picture of this in Scripture in 1 Samuel chapters 4 through 6. 6, where the Philistines are in battle against the Israelites, and they defeat the Israelites, and they take the ark, and they put the ark in the temple of their god Dagon. The point of that is they're saying Dagon has defeated Yahweh. Look, we have the ark. You can read that passage and see how well that works out for the Philistines. But here in our text you have these nations who sim seemingly just have free reign to unjustly oppress God's people. And the assumption then is that they must be more powerful than God. These Israelites, they've placed their hope in a God who can't even protect them. But again, see that God's ultimate judgment is going to set the record straight. He is going to vindicate his people whose appointments in him and therefore he's going to vindicate his own holy name through the right judgment that falls on his enemies You see the purpose of this judgment in Joel. Well, in verses two through six, God presents his case against the nations. And see the the list of things that God brings as a charge against them and their sin. They've scattered the people of Israel. They've divided the land. They've cast lots for God's people. They've sold God's people into slavery, and then they've pursued wickedness with the prophets. They've taken God's silver and God's gold and they've used it for false worship. Again, all things that make it seem like the nations can just get away But God is saying here to his people, don't look for what steam. I will judge them for their wickedness and for their injustice You can hear in this text, I think, overtones of what we read in Romans chapter 1, that God's just wrath is revealed from heaven against all ungodly, all unrighteousness of man. No one gets a pass. No sin flies under the radar. And if any sin did fly under the radar, then God would not be just. God would not be God. And friends, we also need to see that if it were not for God's grace, we would be in the same state of rebellion. We'd be the ones pursuing and perpetuating wickedness and living in rebellion, open-faced rebellion against him. Sometimes our rebellion looks a little bit more polite to the world, but it's no less rebellious. Finally, before we move on to point number two See one final thing, see that it is God who brings this judgment. We see this language all throughout our passage. Verse 2, he says, I will gather, I will enter into judgment. You look down in verses seven and eight, and even when God uses his people as an instrument of judgment against the nations, it's God himself who's portrayed as the judgment Now this is kind of an obvious point, perhaps, but it's something vital for us to see. God is the one who judges, not God's people. God carries out the sentence, not us. Vengeance belongs to him. And therefore, because of this, As God's people, we are freed to do the unthinkable. We're free to love our enemies and to pursue their good. Consider Romans chapter twelve verses nineteen Beloved, never avenge yourselves, but leave it to the wrath of God. For it is written, Vengeance is mine, I will repay, says the Lord. To the contrary, if your enemy is hungry, feed him. Be thirsty, give him something to drink. For by doing so you will heap burning coals on his head. There's this stunning countercultural reality This call to do good to the very ones who would seek to do us harm. But see the logic. That only works, that only makes sense if we grasp that God's the judge and not us. So we can trust him. We can trust in the righteousness of his judgments. We don't have to take vengeance in the arms. And that's good because we are not God So we see here that in Joel, as God speaks about the nations, there's this certain final judgment for all who persist in their rebellion. against sin. No sin in God's universe is going to go unaccountable. Well this prompts another question, what is it that this judgment will look like? We see here in this text that it is to And we turn to consider that under point number two, we see a stunning reversal. So in verses 1 through 6, God has pronounced judgment and he's made his case against the nations. Now beginning in verses 7 and 8, he declares what that judgment will look like. And we see that it's depicted as this great kind of reversal of fortunes. So they've oppressed and scattered God's people. Now they're going to be oppressed and scattered. Now this theme of reversal is one that we could just trace throughout all of Scripture. You have so many moments in the storyline of redemption where it seems as though the wicked are prospering. As though they seem to wield the power and the authority while the righteous suffer. But in the end, the power of the wicked is overthrown And they come to nothing while God upholds and blesses and vindicates his people. And that's exactly what we see happening here. Look with me at verses seven and eight. Behold, I will stir them up from the place to which you have sold them, and I will return your payment on your own head. I will sell your sons and your daughters into the hand of the people of Judah, and they will sell them the disobedience. To a nation far away. For the Lord has spoken. So see the reversal there. They had sold and scattered God's people. They're going to be sold and scattered. It's as though they're falling into the trap that they themselves had set. They had profited off their wickedness and their oppression against God. people. Well now the bill is coming due. Now you might be reading along and you might have a question, when does this judgment of reversal take place? Did this happen at some point in Israel's history? Does it happen connected to chapter 3 and back to verse to chapter 2 when God restored the fortunes of Judah and Jerusalem? Pentecost? Or is it something that's still yet to happen? Is this pointing forward to final judgment? Let me just first of all be honest and say that that's a question I've continued to wrestle with as I've studied this But I believe it there's a sense in which we can affirm that all three of those are true. You'll notice first of all that the nations in this passage no longer exist. I've personally been to Sidon, and I can tell you that the only thing of note there is a Popeyes. I've eaten there. True story. Wasn't very good. But they're not the global powerhouse that they were in this day. We see historic judgments that these nations no longer exist. They're no longer thriving in perpetuating wickedness. We also see though, and connected back to chapter two, the end of chapter two, at Pentecost, when God's Spirit was poured out on his church, just as salvation was proclaimed in the name of Of Jesus, simultaneously judgment was pronounced on all who reject Jesus and reject the salvation that he had come to bring. Yet even still we know that all of God's judgments that are pronounced in history are always ultimately pointing forward to the final judgment that is to come at the end of the So while we can have lots of good discussions on when and how this is exactly to be fulfilled, I don't want us to miss this broad theme of reversal. God's enemies who seem powerful now will be brought to judgment. And God's people will be vindicated. This theme of reversal then continues in verses You'll notice that thus far in our passage one through eight, God had been, through the prophet Joel, speaking to the people Well beginning in verse nine, God has a message for the nations. What's the Message? Get ready for war. You want to persist in your rebellion against the god of the universe? Fine. Muster up your forces. Let's see who prevails. Let's see how far all your strength gets you. And if we consider what God says to the nations Here and think about it in contrast to what God has said to his people Judah throughout the book of Joel. We can see this theme of reversal so clearly So in verses nine through eleven, the nations are called to gather all their forces and all their resources to prepare for war against Almighty. God. Gather your mighty men. Gather your warriors, says in verse 9. Verse 10, he says, take your tools for farming and make them into weapons. Now remember that God had promised that he would restore the fortunes of Judah by restoring their land. It's depicted as this restoration of the harvest back in chapter two, verses twenty-two through twenty-six. The nations, though, are to take their tools of harvesting and turn them into weapons In verse 10, even the weak are to come armed and ready to fight. Bring your full force against God, in other words. See what And again contrast this with chapter two, verses twelve through s seventeen, where God called on everyone from among his people, even newlyweds and nursing infants, to turn to him in repentance. You have this kind of total repentance from the heart on the one hand for God's people, but this total conflict with God against his enemies on the other hand. The imagery though gets even stronger than that. And I love how this imagery just tells the true story of what's really going to happen in the But look at verse 12. Let the nations stir themselves up and come up to the valley of Jehoshaphat, for there I will sit to judge all the surrounding nations. So see there that the nations they're stirring themselves up. They're getting riled up in a frenzy. They're they're in the tunnel as it were and they're playing the pre-game pump-up. Music. They are ready to go into battle to oppose their creator. But what's God doing? He's sitting. They're blustering with noise. Dog's not intimidating. But when I played football in high school, our coaches thought that it would be a good idea to schedule a game against the number one team in state of Maryland. And I can remember in the lead up to that game, we were i incredibly punked. We were riled up. We were noisy, we were loud, we were filled with adrenaline. We were ready for battle. And we lost 68-9. For all our noise, the final score showed who was really in power. And that same sort of thing is going on here. Because the God who spits is infinitely more powerful than the nations who stir. And just as a brief aside and application Let this image just help us to see the insanity of sin. These nations are opposing God in their sin. Prompt the question of how could we ever think that we could rebel against the God of the universe, which is what all sin is, and come away victorious? Why would we think that would ever succeed? Christians, see the insanity of sin and let this image serve you daily in your fight against sin. Because sin is a fantasy. Sin is a lie about who really runs the world and who's really in charge. Scripture is clear though So don't buy into the lie. Don't believe for a moment that you can persist in opposing God and come away unsupported. And the good news of our lives as Christians is that God in his grace is forming us into a people inside and out who no longer stir ourselves up in rebellion. He's making us into a people who don't believe the lie, but who gladly and joyfully submit to his good authority. This theme of reversal keeps going. In chapter two, God had depicted his blessing upon his people as this restoration of the lands. There would be this full harvest, vats overflowing with wine or grape juice and like. We'll see in verse 13 that that same imagery is used, but now it's being used to describe judgment In verse 13, you have a full harvest and you have overflowing vats, but it's a fullness of sin and evil. And the harvest is going to be the weapon judgment of God on this thing. Finally, before we move on to point number three, see in verse 14 that this reversal is near. Verse 14 it says, For the day of the Lord is near. Don't assume that God's judgment is so far off that it's something you don't have to think about. I often will say to my wife about upcoming events or responsibilities, well that's future Jason's problem to deal with. We can say no such thing about the day of God's judgment. We can't just sit pretty. And even though we're thousands of years removed from this passage, remember what we just read in 2 Peter. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promises. So to the rebellious nations, Joel says God's judgment is coming. And to sinners today we say the same thing, God's judgment is coming Is coming. You might not see it now. You might even see that your sin seems to benefit you now in this life. But the day of the Lord Lord is coming, and no sinner who stands in opposition to God will remain standing on that day. We see this stunning reversal of fortunes. Finally, though, we see that though God will restore the fortunes or reverse the fortunes of the wicked, and will bring them into judgment We will bring salvation and deliverance to this country. And the most stunning reality of all, given what we've thought about the nations from this passage, is that God's people will consist of those from God Every nation would call upon his name and we take shelter in salvation. And we turn finally to consider this under point number three. Point number three, we see that our God is a sure refugee. Verse 16 with me. The Lord roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem, and the heavens and the earth quake. But the Lord is a refuge to his people. A stronghold to the people of Israel. So again, see God's great power and authority in contrast to the false power, the false authority of the nation. They might be stirring themselves up, but the Lord roars from Zion. He utters his voice and it shakes the whole earth. But as God is proclaimed in this passage as the all-powerful judge, see that he's also celebrated as the all-sufficient Savior. Look again, second half of verse 16 The Lord is a refuge to his people, a stronghold to the people of Israel. He's depicted here as this place of Shore Rest, uh shelter from the storm of his own wrath and judgment, and from the storm of opposition that comes from his enemies And this is similar language to what we read earlier in Psalm 46. God is the refuge, the comfort, the Savior, and the sustained of his people. So there's certain judgment against those who persist in their sin and in their rebellion. But if you are counted among his people , his for Consider the great comfort that this would have been to the people you enjoyed. Again, you're reeling from the consequences of your own sin against God. There are these scary-looking nations all around you who are making war against you. But what is the message of this entire book then? Turn to your God. Trust in him, and he will deliver you. He will restore the land, and he's going to be He's going to bring an even greater salvation. He's going to bring an eternal salvation from the curse of sin and death. So don't fear the nations, because God's in charge of them too. Look to your God in faith. Rest in his promises. He will be to you a sure refuge and stronghold. And consider further that all of these promises rest in Deliverance of refuge and stronghold. All of these are ultimately pointing forward to and are fulfilled in the salvation that God would bring to his people people to the life, to the death, to the resurrection, and to the reign of his son Jesus Christ. That's where all of these promises are headed. And if you're hoping in Christ Jesus today, God is a refuge for you, Christian. How? When we look to Jesus in faith, we are sheltered from the wrath that we deserve to faith and As sinners in rebellion against him. Jesus paid it all at the cross. So now we may come to him and find rest. How is he a stronghold? Because in him there's now none No condemnation. We need fear no judgment, no shame, no enemies, because we're clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. our hopeless of him. But we're adopted into his family, and our heavenly father is for us in Christ. No one can condemn us. No one can bring a charge against us. We don't have a single enemy to fear because Christ has conquered and is conquering every single enemy. Even the last enemy of death. Think about it. Think about how incredible that is. Jesus Christ is our stronghold even unto death. We live in a world that is terrified of death. That is spending lots of money trying to outrun it, or trying to pretend like it has having no effect Trying to pretend like the body is not decaying whatsoever. In Christ we are those who can look at death and we can say it's just a map. be raised with Jesus. He's my refuge and he's my stronghold. Even the tragic sorrow of death has been defeated. And what should astound us then is that God is a refuge for his people from every nation who call it So we've seen God speak a word of judgment against the nations in this passage, but we know that God in Christ is calling to himself a people from every nation, from every tribe, and from every tongue who confess that Jesus is Lord. The Israel in this passage most immediately refers to Israel in Joel's day, but but ultimately, theologically It refers to the true Israel, to those who look to Jesus in faith. And friends, this is the great mystery of the gospel. That we Gentiles We're co-heirs. We're members of the same body. We are partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. We're told in Ephesians chapter 3, verse 6. We as the Church of Jesus Christ were God's true Israel. We are his chosen race. We are his people for his possession. And so, Christian, this promise of the Lord as your refuge, it's for you today. Because through faith you are a still child of Abraham. So we need to see the great word of comfort that's spoken to us here. We're united to Christ Jesus through God is for us as a refuge now and into eternity. And as we conclude, I just want to think about this idea by starting with how that is true in eternity eternity and then walking that truth back into our daily life. Here's what I mean. Again, if your hope is in Jesus, then God is your eternal and final and ultimate rest. Jesus has paid the price for your rebellion against God. You've been purchased, redeemed by his blood, and there's no return policy on that purpose. When Jesus Christ returns, when the final day of the Lord comes, when all the saints are raised up, you will have no judgment left to fear. Whatsoever. On that day, if your hope is in Christ, God will not roar from Zion against you, but he will be for you. You will be welcomed into eternal life, into his presence forever. What a great comfort that is. Christian, you need to know that what is true about how God receives you in eternity It's true today. If you're in Christ, God is for you as a refuge today. There's no condemnation today. So take that eternal comfort, Christian, and walk that back into every day of your life. Know that God is for you in Christ in whatever today holds, whatever trials you are going to face today. And so therefore you can face those who would mock you for your You can face family situations that hurts. You can face the job that you just can't stand. You can face the anxiety that doesn't seem to want to go away. You can face the loneliness of the isolation that can feel deafening. You can face the world that just doesn't seem to make sense to you anymore. Because God is for you in Christ. When you sin, you can go to God knowing that you're forgiven by the blood of Jesus. You can fight your sin because God is for you in Christ. Because when you sin and you come to Him in repentance, He's not annoyed. He's not bothered. Like you again, seriously? He is for you. He looks at you in the perfect righteousness of his son, Jesus Christ. So we go to him. You can live in communion With other believers. You can go have that hard conversation with a fellow church member because God is for you in Christ. Christian, he's your refuge and he's your stronghold today, now, and on into eternity. And sometimes I think it's easier for us to grasp the eternal idea and harder to grasp the daily idea. God is for us today. Christ is our refuge today. So by his grace, let's live as those who truly And who by his grace are being molded in his people, who believe that and who rest in that and who rejoice in that more and more and more and more As those who no longer face the judgment of God for sin, but have been forgiven, redeemed, purchased By the blood of Jesus Christ. Pray again. Father, we thank you. We have a sure refuge in Jesus Christ. God, we recognize your awesome power and the rightness of your judgment against sinners. We thank you that that judgment in our case has been put on your Son, Jesus Christ. We praise you, God, that you saw fit to redeem a people before yourself. you And we pray, God, that you would mold us more and more into a people who turn to no other record. Who don't seek comfort where it can't truly be found, but who rest in our ultimate eternal stronghold God, I pray that that would be true for these saints this week. For whatever trials I face, whatever difficulties, whatever pains, that we would look to you as a refugee.