The title of tonight's study is Few or Many. Few or many? Where will there be few who are saved, or will there be many who are saved? And we'll begin by looking at a verse in Matthew 9, or a passage in Matthew 9. There are passages Under both of those ideas, there are some passages under few that we'll look at, some passages under many that we'll look at, and try to make sense of it. to g to give us a good perspective on the question of few or many But let me say one more thing before I read this passage. It's Matthew 9 35. Matthew 9 35 through 38. And the one thing the the one thing I want to say before we read this passage and pray is Before we study that topic tonight, we are going to tie up some loose ends of our study. So What's that category in Jeopardy where it's miscellaneous questions? Popourie. There you go. What is potri? Well I didn't I didn't phrase it as the answer, so yeah. Uh just a few loose ends To tie up and then we'll study that passage. And one of the loose ends is as you can tell I have the whiteboard back in and we are primed for a review of what we've been talking about. And I think that's enough introduction. Okay, so we're going to tie up some loose ends, potpourri. And then we'll study the question of will there be few or many who are saved? Let's begin with Matthew 9, 35 through 38. Everyone ready? Okay. And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. I love that phrase summarizing such a crucial foundational part of Christ's ministry. He was a gospel preacher. He preached The gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction And when he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them because they were harassed and helpless, like a sheep without a shepherd. And then he said to his disciples, The harvest is Plentiful, yes, plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore Pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. I begin with this passage because Many times, the default mindset that we have is that the harvest Is few, even though the laborers are plentiful and everywhere. But the fact of the matter is, at least in this context, in this passage What Jesus is saying, and what what disciples need to know is the harvest is plentiful, plentiful. The problem is that the workers are few, therefore pray for the Lord of the harvest to send out Workers, laborers into the harvest, because the harvest is plentiful. The harvest is plentiful. And practical application should be in our minds this entire evening. We need to believe That God will save people. We've got to believe in the power of the gospel as God's means for saving people. We've got to believe in the Holy Spirit. We've got to believe that God answers prayers. For instance, if we were to obey this and begin to pray earnestly for the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. And I'm not talking about just world missions. I'm talking about here in our mission field where there's lost people all around us. The harvest is plentiful. So we've got to believe that God wants to save people and will save people. Wants to save people is not strong enough. We believe He will save people. We believe that He will save people through His gospel. By the power of his Holy Spirit as ministered by his people, by the church. We've got to believe that. And we've got to pray to that end. Because the harvest is Not scarce. The harvest is plentiful, but it begins with faith. And the things of God and the works of God's people have always begun with faith. Well, it begins by God revealing himself and revealing his will. But in terms of practical obedience and living that out, it begins with faith. Let's pray. Father, we pray you would use us in your In the harvest, in your field, as laborers, fruitful laborers, believing laborers, urgent laborers, prayerful laborers. Labor is with clarity and conviction. Not only what we believe, but what we speak and what we share and what we preach and what we teach. Give us hearts that love you, hearts that love each other, as brothers and sisters in Christ, and hearts that have a burden and a love for the lost that mirrors your burden and love for the world. Father, we pray in Jesus' name that you will bless us tonight as we come to your word. Teach us, help us, grow us, challenge us, change us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Alright. So before we go to this study, few or many, and look at different passages and Try to come away with at least the beginnings of a good perspective, good biblical perspective on this. Let's tie up some loose ends. So, first of all, I have not used a word this entire series of these last days called eschatology. But what we're looking at is called eschatology. Okay? And does anybody know what that means? The The study of end times, literally the study of last things, the study of what's last, the study of last things. And how I broke this down is we are focusing on I'll have to fill in the details of this uh timeline in a second, but we've been focusing on the last days. So study of last things. We've been focusing on the last days, these Last days, but I've mentioned last things The very last things. Our study has been focusing on These last days, but eventually it will give way to the last things The last days of the last days, and then the last day of the last days. And the study of the last days has to do with those things Immediately leading up to the return of Christ, and then the return of Christ, and all that happens when he returns, and then the state of things after he returns. And we've been focusing on the last days, and so two related, definitely inseparably related branches of study, both falling under eschatology. The last days, the last things. Eschatology. So if you see that word, if you hear that word, it is referring to The culmination of God's eternal purpose. He's been progressively moving toward the fulfillment of all things in Christ. And then when Christ comes to fulfill all things and to inaugurate God's eternal kingdom, it's not consummated yet, but to inaugurate God's kingdom, this now marks the the last days. that will culminate with the last things when it all comes to its final and irreversible state So, the cult the last things, the study of last things, the culmination of God's eternal purpose in Christ. And he is the center point of God's eternal purpose. This is all everything we see, all of this, in the world and in scripture. It's all about God creating a holy people for himself. through Christ and in Christ for the glory of Christ as a manifestation of his kindness and goodness and power and on and on and on. This is all about God Bringing glory to himself through a redeemed people. Well, how does he do that? Through Christ. And the culmination of that, that code the culmination of that is called the last thing. That's why it's so don't get thrown by the word that might seem too technical or might seem strange or don't and don't get thrown by um the last days or the last things, thinking these are obscure or fringe areas of study. All we're talking about is how God fulfills his eternal purpose in Christ. That's what we're talking about. It's very practical, this is Christianity. Okay. So a few verses Where the word the Greek word eskatos, which means last, is used. That's where this comes from. Eschatos Eschatology, study of last things. And so here we go. First Corinthians fifteen twenty-six. First Corinthians Fifteen twenty six The last enemy to be destroyed Is death. That's talking about what happened. One of the things that happens when Christ returns. And the Greek adjective for last, where it says last enemy, is any guesses? Eschatos, okay? And then go down to verse 45. Thus it is written, the first man Protos, like prototype, the protoss man, the first man Adam, became a living being, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit or a quickening spirit And the Greek adjective for last, where it says last Adam, is eschatos. The counterpart to the protological representative of humanity That's what Adam was, a representative head of humanity. That's why if you're in Adam, that means you're still lost in sin. And under the judgment of God. The counterpart to Adam, the first Adam, is the eschatological representative. Of a new humanity. That's important. Of a new humanity. Of a redeemed humanity. First man, last man. This is about their Covenant significance is representative heads of a kind of humanity. Adam, a representative head of those who are lost. Christ, the representative head of the redeemed, who he who gives them life. He gives us life I've said this before. I had a professor who used to talk about the risen Christ as both the possessor and the conveyor of resurrection life. And that he gets that from Scripture. Christ received resurrection life. He ascended on high, and now he shares that life With his people through the gospel by the power of the Spirit. One more verse in 1 Corinthians 15. Verse 52. In a moment, I tell you a mystery. 51. We shall not all sleep. It's an idiom for dying physically, but we shall all be changed. And that means we'll all receive resurrection bodies, whether we're still alive when Christ returns or whether we've already died bodily. Fifty-two, in a moment In the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, at the what trumpet? Greek word? Eskatos. Trumpet. The last trumpet. So these are talking about last things, last things. And of course they are sparked by the arrival of the last atom and put into action, so to speak, in in uh on the day of Pentecost, when that last Adam as the life-giving spirit pours out the Holy Spirit of the last days. One more passage here. Hebrews, this should be familiar to you, because this is the Diving board, so to speak, of this entire series, Hebrews 1-2. Hebrews 1 -2 In these last days he has spoken to us by his son. In these what days? Last days. The eschatos Days Eschatos Eschatology It's not a fringe movement within Christianity that we don't really need to concern ourselves with. That's just for the elites, that's for the academics. No, we're talking about God fulfilling his purposes in Christ. We live in the last days. And one day they'll give way to the last things. So that adjective is used for both The last days and the last things, and that's why I say eschatology is about both of those branches, and those are inseparable and they're connected, but they are distinct areas of study. So that's one loose end. Hopefully that's helpful for you. And hopefully it circled us back to the very first point of this entire study, that the defining characteristic of the last days The days that we live in, the era of history that we live in, the defining characteristic is God's revelation in His Son. God's revelation in Christ. It's a self-revelation. It's a revealing of Himself. It's the climactic revelation of God as Trinitarian, Father, Son, Spirit, and it's the climactic redemptive work of God. This is how he brings sinners into a relationship with himself that will never end. How does he do it? Through Christ, through the person and work of Christ. There's all eschatology. It's all about God fulfilling his eternal purpose. We should delight in that. We should delight in that. The world has nothing to offer us compared to that. compared to having a real and eternal share in how God is fulfilling his eternal purposes. So let's go to the next loose end and It is really something that I think also can be helpful. And what I want to do is in just a few moments read. The article in our church's statement of faith, the Baptist faith and message, read the article, which is Article 10 on last things. And the reason I want to read it is because It is very common to this is going to have a negative connotation when I say it and I'm still going to say it despite that because I think sometimes it is it can be a negative thing. Uh sometimes there's a tendency to fixate on the things of eschatology that are not clear and obvious in Scripture. We tend to fixate sometimes on things that are unclear, not so obvious, and they can divide us and we disagree on them and we can debate them endlessly. There's just that tendency. But that doesn't just because there are some things that are not crystal clear and are not obvious And that we don't all agree on, that does not mean that everything in eschatology is like that. The overarching things are clear. The overarching things are obvious. The overarching things Do unite us together and we stand upon them. And so just as an example, Pastor John and I don't agree on everything. about the last things, but we have absolute unity and conviction and we will not bend on Article Ten in our church's statement of faith. So not everything on eschatology is um unclear and divides and so we don't want to talk about it. No. The overarching central things are clear and are obvious and do bring us together. They do bring us together. Okay, so here's the article. Article ten, last things. God in his own time and in his own way Will bring the world to its appropriate end. According to his promise, Jesus Christ will return Personally and visibly in glory to the earth. The dead will be raised, and Christ will judge all men in righteousness The unrighteous will be consigned to hell, the place of everlasting punishment. The righteous in their resurrected and glorified bodies Will receive their reward and will dwell forever in heaven with the Lord. Now that we unite on. That is eschatology. This is our hope, and this is what we're about. That Christ is coming back personally, visibly, gloriously. As judge, to judge the world in righteousness. There'll be a general resurrection, a resurrection of the lost and of the saved. The lost will be consigned to eternal torment and hell, and the saved will be given not only resurrected bodies, but glorified bodies, like the glorified body of Christ. And we will dwell with God forever. And if all we had, it's not all we have, there are other things that are revealed in Scripture that pertain to the last days and the last things. But if that's all we had, we have enough to unite us And to rejoice together on these things our entire lives, no matter how long we lived. And so that's another loose end. Alright? Eschatology should not trigger you to immediately go to, oh, there's going to be disagreement, there's going to be debate, there's going to be confusion. I could never figure this out. This is for the experts experts. No, no. This is about practical discipleship, unity in the body of Christ. And if you ever uh If you want to read this, there's a stack of them right in the lobby, our statement of faith. And that's one of the one of the purposes of the statement of faith. is to summarize the core doctrines that we unite around. And our unity is based on truth. Our unity is based on truth. People use the word unity in the world in a different way, and what they mean by is absolute conformity to what we say you need to believe. True biblical unity is a unity based on God's truth and internally bound together by the Holy Spirit. Alright, final loose end. Just to go over the timeline of history. This where this begins Is where creation begins. Now you you're not you're gonna think this is a trick question. It's not a trick question, okay? So just answer. What existed before creation? God existed. Yeah, I've a I've asked that before. And then it takes like thirty seconds because everybody knows the answer is God, but they're afraid to say it. They think there's gonna be some Twist. No, there's no mind games here. This is Bible study. The uh this only thing that existed before That creation was God, uncreated, eternal, infinite God, from everlasting to everlasting, incomprehensible, uncreated, uncaused God. And then by the freedom of his will and wisdom, in order to begin fulfilling his eternal purpose. He creates a world. And here we'll just say this is before the fall. He created that world good. Adam and Eve were sinless and innocent. But then this line represents It begins with an F. The fall. Amen. The fall into sin and corruption. And then almost immediately, if not immediately, I mean that's just a descriptor, that's relative, but it did happen. Immediately, God comes down in judgment. Does he come down in full eschatological judgment? No, that judgment is restrained. And he comes down also in mercy. He comes down also in mercy toward Adam and Eve and to their posterity. And in Genesis 3:15 is the promise. Of a redeemer or the promise of a savior. And then throughout history, God advances This promise of a redeemer and gradually fulfills this promise He gradually unfolds his purpose for all things to redeem a people for himself. Through covenants and through different eras or different dispensations in history that are connected, but they advance the story, they advance God's purpose. And so you can think of God's covenant with Noah, God's covenant with Abraham, and they're all connect connecting. Back to this original promise of a redeemer, and then in Israel as a nation And within Israel, King David, so we know the Redeemer will come through the line of David, and then you get to the New Testament and you find out the one in whom all Of these promises and covenants of a redeemer are fulfilled in Christ through his righteous life. His sacrificial death, his glorious resurrection, his ascension and enthronement in heaven, pouring out of the Holy Spirit, bringing to fruition and fulfillment God's original promise of a Savior. He is the Savior. He is the Redeemer. In the age, this whole age in between his first coming And his second coming are these last days. And you see why they're the last days because You once you get to the fulfillment of the promises, there's no further step that needs to be taken. It's going to be brought to its consummation. And these things will come to a full and final form, but it's all part of that fulfillment in Christ. Okay, that is enough on the loose ends. That's really just an overview. If you want all the passages for this, you have to go back and look at some of the early classes in this series. Let's get to our topic for tonight, few or many. Few or many. And let's Look at Luke thirteen, twenty two to thirty. Luke thirteen twenty two to thirty I don't have one main passage for these. We'll be flipping to different ones And I purpose to look at a uh two verses that were given before the fall into sin. I'm pointing up here, although the timeline is gone, I trust you remember what was up here seven seconds ago, okay? Uh we get a glimpse into God's purpose for the world before the fall into sin. He creates man In his image to reflect his glory on the earth, then he tells them that they are to be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and reign over it He's to fill the earth with image bearers of himself, who rule over that earth, properly representing his character. That's his purpose. Adam and Eve fail, but ultimately that is what God does through Christ, and in Christ, He's going to fill the earth with image-bearers of Himself. Heavenly image bearers of God. So there's continuity from creation to redemption in God's purpose. Luke 13, 22-30. He went on his way through towns and villages, Jesus, teaching and journeying toward Jerusalem. Someone said to him, Lord, will those who are saved be few? Will those who are saved be few? That's one of our questions tonight. And he said to them, Strive to enter through the narrow door. For many, I tell you, will seek to enter. and will not be able. Now this is uh interesting to me at least. We've already seen the word few. That was the question. Will there only be few who are saved? And now we also see already the word many. Many will seek to enter that narrow door. Many will in one way or another Try to be saved. Seek to enter that narrow door. Verse twenty-five. Did I read the last phrase there? And will not be able? That's an important phrase. And will not be able. When once the master of the house has risen and shut the door , And you begin to stand outside and to knock at the door, saying, Lord, open open to us. Then he will answer you. I do not know where you come from. then you will begin to say, We ate and drank in your presence, and you taught in our streets. And so now what are they saying? What are they thinking? They're thinking, well wait a second We had some affiliation with you. We ate and drank in your presence. We saw you teaching. But he will say, verse 27, he will say, I tell you, I do not know where you come from. Depart from me, all you workers of evil. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. When you see Abraham and Isaac and Jacob and all the prophets in the kingdom of God, but you yourselves cast out. And people will come from east and west and from north and south. And recline at the table in the kingdom of God. And behold, some are last who will be first, and some are first who will be last. So Many will come, and many will recline at the table in the kingdom of God from east, west, north, and south But many will come thinking Totally sincere in their thoughts on this, thinking that they're going to enter the kingdom of God. But Jesus will not grant them entrance This is his response to the question, Will those who are saved Be few. We'll look at one more passage and then I'm going to draw a diagram. So, edge of your seat, I know. Matthew 7, 13, parallel. Matthew seven thirteen Enter by the narrow gate. For the gate is wide, and the way is easy, that leads to destruction. And those who enter by it are many. So now what is this saying? Because the word many is used again. Those who enter this gate are many. It's easy. To live a life that leads to destruction. Yeah, that's easy. From one perspective, from a worldly perspective, you don't have to Worry about being accountable before God. You don't have to worry about eternity. You just live for the moment, live for the now. However, whatever you feel like doing, just go ahead and do Don't burden yourself with these questions of us of your soul, of God, of right and wrong, of eternity, of accountability, of consequences. Don't worry about it. Enter through this wide, wide, wide, wide gate. Look, everyone else is entering through it. It must be the way to go. It's easy to go that way. For the gate is narrow, verse 14. For the gate is narrow, and the way is hard, that leads to life, and those who find it are Few. Those who find it are few. I'm going to continue reading uh to make So there's a paragraph break there in my Bible. Is there is there a paragraph break and even the subheading there for yours but they sh well it all goes together. So I say they sh I say it should go together like that's some profound point. No it all goes together. That's That's the way it's written. But sometimes those um subheadings make us reset our minds and start thinking about something new when we shouldn't. We should it continues that very point. But The gate is narrow and the way is hard that leads to life, and those who find it are few. And in the context of all of Scripture, if you continue reading in the gospel narratives You find out that not only is it hard to enter, it is impossible to enter on our own. It takes a supernatural work of God. In our hearts that we might enter to eternal life. This is a metaphor. The gate being narrow and this way being hard and difficult that leads to life. That's a metaphor. The reality that that represents is we cannot save ourselves. And those who are saved Are we not better people than those who are not saved? It's not like we were not as sinful as others, and so it was easier for God to save us Don't ever think that. That is a heart of pride and arrogance that is contrary to the gospel. Salvation is impossible for man. But salvation is easy. I almost feel like that word is not strong enough for God, who has infinite power, he can do whatever he wants. Salvation is not hard for God. But the thing we're focusing on is the few versus the many, and I think it's clear the way to death and destruction will be many And the way to life and to God will be few, relatively speaking. But we continue on here to get a fuller picture of what he's teaching about. Verse 21, Now everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. Does that remind you of the passage in Luke we just looked at? But the one who does the will of my Father who is in heaven. Now, this is such a profound but clear Bible verse. They're professing Christ as Lord. But they're not doing the will of God. We just need to recognize that that is something that's common. Using your mouth to profess Christ as Lord and thinking that you actually serve Christ as Lord. But in reality, you're not doing the will of God. You're living a double life. You're a hypocrite. On that day, many will say So here now you have this word again, many. That's why I chose that title, fewer many, because these words come up in the text. On that day, many will say to me, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name and do mighty, many mighty works in your name? Then I would declare to them, I never knew you depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. A verbal profession does not save you. Religious activity and ministry does not save you. The only thing that saves you is the Lord Jesus Christ. You must be born again. And if Christ doesn't live in our hearts, we will not live with him in heaven. It's as impossible and simple and easy as that. We must receive Christ by faith. We can be completely sincere, but be deceived. And don't take that out of balance and act like this is the only doctrine that the New Testament teaches. There are other doctrines on the assurance of salvation that true believers Can have assurance and do have assurance in Christ. That's another truth. So one truth in Scripture is this: there are false professors and false believers and false teachers. That's not the only doctrine in Scripture. Another doctrine is there are true believers, and they can have assurance in Christ, and they can have confidence in Christ, and they can know they are saved. And we're not going to pit these two doctrines against one another, as if they contradict each other. They're just two different things that are true. Now the reason I wanted to read verses 21 through 23 is because it comes. Um very close by the uh I am going to read that passage in the middle too, by the way. Very close by. It's first of all parallels the Luke passage. And it comes very close by this narrow gate metaphor: the narrow gate and the wide gate. And so this idea of fewer many, in terms of the way Scripture is talking about it, both in Luke and in Matthew, the idea of fewer many is in both places connected to the reality of false professors. People who think that they're saved, and within that number, few actually are saved. And when I draw the diagram, that's what I'm going to draw. Uh now let's just to be balanced read the passage in the middle. Beware of false prophets, false prophets who come to you in sheep's clothing. Which means uh at just a glance you don't know they're false prophets. They look innocent. Uh false teachers, false prophets in the church are great speakers, very charismatic, very likable. I mean there's some false teachers out there. If we were to spend a day with them, we'd probably have probably have a blast It's very lively, exciting, energetic, personable, but if their doctrine is contrary to scripture, and if they're heretics, they're heretics. But they're in sheep's clothing, but inwardly are ravenous wolves. You will recognize them by their fruits. This the central fruit would be teaching. What are they teaching? What are they saying about Jesus? What are they saying about Scripture? Are grapes gathered from thorn bushes or figs from thistles? So every healthy tree bears good fruit. But the diseased tree bears bad fruit. A healthy tree cannot bear bad fruit, nor can a diseased tree bear good fruit. Every tree that does not bear good fruit is cut down and thrown into the fire. Thus you will recognize them by their fruits. So False prophets and false teachers are recognizable. They are recognizable. We have discernment Biblical discernment, and if we're grounded in biblical truths, we can recognize by their fruits false prophets But here you have again false prophets is just a subcategory of those who would profess to be saved. They would say, Lord, Lord. But Jesus will say, Away from me, you workers of lawlessness, depart from me, I never knew you. And so few or many Think of this as the world. And probably you thought with these passages that few are saved. If you're like me You probably have thought of the whole world of lostness, and then within it Few will be saved. But it's uh it's a stronger point that Scripture makes You have the world at large, the world of lostness at large. We were all part of that at one point. Before God saved us. And then within that, you have those who profess faith, we'll call them professors. Not university professors, although some of them are, I'm sure, but those who profess faith, and then within that, in the context , Few actually are saved. So you thought it was a strong point when it was just the whole world and then a few are saved. But these actual passages are talking about those people who think they're saved and who prof who profess Christ as Lord. And Jesus says, No, you are wrong away from me, evildoers. Well, that should rattle our bones. It's not meant to make the true believer doubt his salvation, but it is meant to make us examine our hearts. It is meant to make us examine our hearts. And we're not going to do a study of 1 John tonight. That would be a if you want a place to begin, to examine your heart with the truth of God and not with just your own speculation on these things. Read through first first John as uh the apostle describes some of the evidences, true believers, right? Love for the brethren, love for the truth. Trusting in the cross, a pursuit of holiness, different things. And you can examine your heart using Scripture and through prayer. One of the things that reminded me of was as a historical reality, but also as an illustration for what we're talking about. So you have the world at large, you have those who profess faith. That's what the passages are about when we're talking about few or many. And then within that, few actually came through That narrow gate. Do you remember the fur one of the first clauses in the Luke passage though? Many sought to go through that narrow gate. They just didn't make it. So these are people who are religious and on the outside look very spiritual and may appear to the world at large like like they're saved or like they're a part of the few. From that perspective But they're trying to enter into the kingdom by another way, by works, was the is the main thing. But one of the things this reminded me of was Israel under the old covenant, which is a typological expression of The uh the kingdom in the church age, but you have the nations with the Gentiles at large, the surrounding lost world at large, then you had Israel As a nation set apart, consecrated unto God as a theocracy. Separate from the nations, within the nations, but a unique nation set apart unto God. Were they all believers? No. The few were true believers. And what's the theological word for that? The remnant. Remnant preserved by grace. A faithful remnant of saved people within that community. So that's the first set of passages on the few or many. Before we go to that was few, although the word many came up because it was setting it up by way of contrast. There's another set of passages that emphasize That the people who will be saved are many. There's a multitude. Alright, so again, not contradictory truths, just different truths, different aspects of truth. Any questions while I wet my whistle? Hm? No. Have fourteen minutes. Only if we're legalists regarding eight o'clock. Matthew nine, thirty-five through thirty-eight. Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every affliction. When he saw the crowds, he had compassion for them. Because they were harassed and helpless, like sheep without a shepherd. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, which is the synonym for Many. Thank you. Did I say cinnamon or synonym? I said synonym, right? Every time I say that word I'm so self-conscious. Conscious. Conscious? Self-conscious And I aver as soon as I say it I said I think, wait a second, did you say cinnamon? Cinnonim, not cinnamon The harvest is plentiful, the harvest is many. Now in terms of our practical discipleship on the ground, on the ground, in earth, in Jarrett'sville As citizens of the kingdom of heaven, this needs to be our mindset. There's a harvest. There is a harvest. The harvest is plentiful. The harvest is plentiful. But the laborers are few. The laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord, the Lord of the harvest, to send out laborers into his harvest. Prayer. Prayer. And one of the things we must continue to do, and we must work together on this. Privately. in your own prayer life, but then as a congregation and our relationships and our groups, we must come together on this and strive together on this. We must continue to build a foundation of desperate prayer to our Lord, to the Lord of the harvest. We want to see souls saved for the glory of God. He will do it. He's promised to do it. Turn back one page, maybe two in your Bible. Matthew 8, 11. I tell you many Many. Many will come from east and west and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. John four, thirty-four through thirty-five. John four, one of your favorite stories Right after Jesus ministers to and saves the woman, the Samaritan woman at the At the well. John four, thirty-four, and thirty-five Jesus said to them, My food is to do the will of him who sent me, and to accomplish his work. Do you not say there are yet four months? Then comes the harvest? Well look, I tell you, lift up your eyes And see that the fields are white for harvest. And that is picking, that's talking about people. Look at verse 30. The Samaritans. They went out of the town and were coming to him. So you have the town walking toward, coming down toward Jesus and his disciples. And he gives them a living illustration of the harvest. Fields white for harvest. That means it's ready. The fields are ready. You don't need to wait any longer. Get ministering. Revelation 7, 9 through 10. Revelation 7. Nine through ten Revelation can be a difficult book. Again, lots of the details are difficult, but I believe the overarching picture and the overarching themes are clear and obvious. One of the things With these visions that God is showing John is God will show him something And speak about it, or speak about it, and then show him something. So John is not only seeing things, but he's hearing things So he sees a lamb as standing as if it was slain, but it's standing, but he hears lying to the tribe of Judah. has conquered. So he's not seeing a l a lamb and seeing a lion. He's seeing the lamb who is slain but now reigns. He's hearing one of the titles about the significance of this lamb The line of the tribe of Judah. So the line the what he hears often interprets what he sees. And here in Revelation 7, 9, he Hears or sees. I already see looking at the verse. He sees, yeah, behold. Behold. After this I looked and behold. A great multitude that no one could number. Great multitude. Great multitude. Is that many or few? That's many. That's those who were harvested. A great multitude that no one could number from every nation, every nation From all tribes. How many tribes? All tribes and peoples and languages. So how many people groups and how many languages? All Standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes with palm branches in their hands. So, in terms of The few, the world Professing believers, there's a few. So, relatively speaking There's a few. That helps us to understand the parable of the soils would be another another one. There's four different kinds of surfaces Not it shouldn't be parable of soils because only one of them is soils. One's rocky ground, one's the path, and one's covered in thorns. Only one is the good soil. So parabolo surfaces. But the services represent what? Human hearts, right? And how how those hearts receive and respond to the Word of God. So percentage wise, overall Massive humanity, yet it's fine to say few, but that's not the only thing Scripture says about the amount of people who are saved Multitude, a great multitude, a vast multitude from every nation, from every people from every nation, from every tribe, all peoples, languages Okay. Few or many. The answer is yes. The answer is yes. And both of those are important truths. Both of those are important truths. I've given the emphasis of the few is What one of the emphasis, just because you say you're saved and think you're saved and are doing religious things, that doesn't mean almost anything It's not my profession about myself that makes me saved. It's God's declaration about me that makes me saved. If he justifies me in Christ, if I'm filled with the Holy Spirit, that makes me saved. Anyone can fake outward religion. People love religion. People have always loved religion. A very, very, very, very small minority of people are actually atheists. No, they don't go in there, they go here. And even they are quite religious and dogmatic about that atheism. But in terms of our mindset for evangelism and advancing the kingdom, which is the context of the many passages , That's the way we need to be thinking. The harvest is plentiful. We do not have a woe is me while the harvest is few. We don't know maybe maybe God will save a few here and there. No. That's not that's not accurate. That's out of balance at best. At best. He's going to save a multitude. Remember that the kingdom is like a mustard seed. This is our last section, hoping to bring some Walkaway perspective. Remember that the kingdom of God is like a mustard seed. Matthew 13, 31. Matthew 13, 31. He put another parable before them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field. It's the smallest of seeds, but when it has grown it is larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree. So that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches. So the kingdom of heaven gr starts small, but it grows extensively. He told him another parable, the kingdom of heaven is like a leaven, is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour till it was all leavened. So it grows intensively too as it's growing extensively expanding it also has an inner working that it it grows One way you can think about that is the kingdom in your own heart, which is the nature of God's kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom, it's an invisible, heavenly kingdom, and organized in local churches, but the human hearts. Christ lives and reigns in human hearts. He lives and reigns in heaven. He gives his Holy Spirit to his people, and he lives and reigns in our hearts. The whole the Kingdom of heaven is within us. So the kingdom growth in your own heart is one example of kingdom growth, but the expanding, extensive growth. As history progresses, the kingdom gradually and powerfully covers the earth. How many Christians were there on the day of Pentecost? Acts one fifteen. Did you tell? No. On the morning of Pentecost. Hundred and twenty. Hundred twenty. About three thousand were saved later that day, but a hundred and twenty Christians In one room, in one building, in one city in the world I looked this up. I'm not a statistics guy, but sometimes it's fun just to look. It's estimated today there's two point four billion Christians in the world. Spread all over the world. Spread all over the world. And the first thing you'd probably think of is this. Yeah, that's professing Christians, it's and it's an estimation. And there's then there's a part of within there that's going to be true believers. But 2. 4 billion. Okay. So let's say it's not a jump from 120 to 2. 4 billion. Let's say it's a jump from 120 to 20. in one building, one city in the world to one and a quarter billion spread all over the world. Is that better? Does does that weaken the point of the power of the kingdom to spread and cover the earth with image of image bearers of God? About a third of the population, 2. 4 billion. Islam by comparison 1. 9 billion. Hinduism by comparison 1. 2 billion. Everything else is nothing else is in the billions. Everything else is millions. And Christianity in recent decades is increasing or declining in America. Declining, has that always been the case? No, it's not always been the case. Will it always be the case? No, it's we can't predict predict these seasons. There's in season, there's out of season. It goes uh it goes up and down Uh but Christianity is it declining in every nation, in every area of the earth? No, it's not. It's increasing and strengthening in parts of Africa, in parts of the Middle East, and parts of South America, and parts of Asia And by the way, numerical growth is not the only kind of kingdom growth that there is. But you can think of, I'll run through these quickly. Genesis 1, 27, 28. God creates image bearers and commands them to fill the earth. Be fruitful, multiply. Fill the earth and subdue it, reign over the earth. They fall into sin. The promise of a redeemer in Genesis 3:15. In the days of Noah, who was saved? One generation of one family. Eight. We're saved. One generation of one family. So salvation, the kingdom on the earth would have looked like a dot. And then Abraham was called out. And he was saved. And who else was saved along with him? Who was brought into that kingdom on earth, that covenant family on earth? Multiple generations of that extended family. Okay? So you go from Noah, one generation of one family. Abraham's called out multiple generations of an extended family, and then that gives way to old covenant. Israel, and now what you have is one nation amongst the nations. And within that are the true believers, but in terms of the outward manifestation of the kingdom in old covenant form You had one nation among all other nations. And so you have one generation of one family, Noah, and then as history progresses You have um multiple generations of an extended family, the lineage of Abraham, and then as history progresses, you have one nation amongst To all nations, and in the new covenant era, you have local congregations, local churches in all nations. And that's going to continue to grow and continue to spread. The globalization of God's saving reign in Christ, the last days. The globalization By the end of the So Noah, Abraham, Israel, the remnant in Israel, and then in the church age, uh this dotted line represents the known world at the time of By the end of the book of Acts, by the end of the apostolic era, the gospel had spread throughout the known world, God's kingdom. have spread. And then the rest of the last days is the process of the gospel, Christ discipling the nation, spreading To all nations, all peoples, all tongues, all tribes, all, all, all Through the power of the Spirit, through the power of the gospel, Christ is building his church. The globalization of God's saving reign. Just a few more things here. I know it's 802. But bear with me. Some things on the kingdom of God. It resides in the hearts and minds of God's people. But it does have an outward manifestation in the lives of those people, our example, our lifestyle And the local church ministries, the local church presence. It's a spiritual, heavenly, and eternal kingdom Number two, we do not fight like worldly kingdoms. The kingdom of God does not advance itself like worldly kingdoms advance themselves. And we do not exert our influence like worldly kingdoms exert their influence. For example, we're praying for the world for people to be served. We're not conquering them with weapons. Now just by comparison, what other nation Has a real global presence within all other nations, or most other nations in the world Only the kingdom of God. Only no other kingdom has been this successful on planet Earth. Kingdoms rise, kingdoms fall. The kingdom of God has been growing, growing, growing since the day of Pentecost. And its presence, it's not a straight line up in every location. It's not a straight line up in every location of constant growth, constant success. There are in-seasons and out-of-seasons. But the kingdom of God has a global presence, really and truly. There are local churches, biblical churches. The uh the presence of Christ by the power of his Holy Spirit is all over the world. It's it's la outlasted all these kingdoms that have risen and fallen. And it has done so in the midst of consistent hostility, in the midst of consistent hatred and social opposition That's the kingdom of heaven. Here's what I want us to get from this. God cannot be stopped. He will fulfill his promises in Christ. This is his purpose in Christ, to fill the earth with image bearers of himself. And now listen, there is going to be a decisive end of this church age of the last days that will give way to the final state and the new heavens and the new earth and the glorified earth where we have glorified bodies. And there will be no curse, there will be no sin, there will be no temptation, there will be no sadness or sickness But just because there's going to be a decisive glorification of all things, that does not negate the fact of what God is doing in vi in this age, in these last days. He really is expanding his kingdom like a mustard seed. To fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory happens through the gospel by word and spirit. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for what you've done for us in Christ. And I pray that we would believe. I pray we would believe in your power, the power of your word, the presence of your Spirit, that we would devote ourselves To your work in the church, that we might see your kingdom strengthened and spreading in this age. For your glory. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.