The words we'll examine this morning come from Romans chapter 6, verses 15 through 23. Romans chapter 6, 15 through 23 Obedience from the heart. This summer we've been examining different passages. We spent a lot of time in Ephesians But our goal for this summer was to examine the blessings that we have from the Lord. And our blessings are all tied to our salvation. That's why we We rooted and anchored ourselves in that Ephesians passage that because of our salvation, because we've been redeemed by Christ, now we have all of these blessings. And this morning I continue down that line of thinking with obedience. How often do we think about obedience as a blessing from God? That He has blessed us with the ability to obey Him, to walk in Christ-likeness, to hear the law of God and to rejoice in it, to see our sins and hate them. Repent. Confess our sins. This is all a blessing of God. And we'll see this morning and we'll wrestle with this challenge. So we have the pathway of obedience before us. So you have two gutters or two pits on either side. On one side, you have the what we would maybe call the free/slash cheap grace. You've been saved by the blood of Christ. You've been redeemed by Christ. So then it doesn't matter what you do. You don't have to obey. You're forgiven. Just keep living however you want. And that's what Paul is addressing here in chapter 6. So we have this side: just do whatever you want, you're forgiven. It doesn't matter. Obedience doesn't matter. Just do what you want. But then on the other side of the gutter Is is what we would call legalism. I'm going to obey so that God is happy with me. I'm going to obey to win my salvation. I'm going to obey to show how holy and righteous I am. So your obedience is now wrapped up in your identity, that you're going to boast in who you are with by how well you obey. So that everyone else can see who you are, can see how great of a Christian you are. Both of these pits lead to destruction. But here we're going to see this morning that we should be right down the middle. That yes, yes, we are called as Christians to walk in obedience. Let me destroy this this gutter over here, this idea of, no, you can just live however you want. No, when you have been redeemed by the blood of Christ, when you are a child of God, you are called, you are commanded to walk in obedience to the Lord. But let me also free you from the legalism here that somehow you're keeping your salvation, you're earning your salvation, you're keeping and boasting in yourself and your identity by your obedience No, let us get to the heart of the issue, which is our heart. Pastor Matt laid this out last week for us, and I love this language and these steps of who we are. He said, forgiveness leads to love. Because we have been forgiven, because Christ has come and died for us Has took on our sins, paid our penalty, because of that, we then love him. Right? And because of that love, so forgiveness leads to love, and then love leads to worship. Love leads to worship. Slash, let me add a slash, obedience. Part of our worship, the form of our worship is walking in obedience to the Lord. So forgiveness leads to love. We have been forgiven. Because of God's love and his forgiveness, we now love him. And because of that love, we now worship him. It has led us to worship and obedience. These are good things, but not bad. Obedience is not the boogeyman. Obedience is not a curse word. Obedience is the natural result of the new birth So let us look at Romans chapter 6. We're going to read verses 15 through 23, but we're going to really focus in on verses 17 and 18 this morning. So Romans six, starting in verse fifteen. What then? Are to sin because we are not under law, but under grace? By no means Do you not know that if you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey, either of sin, which leads to death? or of obedience which leads to righteousness. But thanks be to God, that you who are once slaves of sin Have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, and having been set free from sin, have become slaves of righteousness. I'm speaking in human terms because of your natural limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, leading more lawlessness So now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. For when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness But what fruit were you getting at the time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of those things is death. But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end. Eternal life. For the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Paul's arguments throughout Scripture are excellent. If you didn't know that, Paul is a master of the tongue. He's a master of presenting an issue, presenting a problem. Presenting solutions to it, and then defending the solution to prove that what he has stated is the accurate point, and whatever uh challenge you bring into it, he's already defeated it And he always roots it in Christ Jesus. The beauty of his argument here is helpful for us as Christians. To see who we are, to recognize the call to new life that is in Christ Jesus, to see the walk of obedience before us, and to rejoice in God's blessing within our life So, point number one, we worship God for our new birth. We worship God for our new birth. That's what Paul's whole argument is based on that you once were slaves to wickedness, you once were slaves to sin, you once were slaves to lawlessness. But now, because of Christ, you're a slave to righteousness. You're a slave to God. We don't love that language all the time. We don't love that we are slaves to God in our especially modern American language and understanding. We don't like that, and we can't fathom how that's possible. But let me help you understand that you have a binary option in life. Binary, two options. You are either outside of Christ. You're living in the world, you're living by the world, you're following after the passions of your flesh, you're following after your own sins, your own desires, and you will die and receive the just punishment of eternal separation from God. That's your one option. The only other option is that you are in Christ. You have faith in Christ. You recognize that He is the only way, the truth, and the life. He has come to this earth to live a perfect life. He died the ultimate sacrifice, bearing your sins on the cross, taking the punishment that you deserve to pay. And in his death, he has paid your penalty, and you have received forgiveness. He died, was buried, rose three days later from the grave, defeating sin and death. Having faith that He is truly God, truly man, He is the only way of salvation, you are then in Christ Jesus. You have eternal life. That's your two options. Outside of Christ, receiving the just punishment for your sins, or you are in Christ. You've recognized his work on your behalf, and you have eternal life. That's the binary. But now we start to use this word slave. This idea of slavery can trip us up, and we have negative connotations with it. But we must recognize that we are a slave to something. We have a master over us, right? Our master is either our sin or our master is God. Which master would you rather live under? The master of sin? That is boasting you up, building you up, causing you to think that everything is good and happy? That everything's working out, but is leading you to death? As Paul tells us, it's leading to death, it's leading to lawlessness, it's leading to destruction. Do you want that, Master? Or do you want God? A merciful Master, a kind Master, who's leading us to eternal life, where you have true and eternal freedom in Christ. Which master's better? It's a simple question. It's God. We want Him to be our master. And we can't say, well, no, we don't want to be a slave to no one. We're good, red-blooded Americans. We're not under anyone, right? Well, your taxes say different, do they not? Right? We live in a world of having masters over us. We live in a world of having someone over top of us all the time. Either within the home, within our workplaces, within the government. And and we're we're okay with it, we may not love it, but then when we start to talk about how God is over us, God is our master, we're a slave to God, all of a sudden, no, this isn't right, this isn't good, that's not how we're supposed to be. Beloved, let me encourage you that you can't have a better master. You have to have one. You can't have a better one. You can't have a more merciful and kind master. You can't have a master that loves you more than God. So you have the binary. And this is why we worship God. It's for our new birth. Because while we used to be slaves to sin. In Christ, in Christ, he has liberated us from sin and has brought us into his household. He has made us slaves in his kingdom. We are under his control. We are under his love. And his grace. We are born again. This is what verse 22 tells us. It says, but now that you have been set free from sin , Right? Set free from sin and have become s become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification and its end, eternal life. This is the new birth that we celebrate. This is what Jesus is telling Nicodemus in John 3: that you must be born again. You must be born of the Spirit. You must have a newness in you. You must be a new creation. Why? It's because you're dead in your sins. You're dead in your trespasses. Your heart and your mind's polluted and it's corrupted. You are an enemy of God. You have no hope outside of Christ. So what does Jesus tell Nicodemus? You must be born of the Spirit. Have faith in Christ. The Spirit regenerates you, makes you new. Gives you faith, brings you into the family of God, and now you are a new creation in Christ Jesus. This is the new birth. This is what we worship God. We worship God that we have been we are a new creation. We worship God that while we were sinners, Christ died for us and gave us new life. We worship God that when we face physical death on this earth, we know that we will not be physically destroyed, but we will enter eternal glory to be with our Lord and Savior. This is the eternal life that's promised to us. Beloved, does this bring us joy? I hope it does. I hope when you hear this, when you recognize your new identity in Christ, it leads you to worship God. This is why we talk about the forgiveness that leads to love. That love leads you to worship and obedience. So the worship is rooted in the understanding that you are a new creation. Because of your new birth in Christ, you now worship God. This brings us to point number two. We worship God. How? Through obedience. We worship God through obedience. Look with me in verse 16. Do you not know that If you present yourselves to anyone as obedient slaves, you are slaves of the one whom you obey. Either of sin, which leads to death, or of obedience, which leads to righteousness. But thanks be to God. That you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed. Our obedience is our demonstration of our love to God. We used to obey sin because we loved our sin. Brought us great joy. It was the fuel that filled us up and gave us passion and motivation in our lives. Think about that. Try to remember who you were before Christ. How did you make all of your decisions? What was going to make me feel good? What was going to make people see me and recognize me for how good I am? What was going to bring me the most pleasure in this instant? What drove you and your decisions outside of Christ? Now , think about who you are in Christ Jesus: faith in Christ. Do you ever think about what will bring pleasure and what pleases the Lord when you're making decisions? Do you think about, well, what does the word of God say? How should I love my neighbor? How should I treat my spouse? What should I do with this ethical problem at work? If you're in Christ and you're doing that, you're processing that, you're demonstrating your love for God. We don't think about it that way all the time. But it's your love, it's your seeking to walk in obedience to God. This is how we worship God. Let's walk in obedience. He's our master. Right? He's our master. We are a slave to him. And if we want to be obedient slaves, we want to respect his authority, we're going to walk in obedience This is respectful to him. This is a form of worship. That's why we read 1 John 5, verses 1 through 5. Let me just remind you of what it says. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God. How do we know if we love God? We know that when we love God and obey his commandments, for this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments. His commandments are not burdensome. Love that our worship of God is not just limited to us gathering together on Sunday mornings, singing songs, praying, reading our Bible, listening to sermons. Our worship of God is not just limited to when we are in a church environment. Our worship of God is not just limited to when we feel like it or when we feel a happiness or you know some butterflies in our belly. The worship of God is who we are as Christians. It's how we live our lives. In the worship of God, we do that through obedience. Why do we gather together on Sunday mornings? Because that's what we've always done. Just sounds good? It's convenient. We don't work on Sundays, so it just works out well? Well, no. That's how we got to the weekend structure we have. The reason we gather together on Sundays Is walking in obedience to God. He's instructed us not to forsake the gathering, to come together with saints, to fellowship with one another, to sing songs of praise. Hymns and spiritual songs with one another, to pray with and for one another, to hear the preaching of his word. All that we're doing here is just walking in obedience. He's commanded it, we're doing it Why should we love our neighbors? Why? He's commanded us to. Why should we be kind to the foreigner, the sojourner on the street? He's commanded us to. Why should we treat our spouses with love and respect? He's commanded us to. Why should we raise our children in the fear and adoration of the Lord? He's commanded us to. You see, this is all form of worship, walking in obedience. We see God's commandments in our lives, and we're following after it. But notice where he roots our obedience. This is where we're adding our protections from these two gutters of the free grace, we just do whatever. We know that's not right. But now maybe this the legalism feels good. I'll warn us all, we are all tempted towards legalism. We're all tempted towards legalism. Because we can check off a box with legalism. I love my list. Give me a list, tell me the do's and don'ts. I'll check that off and we'll be good to go. Legalism is really tempting. Because what we do is we make this list. Alright, all I gotta do is not swear, not speed. Not be too mean to my boss and go to church on Sundays. I'll check all of those off. I'm a good Christian, right? I'm being obedient. I've won the pleasure of God. This is where my identity is. How often, if you ask someone, are you a Christian? They say yes. Say, well tell me about that. Why are you a Christian? Oh, I go to church on Sundays. That's your identity as a Christian? Is that you gather with others? Oh, no, no, no, no. I've been baptized. Wait, your baptism is your identity as a Christian? No, what happens is we we've placed our identity in the wrong things, in the obedience. But we see Paul directs us to deal with the heart. He says, but thanks be to God, verse 17, but thanks be to God that you who aren't slaves of sin have become obedient. How? From the heart. You're obedient from the heart. Do you love God so much that you seek His word? You seek His wisdom on what obedience looks like Do you love God so much that you are willing to get rid of sin and temptation in your life to walk in obedience to God Do you love God so much that you're willing to give up everything to walk in the standard and the conduct of Christ? Do you love God? This is a good check in our lives, friends. We can use this to examine ourselves. Are we living a free grace saying, yes, I'm a Christian, I'm just going to keep on sinning? He's going to forgive me. That's all going to be good. Paul tells us don't do that. That's foolishness. Or are you on the other side? Are you saying, I'm going to make sure I'm walking in obedience to prove that I'm a Christian? I'm going to make sure I'm doing good things so that I know that I'm a Christian. If you're doing that, I want you to reverse it. I want you to examine your heart. What has motivated you to walk in obedience? What motivates you to gather together with the saints on Sunday? What motivates you to get your Bibles and open them up and read? What motivates you to sing songs of praise to our Lord? Beloved, I hope, my prayer, Paul's commandment, is your motivation to walk in obedience must be because of your heart, that you love God. You've recognized that you are a sinner that has been forgiven by the blood of Christ, that you are a new creation in Christ Jesus, that you have eternal life waiting for you in glory, that you will be in his presence forever. Does that love draw you to walk in obedience? Do you love your master so much that whatever he commands you, you're willing to follow? This is how we worship God. We worship God through our obedience. This leads us to point number three. How do we know what obedience is? What's right and wrong? What's right and wrong? Often with illegalism, we use a little bit of scripture, but then we also use a lot of tradition. We use a lot of just personal preferences. Right? We use a little scripture, and then we say, but this feeling I have, or this is just how we've always done it here. We don't watch this show because we've never been allowed to watch this show. We don't go to these places because we're not allowed to go to those places because we were told we weren't allowed to go. Now, often that's been based on a verse or a piece of scripture. But we haven't rooted ourselves in God's word to wrestle with what is right and wrong. And Paul tells us that we, in verse 17, become obedient from the heart. How? To the standard of teaching to which you were committed. We learn obedience from God's word. We learn obedience from God's word. The entirety of Scripture, from Genesis to Revelation, we see the law of God We see the character and the nature of God. We then have Christ reveal the mystery of God to us and our salvation. We see Christ walk in perfect obedience, both in his actions, his thoughts. His desires, his form of worship. And we read all of that in the Word of God. So, how do we know what is being obedient to God? It's from His Word Not based on our traditions, not based on a feeling we have , something we were taught by someone many years ago. We base it on the Word of God. Now, a lot of our traditions are based on the Word of God. We gather on Sunday mornings, based on the Word of God, our instruction to gather together. You know, we sit in pews. Are we instructed in Scripture to sit in pews? No, but there's an orderness to that. So it's not inherently or sinful that we do things a certain way. But if we say no, if if we go into a church and they have chairs and not pews, they're sinning. Well, by what standard? This must be our question. By what standard are you saying something's a sin? And by what standard are you saying something's walking in obedience to Christ? This must be a common phrase in our vocabulary, Christians. By what standard? Now, what do I mean when I say by what standard? This uh let me take a side note. This is a great apologetic tool for you Alright, so if you're if you're in the world, you're preaching the gospel, and someone comes to you and says, Uh, Christ isn't real, he's not really God, he didn't die for your sins, here's the first question you ask them: By what standard? How can you say that Christ isn't God? Give me proof. Let's walk down the path of, well, it's because of history, it's because of our textbooks, it's because we have evolution. You know, they'll go down these rabbit trails and and they won't like it. But a good question is, okay, by what standard is that the authority that we listen to? Alright, so this is that's an apologetic tool. I encourage you to use. You may make some good friends, you may not make some good friends by doing that. But you're always challenging them. What standard is anyone in all of history making their opinion, basing their opinion and their beliefs off of? And we must do that for ourselves. We're talking about walking in obedience and following the word of God. Well, by what standard are we doing that? It's by the standard of the word itself. The Word of God has given us instructions of how to live, to love God, to love our neighbor, to worship Him rightly, to gather together as saints, how to Operate and work within your household and your family. How to work in the workplace? How to deal with the government. All of that is in the Word of God. We don't need to go with philosophy and traditions. We need to start with the standard of God's Word and then work from there. Tradition's not bad. I love tradition. I love tradition. Love it. But if my tradition is saying one thing contrary to the word of God, or is saying something is law, which God's word is silent on, we must be cautious Let us not call something sin that the Word of God doesn't call sin, and let us not call something obedience that the Word of God does not call obedience. Where do we get this from? Most classic passage is 2 Timothy 3, 16 through 17. 2 Timothy 3, 16 through 17. All scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. The man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. All scriptures breathed out by God. So the Word of God, it's His Word, written by the hand of men. Inspired by the Holy Spirit. We have the Word of God. And it's profitable. It's beneficial. It's good. The Word of God is good. And what's it good for? It's good for teaching us who God is, the knowledge of God, knowing what sin is It's also good for reproof. We can point to things and say that is a sin. That's what reproof is. We can acknowledge something is sin. How can we acknowledge and say this is sin is based off the Word of God. It's based off the Word of God. Now, in the church, there's times where we may have little arguments and debates. Someone says this is a sin. And you'll say, well, why do you say that? By what standard? What proof do you have that's a sin? And then we go to the text of Scripture. And from there we have our conversation. But we can't say this is sin, and we say, well how, it's because it doesn't make me feel good. I don't like it. Well stop That's not obedience to God. That's obedience to yourself. So scripture is good for reproof. We can show and point to what is sin. For correction. Okay, we've sinned. What now should we do? Scripture tells us we confess our sin, we repent of our sin. We trust in the blood of Christ to forgive us of our sins. And then here, for training in righteousness. How do we obey God? How do we walk in the likeness of Christ? Scripture must be our standard. It must be the foundation of where we start when we're talking about walking in obedience. We learn obedience from God's word. That's why we value the word of God. It's why we spend so much time talking about it. We have Bible studies. Some of you are here on Sunday mornings for Sunday school, the worship service, Sunday nights, Wednesday nights, and then you're reading it on your own throughout the week. There's a ladies' group that meets, I think, on Tuesdays throughout the year. There's a men's group. So we have all these times that Christians we gather together and read the Word of God. Why? It's because we understand. That has revealed God to us. It has revealed Christ and his revelation of the mystery of God and our salvation. And it reveals to us how we should live as Christians. How we should walk in obedience. That's why in Romans 16 it tells us: we who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed. And having been set free from sin, we have become slaves of righteousness. We don't have to be taught how to be a slave to sin. Right. Does anyone have to learn how to sin? Parents, is anyone out there teaching your children how to be disobedient? I hope not. I missed that parenting class if it was there But isn't there disobedience in the heart? Natural. It's in our fallen nature. We're not trained in unrighteousness. We're born into it. We're a slave to it But now that we have been liberated from it, we need to be trained in righteousness. We need to understand what it means to walk in obedience. And that comes from the Word of God. So we worship God for our new birth. We worship God through obedience, right? Forgiveness leads to love. Love leads to worship and obedience. And that obedience is a form of worship. We learn obedience from God's word, from His testimony. What is right, what is wrong, it comes from the Word of God, not based off the traditions and opinions and feelings. But the Word of God. And then lastly, we worship our Master in all things. We worship our Master in all things. That's why this slave language is so important. Verse 19, it tells us I'm speaking in human terms because of your natural limitations. Thanks, Paul. Thanks for reminding us that we're quite limited in our understanding of God. But using this understanding of a slave for us, in our limited understanding Of who God is and what it means to be obedient to him. He's using this language of slave. Do slaves have a choice of what they do? That's kind of the nature of being a slave. You're obedient to your master. So he's saying I'm using natural or I'm using human terms because of your natural limitations. For just as you once presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness, leading to more lawlessness, So now present your members as slaves to righteousness leading to sanctification. So, my question for us this morning Is when do we have to be obedient to God? When As slaves to God, when must we be obedient? Always. Someone said it, thank you. Always. He's our master. We don't get to pick and choose. Sunday mornings, when I'm in church, I'm gonna be obedient. Come Monday night, you don't want to be around me. I'm not going to be obedient to God. Do we have that option? No, if we have been born again. If he has liberated us out of the slavery of sin and brought us into the slavery of righteousness and into his kingdom, we belong to him. He is our master, our commander. And we are called to walk in obedience to him. Why? It's because we love him. We love him. This is where our obedience is driven out of. It's from our hearts, out of our love. And it's in every aspect of our lives, every single aspect of our lives, we are called to walk in obedience to Him. Deuteronomy 6, verses 4 through 9. It's one of my favorite passages when talking about fatherhood and leading your family. Ephesians 6 echoes a similar idea But Deuteronomy 6:4 says, Hear, O Israel, the Lord our God, the Lord is one. You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, and with all your soul, and with all your might. Alright, we can get behind that. We want to love the Lord with all we have. And these words that I commanded you today shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your children, and shall talk of them when you sit in your house, and when you walk by the way, and when you lie down, and when you rise. You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be the front frontlets between your eyes. You shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates So he's saying, if you love the Lord your God with all your heart, all your soul, all your might, and these words that I command you today shall be on your heart. The commandments of God shall be on your heart. And then what are you supposed to do with those commandments? You're supposed to teach them to your children. When do we have to teach them to our children? Well, when we talk about them, we should when we sit down in our house. So when you're sitting in the lazy boy, I don't think Today we're talking about a lazy boy, but we have a little nicer furniture now. When we sit down in our house, we should be talking about the commandments of God, teaching them to our children. Now, is teaching just with words? No. It's also how we live. I have told my daughter to do a lot of things. She's not always perfectly obedient. But then I catch her doing something that I do that I've never taught her with words to do. It's frustrating when that happens. But isn't that the nature that teaching is both with our words and our actions, how we're living So now in Deuteronomy we're being taught and told that we should be teaching our children and talking about the commandments of God when we sit down. So when we're resting. Or when we're walking by the way, when we're moving about and journeying in this lifetime, and when we lie down. Who wants to lie down and be teaching? Right? We lie down because we like to take a nap or to rest. But even when we lie down, we're to be teaching and instructing our children in the way of the Lord. And when we rise up, First thing we do when we stand up, we should go get our children and teach them scripture, right? That's what's being taught here. No, what's being taught here? Everything we do, everything we do is in obedience to God. We should be thinking about the law of God. We should be keeping His instructions forefront in our mind. We should be writing and reading the Word of God. We should be teaching and living out the Word of God and walking into obedience in everything we do. We worship our master in all things. We're obedient to our master in all things. Do not have a sacred and a secular divide in your life. Because that secular divide, oh, this isn't church, this isn't a religious thing, this is a worldly thing. I'm gonna operate on worldly ideas and worldly thoughts. Well, guess what? This will become your master. If you have a sacred and secular divide in your life, the secular will overpower you. You will fall in line with the secular, and you will abandon Christ. You will abandon God. You can't have that divide. If you are a new creation in Christ Jesus, you are a new creation in every aspect of your lives. From how you worship God when you gather together with the church, from how you lead your family, from how you respect your parents, from how you operate in the workplace. How you make ethical decisions within the world, how you interact with and deal with politics, with civil government, how you pray for your enemies. How you use your leisure time and your rest time. How you operate on your technology and your devices. From what you watch and you read, all of this must be submitted and walking in obedience to God. You don't get to pick and choose when that is. We worship our Master in all things. This is why in Romans Verse 20, Paul's driving home this idea: for when you were slaves of sin, you were free in regard to righteousness. But what fruit were you getting at the time from the things of which you are now ashamed? For the end of these things is death. But now that you have been set free from sin and have become slaves of God, the fruit you get leads to sanctification, and its end eternal life. The pleasures we had outside of Christ, while they felt good, what were they producing? What benefit were they? In the moment they felt good. Let's not lie about sin. Let's not say, oh no, we never liked sin. No, we love sin when we were outside of Christ. That's why we're still tempted towards it in Christ. We loved it, it felt good. But Paul tells us the fruit at that time was worthless. It actually led to death. If I had an apple up here and I said, this apple is poisoned, it will cause you to vomit and then die. Anyone coming for it? Logan, you want the apple? The poison? No, of course not. So why then are we attracted to the fruit of sin? Because we enjoyed it at that time. But here's the fruit we have in Christ. It's a fruit that brings sanctification, meaning it brings us more and more into the likeness of Christ. It causes us to walk in a holy way. It causes us to walk in obedience, and that obedience in Christ Jesus leads to eternal life. Who wants that fruit? Who wants the fruit that brings eternal life? Who wants the fruit that brings a joy that surpasses our understanding here in this moment and this time? Friends, don't go back to the fruit that kills you just because you're not in church. Don't go back to the fruit that brings destruction into your life just because it feels good in the moment. Walk in obedience. Worship God in all things. From the moment you wake up. To the moment you lie down, walk in obedience. How can we do this? It's because we have been born again in Christ Jesus. And because of our forgiveness in Christ, it leads us to love Him. And that love leads us to worship Him in obedience. We learn obedience from God's word. And we know that we don't get to pick and choose when we're obedient. But we worship our Master. We walk in obedience in all things. Now what happens when we fail? When we sin, which you will, which we do, what happens when we sin? Does this mean it's all messed up? We've got to start this whole process of Being forgiven and coming to faith. No. No no. You know how what do we do when we sin? We walk in obedience by confessing our sin, coming before our God, knowing that He forgives us You see, even in our sin, we turn back to obedience for forgiveness. Even in our mistakes and our weakness, we walk in obedience. In all things, we walk in obedience. And beloved, may we rejoice in it. Verse 17 tells us, but thanks be to God. Thanks be to God that we have this forgiveness. Thanks be to God that we have been liberated from the slavery of sin and brought into the slavery of God. But thanks be to God that He has given us a love for Him, a heart for Him that allows us to walk in obedience to our new Master. May we rejoice in this church and may we proclaim it to the ends of the earth. Let us go before our Lord in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have liberated us from sin. We thank you that you have redeemed us by the blood of Christ. We thank you that you have given us new hearts A new life that loves you, that seeks to walk in obedience to you. So, Lord, I now ask that you strengthen us, you show us righteousness. You show us the way of living. You show us sin and how to reject it, to confess it and repent of it. You draw us to you. You strengthen our love for you as you strengthen our understanding of how great you are and how forgiving you truly are. We pray all of this in the name of Christ. Amen.