Words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Colossians chapter 2, verses 1 through 10. Colossians 2, 1 through 10. As you're turning there, let me just direct you where we're at in our series of on the Trinity. We've spent months. We spent four. She sets a four, so that's two months studying the Trinity, studying uh what is the Trinity, the different persons of the Trinity, and then the last two Sunday nights uh have been a beautiful examination of so what what does that mean to us as Christians? How how do we worship God accordingly? What does this mean within salvation? Uh just if you weren't here two Sundays ago, I encourage you to go back and listen to that sermon uh out of Ephesians and to see the beauty of how each person in the Trinity and the Triune God is at work within our salvation. Salvation is a beautiful imagery there. It's a beautiful truth that we rely on as Christians. So I encourage you to listen to that and go back and reread Ephesians. one. But now we've gotten to our last two sermons on the Trinity and we kind of take this turn from us examining the Trinity and really diving into the depths of it. And now we want to see the challenges. to the Trinity. Not the challenges as though the Trinity cause us to stumble and be confused, but rather to see the objections to the Trinity, which we'll examine tonight. And then next week, ironically on St. Patrick's Day, we'll uh we will study the heresies of this Trinity and how people have mist taught, mis misunderstood the Trinity and use bad examples and imagery to try to understand them. But tonight, let's see the objections of the Trinity. There's two groups that we're gonna uh examine here. The one group is from the Muslim arguments. We wanna we wanna see what some of the arguments that the Muslims are bringing against the Trinity. And then the second one is from the Jewish point of view. What are some of the Jewish arguments that are being brought against paternity? Now why why would we study objections to the Trinity? Why are we spending time, really the next two Sundays, why are we spending time to study the wrong views of the Trinity? um within the church. Well the f the first thing that I really want us to think about is I want us to be strengthened. I want us to be positive and confident in what we believe. Uh so many times and so many stories you hear about kids growing up in the church and and they're they're fully involved, they're they're all about it, and then the moment they step out of the home and they start to be challenged by the world, they start to hear the philosophy of the world, then all of a sudden their faith is just destroyed. Well part of that problem is that they haven't really been grounded in their their identity, the foundations of their faith isn't there, but they've also never had to deal with the challenges. Could you imagine a football team that's all about scoring points? Right? So so the Eagles are the best football team in the world and they're all about scoring points. But they would be a really bad football team if all they ever did was just practice offense. And they never had a defense play. They didn't have e they didn't even have defensive players. They just focused on the offense because they want to score points Well what happens? Well the game's going to have a moment where they're gonna have to play defense and be ready for the challenges of the the opposing team team. If they weren't practicing and ready for it, the moment they got out there they would be crushed. It doesn't mean they're not good football players. It doesn't mean they don't have the abilities to do it, but they weren't preparing for it. They weren't ready for Well, likewise, I think it is healthy for us to deal with challenges to the Trinity, to salvation, to Christ, to the Word of God. These are good things for us to deal with and And and spend a little bit of time, uh our entire lives and ministry shouldn't be focused on this, but to deal with these challenges a little bit, to strengthen us and encourage us as believers, so that we're not afraid to go into the world We're not afraid to go out. We're not afraid for the challenges to come our way. We may not have all the answers immediately, but we will not be crushed and defeated just because someone brings For challenge to what we believe. We're going to stand on the word of God. That's where the truth is found, is in his word and through Christ. And we can go into the world of confidence. And proclaim the truth, and let the enemy come, let the challenge come, and rebuke it, not by anything fancy other than going to his word and to our God. So that's why we're spending so much time uh uh doing this. So let us read Colossians chapter two, verses one through ten. And this is actually going to be the the passage we're going to use for the next next two weeks. Because I think it really need to be as we're facing challenges, objections, and For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those at uh Ledesha, and for all who have not seen me face Face to face, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding and the knowledge of God's mystery. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. For though I am absent in body, yet I am with you. Therefore, as you received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him, rooted and built up in him, and established in the faith. Just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition According to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells by And you have been filled in him who is the head of all rule and authority. We see here that Paul is trying to encourage this church. He wants them to be confident in their identity in Christ. Be confident in their faith. Because he's aware that there's going to be challenges. There's going to be the enemy coming in. to the fold and trying to cause destruction. Trying to cause them to follow after a new trend, a new philosophy, maybe a better gospel, a better testimony, a better faith, and try to pull them away from Christ. So Paul wants them to be confident in who they are. So that's why we're spending time to study. I want us to be confident of who God is. Who is God? If we're gonna walk around with this identity of Christian, that comes with with a name, right? Christ is in that name. That we gather together and we worship God. Almost every Sunday, multiple times on the Sunday, you'll hear us talk about join us as we worship God. Join us as we As we worship the true and living God, join us as we pray to the triune God. These are things you hear preached from here and said from the pulpit Well, who is this God? Let us gain our confidence in who he is. Let us not be weary, unsure, unstable of who God is. We must grow in confidence. And the way we grow in confidence is to see some of the objections, some of the challenges that will come against them. see that they hold no punching power against our God. That nothing can knock him down, nothing can destroy who he is, but we actually have confidence. We sh we can be confident in the face of the challenges. We don't need to fear them them. We don't need to shy away from them. The other thing that's so vitally important with why we are studying objections and heresies is that we grow in our understanding of Christ. Once again, the name we bear is Christian. We represent Christ here on this earth. Look back with me here as we See Paul saying that our assurance is found and our knowledge and wisdom is found in Christ. Verse two, that their hearts may be encouraged, be knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding the knowledge of God's mystery. So let us let us grow in our understanding of who God is. That comes from his love, it comes from him bringing us together as a body of believers. But but notice here at the end of verse two, which is in Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom. and knowledge. We need to grow in our understanding of Christ because that's where true knowledge and wisdom comes from. We see this in John 1-1, which is great to hear that people are uh actually facing challenges in this world today and going right to Scripture and pointing to the truth of what John 1-1 says. In the beginning was the Word, right? This is where we see Christ has always been in the triune God. He is the truth. If you read John 1, it is packed full of the the understanding and the theology that Christ is God. And knowledge comes from Christ. We actually see That the true mystery of God's plan of salvation, his plan for humanity, has been fulfilled in Christ. We see it unfold in Christ. His earthly ministry. We see how to live and be obedient to God, and then we see as He hangs on the cross the atonement for sinners. And we see it over and over again, yet humanity keeps going through these cycles of sin and disobedience. Obedience and and there's times where they're being destroyed and they're being oppressed, and it just appears as though God's plan of salvation and his promise of revenge really can't be fulfilled. But then that mystery has been solved as Christ hangs on the cross and pays the perfect sacrifice for sinners. And as he he dies, he's buried into the tomb and into the grave. And and and it appears as though, okay, there may be some kind of atonement there, but there's really no victory because he's dead. What happens? We all know the beautiful truth of Easter that we're about to celebrate. That three days after Christ's death, he resurrects from the dead. We now see the victory is in Christ. This is the mystery of God's plan of salvation and victory over sin and death and the enemies is found in Christ. Brothers and sisters, we need to grow in our understanding of Christ. Now we do that quite regularly here. this church. It's one of the reasons that Kenzie and I joyfully uh sought to come out here six months ago now. Because we saw a church that loves Christ. We saw a church that wanted to hear the preaching of Christ. They wanted to hear Christ preach. They wanted to grow in who Christ was. That's what we are all about as Christians. So that's why we need to study the objections to Trinity. And then the last one, and we've hinted at this over and over again, is that we must strengthen our faith. As we see challenges coming against us, and we see that God actually does have something to say, our strength, our faith will be strengthened. As the challenges come against us and we don't crumble and die and have to crawl up in a ball in our room with the lights out. But we can actually stand against the challenges and it's okay. Our faith will grow. We'll be strengthened. As the challenges come against us, and we may not have the exact answer in that exact moment. moment, but we we know and we trust that God does have the answers. God's word does give us the answers. And we have to leave that conversation and go, you know what, at this moment, I don't know what to say to you I I don't have the answer. And you realize that you survive and you can go back to his word, and you realize that you're you're just fine. Our faith in God will be strengthened. faith in our savior will be strengthened. I saw this over and over again in my own life as a young man in the military, constantly there was these these challenges coming at me in the weirdest of conversations. So uh that will blow your mind if you hear what actual questions people have. And when they would ask these questions or they would bring these challenges to me I would go, I have no idea, A, what you're saying. You're using words That are so big, I don't even know what they mean. But B, I also don't have the answer right now. I didn't study biology. I'm not I don't have a a historical background in how medicine works, and that's often the challenges with they would bring. I don't know the the the historical uh the lineage of how cells have divided over time and evolution. That's not I'm not a scientist. But I didn't crumble. That didn't say, oh, then then God's word can't be true because I don't have the answers right then. No, it's an opportunity for me to be humble in front of them. them and say, I don't know. But I know that God's word does and I would go back and I would present scripture to them and all of a sudden they would reject it and and say that would wasn't sufficient, but we know that it was sufficient and we know that it does have the truth. But my faith actually was strengthened as I faced these challenges and could wake up up the next morning. We see that happen here, and Paul's wanting them to be strengthened in their faith. Look with me back in verse 3 in whom are Hidden all treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. But though I am absent in body, yet I am with you In spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ. Paul's warning them: you're going to face the challenges. You're going to face the challenges. If you're going to be able to withstand the challenges, your faith in Christ will be strengthened. And Paul is looking forward to the day where he gets to hear the testimony of how they've faced the challenges of the the enemy with faith and that their faith is actually firm in Christ. Is that what we're looking forward to? Are we looking forward to the day that we're challenged and that our faith is uh is firmed up and is strengthened? Because we could stand on God's word and the testimony of who God is. May we not fear the world. May we not fear the world. It's one of the arguments that happened back in the seventies. Some of you were alive then. Some. But back in the seventies there was a bit of a movement where the church, the Western church wanted to uh to to build up the walls and and just say, hey, we're we're gonna be this private club. Uh and the rest of the world, all these hippies that we see, we're gonna make sure we don't interact with them because they're scary. They have scary things that are talking about. Yeah? Very true. My father was a hippie. I've heard some of the stories. It's very scary. But the church was was secluding themselves and hiding away. Francis Schaefer, he w he went out to the Alps and he said, I'm gonna open up this house and this this facility where all these hippies that are trying to find Find themselves in the Alps. You know, out find Mother Nature as they're walking the mountains can come into my house and they can ask me questions and I can point them to the Word of God and show that He has the answer Instead of secluding themselves and hiding themselves away, he opened up the doors and said, Come on in. Bring with any challenge, whatever challenge you have. And we're going to examine scripture and find out the the truth and the answers. And I believe that as Christians we should live in a very similar mindset. That our doors are open and we're saying, come in with your greatest challenge. Come in and try to try to prove our God wrong because we know that he's right. We know that he is absolute. We know that he is good. We know that he is king, that he is Lord, and we can point to his word and his truth. And we can stand with confidence that he is good and we have the answers. So that's why we're going to spend the next two weeks studying objections in heritage. Now let's look at this word here that Paul uses in verse 4. I say this in order that no one may delude you. with plausible arguments. Plausible arguments, I really like this language that Paul uses because he's giving it some strength He's giving it some strength. You know, if someone came to you and said, I believe that Jesus was was well known in the region because he he had a herd of unicorns that he rode around, you would go like, all right, dude, that's that's crazy But let's let's talk about real things. You know, it's not very plausible, right? But there are plausible arguments. There are things that when you hear it you go, well, oh man, that that's amazing Well, that's maybe correct. Hole's not throwing out straw men, and that's something I want us to not do. I don't want us to build straw men. If you don't know what straw man is, that's a it's a logical argument that is easily destroyed. You know the weakest argument anyone can bring and say, here's the argument and I destroyed it, so obviously your whole premise is is wrong. No, I want to bring the steel man. What's some of the strongest arguments that the world can What's some of the strongest things they're going to bring against the Trinity? That's what I want us to do, and that's what Paul is is mentioning here. The plausible arguments. What's real things that are really going to challenge your understanding and your faith, that's what we must deal with. That's what we must trust God to give us the answers to. So what are some of these plausible arguments? The first one is that Christians worship multiple gods. This is very common in the Muslim world if you've ever interacted with with Muslims this is a this is often a a very early argument that will be brought to you. And there's some writings within the Quran, actually a decent amount, that that bring this out. Um that has writings about the the the The wrong worship of those Trinitarians, those that believe in the Trinity, how wicked that is and how they're worshiping multiple gods. So how do we answer this? Christians worship multiple gods. Now if you've been with us the last two months, you you already have some of this ready to go. Like you're ready to argue this. You're ready to to defend this with Scripture. Well, one of the things that we must point to is that over and over and over again in Scripture, it says that there is only one God. Let's stand on that truth. Let's stand from almost the beginning of Scripture to almost the very end of Scripture. It's pointed out over and over again that We worship one God. Turn with me to James chapter 2. We're going to hear this language. We're going to hear the language that we worship one God. James two, verse nineteen reads, You believe that God is one. You do well. He's commending them. If this is what you believe, you're doing well. Notice this notice this even the demons believe and shudder There's two things that we we want to notice here. One is that that James is pointing out that we we believe in one God and that is a good thing That will strengthen you. And as we read through James, you see this over and over again, how he's saying, have faith, and then you live out your faith. You have faith in Christ and then you live that out. You have faith in Christ and you live that out and they're combined together. The works and faith They're combined together. You have faith and then you live it out. And he's saying your faith is part of that, is that you believe that God is one and this is good And because you believe that God is one, then you're working out of that, your your good works, your living out in that truth, will represent that you believe in one God. The other thing he's also pointing out Is that even the demons believe? Even those that that have rebelled against God in the heavenly realm, they believe this as well. Well, of course they believe. They have seen Him firsthand. They have seen the triune God. And they believe that he is one. That there's one God. This is vital for us to understand. Now, when so what happens when the arguments come to us? us. Oh, oh you Trinitarians you worship multiple gods. We don't have to try to to draw imagery with a pizza and explain how the pizza is the the Trinity. past this conversation we've had and laughed at. We don't have to try to d describe it with an egg and explain the different parts of the egg. No, no. We don't need all that. When someone s comes and says, Oh you Trinitarian You you Christians, you worship three multiple gods, just go to scripture and say, No, we don't. We believe in one God. In three persons, right? This is what we've examined over and over again. Look with me in John chapter 10. John chapter 10, we're also going to see, John 10, 30, how we worship one God. Right? One God. At no point does Jesus try to claim that he is another God. At no point do we see that he's identifying as a separate God But here's where we start to see the unity of the Trinity in three persons. John 10, verse 30 Uh actually let me let me jump up to verse 29. My father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to sniff Now why is it so important that we go to this verse, this chapter and this verse of the Bible to defend That we worship one God. One of the things about Muslims, and when they bring these arguments to them, or to you, is that Muslims actually have a very high view of Jesus. There's quite a bit of language within the Quran of how uh Jesus and Messiah go hand in hand. Jesus and Messiah So they have a higher view of Jesus, so when we can point and say Jesus himself identifies that him and the Father are one. that that there's one God, we start to s to eliminate the argument that we're worshiping multiple gods. We name that for Christian. We're following Christ. And he himself says that him and the Father are one. We start to see the triune God, the one God, and three persons being represented. So that's some of the arguments, some of the the scriptural proofs that we can look at to defend when the world comes that says Christians worship multiple gods. Be bold and say no we don't. Don't allow them to to make the language and make the standard of of what you belief. Do you believe multiple worship multiple gods? No. So why are we allowing the world to say that we do? Point to scripture, we understand the triune God, we understand one God, three persons. And then we should have confidence and boldness to defend that. The second plausible argument that we'll see in our world today is that Jesus never said that he was God. Once again, this is extremely common with Muslims. I had a a a soldier for a while that was Muslim. He grew up in Iraq. Um and is very confident that Jesus never said that he was God. And at that point I really was like, uh You you're right, I never saw Jesus say, I am God. Right? And that's really what they're leaning on. They're saying, point to scripture, point to your Bible where Jesus says, I am God. And you go, huh, y you won, you begot me, I can't do that. But is that how we treat anything else? That if the wording is not exactly in a right sentence structure, then it's not true? No, not at all. So we can take our time and be patient and trust that scripture actually does have an answer to them And let me assure you that Jesus actually does say that he is God. How do we know that? Well, right where we're at in John, John 10, 30, Jesus says, I and the Father are one. I and the Father are one. And and what happens is the Muslim says, see, he didn't say, I am God. But look at verse thirty one. What happens? When after Jesus says, I and the Father are one, verse thirty one the Jews picked up stones again to stone him. Well wait, why are the Jews all of a sudden upset? But Jesus just was saying that he's he's really close with God, he's he's really friendly with God Then why why would they be mad? Because they know, and how Jesus said this, that he's saying that he is God. Look, so they pick up stones to stone him in verse 32. Jesus answered them, I have shown you many good works from the Father. For which of them are you going to stone me? The Jews answered him, It is not for a good work that we are going to stone you but for blasphemy, because you, being a man, make yourself God. So if the w if if the enemy comes and says Jesus never said he was God You can point right here and show Jesus did say he was God. And the hearers, the Jewish leaders, understood that he said he was God. And that's why they were going to say Stone him. Just flip back a few pages and you'll see in John eight fifty-eight a very similar story unfolds 858. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly I say to you, before Abraham was, I am. Sound familiar? If you're in our Exodus Sunday school class. You've heard this quite a bit. Alright, so so right here, the the Muslims or the people arguing that Jesus never said that he was God are saying, see. He didn't say it. But what happens immediately following that? Abraham was, I am, verse 59. So they picked up stones to throw at him, but Jesus hid himself and went out of the the temple. They weren't picking up stones to throw at him because they were about to play dodgeball. They weren't just about to have a good time. They weren't just upset that he mentioned Abraham. No, it was because they recognized and they knew that Jesus just said that he is God. So let us stand with confidence that Jesus did say he was God. Just because the wording is not there that he says, I am God. Does not mean that he didn't identify himself as God. He's done it over and over again. Turn with me to Matthew 14. We'll look at one more example, one more defense that Jesus actually does say that he is God. Matthew 14, verse 33. Now one of the important things to notice here as we're looking at this , And like I said, this is a Muslim argument often against uh the Trinity and Jesus being God. But they hold Jesus in high revere. So what we're gonna see here is that Jesus is allowing He's allowing people to worship him. Now, if they're going to hold Jesus in high revere, say he's the greatest prophet, he's the Messiah, but he's not God. Well, how would they how would such a high revered person allow people, man, to worship him if he's not God? So notice here, verse four uh chapter 14, verse 33 of Matthew. reads, and those in the boat worshiped him, saying, Truly you are the Son of God. And then look at verse 34. And when they had crossed over, they came to land. Look, you you don't see him saying, Wait, wait, stop, get up, stop worshiping me. I'm not God. Stop saying that I'm the son of God. That's that's inevitable. No. We see that the story goes right on. That that they are worshiping him and they are worshiping correctly. Truly you are the Son of God, and Jesus does not correct you. Brothers and sisters recognize that this is a defense of the Trinity. This is how we defend against the world when they say that Jesus never said that he was God. You now see three Proofs in Scripture where Jesus does identify himself as God. There's many more you can look at. Let's continue on looking at the third objection, plausible argument that the world can bring against the Trinity This one's fairly new within theology and and religion. Fairly new means 200 years old, but it is newer in the theology. Ephesians 1 is just pointing to the idea that there is a triune God who is working for the redemption of his people. May we not shudder and shy away when people bring such arguments to us. They may sound strong. Hey, the word Trinity is not in the Bible. That is a strong argument at face value. But when we r rely on the scriptures, when we see that scripture actually does talk about the Trinity, just not using the word Trinity, we grow in our confidence and our strength. Hebrews 1. 8 also talks about the triune God. Hebrews 1 verse 8 reads, But of the Son he says, Your throne, O God. is forever and ever the scepter of uprighteousness is the scepter of your kingdom. You have loved righteousness and hated wickedness. Therefore God your God has anointed you with the oil of gladness beyond your companions. We could spend a few nights talking about uh this quote, this psalm, but notice here that but the the verse starts off to describe who is being spoken of and it's the son. Jesus. He says, Your throne, O God, is forever and ever. This is just another clear example of the identity of Christ being part , being the second person of the Trinity And is at work in our salvation is that Christ is God. While the word Trinity is not there, we see the assurance, once again, that God in three persons is How does that work? And the last one you can mark down in your notes, this one's extremely common, is Matthew 28. Matthew 28, we see it so clearly there. The Great Commission to go baptized, and we started this series off in this study. Who are we to go baptize in? Who are we to go disciple the nations in? In the name of Father, the Son, and the Holy Spirit. Why would we be commanded to go do something in such a way to go baptize them in other names of other gods or other lesser beings? No, we see there a clear example of the triune God. May we be confident that we have defenses against these plausible arguments. They may sound strong. They may send us for a loop. But we can be patient and confident to go to God's Word and see His truth and have the answers for such arguments. Now let's go back to Colossians chapter 2. Back in our reading here, verse four, let me just remind us of where we're at. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. So we saw some of the plausible arguments. We saw that we're actually going to gain strength in in our faith when we Defend against these plausible arguments? Look at verse 6. Therefore, as you receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit, according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, and you have been filled in him who is the head of all rule and authority. How are we going to fight against being taken captive by these plausible arguments? Well, one of the ways is what we just did here, is that we studied scripture. We saw that scripture actually does have a defense for this. But the number one way that I want us to think about and ask ourselves, how did you come to trust in Christ? Or how did you come to place your faith in Christ? Did you come to trust in Christ because someone brought just a really strong argument to you? Was it because they sh they they they treated it like it was a court case, they sat you down, said here's all the evidence and And you looked at the evidence and you said, Wow, that's amazing, I believe. I know there's books written about this that um people go on the this great dive to to prove Christ wrong. And through this search and examination, they start to see that all the evidence is pointing to that Christ is is alive, that he's real, that he really is the Messiah. And those books are are helpful, but but hear me, those men that wrote those books did not come to faith because the evidence pointed to them. They came to faith because the Holy Spirit used those evidences to bring them to faith. The evidences was not what brought them to faith. It was the working of the Holy Spirit. So how did you come to trust in Christ? Was it through arguments? No, it's through faith. We see this is what Paul is pointing to. Therefore as you receive Christ, Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. How did you receive him? Rooted and built up in him and established in the faith, just as you were taught abounding in Thanksgiving. Brothers and sisters, we walk by faith We have proof. We have historical evidence. We have biological evidence. We have uh the the the history of the scriptures, but there is walking by faith. We have faith in Christ, and we too have faith that he He is our Lord and Savior. We trust to know that He is at work. We are built up in Him because of our faith. If you've come to Christ by any other way, if you think you are a Christian by any other way, because you have all the answers, because you've proven it, because you've You've answered all the other religious questions out there. No, no, no. You've come to trust by faith in Christ. Likewise, we walk by faith in this life. We must be we are not taken captive because we have faith in Christ. The second question I want you to ask yourself, how are how will you not be taken captive by the plausible argument from this world? Are you studying the scripture? Are you rooted in the word? If you're not, trust me, any Any cool sounding that any cool sounding uh uh movement, philosophy will sway you. If you're not rooted in the text, if you're not rooted in the word. You're going to the Word regularly. You're studying the Word regularly. You want to know who God is. You want to know how to live in obedience to Him. You want to know what it means to be a Christian. You want to know what it means to be a sinner. And how you've been redeemed by Christ. If you're not doing that regularly, you are going to be deceived by the world. Plain and simple. This is how we fight against the enemy. The word of God is how we defeat the arguments. We don't have to go and find all the answers to every possible question that ever may be brought upon you against from the world to be ready. No, you have to be in his word. And that's how you're rooted, and that's how you're ready for the attacks. So how do you prevent yourself from being persuaded and moved by any movement that comes your way is studying the scriptures. See here that Paul points to that. Rooted and built up in him and established in faith, just as you were taught abounding in thanksgiving. Are you rooted in the truth? How did we hear the truth was through the preaching of the gospel, through his word. How are we being taught? From this pulpit, from this church, hopefully any other church you go to, you're being taught from the word, not just from our ideas Pastor Matt and I and Jason are just giving TED talks to you to make you feel good. We have these fun stories. No, we're we're going to the Word of God. We're rooting our understanding of God and our teaching and our preaching out of the Word of God. We're pointing you back to the Word of God. We must be rooted, we must be people rooted in the study of God's Word. That's how we will defeat and be not taken captive by the schemes of the enemy. enemy. The second thing I would like you to ask yourself is, the do the new trends attract you? Does the new trends attract you? For you that have been alive a little bit longer, you know that every few years there's something new, cool, appealing that comes into the church or comes into the world. And if you follow this trend, You we got it all figured out. I have all the answers. I'll write the book. You read this book and you will be the perfect parent. You read this book and you won't have any more problems. You read this book, you come to my seminar, and you will have all the answers of how to do X, Y, and Z. And often those those trends and those ideas are quite attractive to us, aren't they? You're in a you're in s pain, you're in struggle, you don't know how to deal with your child, you don't know how to deal with with the the the challenges of the world you live in and when someone says I have the answer they're like, All right, give me the answer. You know how many different books have been written over the years, the decades, of how to solve all the world problems There's still a few problems out there if you haven't noticed. Are you easily attracted to these new trends? Oh man, with the invention of the internet and YouTube, and that we have just constant access to everybody's ideas. If you have a voice, you say it on the internet. And every idea that is floating out there, are you attracted to that? Ooh, I never, man, I never never thought that guy's saying that Jesus, well, he he's actually he's still alive and and Jesus are you attracted to that? This isn't New. 1800s, we see this happening all the time. This is how uh Latter-day Saint Mormonism started. Right? Joseph Smith had a new and trendy idea that was really appealing to some people. Well, let's follow after him and started a new religion, a new false gospel. Are you attracted to that? Oh this movement, this movement is gonna is gonna reconcile all the disagreements that humanity has had. This movement, if we just if we just shout loud enough and we just support them enough, we'll never have a racial disagreement again If this movement just if this this idea will just take us and then we will never have to deal with evolution again, are we attracted to those ideas? Now some of those and and many of those are rooted in Scripture, but if we are saying this is where our truth comes from, and we're relying on a movement or a trend, you're going to be persuaded to follow after a false narrative. You're going to be taken captive by the deceit of the wealth. May we not be attracted to the new trends. Our God created the universe a couple thousand years ago. He died in our place a few less thousand years ago. The church was established at Pentecost. So we're we're dealing with some old history here. And we can rely on that old history. We can rely on this old book that has been read, translated, and trusted for many, many, many thousands of years thousands of years. May we s not follow after the new appealing trends whenever they pop up. Because guess what? They'll die off and a new one will come next year. There's a new one out right now I'm sure. The last question we must ask ourselves, how will we not be taken captive, is who is your ultimate authority? Who is your ultimate authority? Is it some book, self-help book? Is it the trend? Is it the movement? Is it your feelings? Is it whoever has the loudest voice in the world? Is it whoever brings the best arguments to the debate? Who is your final and ultimate authority? Well is the the answer is i is is God. It's God. Who's the ultimate authority? It's God. Look with me back at what Paul is saying here in chapter two. Verse 9. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, talking about Christ, and you have been filled in him who is the head of all rule and authority Who's our authority? Who's our King? Jesus. God. Who's Lord? Jesus. We are Christians. because we follow that king. We're Christians because we know and trust that he is the king of all. He is the Lord of all. He is the final authority. No one will outweigh him, no one will persuade him, no one will convince him to do anything other than what he has planned for his kingdom. Who's your final authority? Some person on YouTube? Is it the person that that twists words and logic to c to confuse you? So then you start to follow after them. Is your final authority the mood and emotion that you're in at that time? And if you're hungry, that authority is a little different than when you're full? No, our final authority in all things is God. And he has given us his word. And we trust his will. We trust his plan for his world. Kingdom. We'll pick this back up next week in understanding this as we start to see the heresies uh coming against the Trinity that have been throughout history. We'll start to see that we do have defenses of them and scripture does have answers. Brothers and sisters, may we rest assured that God is in control. He is King, He is Lord. He has the answers for us and we can trust His word. We don't need to go study other books and other resources. They can be helpful, they can be supplemental to us, but we must be rooted in His word and we must trust him and our faith in him will grow more and more as we're challenged. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for this the truth of your word. We thank you that you have given us your word. You've given us the answers. We thank you that it has all been revealed to us in Christ. We don't need to go anywhere else but to sit at Your feet. Say your word. Follow after you. Lord, I pray that you give us the strength and this wisdom as we go into this new week. As we go back into the world, may we recognize that We must not shy away from the attacks of the enemy, but that we can stand with confidence against their attacks, because we are sheltered, we are guided by you. Praise in Christ's name. Amen.