Have to find somewhere else to take notes or or just sit there and let the word of God uh absorb into your heart and absorb into your mind and let it do its work. Matthew 28 19 to 20, talking about obedience. And we're talking about obedience as a hallmark of biblical Christianity. A hallmark of biblical Christianity. That just means a distinguishing Feature. So like water is a hallmark of the sea, obedience is a hallmark of biblical Christianity. Jesus says in verse 19 Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son. And of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Is that encouraging or is that encouraging church? Jesus is with his church, with his people always, to the end of the age. And then he doesn't stop being with us. He'll continue. continue to be with us. We'll go to be with him. Um it's hard to read the end of verse 19 and scrap all my and not scrap all my notes and do it do a sermon just uh spontaneously on on this the name of the father and of the son and of the Holy Spirit that always gets me, that always captures my attention because it's the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit is forgiven It's the work of the Father, the work of the Son, and the work of the Holy Spirit that saved this prophetic sinner and gave me hope. It's the work of the Father, the love of the Father, the love of the Son, the love of the Holy Spirit, the power and the presence of the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters That gives us hope. That's brought us into a relationship with God. But that's not the sermon today. The sermon today is obedience is a hallmark of biblical Christianity. Now let's remember our goal. I've been trying to bring this stuff ever Every sermon on obedience the goal is to be like Jesus in our character and in our lives. That's it. You have to go through struggles. You've got to fight. You've got to battle. You've got to persevere. That takes time to become like Jesus in our character. And in our lives. But brethren, that's the goal. Matthew ten, twenty-five, Jesus says, it is enough for the disciple to be like his teacher. And for the servant to be like his master, and that's our goal. For God to conform us to the character of God. Christ. Ephesians five, verse one, Paul writes, Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children. God has made us as beloved. Now the call is imitate Him. No longer live for the passions of the sinful flesh. No longer just fall in line with the world around us. But rather be imitators of God as his beloved children. Now one more on this. First John two six. John writes, whoever says that he abides in him Which is a way of saying you have a relationship with God. Whoever says that he abides in him ought to walk as he walked. Children are natural born imitators. What's the classical illustration that's given for children. Children are like sponges. They just soak up. Whatever they see, they just repeat, they imitate. So if we want to teach a young child to speak kindly to others, then just make it a habit to speak kindly to them. And when we're around them, speak kindly to each other. If we want a child on the other hand to speak harshly or to be a gossip Then we just model that for them. Children are natural-born imitators. Children of God are to be spirit-born imitators of Christ. You see, if we have the Holy Spirit, if you have the Holy Spirit this morning, would you raise your hand and say amen and give testimony to the grace of God in your life? If you have the Holy Spirit, we will want to imitate Christ. And there's no way we'll be able to imitate Christ without the Holy Spirit. So it goes in both directions. It's the Spirit within us. That spurs us on to imitate Christ when everything else in the world is trying to get us to go the other direction And as we strive to imitate Christ, we're reminded more than ever that none of this will happen apart from the work of the Holy Spirit. But let's not, please, let's let's never let this become an intellectual thing. Let's remember our goal is to be like Jesus in our character and in our lifestyles. Now the way I have this message mapped out is three important reminders about obedience. Three important reminders Now the first important reminder will be to remember the order of obedience. So you can just write down order. The second important reminder will be to remember the mission of the church. So you write down order, then you can just write down the mission. So remember the order of obedience, remember the mission of the church, and then finally remember the authority of Christ. You can either just put down authority or you can just put down Christ. That's what we're talking about today. The order of obedience, the mission of the church, the authority of the cr of Christ. And it's under the authority of Christ that will go over numbers thirteen to sixteen that you see on your outline. First of all, remember the order of obedience. That just means keeping obedience in its proper place Church, this is very, very important. I've been trying to stress this with all the spiritual energy that I possibly can. That you must become a disciple first and then learn. Obedience. We must be saved first. We must become disciples first. By the grace of God, through faith in Jesus Christ, we become disciples first, and then we learn obedience. Any attempt to be, quote, obedient to God, apart from faith in Jesus, is rebellion, not godliness. We must come to Jesus Christ first to be forgiven, to be reconciled to God, to be made children of God, and then we get busy On the obedience. That's the order of obedience, and that's the order in the passage, verses nineteen and twenty. Now we'll talk about how that happens. Later on in the message. But notice that that comes first, and then in verse 20, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you. So first comes the making of disciples, and then comes the teaching of disciples, obedient Christian living. Salvation is like a flowing stream of fresh water. Obedience is the lost greenery that grows because of the stream. Obedience is the fruitful garden that can grow because of the stream. But you have to have the stream. You have to have the living water that gives life and gives fruitfulness. to that which is around it. In fact, this is the metaphor that Scripture consistently uses for fruitful godly living. Psalm 13 Which is talking about the one who will choose to live for God rather than live for man. Psalm 13 says, He is like a tree That's planted by streams of water that yield its fruit in season, and its leaf does not wither. But you have to have the stream in order to have the fruitfulness. And we must have the salvation in order to have obedience. Also Jeremiah seventeen, verses seven and eight. Blessed is the man who trusts in the Lord, whose trust is in the Lord. He is like a, any guesses? He's like a tree. He's like a tree that's planted by, any guesses? It's like a tree that's planted by the water that sends out its roots by the stream And does not fear when the heat comes, for its leaves remain green. It remains fruitful despite hardship. Amen. And is not anxious in the year of drought, for it does not cease to bear fruit. Why? Because its roots reach to the river of living water. So you have the flowing water, and then you have the fruitfulness. Likewise, you have salvation first, and then you have obedience. And that's why the Spirit of God Within us is pictured in Scripture as living water. John 4. 14, Jesus says, Whoever drinks of the water that I will give him will never be thirsty again. Of course that's not talking about physical thirst. That's talking about the thirst of the soul, looking for true satisfaction and true rest and true joy. He'll never be thirsty again. Jesus goes on to say, The water that I will give him will become the water that I will give him. Try to picture it. Picture Jesus giving you water to drink. The water I will give him. Will become in him a spring of water welling up to eternal life A little bit different than the stream. Here you have a fountain spring that gives rise to eternal life. And of course, from that, fruitful Christian living. Salvation. Comes first, and then obedience, just like you need the stream in order to have the lush greenery, in order to have the fruitful garden. John 7:38 -39, Jesus says, Whoever believes in me, as the scripture has said Out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. Did you ever hear that verse before? It's John 7, 38. Jesus says You believe in him, as the scripture has said, out of his heart will flow rivers of living water. But please, Jesus, give us the interpretation so that we do not have to speculate on the meaning of rivers of living water in the heart. Verse 39. Now this he said about the Spirit. So rivers of living water, the water of God, the life of God within us, the Holy Spirit within us. And then if you study that passage in your devotions tonight You'll see the Jesus will go on to say that that hadn't happened yet. It points pointing forward to when Jesus will pour out the Holy Spirit on the day of Pentecost. Which historically is the only reason that you and I can partake of this Holy Spirit of the Exalted Christ And by faith, you do partake of the Holy Spirit, of the exalted Christ. In the form of metaphor, you have this river Flowing, living, streaming, waters, fountain, spring, river of the life of God within you. That, brothers and sisters, is what creates obedience. That's what bears fruit. This whole discussion should have brought to mind the what of the Holy Spirit. You can say it. The all right. It is a hard question. The what of the Holy Spirit? Love. I'll give you a hint. Love? Joy. Now you've got to know it The fruit of the Holy Spirit. The fruit of the Holy Spirit. Such a classic passage, right? Such a classic passage, but so often classic passages could get divorced from the broader, overarching biblical point. The fruit of the Holy Spirit in our lives is a result of the presence of the Holy Spirit in our hearts. It makes no sense to go out and try to produce the fruit of the Holy Spirit if we do not have the Holy Spirit in our hearts. So that's again why this is my point. Salvation comes first And then the obedience, that's the order, that's the proper place of Christian obedience. And it's so important to remember this. This is not a side point. This is critical. Because if we get this order wrong, inevitably we'll get sucked into a works salvation or a works mentality where we see our works as the thing that will please God and make us right with Him. But it's the work of Christ. It's the salvation of Christ that makes us right with God, that enables us to be pleasing to God. Salvation always comes first. Discipleship is a life of fruitfulness unto God. I hope you know that. This is what God has called you to. Discipleship, a life of fruitfulness unto God. But salvation makes us into disciples. Salvation is a change that happens in the heart. It is a change that is invisible. You cannot see it when it happens Nothing we do outwardly produces salvation. Are we on the same page with that? It's an invisible change that happens in the heart. It's a spiritual change that happens in the heart. Which means we don't muster up this change from within ourselves. But it's the grace of God working upon us that imparts eternal life to us. Salvation is a invisible and spiritual change that happens in the heart. And this last one, if anyone if anyone can do cartwheels On behalf of the church and representing the church later on today, do cartwheels about this last one. The salvation of God that happens in the heart is irreversible. It is the eternal life that God gives us. It is irreversible. The devil cannot take it away. Your sins do not take it away. Your doubts do not take it away. If you are united to Christ by faith, it is an irreversible salvation. Praise God. Satan and all of his legions, where the whole world and all of its armies Or the sinful flesh and the plague of corruption that still lingers within. Nothing can separate us from the love of God that is found in Jesus Christ. Romans 8. Irreversible salvation You must become a disciple first, and then you can learn obedience. I plead with you this morning I plead with you, if you have not become a disciple of Jesus Christ yet, become one today through faith in him. It is free. You do not have to earn it. You do not have to work for it. You do not have to prove yourself to show yourself worthy of it. No one is worthy of it. It's a free gift to sinners, but if you put your faith in Jesus, you become saved. You become a child of God. All the guilt of all your sins is erased. You become a disciple, a follower of Christ, and then you can join the rest of us in this battle, warfare, struggle of living for Christ to the glory of God. You can be saved today. Nothing outside of you can stop you from becoming a child of God. But in your heart, invisibly Trust in Jesus on the basis of his death. On the basis of his death, that's how you become a disciple. Not on the basis of anything that the church can do for you, or on the basis of anything your family history, or on the basis of anything that you could do On the basis that on the fact that Jesus Christ died as a substitute for sinners. That he took your judgment, that he took your sin, that he took the death that you deserve. Put your faith in him on the basis of that and you'll be reconciled to God forever. Religion can't do that. Outward religion can't do that. Any religious devotion that's true and pure and God-honoring religious devotion is an outward expression of the inward salvation. But it never brings about the inward salvation. It's the inward that produces the outward. It is never the outward that produces the inward So that's reminder number one. Hopefully it's it's it's a vivid enough, clear enough picture to remember the order of obedience. Disciple first, then obedience. Secondly, a reminder of the mission of the church. A mission of the church. We're simply talking about God's purpose for us that goes beyond us. God's purpose for us, and God's purpose through us that looks beyond us. A reminder of the mission of the church. I guess you could call it purpose of the church if you want to. And that reminder is we're not here just to be disciples. But to make disciples. We're not here just to be disciples. Now we are here to be disciples, but that's with this word just. We're not here just to be disciples, we're also here to make disciples. Look at verse 19. Verse 19. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations. It's uh it's pretty intriguing, isn't it? That purpose That purpose is the first thing that's said. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, and then later on teaching them to observe all I've commanded you brings into effect. Focus that individual. Here's what you do with disciples. The only way disciples are made is the preaching and teaching of the biblical gospel. The heralding of Christ's death and Christ's resurrection, according to Scripture. The only way disciples are made is the sharing and spreading of the biblical gospel. The heralding of the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. Christ, according to Scripture. You see, this involves all of us. Preaching and teaching, sharing and spreading. The only way disciples are made, the only way disciples are made. is through the writing and explaining and disseminating of the, you should be able to fill in the blank at this point, biblical. Gospel. Why does he keep saying biblical gospel? Well, because there's a lot of unbiblical so-called gospels out there. There's a lot of people that have taken the biblical gospel, twisted it, tweaked it. Adjusted it to be more attractive to lost man. Well when you do that, it loses its life-saving, soul-saving, destiny-changing power. The biblical gospel is the only gospel that saves The only way disciples are made is the preaching, teaching, sharing, spreading, the writing, explaining, disseminating, sharing your story about how the gospel changed your life. Sharing your testimony of how Jesus saved you. And there's no way we could share those testimonies without also explaining the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ. The only hope, friend the only hope of sinners like us. The only hope of sinners anywhere is the death and resurrection of Christ. The only way disciples are made is inviting And urging and pleading and doing the best we can to persuade people to turn to Christ in faith Based on the biblical gospel. You see, that can't be theory. It's easy to manipulate people spiritually to try to stir up emotions and then tack on some kind of spiritual thing that they do and tell them they're saved. But it's only on the basis of the biblical gospel through faith through turning to Christ in faith that we come to God. It's a very simple picture We're alienated from God because of our sins. We come to God through faith in Christ. He's the conduit. He's the way. The truth, the life, the door, the path, the bread of life, the Savior of the world, we come to God. Through faith in Jesus Christ on the basis of his death and resurrection. His death as a substitute for sinners, his resurrection to eternal life, incorruptible life, providing for you and I. Beloved of God, the basis of our hope, the basis of our hope. You too will receive a resurrection body like unto the resurrection body of Christ One day. Heaven is where your soul is going after your body dies on on earth, but that's not your final destiny. Because Christ is returning. There will be a final judgment. There will be a final resurrection. And all those who have had faith in God as their great, mighty, and merciful Savior. Everyone who has had faith will receive a resurrection body just like Christ's. That's our hope. Amen. Indeed. That's our inheritance. That's for this whole well that puts things in perspective, doesn't it? It puts the sufferings of this world in perspective. It puts materialistic living in perspective. It puts the fleeting, superficial, so-called pleasures of sin in perspective. It puts our petty differences and sometimes real significant differences, any difference. It puts them in perspective. Uh w we all have the same gulp, brothers and sisters. We all have the same home. We all have the same destiny to be with God in glory. And in heaven first, but then ultimately in the new heavens and new earth with the resurrection body. Now let's remember the mission of the church To not just be disciples, but to make disciples. And if we're going to be faithful to that purpose, everything we're about, everything we do has to be centered on the heralding of Christ. Just like the sun is always giving light. Now it may be nighttime where you are, that doesn't mean the sun 's not giving light. The sun is always giving light. Make it the sun Just as the sun is always giving light, the church must always be heralding the gospel of Jesus Christ. We must always be holding up as our banner free salvation found in Christ. Free salvation found in Christ. This is our song. This is our message. Metaphorically, as church, as children of God, we're on that box, that platform in the middle of the town square, proclaiming and sharing and explaining the good news of God our Savior. Why? Why? Because salvation comes by faith and faith comes by hearing. And hearing through the word of Christ. So the word of Christ must always be coming forth from the children of God, just as light is always coming forth. From the sun. And if we could just do that, if we settle our hearts there, we'll always be faithful to our mission. Not just to be disciples, but to make disciples. I'm going to rip through five components of shining forth the gospel. And even this is a summary. To always be shining forth the gospel, we must always be shining forth the identity of Jesus. That means preaching, teaching, sharing. Explaining the identity of Jesus, that he's God and He's man, the only mediator. It is important what Jesus did, but what Jesus did brings salvation only because of who Jesus is. He's God and he's man and he's the only one who qualifies to be the mediator between God and man He's the only one who qualifies to be able to reconcile sinful man to holy God. He's God and He's man. So we're always shining forth the identity of Jesus. Hebrews 1 verse 3. He's the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature. Secondly, we're always shining forth the death of Jesus, always preaching the death of Jesus and the meaning of the death of Jesus. According to Scripture. It's not good enough just to say that he died, but to explain why he died based on what Scripture says. Hebrews 1:3, again, the next part of it says, after making purification for sins. So how did Jesus make purification for sins? By giving his life as an atoning sacrifice. It's his death, it's his blood shed on the cross that purifies us That purifies our conscience so that we can serve God from a good conscience. That erases all the guilt of all our sins we would ever commit. Commit the purifying power of the blood of God Christ. Galatians one four one four in Galatians says He gave Himself for our sins that's the cross, right? He gave Himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age. It's important to be delivered from the present evil age because the present evil age is under judgment and coming to a final judgment. So if we're not delivered from the present evil age, we'll face That coming judgment, that final judgment. And what it means to be saved is to be spared from that judgment, to make it through that coming judgment safely. But it's his death. He gave himself for our sins to deliver us from the present evil age. Are you glad he did? Shine forth his identity, shine forth his death. We also shine forth the resurrection of Jesus. And I'm including in that his Ascension. Because Jesus didn't rise from the grave and it's day on earth indefinitely. He rose from the grave and ultimately he was ascended into heaven and is seated at the right hand of God. But we preach, we shine forth the resurrection of Christ. Hebrews 1, 3 again. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of majesty. on high. That's where Jesus is right now. God is ruling over all things, as He always has, but now He's ruling over all things through the incarnate, crucified, and Resurrected Son. Son, Jesus Christ. That's how you think of God's lordship over the earth that He made. Romans 4. 25, Paul says, He was raised for our justification. Think about that. He was raised for our justification. In other words, Jesus was raised so that you and I could be made right in the eyes of God. So he had to be he has to be risen from the grave. Jesus cannot make us right. Jesus cannot make sinners right in the eyes of God. If he's still dead and in the grave. So he was raised for our justification He made purification for our sins at the cross. And then he was raised that as the living Savior, as the living Savior, he would make us right in the eyes of God. Praise God. Glory. Hallelujah. It's the only way we could be made right in the eyes of God. It's Jesus Christ, His death, and His resurrection. Shine Shine forth his identity, shine forth his death, shine forth his resurrection, and his ascension. And we're always shining forth the fact that salvation is through faith, not works. Someone next to you has drifted off to sleep, give him a little elbow. To hear this. They don't need to hear that. Yes, they do. Everybody needs to hear this. Salvation is not earned by good works or through religious work. Salvation is Received through faith. It is a free is an easy way to say it's a free gift received through faith. God gives a free gift. You on in the metaphor, you're reaching out and receiving through faith. And that's rep that's re that's the first repentance. That's the prime repentance. In the heart Turning from unbelief to belief, receiving the gift of salvation. And we are always explaining, sharing, preaching, teaching, giving our own personal testimony. That salvation is by faith, not by works. So many verses on this. How do you choose one? I just picked my favorite one. Romans 3. 28. Romans 3. 28, Paul writes For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Now here's all works of the law. Obedience to God's law. God's law is good because God is good. Obedience to God's law is good because God's law is good and because God is good. But here's works of the law over here. Now, what does the verse say? Apart from So leave the works over here. Because he says apart from, apart from works of the law, we hold that one is justified By faith. Justified by faith, apart from works of the law. Brothers and sisters and sisters, it's not a combination of Jesus' works plus our works that saves us. Put our works over there. The room's not big enough. They should go all the way over there. And apart from them, apart from your good works, apart from my good works, apart from our collective good works, we're saved by faith. And that's just from the heart, trusting in Christ as our Savior. From the heart, believing in Christ, trusting in Christ, relying upon Christ, depending upon Christ. There's many synonyms you could put in there. Cinnamon's c cinnamon. Now I'm thinking about cinnamon rolls Did I say it right? I'll have to watch the playback. There are many different ways to say the same thing. But it happens in the heart Of trusting in Jesus Christ as the Savior based on his death and resurrection. That's the only way we are authorized to tell people they could get saved. Telling people they can get saved by doing something else or by some other strategy is rebellion against God. That would be lying to people and giving them a false assurance. If I'm getting fired up, that's because that happens a lot And it's wicked. We're only authorized, and we should only want to be authorized to preach God's gospel and to tell sinners they can Be saved in God's way, not our way. Not the way of tradition or not the way of popular opinion, not the way of man's subjective feelings Anyway, we hold, and I hold, and you hold, and this church holds that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Finally, we're always shining forth the link between salvation and obedience. The link between salvation and obedience. Now we talked about the order before, salvation first, then obedience. But that doesn't mean that obedience is unnecessary. Biblically speaking, a true salvation will always lead to a true obedience. Not a perfect obedience, a true obedience. That just means the Spirit of God is within you, and there's a true humble heart, a true love for God, a true desire to obey God, a true growth and holiness, not perfect. But there's a link between salvation and obedience. Here's a terrific verse. Terrific verse. 2 Corinthians 5, 15 He died for all, so that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. And that's the mindset we should have in life. God has saved us, therefore we're not living for ourselves but we're living for him who died and was raised. Third, remember the authority of Christ. So the order of obedience, the mission of the church The authority of Christ. And the specific reminder is that the total authority of Christ calls for total submission to Christ. And this comes from verse 20, just one word in verse 20. It's in between the word observe and the word that. And it's the word all. And it's a parallel with earlier, earlier in the passage, it's not in our verses, but earlier in the passage Jesus says, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. And now you have observed. All that he commands. You have the total of authority, total authority of Christ calls for the total submission to Christ. Brings us to um we'll go through we'll move through these quite quickly. Numbers just brings us to numbers 13 to 16 on these 20 commands. These are just 20 select commands From Matthew. Please don't think these are all the commands of God or all the commands of Jesus. But number number thirteen. Seek first this kingdom Seek first his kingdom. Can we just give that encouragement to our own souls this morning to seek first Jesus name and Jesus glory and Jesus kingdom? Matthew 6. 33 is where this comes from. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Seek first the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God is God's reign of salvation in all the world. His reign of salvation through Christ in all the world. Seek that first. The common way of life is to seek our own comfort and to seek our own desires and to seek our own pleasure and treasure first But when we're Christians, we seek the kingdom of God first. 14. Do not judge. And this comes from Matthew 7, 1 and 2. Jesus says, judge not that you be not judged. For with the judgment that you pronounce, you will be judged. And with the measure you will use, it will be measured to you. It means quite simply to not put yourself in the place of God in relation to other people. Yes, I will say that again. Do not put yourself, let us not put ourselves in the place of God in relation to other people, to those in our family. To each other, to the world around us. We're ambassadors of God. We're children of God. We're citizens of God's kingdom. But we are not God. God alone is the judge. God alone is the judge The self-righteous critic has made himself judge. The one who condemns things that the Bible never condemns has made himself judge. The one who refuses to forgive where God has already forgiven has made himself judge. It's funny, you have a higher standard than God. Now that's an intriguing thought. God is perfectly holy. And God can forgive and God can show mercy and I can't. I've made myself judge. I've made myself higher than God. The one who holds others to their own subjective standards has made himself judge. All of these are examples of assuming the place of God in relation to others. Do not judge. It does not mean to you 're not allowed to make judgments. It does not mean stop being discerning. It does not mean that you can't call sin sin and you can't call Holiness, holiness. No, that's discerning, that's wisdom that's making judgments about God's will and about what's right and what's wrong and what's just and what's merciful But once we start pronouncing judgment on each other or pronouncing judgment against the others, we're in the place of God. Because only God has that authority. He has not delegated that authority to his church or to his children. God alone is in the place of judge. So I've got to move on. Number fifteen, diligently seek God's favor. Oh, seek the favor of God if you seek anything. Nothing wrong with seeking enjoyable things in life that's part of God's good graces and common graces to us. It's in the book of Ecclesiastes to give us good things, to remind us of his goodness, but we don't make things in the world or eat good things. I'm not even talking about sinful things, I'm talking about good things. We don't make those ultimate in our hearts. We seek God's favor first. This comes from Matthew seven, seven to eight. Sorry. Usually I like to give you the passage quicker on the Matthew 7, 7 to 8. Jesus says, Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be open to you. For everyone who asks, everyone who asks receives, and the one who seeks finds, and to the one who knocks it will be open. All metaphors of seeking God, seek the favor of God. Seek the wisdom of God. Seek the strength of God. Seek the sanctifying grace of God. Seek the boldness of God. Seek, seek, seek, seek God. Call upon his name in your day of trouble. Diligently seek God's favor. Who else can help us like God can help us? Who else can show us favor like God can show us favor and finally love others as yourself? Love others as yourself Matthew seven twelve. So whatever you wish that others would do to you, do also to them. For this is the law and the prophets. And verse thirty-nine, chapter twenty-two, verse thirty-nine, the second greatest commandment, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. You want others, you would wish others to do it to you, do also to them. You want others to speak well of you? Speak well of others. You want others to be generous to you? Be generous to others You want others to encourage you? Well then you go out, you encourage others. You want others to pray for you in times of difficult times? Well do you go home and pray for others in their difficult times? What we want from others, we do that. To others. What we want from them, we do for them. That's the what's it called? The golden rule. So love others as yourself. Diligently seek God's favor. Do not judge. Seek first this kingdom. You know, it's crazy as I look at those, that's just I mean that's just a tiny sampling. It's probably like one percent of mapping out God's commands and Christ's commands, but that's a lot right there. That's all we do, everything's everything else will fall into place Seek his kingdom first. Not be critical and judgmental. Always be seeking his favor. Always be calling upon the name of God for help. And we get really, really, really radically, intensely, consistently focused on loving others as ourselves, treating others as I want to be treated. Well that'll change my life. If I grow in that. And by God's grace, brothers and sisters, by God's grace, we will grow in that. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your grace. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your spirit. Thank you for this church. Continue to help us. Those who are suffering, I pray for the comfort, those who are sick, those who are injured, those who are