Let's take our Bibles and turn to Galatians chapter four. Galatians four twenty 21 to 31. Longer passage this evening. Longer passage. Um Galatians 4, 21 to 31, contrasting the present Jerusalem and the So the present Jerusalem and the Jerusalem above. That really stood out to me in my studies of this passage. Contrasting two capital cities, the capital city of the old covenant, Kingdom of God, and the capital city of the new covenant, Kingdom of God. And he says, Present Jerusalem and the Jerusalem above. Uh let's read the passage before we get into uh the Preaching time. Verse twenty one of Galatians four. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman, and one by a free woman. But the son of the slave was born According to the flesh. While the son of the free woman was born through promise. Now this may be interpreted allegorically. These Women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery She is Hagar. Now, Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem For she is in slavery with her children. But the Jerusalem above is free. And she is our mother. For it is written, and this comes from Isaiah 54, 1, it is written, Rejoice, O barren one, who does not bear Break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor. For the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband Now you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. But just as at that time he who was born according to the flesh persecuted him who is born according to the Spirit, so also it is now. But what does the Scripture say? Cast out the slave woman and her son. For the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the free woman. So, brothers, we are not children of the slave, but children of the free woman. So, the child of the slave woman, Hagar, was everybody Nobody knows it, Ishmael and the child of um Sarah was Isaac, the child of promise. So you had two physical descendants, but only one was the heir. The heir through promise, not just according to flesh. According to flesh was not enough And it's interesting that phrase he uses for uh the birth of Isaac at the end of verse twenty-nine. He was born according to the spirit. Born according to the the Spirit. That's pretty cool. Believers, not unbelievers, are the intended heirs of God's promises. Now that's a simple point, isn't it? But that's a very important point. The only way to be an heir of the promises of God is to be a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Believers not unbelievers are the intended heirs of the promises. I know there's a lot in this passage, and I know it's a big passage. Um We won't be able to cover everything in this passage tonight. What I want to do is start with some simple application. Do the best I can on working through the passage and then end with that same exact application. So all about the application tonight. The focus of the passage is being children of the promise, being children of God, being heirs of the promises. And so the first application or the first practical implication, if you want to call it that is we must continue to strive to live as God's children, not slaves of sin. Now that's a daily battle. It is a daily battle to live as God's children and to not live as slaves to sin. I love this passage, Ephesians five, one. Um Paul says, Therefore Be imitators of God as beloved children. We are God's children. God's love does rest upon us We're to be imitators of God. That's another way of saying be holy as he is holy. You've heard that before in Scripture. Or be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. It's all about imitating God, not imitating the world around us, not imitating the thought patterns of the secular culture, not just chasing after the passions and the lusts of the flesh or the pride of the flesh. but be imitators of God as his beloved children. So that's number one application. Let's support each other in that Let's pray for each other in that. Let's remind each other of that. That we're to strive daily to live as God's children, not as slaves to sin. That takes work. Amen? It takes work. That takes a striving. That takes an effort. Um and the second application is directly connected to that. Right? The first one is live as God's children, not as slaves of sin, which means we strive to walk in the spirit not in the flesh. Now we live in the flesh, but we're not to live according to the flesh. We must strive to walk in the ways of the Spirit and be praying daily for the fruit of the Spirit And third application, if the only way anyone can be an heir of God's promises. Is belief in Christ. And local evangelism and world missions continue to be the primary outward obedience or outward ministry of the church We have to grow in that. I want to grow in that. I want us as a church to grow in that and to grow in our zeal for reaching the lost locally and for biblical world missions globally. That's got to be the primary outward ministry. Outward ministry. Now there's lots of ministry that goes on in the church, in the body life of the church, in the relationships and the worship of the church. But we must continue to grow in our local evangelism and biblical world missions because we're supposed to have a love for sinners the way that God has a love for sinners. We're supposed to have a love for the lost, the love for the world, the way God has a love for the lost. God loved us when we were lost and he changed our hearts and he brought the good news of the gospel into our lives and now he's brought us in on his work of bringing that good news Bringing, let's put a G on our ing words. It's tough to get rid of that South Jersey. He's not bringing, he's bringing the good news of the gospel to sinners everywhere. Um all right, so that's our application. At the end, I hope I have enough time to to end on there. Brother Jerry, could you angle that clock a little bit? The way the light is hitting it, I can't see what time it is That's dangerous for me. I need to see thank you. Appreciate that, brother. Um , Let me get off a squeak. So you see on your outline Paul's sixth step proof. That's just what I'm calling it. As a way to map this out to help us move through just uh the flow of what Paul says, a six-step proof that it's believers believers in Jesus Christ only, who are the intended heirs of God's promise. Before we get into those six steps Let's zoom in on this present Jerusalem versus the Jerusalem above. That's right in the middle A present Jerusalem verse 25 again. Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds Because remember he said this is going to be an allegory. We interpret it allegorically, verse twenty-four. Hagar in Mount Sinai in or is Mount Sinai in Arabia, and she corresponds to the present Jerusalem She is in slavery with her children, so that's the present Jerusalem, and it represents this the city, the earthly city Jerusalem, but more specifically that represents unbelieving Israel who still considered the Mosaic Covenant binding. They had not turned to Christ. Their unbelieving Israel, who still considered themselves under Mosaic law, they had not been saved. That's why he starts the passage. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? Um That's the present Jerusalem, the Jerusalem of this creation, the Jerusalem of this earth, this Jerusalem, the present Jerusalem. But then he says the Jerusalem above 20 verse 26, the Jerusalem above is free, and she is our mother. You see that in visionary form in Revelation 12 of believing Israel, giving birth to Christ and then other offspring through him And we saw this in Hebrews 12 22 during one of the readings, where the author of Hebrews says to Christians You have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God, the heavenly Jerusalem, and to innumerable angels and festival gatherings And it's what Paul's getting at in Philippians 3 20 when he says, Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We're not waiting to become citizens of heaven. We're waiting to go to heaven, and we're waiting for Jesus to return from heaven, but our citizenship is settled in Christ. Our citizenship is in heaven. Philippians 3. So right at the heart of this you'll have two capital cities of two covenants contrasted And those who have citizenship in the Jerusalem above, those are the children of God. Those are the heirs of the promise. Now to that six-step proof. Number one, those wanting to be under law have misinterpreted the law. This is verse 21. Tell me, you who desire to be under the law, do you not listen to the law? The Pharisees made a really big deal about the law. They were legalists. And what that tells you is they didn't understand the law. The law is not to m the law is not given by God. The purpose of the law is not to get us to try to attain righteousness by our own obedience The purpose of the law is to show us that we can never attain righteousness by our own obedience, that we know that we need a Savior. The law is a guardian that's supposed to lead us to Christ and point us to Christ and get us to faith in Christ. Not to try to attain righteousness by works of the law, but attain righteousness through faith. Through faith. So those wanting to be under the law, Have misinterpreted and misunderstood the law. The proper interpretation of the law of God does not lead to legalism. It leads to turning to Christ in faith And accepting Christ as the only thing that we need to become a child of God. That's the context. That's verse 21. Tell me, you who desire to be under law, do you not listen to the law? Because you would think that he would say, tell me, you who want to be under the law, don't you listen to the gospel? But that's not what he says. You who want to be under the law, don't you listen to the law? The purpose of God's law is not to get us to live as trying to attain righteousness through works of the law. Secondly, second step in this, that's just mapping the the um The background and connecting it to the larger context. But the second step is something very simple that Paul says in verses 22 and 23. And he says that Abraham had two kinds of sons. Two sons born of two different women. Two sons born of two women. Two kinds of sons born of two different women. Verse 22 and verse 23. For it is written that Abraham had two sons, one by a slave woman Hagar, right? Won by a free woman, Sarah. But the son of the slave woman That's Ishmael, was born according to the flesh, while the son of the free woman was born through promise. That's Isaac. How is he born through promise? What does that mean? He's the fulfillment of God's promise He's the answer to God's promise. He's the son that God promised. He was born through the promise of God. Um, not through the unbelief and infidelity and sin of Abraham and Sarah. s suggestion to Abraham to have a woman or to have a child rather by Hagar according to the flesh. Now this is the Oh, lots of details, and this is a unique passage in some of the things that it says. But you've got to agree, that's a simple point. Abraham had two sons, born of two different women. One was of a slave woman, one was of a free woman. And the one who was born to a slave woman was born according to the flesh. So that's one category now we have. According to the flesh, born of the slave woman But this child over here, Isaac, born through promise, born of the free woman. You have two sons born of of two women. Being a physical descendant of Abraham did not and does not make one a child of promise. Now we don't have time to go to these. But that's what's being said here. But John makes this point in John 1. 12 and following. John 1. 12 and following. Jesus makes this point in John 8, 44 and following. I mean really that whole section, that whole portion of John chapter 8, Jesus makes this point. John the Baptist made this point in Matthew 3. 9 and following, and you can follow out the cross-references for Matthew 3. 9 and John the Baptist's ministry. He said, Do not begin to say to yourselves, We have who is our father? Abraham, because God is able to raise up children of Abraham from what? From these rocks, from these stones John the Baptist makes that point. John makes it, Jesus makes it, John the Baptist makes it, Paul makes it, he makes it here. Paul makes it in Romans 9. The first paragraph, and he also makes it in Romans chapter 2, which was, I believe that was our first reading. Romans 2, the end of it, the last paragraph So, being a physical descendant of Abraham did not give Ishmael rights on the promise the promises of God. Only the child of promise had the rights on the promises of God. Abraham had two sons, born of two different women. Now, number three, number three, those women represent two different covenants That also give birth to two kinds of children. Those women represent two different covenants that also give birth to to two kinds of children. And that is what he says in verse 24. Now this may be interpreted allegorically So he's taking the story of Abraham, Sarah, Hagar, Ishmael, Isaac, and all of God, what God's doing in that. He's interpreting those two women and their children allegorically. So the characters in the story have a spiritual representation or spiritual meaning. Um now this may be interpreted allegorically. These women are two covenants. Now, I don't know everything there is to know about this passage. I'm still learning, I'm still reading, I'm still studying, I'm still buying books, I'm still reading commentaries. But that's easy. The two women represent two what? Covenants. Yeah, it's not a trick question. Every time I ask a question, everyone looks at me like, what's he trying to get me on? I'm not trying to get you on anything The two women are two covenants. That's what he says. The two women represent two covenants. So Hagar's going to represent one covenant And then Sarah is going to represent another covenant. These women are two covenants. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing slave children for slavery. She is Hagar. Obviously that's the Mosaic covenant. That's recorded in the book of Exodus. Uh the Mosaic covenant, the Mosaic Law that's revealed, given to Israel through Moses. They're given the law, they're given the worship, they're given the temple and the priesthood and the sacrificial system, the old covenant. Um she call uh let's that's verse 24. That's one covenant. One is from Mount Sinai, bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar. Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present Jerusalem, for she is in slavery with her children. That's getting ahead. That's point number four. Point number four is the old covenant bears children of slavery. Point number three, all I wanted to say on point number three was just verse twenty-four. The two women represent two covenants. The two rip women represent two covenants, and then he begins talking about the first one. Which is the Mosaic Covenant. That's the old covenant. It's a pretty cool passage. It's an important passage because how is the Bible organized in two major sections The Old Testament, which focuses on the story, the background, and the creation and the story of the Old Covenant and the Old Covenant Kingdom of God, which is Israel, and then you have the New Testament, which is the story of the New Covenant. The new covenant in the blood of Christ, which began in Israel, but then also was brought to the Nations. And you had a localized kingdom of God in the old covenant, but you have a globalized kingdom of God in the new covenant. And there are other differences too, not just the size and scope, but the nature of the covenant. It's not a law covenant like the old covenant. But it's a a covenant of grace where everyone who's united to Christ, everyone who's in the new covenant is absolutely saved, no question about it. If you're joined to Christ by faith, you're in the new covenant and you're saved. And that wasn't the case in the old covenant. You could have been a legitimate, bona fide citizen of Israel, but not been saved by the grace of God. There are lots of unbelievers in Israel. So the old covenant bears children of slavery. This is the end of twenty-four and And then also verse twenty-five. So begin in the middle of twenty-four. One is from Mount Sinai bearing children for slavery. She is Hagar. Now Hagar is Mount Sinai in Arabia. She corresponds to the present of Jerusalem. For she is in slavery with her children. So he said these two women are two covenants. Well, one woman, Hagar, who is the slave woman, and and bore a child according to the flesh, not through promise, but She corresponds to the Jerusalem on earth, to the present Jerusalem. She is in slavery with her children. And then point number five, point number five, the new covenant bears children of promise. The new covenant bears children Children of promise. This is verses 26 to 28. The Jerusalem above is free. She is our mother. That's a powerful image. The Jerusalem above, which the author of Hebrews calls heavenly Jerusalem, she is our mother. She's given birth to us. She's brought us alive in Christ. She's brought us to faith in Christ. That's our capital city. It's a very simple point. Different kingdom, different covenant, different king, capital city. The new covenant bears children of promise, twenty-six. Um twenty-seven, for it is written, and this comes from Isaiah 54, 1, it is written, Rejoice, O barren one, who does not bear. Break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor, for the children of the desolate one will be more than those of the one who has a husband. Now, if you read Isaiah 54, it's a promise of the new covenant. And what centers on in that chapter, there are different aspects of the new covenant. Covenant when it's promised. A key aspect is the outpouring of the Spirit and the forgiveness of sins. Um a kingdom that will endure forever and never pass away. That's part of the New covenant. But what's brought out in Isaiah 54 , this promise of a new covenant Is the a promise that's going to bring redemption to Israel, but also is going to bring redemption to the world, to the nations, so that God will be known and honored in all the earth. Um and so you have the fulfillment of this in in the church, in the new covenant, in believers. Believers being children of promise, not Children according to the flesh, but children who are born of the heavenly Jerusalem, the Jerusalem above. So rejoice. Rejoice, O barren one who does not bear. Break forth and cry Now in the original what that's pointing back to would have been Sarah. Remember what Paul's interpreting allegorically here is Sarah. Barren, who didn't have children, she was really uh suffering because of that, but rejoice of barren one who Does not bear, break forth and cry aloud, you who are not in labor, for the children of the desolate one will be more than the one of those who has a husband. And um Ultimately, Sarah 's offspring are many. They're a multitude. Sarah's offspring, in one sense, are the same as the offspring of Abraham. This is a major theme in the New Testament. Children of Abraham. Children of God who are justified by faith. So, yeah, Sarah could rejoice, and we should rejoice That we are children of Jerusalem above because that makes us heirs of the promise. Um verse twenty-eight verse twenty-eight is where He says that to the church. Remember, he's writing a letter to a local church, local churches in the area of Galatia. Now, you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise. Now, isn't that an encouraging thing to hear? That like Isaac, you're a child of promise? Because God promised that he would give that child. And then God gave the child in fulfillment of his promise. Promise. And then that child would be an heir of the promises. That child would inherit the glories of what God had promised, that experienced communion with God and all So we are like Isaac. We're not like Ishmael. We are children of promise. But that's because the Jerusalem above is our mother, not the present Jerusalem above. who is in slavery with her children, again representing unbelieving, unbelieving Jerusalem, unbelieving Israel. But I wanted to expand it in the way I put the main point so as not to just Focus on Israel. That's why I said believers not unbelievers are the intended heirs of God's promise. It doesn't matter what nation you come from. If you have faith in Christ, you're saved. If you continue to reject Christ and don't have faith in him, you're not saved. But any sinner while they still draw breath can turn to Christ in faith. That's why we keep preaching and keep teaching and keep praying for people. and keep sharing at the dinner table, keep looking for opportunities to witness, keep trying to grow in our evangelism. That's something we all need to to try to grow in is our personal evangelism But as long as the sinner draws breath, no matter what nation they're from, they can become a child of God through faith in Christ. And when they do that, they become an heir of The same promises that we're arrows. They they become like Isaac. Anyone can become like Isaac and become a child of promise So the old covenant bears children of slavery, the new covenant bears children of promise, and point number six, that final step. Believers, that is, children of promise, are the intended heirs of God's promises. The intended heirs. The intended recipients of God's promises has always been, always been, children of promise. What Paul will call a remnant chosen by grace. This is twenty-eight to twenty-one. I know we've read twenty-eight. We'll read it again. It's just a clear verse. Twenty-eight through thirty-one. Now you brothers, like Isaac, are children of promise, but just as at that time He who was born according to the flesh, who's that? Ishmael persecuted him who was born according to the Spirit, who is that? Isaac, so also it is now. Yet unbelieving according to the flesh, descendant, unbelieving Israel, persecuting the Christians That's major part of the drama of the conflict, the storyline of the book of Acts in the whole New Testament. Um but what the scriptures say, cast out the slave woman and her son, for the son of the slave woman shall not inherit with the son of the freeman So the son of the slave woman, whether it's Ishmael or the president of Jerusalem, shall not inherit with the son of the free woman, it's Isaac or Believers in Christ, the Jerusalem above. And then verse 31, finally, so brothers, we are not children of the slave, but of the free will. Again, I know I know there's a lot there, it's a lot to think about. But when I read that last verse, it brings me back to Paul's simple point in this whole section of Galatians. Maybe the whole book of Galatians, where he says, We're children we're not children of the slave, but of the free woman. It takes you back to this thing that Paul keeps coming back to as he says in in so many different ways Don't put yourself back under the law. Don't put yourself back under the law. Walk in grace. Don't add to the gospel. If you add to the gospel, you're you're ex actually accepting a false gospel and you've now come to reject God Himself. Don't put yourself under the law as a slave to the law, changing the conditions of the New Covenant. There's only one condition in the New covenant to be a child of York there's always been one condition any time in history uh to be a child of God that's through faith. That's through faith in Christ. Faith and the promise of God for a savior. So we are not children of the slave, but children of the free woman. Therefore, let's not let these Judaizers, these false teachers, come into our church, taking us back now, transporting us to that time to that context. Let's not let these false teachers with the false gospel, adding circumcision as a requirement, and probably other aspects of the law, let's not let them come into church and take us off course with a false gospel. Let's not put ourselves under the law. Because we are, as believers in Christ, the recipients, the intended recipients, the intended heirs of God's promises We're not children of the slave old covenant law present Jerusalem, but we're children of the free woman. New covenant, freedom in Christ, Jerusalem above, our citizenship is in heaven Um let's go back to some practical applications. You can probably see a theme even though it's so early in 2025. I'm trying to develop this theme The Lord. Consistent Bible reading. Consistent giving ourselves to prayer. Being consistent and faithful in worship, attending worship, Christ-centered worship Just the simple things that will build us up and grow us up. Now you can have a garden and for years and years and years you water that garden and maybe you put fertilizer in your garden. And what do you do the next year? Do you try something innovative? No, you do the same exact thing. You water the garden, maybe you put fertilizer. And what do you do fifteen years later? Do you try something new? Maybe try something innovative? No, you keep doing the same Same thing. You keep putting the simple water, the simple fertilizer that's going to help stuff grow. And that's what all of us every single one of us and then collectively as a church We don't need to give ourselves to a thousand things, even a hundred things. Just a a small handful of things, a little bucket of simple biblical things that God has called us to that's going to help us grow as his children. Help us grow in the grace of God. And here, these three applications that I started with, I want to end with because it falls into that category Our first priority, our first priority in life is to strive to live as children of God, not slaves of sin. So that means daily praying for The fruit of the Spirit. That means daily praying, asking God for strength. That means daily praying, asking God for wisdom. Anyone in here have all the wisdom about uh about life that they need? No. But God does. God has the wisdom that we need. All wisdom all good wisdom comes from God. It comes from heaven. Comes from His word. Our first priority is to strive to live as children of God, not as slaves to sin. Temptation haunts us. We can't get rid of the sinful flesh until we die. Um and our souls depart the body and are made righteous. go to heaven. But while we're here, brothers, sisters, can we battle against sin? Can we pray like our lives Lives depend on it. First priority, first priority is to strive to live as children of God, not slaves of sin. Which means, secondly, we strive to walk in the spirit, not a According to the flesh. I'm gonna read a passage from Romans eight. You can turn there if you'd like. Romans chapter eight. Romans chapter Chapter eight. And uh Paul contrasts walking in the spirit versus walking in the flesh. And there's a stark Contrast. Verse five of Romans eight. For those who live according to the flesh What do they do? Set their minds on things of the flesh. But those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. For to set the mind on the flesh is death, but to set the mind on the spirit is life and Peace for the mind that is set on the flesh is hostile to God, for it does not submit to God's law. Indeed It cannot. Those who are in the flesh cannot please God. You, however, are not in the flesh But in the Spirit. But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, Spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his spirit. So then, brethren, we are not uh we are debtors not to the flesh, to live according to the flesh. For if you live according to the flesh, you will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body, you will die And you can flip that around too, and you can say, All those who are sons of God are led by the Spirit. Sons and and daughters, it's not about gender. It's about status in God's kingdom. It's about being an heir, recipient of the promise of God. All who are led by the Spirit are heirs of God. All who are heirs of God are led by the Spirit. Is that Spirit working with you? Within us that's the guarantee of our future resurrection is one of the things he says here. Why do we try to preach the gospel Every week when we know that most of the people in the church are believers. Is it because there are also some unbelievers when we gather for worship? Yes. That's part of it. But the other part is we need to continue to hear the gospel. The gospel is the central means of grace. It's that key vehicle of grace, that conduit of grace into our lives. Because when we see the gospel, uh God grows us in our gratitude for all that He's done. When we see what God has done for us in the gospel Consistently. We're growing in gratitude for what God has done, and we're growing in our love for God. And what is the source, the fountain source of all other obedience in our lives? It's gratitude and love in the heart. So believers also need the gospel consistently preached to us. I'm not just saying to you, I'm saying to us, to me. We need to see the glory of God in the gospel to fill our hearts with gratitude, to fill our hearts with love, and out of that will flow Christian obedience and Christian living. It's the gospel that transforms it's the sight of Christ Christ that transforms us. And it's gospel ministry that saves, yes, and amen, but it's gospel ministry that also saves us. Sanctifies. And that's all under this application point of strive to walk in the spirit and not in the flesh. That's why we preach the gospel. That's why we're always lifting up Christ. Christ, so that we all can see Christ by faith. Because it's seeing Christ by faith that enables us to walk in the Spirit, not according to the flesh. And that final practical application Is local evangelism and biblical world missions must continue to be our primary outward ministry, that primary arm that reaches out, local evangelism and world missions. So, brothers and sisters, let's purpose. Let us strive to walk in the Spirit, not the flesh, and just hunger after Christ. And seek after Christ and look to Christ in faith, because if Christ does not transform us by his spirit, we will not not be transformed. If Christ isn't transforming us by his spirit, we actually we are being transformed more and more into the likeness of the world around us. There's no fence here. You're on one, you're this side running that way, or you're on this side, running that way. And let's purpose in our hearts to give ourselves all the more, encourage each other all the more in local evangelism, biblical world missions for the glory of the Lord. Lord. Pray for us and then we're going to go right into the uh the Lord's Supper. So while I'm praying, whoever the deacons are, y'all can come up here. Father, we thank you for your love. We thank you for your grace and your goodness. We thank you for the meal, this symbolic spiritual meal we're about to share. I pray that as it accompanies your word, you would preach the gospel to us visually and interactively As we commune together with the bread in the cup, as we distribute it, as we partake of it, we pray, Father, you would show us your infinite love for us for us through Christ, the the worth of his sacrifice, and remind us of all that he's procured for us in his life, death, and resurrection. Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen Amen