Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to the book of Jude. Jude today looking at verses 20 and twenty one. We made it. We made it. We got through a massive section dealing with false teachers and the wickedness, the perversity, the ungodliness of false teachers, because that's it. A huge concern within the church. But now we come to a a shift in what Jude is saying. And now Jude is giving constructively the way forward. I'm calling this message remaining. Remaining faithful to God. Because this is where Jude's attention has now shifted. How do you remain faithful to God when false teachers have infiltrated the church? I mean it's more than just dealing with false teachers. teachers that we need to remain faithful in your daily battles plural daily and battles plural against temptation How do we remain faithful to God? With all of the distractions in the world around us, how do we remain faithful? to God. With all of the allurements of sin trying to woo us away from God. How do we remove us Remain faithful to God. Battles against indwelling sin, dealing with the lies of the evil ones, dealing with the schemes. And the deceptions of the evil one. How do we remain faithful to God? That's what we're on today. Remaining faithful to God. God. Let's read the passage and we'll get into the message. Verse 20. Jude writes, But you, beloved Building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit. Keep yourselves in the love of God, waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. Now, first of all, why is this such a big deal? I've been doing this at the beginning of every message. A reminder of the purpose of Jude. So look with me at verse three. The purpose of Jude is to urge us to contend for the faith that God has given to his church. Beloved, although I was very eager to write to you about our common salvation I found it necessary to write appealing to you to contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. That's why Jude's writing, he's appealing. He's pleading with the church, contend for the faith that God has given to you. That's the body of doctrine that God has revealed to the church. This is the gospel of Jesus Christ. And then all of the truths that branch out from there. Jude says, contend for the faith. Stand up for the faith that's been delivered to you, church. That's what Jude says. Now why is that such an urgent matter in Jude's eyes? All you need to do is look at verse 4 for the situation that calls for this uh this appeal he says this for certain people have crept in unnoticed who long ago were designated for this Condemnation. Ungodly people who pervert the grace of our God into sensuality and deny our only Master and Lord Jesus Christ. You know one of the most shocking words in uh in the book of Jude, maybe in the whole New Testament, is the is in verse 4 of Jude where it's this, unnoticed. How about that? Can you imagine? False teachers have infiltrated the church. They're denying the lordship of Christ. End of verse 4. They're using the message of grace as a license to sin, beginning at verse 4, and Jude says they're unnoticed. They haven't been called to accounts. You're just allowing it to happen and acting like it's okay. So yeah, they certainly need this reminder in verse 3, more than a reminder. It's a powerful exhortation. Contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. Brothers and sisters, we have to contend for for the truth. faith Because salvation is based on the truth. God saves sinners through the truth. And then God sanctifies us by his truth. It's the truth of God that consecrates us unto God and helps us to move forward in our holiness and sanctification unto God. So if we if we forfeit the truth, we forfeit salvation. We forfeit sanctification, and then what are we doing? We're just playing religion. So contend for the faith that's been once for all delivered. And then this major section Of Jude from that point all the way through uh verse 16, but also up to verse 19 as well. There's a paragraph break after 16, but he still continues in this major section on all the problems with the false teachers. So this is critically important to remain faithful to God in this context. And the summary point or the main point of this message is that we remain faithful to God by keeping ourselves in the love of God. We remain faithful to God by keeping ourselves in the love of God. And that's exactly what Jude says in these verses. That's exactly what he says. Look at verse 20 and 21 again. But you beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith and praying in the Holy Spirit, keep yourselves in the love of God. Waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. Now there's three ing words there. The participles. So you could probably see them. Number one would be building yourselves up. Number two would be praying in the Holy Spirit. And number three would be waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. But all of those participles, all three of those ing words are are feeding into the main verb. There's only one main verb. in these verses. There's only one main command in these verses, and it comes at the very beginning of verse 21. Keep yourselves in the love of God. Do the opposite of what the false teachers Do the opposite of what those who are ignoring the false teachers are doing. Keep yourselves in the love of God. That's how we remain faithful to God. Keep yourselves in the love of God. Verse 21. First clause. That is the main verb. That's the main concern of Jude. This does not mean make sure that God keeps loving you. Are you awake, church? This does not mean make sure that you do what's right so that you can ensure that God keeps loving you. If you are in Christ, that's God's job to keep loving you You cannot be separated from the love of God that has come to you in Christ. That's Romans 8. We'll get to that verse later. But this is not talking about God's love for you and make sure God keeps loving you. That job's taken. That's going to endure. This is a call to faithfulness. You keep walking in love for God. It's like the fear of the Lord. Walk in the fear of the Lord. That's not the Lord's fear of us. That's us walking in the fear of the Lord. Right, which means an awestruck reverence And respect for the authority and for the holiness of God. That's the fear of the Lord. I hope you're walking in the fear of the Lord. We don't ignore God. We don't reject His authority, but by the power of the Spirit, we humbly gladly acknowledge God's authority. And with an all-struck reverence and an all-struck respect for God, we submit to Him and strive to live for Him. That's the fear of the Lord. It's not the Lord's fear for us. Us. It's a similar construction here. Keep yourself in the love of God. It's our love for God. It's set in contrast with what he just got done saying in verse. Nineteen nineteen on the false teachers. It's these you cause divisions. worldly people, devoid of the spirit. And then he says this verse 20, but you, but you. And now he's simply going to describe the opposite path. He's just described the path of rejecting God. Now he's going to get back on this path of loving God, setting it in contrast with the false teachers. Romans 5. 5 is an interesting verse. Romans 5. 5, Paul says that the love of God has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit. The love of God has been poured into our hearts through the Holy Spirit. So if in your heart there's this thing called a love for God, where did that come from? It came from the Holy Spirit. Well, where did the Holy Spirit come from? It came from God, who poured into our hearts by the Holy Spirit a love for God. Brothers and sisters, We didn't have that when we were lost. I mean, we might have thought we had it when we were lost, but when we were lost in the kingdom of darkness, in the kingdom of Satan, in our hearts, we did not love God. We loved ourselves. We loved the things of the world. We certainly loved sin, but we did not have a love for God. But when we turn to Christ in faith, God gives us the Holy Spirit. And when God gives us the Holy Spirit, there's this new thing, you know. Our hearts. Amen. There's a new thing in our hearts. It's called love for God. Now keep walking in a way where we're loving God. You all know what the first and greatest commandment of God is: is to love the Lord your God with all of your heart, with all of your soul, with all of your mind, and with all of your strength. It's the most important aspect of practical obedience is loving God. It's got to be first. Loving God has got To be first. Obedience is an expression of love. Obedience is an expression of love. When he says, keep yourselves in the love of God Which means guard yourselves in the love of God. Or the word also would be like preserve yourselves. Stay stationed here on the love of God. It's talking about practical obedience, living for God, obeying God. John 14, 21. Whoever has my commands and keeps them is the one who loves me. Did you hear that? Whoever has my commands and keeps them is the one who loves me. So obedience is the result of love. Obedience is the expression of love. Yes, I know some of you are probably thinking Yes, but can't you fake obedience? Yes, there's people who can fake obedience. The scripture talks about that. But that doesn't negate the reality of true obedience True obedience outwardly is an expression of love inwardly. The first and greatest command is love. Any other obedience is going to be an expression of a love for God. Do you love God today? Do you love God most? He does not say whoever has my commands and knows them really, really well is the one who loves me. He does not say the one who whoever has my commands and knows the most of his commands is the one who loves him. The one who has his commands and keeps them. Is the one who loves him. Obedience is an expression of love. And love for God is the result of the Holy Spirit. So God gets all the glory for our obedience. Amen One more on this, 1 John 5 2 and 3. By this we know that we love the children of God. When we love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. The beginning of verse 3 is really the key point. This is the love of God that we keep his commandments. So you look at a life and you want to decide whether that life is a life that's being lived out of love for God. Well, all you need to ask is, well, is there obedience to his commandments? Is this a life of rebellion or is this a life of humble obedience? Now we're not saved by our obedience, and we'll never have a perfect obedience in this life. But God, by his grace and God by his power, gives us the gift of obedience for his name. And for his glory. You know, sometimes when we start putting the emphasis on practical obedience, you start getting the criticism of well, you're preaching work salvation. No, we're not. We're preaching salvation unto works. That's what we're doing. Salvation by God's grace, received through faith, that leads to good works, that leads to practical obedience. Amen indeed. Amen indeed. Now, back to this thing about God's love. Because he says, keep yourselves in the love of God. That's remaining faithful in your love to God. Remaining faithful in practical obedience. Keep yourselves in the love of God. I want to come back to this issue of God's love for us. Whether God will continue to love us. Is not in question. If you're in Christ through faith, whether or not God will continue to love you should never be in question for you. God has bestowed upon you an infinite and unbreakable, irreversible love. A love that has reconciled you to Him. God is not going to stop loving his people. He's not going to stop loving his church. His church. is the body of Christ. His church has been united to Christ. The only way for God to stop loving you, church, is for God to stop loving his son, Jesus Christ. It's absurd. God's love is not in question. If you get that, you'll start to move forward on your assurance and on your confidence before the throne of God. Not everybody struggles with that, but many believers do. They can chronically struggle with their assurance and wondering if does God really love me with the week I've had, with the sins I've committed, with the things I've said, with the things I've done. Could God really love me? Yes, because Because his love for you is based on Christ and the promises of the gospel, not based on your performance. God's love is not in question. Romans 8:35. Paul asks. A critical question for Christian living. Romans 8 35. Paul asks, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? It's an important question. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And then basically he just lists all kinds of things that cannot do that. And at the very end of that section in verse 39, he says this Nothing else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Praise the Lord. If we're dependent on our strength, we'd be gone in a second We'd be falling for the lies of the devil in a second. We'd be following the passions of the sinful flesh in a second. It is God who keeps us. It's God's love that keeps us. And nothing will separate us from the love of God that is in Christ Jesus our Lord. But, but, in matters of practical obedience, you certainly can stray from the past. In matters of practical obedience, we can become apathetic. We can forget our first love. We can fall in to a snare of sin or a season of sin and will need to be restored. In matters of walking in a in a Practical love for God, we can fall away. And we need to be restored. And God is gracious to restore us. But what I want to point up here and put a really bright spotlight on is that God's love for you, believer, Beloved, God's love for you is not in question. And you don't need to do any work to ensure God's love for you. God's love for you is settled. So we remain faithful to God by keeping ourselves in the love of God. 21, keep yourselves in the love of God. And then let's work through these three participles. And I want to do this pretty quickly. Those who love God, number one, are built up in sound doctrine. They're to be built up in sound doctrine. That comes from the very beginning of verse 20. This is the first participle. It's that first ing word. But you, beloved, building yourselves up in your most holy faith. That's number one. Those who love God, those who want to keep themselves in the love of God, will see to it that they are built up in sound doctrine. They'll see to it that they're building themselves up in the most holy faith. Those who love God are built up in sound doctrine and should desire to be built up in sound doctrine. doctrine. Number two, those who love God are given to prayerfulness. Should have said just prayer be easier to say say prayerfulness that's verse 20 as well right after he says building yourselves up in the most holy faith he says this and praying in the holy Holy Spirit, praying in the Holy Spirit, being led by the Spirit in prayer unto God and all the different aspects of prayer. Praising God, giving God Thanks to God, confessing our sins to God, or interceding for others to God, making our requests known to God, pouring out our hearts, calling upon God for help. I mean, daily we need God's help. Daily we need to cry out to God. And I put prayerfulness in the outline rather than prayer because Even at times when we're not just straightforward praying, we should have a prayerful mindset throughout the day. I mean we should have a mindset throughout the day where we're always depending on on God. We should have a mindset throughout the day. Whether you're at school or whether you're you're at work or whether you come home after a long day at work and you don't feel like talking to anybody, we should have a mindset of seeking God's help to do what He's called. us to do. Amen? So prayerfulness. And yes, of course, there'll be there'll be times that you set aside that Just prayer and growing in prayer and more intense and specific prayer. But a spirit of prayerfulness is something we all need to cultivate. So those who love God are built up in sound doctrine, and we're seeing to it that we're being built up in the most holy faith. Number two, those who love God are given to prayerfulness and praying for a prayerful mindset. I would probably say that we all know that we need to grow in our prayer lives. Amen, church? Well the first step is go to God for that. Or go to God don't don't try to put together some outward formula program that we're going to do to build a prayer life. Go to God and cry out to God that He would give you that gift of prayerfulness. Only God can give us these kinds of spiritual things. We can put things together outwardly. Sometimes the flesh loves that. I mean, one of the things the flesh loves is an outward religious program that that appeases We can put things together outwardly, but the inward transformation can only come from God. And so we go to God first. Third, those who love God live in the hope of eternal life. Those who love God live in the hope of eternal life He says verse 21, keep yourselves in the love of God. That's the main verb. And then this last participle, or this last. ING word, this last supporting verb is waiting. Waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. Waiting for that consummate mercy When Christ returns, when Christ redeems all creation, Romans chapter 8, when Christ gives us the resurrection body, when Christ. fully ushers in the new heavens and the new earth. And his church, united to Christ, inherits the redeemed earth in resurrection bodies, the inheritance of eternal life, the fullness of the kingdom. of God. He says we're waiting for that. I've said this before. The Christian life is a goal-oriented life. We're moving toward a goal. We're looking forward to a goal. We're going to be with God. We're going to share in the resurrection. We're going to have a resurrection body like unto Christ. We're going to dwell in the presence of God for all eternity. That's our goal. We live a goal-oriented life, and that's called hope. That's called hope. And he says, here, waiting. Are you waiting for this? Are you waiting? Are you longing, longing, longing, one example, to be rid of sin in your heart and mind? I know I am. I got an absolutely up here. Yes and amen. And that's just part of the glory. And that's not even the best part of the glory. The best part of the glory is you'll be in the presence of God to be able to behold his glory. You'd be able to fellowship with God forever. And you won't even have temptations. You won't have to battle temptation anymore. Now, if you did, theoretically, you'd be able to have victory over all temptations. because the corruption of sin in the heart has been purged out by the Holy Spirit. But that's our inheritance We do not have hope for only within this life. We have an eternal hope. We have a heavenly hope. We have resurrection hope. And that's what he says. Waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. Now that's important, that that's a future. Look at the grammar here. This is future. He's not looking back on conversion when we have this first experience of eternal life, which is knowing God, being united to Christ by faith. He's looking forward to this consummate mercy, something you're waiting for. We're not looking back, we're waiting for The mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. That's that final inheritance. The full expression, if you will, of eternal life If you know Christ, you already have eternal life. Already. But you've not yet received the full inheritance of eternal life. Not even close. So there's your three participles, the three supporting verbs, the three practical applications. As it were, of how you keep yourself in the love of God. Number one, make sure you're being built up in sound doctrine. See to it. We each have an individual duty to see See see to it that we're built up in biblical doctrine, biblical truth. Number two. Those who love God are given over to prayerfulness. So let's see to it that we're striving by the grace of God to grow in prayer, but also in a prayerful mindset throughout the day. Number three, those who love God and living in the hope of eternal life, you know, as we're further sanctified by the Spirit, less and less are we looking for I mean, just where where true value is, eternal things. Heavenly things, the things of Christ, that just becomes more and more clear to us. And our lives are shaped more and more by the eternal rather than the temporal. And our lives are shaped more and more by the spiritual rather than the physical. More and more the pleasures and the glories of knowing God rather than just the temporal, superficial pleasures and so-called glories of this. creation. Just more and more as we're sanctified, we live in light of the hope of eternal life. Everything we gain in this world will be gone the second we We breathe our last, be separated from all our money, all our things, all our collectibles. We live in the hope of eternal life Alright, so we see the main verb, keep yourselves in the love of God. Brothers, sisters, whatever, whatever you do, strive to keep yourself in the love of God. God. Shot that your life is a life giving over to loving God. What are you loving? We're loving God. How do you want to live? I want to live out a love for God. That's not how we get saved. That's the fruit of being saved. And Jude points out it's almost like a general roadmap if you were just to zoom out and look at the route. From point A to point B, you have this roadmap, this general roadmap of Christianity being built up in sound doctrine, being built up in prayer. and being built up and living in light of the hope that we have in Christ. And now for the rest of our time, I want to come back to sound doctrine. I want to come back to this issue of being built up in the most holy faith and spend our last section diving into something very particular. when it comes to sound doctrine. Are you with me on that? Are you still awake this morning? Would you wave at me? Somebody wave? I got half of you. I'm good with that. I'll take it So verse 20, building yourselves up in the most holy faith. In the context of Jude, this participle is Foundational for obeying verse 3. You can't do verse 3 without doing this. And verse 20. And I've been coming back to this at the beginning of every message of what Jude is saying. You've got to contend for the faith that's been Delivered once for all delivered to the saints. And now in verse 20 is the best way, the only way to do this is to be built up in the faith that's been Once for all delivered to the saints. If we're not built up in it, we are going to fall prey to false doctrine rather than defend against false doctrine. So he says in verse three, contend for the faith that was once for all delivered to the saints. And then he says in verse 20, building yourselves up in the most holy Holy faith. That's growing in sound doctrine. And he says, literally, the holy faith. The holy faith. Why what is something that's holy is is what? It's something that's set apart unto God, right? It's something that God has taken And he set it apart. He's consecrated it. So it's something that God does. He sets something apart. He sets it apart for himself. He sets it apart. So here you have the faith is set apart by God. It's set apart for God. And it's the faith, the Christian faith, the gospel faith, that sets us apart for God. We cannot be sanctified apart from the gospel changing us. It's the gospel that's the cent center of the most holy faith, and it's the gospel that sets us apart that we might be holy. So the building ourselves up in sound doctrine is not just busy work, brother We want to be built up in the most holy faith so that we can stand against error for the sake of the church, for the sake of our souls, for the sake of God's name and glory in the world. It's all about God's glory ultimately. And heresy certainly doesn't glorify God. So being built up in the most holy faith And the application I want to make is talking about why we preach, how we preach, and why we worship, how we worship. Why is the word the center of everything? Watch so much readings of Scripture and exalting of Scripture and so much time for the preaching of God's Word. Why do we preach how we preach and why do we worship how we worship in such a word-centered way? Well, I could just simply answer with What Jude is saying. Because we all and the church as a whole need to continue to be built up in the most holy faith. And where does that come from? It comes from scripture. We're servants of the Word. We're not sir. I'm not here for myself. And we all and you all are not here for ourselves. We're here for God. We're servants Of the word. We come to receive the word that we might be built up in the word for the glory of God. And of course, the word is never simply to impart head knowledge. Never simply to impart head knowledge, but a spiritual, experiential knowledge of the truth that changes us. That renews our mind, that purifies our heart. Do we need those two things, church? Do we need our minds to continue to be renewed by the Word of God? Do we need our hearts to continue to be purified by the Spirit of God, by the Word of God. Absolutely. Amen. Both of those, because we're still growing in our sanctification. Our number one goal in the preaching and in the worship is to minister the most holy faith to our hearts with the Word of God. That'll probably be on the final exam, so I'll say that again so you can get it in your notes. Our number one goal in the preaching and in the worship is to minister, which means serve. It's like I used to be a server for a caterer. We would bring the food to the And then by the way, behind the scenes, just It's the Spirit who's really serving that into our hearts. Share with you a couple theme verses for the method of the ministry here. First Timothy four six Paul writes to Timothy, If you put these things before the brothers, then you'll be a good servant of Christ Jesus, being trained in the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed. Interesting verse. in case you missed it. He mentions that Timothy was trained in the words of the faith, and he was trained of the good doctrine in the in the good doctrine of the Christian faith. But did you catch the first thing that Paul says? He says, if you put these things before the brothers, then you're a good servant of Jesus Christ. Timothy, it's not just for you to know things. It's for you to serve the church with these things. Minister to the church with these things. Then you'll be a good servant of Christ Jesus. You have the words of the faith and the good doctrine At 1 Timothy 4. 13, which probably for me on my heart is the number one theme verse for where we've tried to go in the in the worship service Paul says to Timothy, until I come, devote yourself, which means what? It means Give yourself over. Devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation, and to teaching. Devote yourself to it. Devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture. That's not preaching on Scripture, which is what I'm doing now, but just preaching the Scripture. Read the Scripture. So we have readings. And we give pointed time, pointed time to publicly reading the Word of God, giving it its due place and respect. And then he says, exhortation, there should be encouragements. Reminders, corrections, all kinds of exhortations coming and also to the teaching. Devote yourself to the public reading of Scripture, to exhortation and to teaching. Now why? Because that's what we need. Brothers and sisters, that's what we need. We need God's word. I hope you know that in your heart. That you need God's word That you need God to minister to your heart by His Word, and minister to your mind by His Word, and conform you to the likeness of Christ. By his word. God uses his word to accomplish his purposes in our lives. We need his word 2 Timothy 4, 2 to 5. It's a longer passage, but it's a classic passage and it's a great passage. Paul says to Timothy, Preach the Word. You be ready in season. and out of season to reprove, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching For the time is coming when people will not endorse sound teaching. Has that time come? Well, yeah, it came in the time of Jude, obviously, and that time will persist. The time is coming when people will not endorse sound teaching, but having itching ears, they'll accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions. And will fall away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths. But as for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of the evangelist, fulfill your ministry. Our number one goal, our number one purpose in the preaching and in the worship is to minister the most holy faith to our hearts. with the word of God. Now what's the center of the most holy faith? It's the gospel. No need for a cliffhanger on that. What's the centerpiece, doctrine? What's this gem in this setting of the most holy faith? What's the center of the doctrine? It's the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's God's love for us that He has given us in Christ. that none can take from us. So, if the center of doctrine is the gospel. The center of doctrine is God's love for us in Christ, his death and his resurrection, and the great salvation on the basis of his death and resurrection. If that's the number one, if that's the center Of the most holy faith. And if our goal is to always be ministering the most holy faith to our hearts, well, the center of our preaching and the center of our teaching has to be Christ. You know of all the th all the categories of doctrine. You talk about systematic theology, all the different categories. You talk about practical theology, all the different areas of application. But right at the center, right at the center At the center always has to be a person. We are preaching a person, the living Lord Jesus Christ. Our hearts are to be set on a person, Jesus Christ. Our minds are to be set on a person, Jesus Christ. That can only happen by faith Because we're on earth and Jesus is in heaven. But this is the goal of sound doctrine. This is the goal of the most holy faith: to turn our hearts to Christ, to turn our minds to Christ, that Christ would transform us into his likeness. Christianity and Christian teaching can never simply be ideas. And it can never simply be the things we need to do. It's the exalting of a person. It's the Speaking highly of Jesus Christ, so that our hearts would see him by faith and be transformed. You know, if Jesus is not the thing that gives you peace, Peace and rest in your heart. Inevitably, eventually, you're going to get very bored and frustrated at this church. Because that's what we're preaching as the only sufficient source for peace Peace and rest in the heart, for security for the soul, for fulfillment for the soul. What we have to preach, what we have to offer is the living Lord Jesus Christ. And our goal, brothers and sisters, our goal is to look to Christ and through faith rest in him. Rest in him. That's how we're built up. You know. I'm going to wrap this up in just a moment so we can all go partake of this incredible banquet that's being prepared downstairs. But very, very simple. I mean the paradigm for spiritual growth could not be simpler, but it's it's easy to miss. It's easy to miss if we don't focus our minds on it. The paradigm for spiritual growth is very simple, and here's what it is: love for God and gratitude for God in the heart. Is what leads to any other aspect of Christian obedience. Are you with me on that one? Love for God in the heart, gratitude for God in the heart, that's the fuel. That's the root of all other obedience. That's number one. Number two, it's the gospel of Jesus Christ that creates love for God in the heart. It's the gospel of Jesus Christ that creates gratitude for God in the heart. So the preaching of Christ must be consistent. The preaching of Christ must be for unbeliever to come to Christ, but also for the believer to grow in Christ. If you want any other obedience in life, it's going to come from love and gratitude in the heart. But if you want love and gratitude in the heart, it's going to come from the gospel of Jesus Christ. So come. Wanting the gospel. Come sensing your need for the gospel. Come with a prayerful mindset that God would fill your heart with love and gratitude by the power of the gospel. And that's what will make us. A God-centered, Christ-exalting, spirit-filled, being sanctified people who are keeping ourselves in the love of God. We come hungry for Christ and deep in our hearts Finding rest only in Christ. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you would fill our hearts with love Based on your great salvation, we pray that you would fill our hearts with gratitude. Based on your great salvation, we pray that by your Spirit you would enable us. Keep ourselves in in a life, to keep ourselves on the path of loving you, not the things of this world. And certainly not ourselves and not sin, but loving you. Help us to keep ourselves in loving you by faith in Christ. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.