Well the words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Galatians chapter 4, verses 1 through 11. Galatians chapter four verses one through eleven. Would you rather be a slave or an heir to the king? Yeah, it's this is the no-brainer, right? This is this should be just the instantly say I want to be the heir. I want to be an heir to the king. I'm gonna inherit what the king has. I want to be part of his kingdom. I want to be his child. The other option is to be a slave. You get to see the king. You get to maybe be within his presence a time. But ultimately you don't do what you want. You don't find joy. You don't receive something from the king that has eternal value. You're just a worker. You're a cog and a machine. Well, Paul tonight is going to challenge us to think about. The idea and this contrast between slave and heir. And that we all said it out loud and we we proclaim it, we want to be the heir. We want to be an heir to the king. We want to we want to inherit something. Yet Each and every one of us, and especially the Galatians, are tempted to go back to their old ways of being a slave. There's something tempting to them. There's something that's drawing them in to being a slave. And Paul wants to drive this wedge between these two identities. And so you can't hold both of them. You can't you can't have maybe a little bit of slave status and a little bit of heir status. It's one or the other. And the eternal promise of God, the promise since the since the garden, and then to Abraham, and then to David, is that we are heirs of the king. We're his children. Brothers and sisters, let me just plead with you, as Paul does, why are any of you tempted to go back to being a slave? May we never fall for this lie, for this trap, this temptation of going back to the old, former ways of things. Now, lucky for you, it's the Sunday before Christmas. So I come bearing gifts. I have two sermons tonight, alright? We're going to be in Galatians the whole time. But we must recognize, and we'll see this divide of the slave and the heir, and then we must answer the question: how then do we become heirs of the king? And you're going to see the beautiful testimony, the beautiful story of the incarnation. We see the Christmas story right here in Galatians. So let us not delay any longer and let us get into the text. Please, if you have your Bibles, please have them open in Galatians. We need to be in our Father's word as much as possible. Galatians 4, starting in verse 1. I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything. But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. In the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his son, born of a woman, born under the law. to redeem those who were under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons. And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father, you are no longer a slave, but a son. And if a son, then heir through God. Formerly, when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods. But now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God. How can you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world? Whose slaves you want to be once more? Let me phrase that correctly. Whose slaves do you want to be once more? You observe days and months and seasons and years Listen to these words of Paul. I am afraid. I may have labored over you in vain. God bless the reading of his word. So friends, let's first address this slave issue that Paul lays out before us. Once again, Paul's uh he's a wise man, he's a great teacher. And he gives us language and and an understanding that we should be able to grasp. Because what he's doing is he's putting back to the understanding that we the that the Jews, while under the law of God, were under a guardian. That's back in chapter three, verse twenty four. So then the law was our guardian until Christ came. Remember Paul is arguing and defeating this the the Judaizers saying that yes, you come in Christ, you You come and you're born again in Christ, but then you must fulfill the law of God to be made righteous before God. So this is Paul's whole argument throughout all of Galatians. That we are saved through Christ. We are saved through faith in Christ. We are saved through faith in Christ. We are saved through faith in Christ. Over and over and over again. Because we're tempted to go back to the old ways. So he's he's pulling this argument of how we were under the law as a guardian until Christ came, and now he's saying you were heirs even under the guardianship of the law. Your guardian or your heirship or your your status of being an heir has not changed You're still an heir. But the function of how it works under the law has changed. So in verse one there he says, I mean that the heir, as long as he is a child, is no different from a slave, though he is the owner of everything But he is under guardians and managers until the date set by his father. So he's using human language here. He wants us to understand that he's talking about a son Alright, so that's son as he's a a wee little lad. Maybe he's five, six, seven. I just always want to use lad in a sermon, so I got to use it tonight. Do your bingo cards put part mark that one down. For that son, while he has the inheritance promise He does not receive the inheritance under his father. Actually, what Paul's pointing out, and we understand this, he actually functions as a slave. He functions within the household. He doesn't have a whole lot of freedoms. He does as the Father says. He's under the guidance and the instruction of the Father. And while he can see the promises that are before him He does not have ownership of them until the passing of the father, until the father gives him his inheritance. And we can see this in our own lives, children. Where's my children at? Hear this. This was for your parents. You do not have the freedom to just go and do whatever you want. You're under the wise guidance and instruction of your parents. They have oversight of you. Parents, can I get an amen out of you here? Okay. John , not now. They're all grown. But we understand this language. There's a guidance over top of you. There's not this endless freedom to go and do whatever we want. We've all experienced this. And this is good parenting. Children, this is good of your parents to do this. They should have wise and careful oversight of you. And as you grow and you mature, you start to Branch out, you start to experience the world and you start to understand how you can function on your own without the guardianship over top of you. And then one day you go on to college and you go on to get married and you move out of your parents' home. And now you are your own. You're not under that guardianship. Well, likewise, friends, this is what we see Paul driving home here, is that Israel had to be under the guardianship of the law. They had to be under it was to care for them, it was to protect them. But it was never, and we saw this last week in chapter three, it was never to make them righteous before God It was the protection over them. So Paul is now driving out this argument that if that's what the guardianship does, and if you are heirs of the promise of Abraham. Why do you now that Christ has come, why do you now want to go back to the guardian? You don't have freedom under the guardian of the law. You don't have freedom if you are under the managers and the guardians, as Paul says in verse 2. But we are free through the truth, right? This is what Jesus says in John 8, that we have freedom in the truth And the truth will set us free, and we are not slaves anymore. And if we have been made free in Christ, why do we desire in any way, in any sense, to go back to the old slavery that we were under? So Paul's using it for the Jewish audience to understand. Look at verse 3. He says, in the same way, we also, when we were children, were enslaved to the elementary principles of the world. This phrase, the elementary principles, will actually come back up. I believe that Paul is using it in two different senses, two different ways here. He's using a one for while we were under the law, or while Israel was under the law in the Old Testament, they were enslaved to the elementary principles of how to live The very basics, like the law was written out for them. The law was visible for them to see. The very basics of how they should live was written for them to see, and that's how they functioned. But we see then Paul reused this language, but he changes it a little bit. In the end here we'll see in verse nine he says, But now that you have come to know God, or rather to be known by God, how can you turn back again to the weak and worthless elementary principles of the world, whose slaves you want to be uh once whose slaves you want to be once more. You observe days and months and seasons and years So now we see this language is being shifted just slightly. And in verse 8 it's the same, we're enslaved to those that by nature are not gods. It's shifting slightly that are you are we going to be slaves to how the world functions and how the world acts, worshiping trees. Worshiping false idols and false gods, worshiping themselves and their own image and their own understanding. Think about who you were and what you worshiped before you came to Christ. And when we start to think about that, and we actually start to put some language and some understanding of who we were, well friends, the greatest God in my life before Christ radically changed me was me. I was the greatest God in my life. I am who I worshiped. I followed after my own passions. I followed after my own lust. The things I decided to do were based off of how I felt and how I moved and what I wanted. And I I I feel pretty comfortable to say you probably acted very similar to how I acted before Christ. You were enslaved to it. So now Paul has drawn this uh these two slave masters. One is that do you want to go back to the world or under the law? You want to go back to under the law and be under the guardianship. But if you're under the guardianship, you can never be an heir. You can never receive the inheritance that God has promised. Or, like in verse 8, formerly when you did not know God, you were enslaved to those that by nature are not gods. Do you want to go back to that way? That's your two options. And both are not good. Both enslave you. You can go back under the law and say, okay, the Mosaic law we must fulfill perfectly. To be righteous before God, or we can completely abandon this desire of being righteous and say, I'm just going to follow after my own passions and my own flesh and do whatever I want, whatever makes me happy. And Paul is saying neither of these are good. Now, why are neither of these good? It's because both of them are a form of slavery. As we recognize, as we know, slavery is not our desired status in life. Slavery is never our desired status in life, especially if the other option is to be an heir, an inheritance of God's kingdom. To be an heir, a child of God. We see that scales real easy. We want to be a child of God. We want the status and the inheritance of God. But the Galatians are struggling with this very, very much. And Paul's concerned. Hear this language in verse 11. He says, I am afraid I may have labored over you in. Vain. That should be terrifying words. Should be terrifying words for us to hear for ourselves. What Paul is saying is he's concerned about the souls of the Galatians. He's concerned that the the church in Galatian, the this the people he knew in Galatia that that he thought that that they had a profession of faith. He saw some evidence of of truth dw coming out of them He's now afraid that that wasn't true, that they have abandoned the faith, that they never actually believed in the gospel of Christ, and they're now slaves, and they're they're going to receive the just punishment of an eternal destruction and separation from God. Paul is fearful of their souls in their eternity. Friends, ask yourselves this. Are you tempted to go under some kind of slavery other than having the freedom in Christ? Are you tempted to go back and say, no, no, let's work on the legalistic side. Let's try to find and make our righteousness through our works. Let's make sure that we are righteous because of what we do rather than who Christ has made us. We've got to just be under slavery. That's what's happening there. If you are under a spirit of of legalism, you're finding your identity as a Christian based off of what you're doing rather than who Christ has made you, you are under a slave master. And you are a slave. Or maybe you're going on the other side of the slavery issue. You're chasing after the passions, and you said, well I I can't be made righteous by the law of God. I break the law of God all the time. I'm hopeless. There's no way that I can really be redeemed because I'm a sinner, so I'm just going to go and max out the sin. Do all the sins I can possibly do. Follow after all the passions of the world. Well, friends, you too are a slave. It doesn't matter which side of this argument or this slavery status you fall on, either way you are a slave and you are not a child of God. Paul's serious about this. I am afraid. This language is terrified. And he's saying, I may have labored over you in vain. The care and the discipleship I've given you, the teaching, the preaching I've given you, the letters I've written you may have been worthless. They may have no value before you because you are pagans, you are heathens, you have you are children of wrath. You're not the children of God What should this tell us about ourselves? Paul's not talking to someone that he's unsure didn't think they were Christians. He's talking to people that he's seen. He's interacted with, and he had some reason to believe that they were Christians. But he's sh they're showing themselves, or possibly the the possibility, that they are not actually children of God. There's no reason for us to think that they're losing their status as a child of God, but that they never were. They were always under this status of slavery. And Paul is concerned for them. Well friends, you and I should be aware of this in our own lives. I think if I look out here in this room, and there's for the majority of us, we probably have a status that is a child of God for many, many years. But that does not mean that we should ever just sit back and assume that we're good to go. We should never think, well, we've perfected ourselves as Christians, we have it all figured out, we're going to keep We're just gonna do the same thing we've done since nineteen seventy-three. It's probably a good year. I don't know what happened that year. But we we can't just assume that we stick to the way we've been doing things. We must always be examining ourselves and we must always be going to the Word of God and growing and maturing in His Word. Friends, we should seek and yearn to grow in the understanding of the love of our Father to us. We should seek and understand how to be obedient to him. Live in our new status as Christians, in the new spirit we have, yet never falling into the gutter of legalism. Yet never falling into the gutter of this cheap free grace that we just t get to go and sin as much as we want. It's this path of following after Christ and walking in his likeness that we must seek after. So ask yourselves. Simple question. Do you want to be a slave or a child of God? An heir of God An air. You want to be a child of God. Don't fall for the temptation to go back to the Old Testament. There's a few mu movements nowadays. The one that comes to mind the Hebrew roots movement, there's no need to look it up. But essentially they're they're Judaizers. Simply put, they're Judaizers. They're saying, yes, we we are Christians because we believe in Christ. But we have to follow they still follow the festivals and the Sabbath. You have to celebrate the Sabbath on Saturday. You can't do any work. You can't use money And there's degrees within these movements, and just so you know, these movements always argue and fight and split off and say, well, they're the true movement. It's very common within these. So that's what Paul's addressing in verse 10. You observe days, months, and seasons and years. He's saying you're just acting like the pagans who are looking into the stars and looking to the sun and looking to nature to give them guidance. He 's saying you're you're acting like them. You're worried about observing specific festivals of the Old Testament. You're worried about making sure that you uh commit and observe Shabbat perfectly So that you're righteous before God. He's saying how foolish you are for following after this. The Galatians are in a grave danger. grave danger of not realizing that they're slaves, yet thinking they're children of God. So Paul is driving this point clearly home to them. That if you continue in this way, you are a slave and not a child. So, what's our question that we must ask, right? How do we become heirs? If this is our two options, to be a slave or an heir, we should all be asking, how do we become heirs? Good question. Thanks for asking that. This is where our second sermon comes in. Let us celebrate the incarnation of our Lord and Savior. Look with me in verse 4. I'm going to reread 4 through 7. But when the fullness of time had come, God sent forth his Son, born of a woman Born under the law, to redeem those who are under the law, so that we might receive adoption as sons And because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father, so you are no longer a slave, but a son, and if a son, then an heir through God. The great, great, glorious story of Christmas is this that our Lord and Savior came down, took on flesh. was born of a virgin, grew up just like you and I have grown. He then lived a perfect life under the law, died on the cross bearing our sins. He that knew no sin became sin. For us. He died on that cross. He was then buried into the grave. Third day he arose from the grave, taking victory over sin and death. Death has no sting anymore. He then ascends into heaven, taking his righteous throne at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth. This is the Christmas story It's the beautiful story of the gospel. It's the story of Easter. It's what we celebrate as Christians. And we should think about this regularly. So how do we become heirs of God? Well look at verse 7. We have to deal with a a slight issue only for Austin 2024, but it won't be an issue for long. It says, so you are no longer a slave, but a son. If a son, then an heir through God. Do not translate that sons and daughters. Don't do it. It's sons. It's intentionally sons. Why is this? It's because in this day, the day that this was written, only the son would receive an inheritance. The daughter would be married off, and she would receive the inheritance of her husband. It's not a hatred for women. No, it's the structure of how this works, is that God's providing and uh and the father is providing for his children through this mechanism, and we see that the inheritance goes to the Son. But then we can look back just a few verses in chapter 3, verse 28. There is neither Jew nor Greek, there is neither slave nor free, talking about here on this earth. There is no male and female, for you are all one in Christ Jesus. So, my sisters out there, sisters in Christ, when you see this word son, and you are a child of God, it is speaking to you. Just as much as it is speaking to the men in here. The son receives the inheritance. And this is a beautiful image that we must understand for this text. Now let's look at verse 14. But when the fullness of time had come, the first thing we must see within the incarnation of Christ is that Christ came right on time. Let me say that again. Christ came right on time. God has never been early. God has never been late. He's never had to scramble at the last second to make sure his plan all worked. But in God's perfect timing, his perfect timing, he sent his son to this world. Does that encourage us today? Some of you need to hear that today, is that God's timing is perfect. Some of you as you go through trials and struggles, you feel the pain. As we celebrate Christmas, I also recognize that Christmas brings a lot of pain and memories. And we think, oh, oh, oh Jesus, will he not just return tonight so we don't have to bear this suffering on this earth anymore? Well, friends, his return is in his perfect timing. His grace is in his perfect timing. And we should rejoice that in God's perfect timing, you and I have been redeemed by the blood of Christ. Why? Because in his perfect timing, he ascend his son to this earth. It's actually hard for us to fathom perfect timing. Especially if you're married to the beautiful bride that I'm married to. Timing is kind of this this vague idea of you can just show up never early, but you can always just show up at whatever time that is perfect For you. Right? We struggle with this. When I was in the army, my last unit, our motto was called H- Because in D-Day, the unit jumped in an hour early. They were an hour off of the time hack that they were supposed to go into Normandy. And we were all proud that we fought for a whole hour by ourselves. But ultimately, we didn't set our clocks the correct time, and we were way off of our target. We live in a world that perfect timing just does not exist. So I've said before I was late to my own wedding. I've never been late to anything except for my own wedding. It's because of my brother, but we won't go there But to understand God's perfect timing should actually blow our minds. It should be a struggle for us to fully fathom. Think about this: when the Old Testament concludes. The Old Testament concludes, the prophet has spoken, and the Old Testament concludes, there's then 400 years of silence. Four hundred years of silence. And then there's oppression. The Romans come in, they take over. They're the dominant force. They're under the slavery of Rome, which is so funny that the The Jewish leaders in talking to Jesus said, We've never been enslaved, but they're under the authority of Rome in this time and they're waiting for the promised Messiah. They're waiting for their leader to come. Sin is abounding. Sin is multiplying. There's false worship within the temple of God occurring. And you're just, could you imagine living in that time for 400 years that you're promised the Messiah and for 400 years there's nothing and you're just going, how long, O Lord? Will you stay silent? How long will we not hear from you? How long will it be till the Messiah comes? And then what do we see in the beautiful gospel of Matthew? We see that the angels come and speak to Mary and promise the birth of the Messiah. Then we see that John the Baptist, as a prophet, going into the nation, proclaiming that the one who saves is here. Oh, the perfect timing of our God. On a historical front, we just understand that the perfect timing of the Messiah coming, Jesus coming For everything to line up perfectly so that he dies the way that he dies, so that he resurrects from the grave in the way that he does. So that the gospel then goes forth in the known world. There's actually peace so that the missionaries, the apostles could go into other parts of the world at that time, which had never been seen until Rome's occupation. Can we recognize the fullness of the time of our Lord? His perfect timing. Friends, do not think, oh, I wish you were here already. I wish this would be. I wish I lived back in these days. God has placed you in this year at this perfect timing. He has redeemed you at his perfect timing because he has sent his son at the perfect time. Recognize that history radically shifts and changes because of the birth and incarnation of our Lord. At his death and resurrection, we see history shifting. You're here on Wednesday. I talked about that out of Matthew. But even the historians recognize this. Right, we have before Christ and then after death, after Christ. Now modern historians are trying to change that into common error, but we recognize that history radically shifts At the perfect timing of our God sending Christ at this perfect time in history. Why? It's because He loves you and I, to redeem you and I. Sin was abounding, the world was full of sin. Yet God sent his son. That's what we get to in a second point here. Excuse me, let me just you can write these down if you doubt the fullness of time. Just recognize that the Old Testament has proclaiming the perfect coming of our Lord and Savior. Genesis three, we see that in the garden. The promise that Satan and his offspring will strike at the heel, but Eve's offspring will strike his head. Daniel chapter 9. We see the coming, the vision that the Lord gives, and the perfect timing. Isaiah 53, we see the perfect timing of our Lord and the perfect being that He will send as the perfect sacrifice. Man, our Lord loves the word perfect, does he not? Holy ish is probably the more appropriate word So our God sent his son at the perfect time, the fullness of time. But look what comes right after this. Says, God sent forth who? His son. God sent forth his son. As we hear this, as we celebrate this Christmas season, we should be thinking about the love of God that He has sent His Son to us. Now hear me out here. Notice this language, it does not say God sent Jesus to become his son. What does it say? That he has sent his son. The triune God, the Father, the Son, and the Spirit have always existed in harmony, in unity together. John 1. 1 tells us this. In the beginning was the word. Right? We see that this is the idea that he is sending his son to us. That while Jesus reigns in heaven while he's interacting and communing with the triune God, his father. His father sends him down on a rescue mission for you and I. Oh, what a glorious truth this is. The beauty that the Father has sent his son down to sinners like you and I. The beauty that the Son has come down on a mission. He is sent. This language in the Greek is used as the mission that the army would receive. The soldiers are sent out on a mission. They're sent to go and accomplish something. There's this this focus and this movement of what's happening in the scent. They're going. They're going to accomplish something. They're leaving the current spot they're at to then go to another place. And that's what Jesus He is leaving heaven. The Father has sent his Son from heaven down to us here on this earth. And hear that. It's the not the ascension of Christ, it's the descending of Christ. He's coming down to us. It's because you and I have no hope of getting up to him. We see that in the Tower of Babel, they try to build a tower, trying to raise themselves up. The works of our hands are an attempt for us to be more like Christ in our own works, trying to get into the heavens, but we will always fail. Christ came down to us, brothers and sisters How did this happen? He was born of a woman. Born of a woman. You can look in Isaiah 9 to hear this. Unto us a child is born. That comes out of Isaiah 9. But look quickly with me in Hebrews 4, 14 through 16. Why is it important that we understand that he is born of a woman? It's because we understand that he has taken on flesh to understand our suffering, our pain, and to be the perfect sacrifice for sinful man. And we see this in Hebrews 4 14. Marked down the wrong spot. It reads, Since then we have a great high priest who has passed through the heavens. Jesus the Son of God, let us hold fast our confession. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but one who in every respect has been tempted as we are. Yet without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Why do we grow in confidence? Why do we draw near to the throne of grace? Is because our Savior understands us. He has come. He was born of a woman. When we see this in Galatians, it's telling us that he took on flesh. This is the incarnation, the taking on of flesh. William Perkins says this about the incarnation. Why was the son made flesh? There are two special causes hereof. First, the order of divine justice requires that God's wrath should be appeased, and a satisfaction made in the same nature in which His Majesty was offended meaning because we are of flesh and we have offended God, the payment must be of flesh. Secondly, the mediator between God and man must be both for nature and condition in the mean between God and man. That is, both God and man. We have the high priest. He came from heaven. The Son of God came, took on flesh, the incarnation, so that we now can commune with the Holy God. We now have a mediator between us and the Father. Jesus must have come and taken on flesh for us to be redeemed, for us to be children of God. Paul continues in Galatians. He says, born of woman. And then he goes here. He goes, born under the law. So born of woman is talking about his his nature as man, being truly man. than being born uh under the law is his ethnicity. Alright, Paul's uh Paul's bringing in some drama, right? Once we start talking about ethnicity, He's stirring up some drama. Why, Paul? Why are you talking and mentioning that he's born under the law? Well, I believe there's two reasons for this. The first reason is to fulfill the promise that he has given to the forefathers of Israel. From Eve in the garden, to Abraham, to Isaac, to David, we see this promise of one coming out of their lineage, out of their line. Actually, he says to Abraham, I will give you a son. This is in chapter 12 of Genesis. I will give you a son. Instead of a son, I will make a nation, and to that nation I will bless the nations. It's not just about Israel. Notice God's plan has always been about the nations, about the world. His promise is fulfilled here. In Samuel we see that it gives the promise to David that from your throne I will have one that rules for how long? Forever. Forever. Forever. Isaiah 9 echoes this, that the the the governments and the will rest on his shoulders. This child unto us is born, and the governments will rest on his shoulder, and he will reign from now until Eternity. So he had to come under the law as an Israelite, as a Jew, to fulfill the promise. But not only that. The second reason that he was born under the law is so that we would never have the excuse and say, Well, it's not fair. Jesus didn't have to live like us Jesus didn't have to obey the law like we are commanded to. You know, there was a possibility that if he wasn't under the law, he could skirt around all the laws and never break one of them, and then he could be holy Well we have to suffer under the law and we break the law and then that makes us unholy, unrighteous. Well no, he lives he came and took on flesh, born of a woman and born under the law. He obeyed the law of God perfectly In his actions, in his thoughts, in his ways of worship, in his deeds, and his passions, his desires, everything about Jesus fulfilled the law perfectly. He never broke a piece of it. Friends, we need this type of Savior. One that took on flesh, but then a perfect sacrifice. That perfect, unblemished lamb to go and hang on the cross for you and I. This is the joy of Christmas. How and why did he do all this? Why did the father send his son to be born of a woman and born under the law? Look in verse 5. No sweeter words do we see in all of Scripture to redeem those who were under the law so that we might receive adoption as sons. This language of a redeem is of purchasing, of buying and restoring and making glorious, putting in a right order. Do you recognize that through the birth of our Savior, through the perfect living of our Savior, and the death of our Savior, we have been purchased at a great and high price? And that redemption, that purchasing that happens on the cross, redeems sinners like you and I that are under the law, so that now we are free and we are adopted as sons. Notice that language. He does not point out that some of you are born as the sons. Some of you will just inherit it because of your lineage, because of your bloodline, because of your ancestors. No, he says that we might receive adoption. as sons. It's because even Israel, even Israel needs to be redeemed by the grace of God through faith in Jesus Christ. Look in Romans. Look in Galatians. That's what Paul is screaming at the people here. Even Israel, ethnic Israel, needs to be redeemed by the blood of Christ, and we believe that one day they will be. They will be redeemed by Christ's blood, coming in faith to him. But even that status will still make them adopted as sons. This language of redeemed, we should cherish, we should fall in love with as we understand that we have been purchased at such a great price, especially when we understand that we once were slaves. Many of you may know this story, and the story goes that there was a young man during the the gold rush in the 1800s. He went out west. out to California and he dug in the rivers and he became a very rich man. He found gold and he was very fortunate in that became rich and on his journey back home he stopped in New Orleans. And he saw a slave market happening there at this time. He saw a young lady on the slave uh on the on the uh auction block And he saw her and he said, Well she she looks nice, she looks like she's a little fiery, like she had a bit of an attitude, and in his mind he said, I'm gonna purchase her and I'm gonna free her. It's his passion. He was a Christian man that wanted to abolish such heinous acts and this was his mechanism of doing it. So he'd bid her up and the price kept going higher and higher and finally he won the bid He spent a half of what he had earned in California, purchased her, went down to the courthouse to get the final papers, and as the auctioneer brought her, unshackled her from her cuffs She looked at him and slapped the pr the man that just purchased her in the face. She was fiery. She was going to fight to the end. And he said, Why have you done this? And she says, You've bought me as a slave and I desire not to be a slave. He says, No, I've a I've I've bought you so that you are now free and he tears up her slave paperwork and makes her free in that moment. And instantly she cries out and says, My master, I will follow you. Please don't banish me. Let me live in your house forever. Notice the change that happened with this young lady. She once was a slave. She was then purchased at a great price, was given liberty, and what's the very first thing she does? Falls at her master's feet Wanting to follow after him, wanting to be in his presence, wants to grow up in his home. Well, friends, are we like that young slave girl? And we recognize for a great price that has been paid on the cross for you and I. And as well, maybe we're we're fired up about it for whatever reason, we're angered at it. Do we come to recognize that we have been saved by grace through faith in Jesus Christ? And instead of running with our freedom into the world, we fall at our master's feet and go, Abba, Father. Let me live in your presence. Let me dwell in your house. There's nowhere else for me to go. I've never been loved so much. I've never experienced and tasted such freedom. Do we recognize that our redemption, the price of Christ on the cross, has made us adopted sons of the Holy God And this is exactly what verse six tells us, and because you are sons, God has sent the Spirit of his Son into our hearts, crying, Abba, Father. Friends, as we have recognized that we have been adopted as sons by the great Lord, the King of Kings. Yahweh that sits in heaven, the creator of the universe, has bought us at such a great high price. We can now call him Father. Do you recognize your inheritance? Do you recognize that that slave status has no value to you anymore? Do you recognize that you are a child of God? Do you recognize the beauty of calling out to the Creator of the universe and calling him Abba Father? Oh, friends, may we see the beauty of Christmas. May we see the beauty of the incarnation of our Savior. May we recognize His great price on the cross. And seeing that we have been redeemed, may we cry out to our Father. Believing, trusting that he hears us, he hears our cries, and he looks at you and I. And he says, welcome into my kingdom, my son. All of this is yours. This is the Spirit we've received. This is the kingdom of God that we have. This is the glorious hope we have to live in his presence into eternity. Do you recognize it? Is this what you're celebrating this season? Is this what we see when we see the Christmas lights? When we celebrate the joy of Christmas, that we are children of the Most High. Don't be tempted to go into the slavery. Don't think that the slave has it better than the child. Don't think that the slave is enjoying life more than the child of God. May we rest in the assurance. that our Father has redeemed us at a great high price and he loves us and we dwell with him forever. Let's go before him in prayer. O great God, we thank you for this truth. We thank you that you have made us your child, that we are your sons, that we receive the inheritance. And we look forward to the glorious inheritance of being in your presence into eternity. Lord, draw this truth into our hearts. Drive it deep into our souls. May it be what we rest on as we go to sleep tonight. May it be what brings us alive in the morning. With the joy may we seek after obedience in you. In joy may we seek after fellowship with you. Father, I ask that we take this truth into the world. May we preach to the slaves that they have freedom in Christ. May we call them from their slave blocks, breaking their chains through the Spirit. that the Father pours out upon them. We pray all of this in the name of Christ. Amen.