The words which we'll examine tonight come out Proverbs chapter 2, verses 16 through 22. Proverbs chapter 2, 16 through 22. God's word says, so you will be delivered from the forbidden woman, from the adulteress. with her smooth words, who forsakes the companion of her youth, and forgets the covenant of her God. For her house sinks down to death, and our past to the department None who go to her come back, nor they do they regain the paths of life. So you will walk in the way of the good, and keep to the paths of the righteous. For the upright will inhabit the land, and those with integrity will remain in it, but the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it. Let us pray. Father, as we read your words of truth, as we see the value, the need we have for your wisdom, may our hearts be convicted to flee from sin and Temptation to flee from pride , flee from things that reject who you are. And not just run into an empty field, but turn to the prize of heaven. Turn to you. Flee into your arms. May we receive your wisdom and grow tonight. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well, the title of the sermon is Liberation of Wisdom. Tonight I want us to see that as we come to the wisdom of God, we receive liberation. We receive freedom. There's two areas in which we will examine what we are liberated from. One will be from temptation and sin. That we do not Belong to the enemy any longer. We are no longer its slave. So when we are faced with temptation here on this earth, we are not obligated by any means to follow after that temptation in death. But rather we have freedom in Christ to reject temptation, to flee from temptation and go to God. That's the first thing we'll look at, at the beautiful liberation we have from Christ. wisdom. But the second one is that we are liberated, we are free from being the enemy of God. This is one of my favorite theological topics. Uh at my funeral, which if you were there, you will hear, Lord willing, that whoever's preaching will talk about the peace we have with God. That while we once were his enemies We are now his children. It is a beautiful picture that we need to think about. We need to enjoy We need to recognize that God is the one that has provided such a liberation to us. That while we were the enemy and we deserved the crushing force of the just King, rather he comes in and fixes His stuff and calls his sons and daughters. And that is the liberation we'll see from being his enemy. So the first one: liberation from temptation. Solomon's a very wise man here, and he's using imagery to help us understand what temptation is. Not just understand what it is, but see how serious temptation is. Often we have temptation, we think of temptation, and it's such an inward thing that we can't fully even really understand it, or we can't fully see the seriousness of it. So what Solomon does is he uses the imagery of a forbidden or adulterous woman. If you know Solomon's story, you know his struggles with lust with women You'll know that this imagery is very personal to him. That he's he's putting on flesh. He's giving us something that we can picture in our minds when we talk about temptation. It's just not a foreign concept. It's just not a philosophical thing we think about and we dream about. But rather, it's something we should Think about. We should recognize and go as so much as physically see the temptation in front of us. Now for some of us At different times, it may be an actual woman. Lust may be the temptation that we will address. For others, it may be pride. For others, it may be lying. Cheating, stealing, anger, frustration. And we could keep going down this list. And then we can go back to the beginning of that list and start combining things. Oh, it's lust and anger, and it's it's stealing and lying, and and we just keep piling it on. And instead of just pointing to the sin and trying to root out the sin, each and individual one of us We're going to take a step back with Solomon and look at temptation. The start of the sin. The start of the spiral down to death So there's four things I want us to see with temptation. The first one is that temptation and sin is quite appealing. It's appealing, isn't it? Let's not lie to ourselves. Let's not act like, oh, a sin's so disgusting. It's so ugly. We don't even like to look at it. We don't like to think about no no, if it was so ugly and so disgusting To our fleshly eyes and mind, it would be easy for us to reject it. But to our flesh, it is appealing. It draws us in. That's why Solomon uses this language of woman. Adultress, but look here, with her smooth words. Oh how temptation weaves words together to draw us in. Smooth things over. Make things sound pretty nice. Pretty good. Oh house temptation points to the sin and says, that's where you will find true fulfillment. Or it takes the sin and says, it's not that bad. You'll be just fine. No one will know. Everything's gonna be be fine. It's just for a moment. Oh how temptation tries to draw us in with its beauty and its attractiveness. And we think for a moment that it is attractive. It's actually what we see in Genesis 3. Last week we read how the serpent came into the garden. The serpent didn't take the forbidden fruit and force it into Eve's mouth, did he? He didn't bring in an army. He didn't use any scare tactics. That's not what sin does. No, no, no. What does it do? It appeals to us. It talks smoothly and draws us in. Causes us to put down our defenses. Causes us to look at it and say, maybe just this once it'll be okay. Maybe if I really do just blow up at work, get all my anger out, that'll be who I really am. I'll just do it once and I'll never have to do it again. Maybe if I just if if I if I can just tell my wife exactly what I think and put her in her place, then we won't have to address this again. Isn't that the smooth temptation that sin is trying to draw us in? Maybe it's just once. Maybe no one will know. Oh, if that's just that glance at her won't last. No one will know it. Glance at her, don't worry. Go onto the social media pages. Don't worry about that. Or you can you can hold that anger towards your brother in your heart. No one's gonna know about that. The smooth words of temptation draw us in to Allah. But look at this language before that of the woman. She's forbidden and a doctress. Maybe some translations have the word strange or foreign. Recognize here, and we're going to talk more about this in the next section, but recognize here that sin and temptation are foreign to us. Now you're thinking, wait, wait, I I I know my theology, I know scripture pretty well. We are all born into sin, and you are correct. But we were not designed for sin. When God designed Adam and Eve, he designed them to be in unity with him. And with to be in unity with him, we must be sinless. They must have been sinless. And we see that it was the temptation that drew them in to sin, to throw off the unity. They had with their Creator. And now we're born into it. But we must recognize that sin is not who we are, but we are in a world that is full of sin, and we are born into sin. Why is this so important? Aren't I just splitting hairs? Well this is so important because the temptation for us is to lean on our sin and say, I can't help it. It's just who I am. This is how I was born. You know? I can't help it that I blow up and get angry. My father got angry. It's just who I am. I saw that example. It's just who I am. I'm an alcoholic because that's just who I am. I'm always going to be that. And we can we can put this language on it to try to justify the temptation and the sin. Well what Solomon points out wisely here is that it is a strange and foreign woman to us. Recognize that that sin is not who you You are. If you are born in Christ, you are his child. You are not bound to that sin. That sin is foreign to you. It doesn't speak your language. You shouldn't understand it. Yet it talks smoothly and it is attractive and appealing to us. The second thing of temptation and sin is that it causes us, it causes one to forsake their God. Look at verse 17. It says, who forsakes the companion of her youth and forgets the covenant of her God? Christian, we're speaking to you tonight. When temptation draws you in and you start to walk down that path and start to go into sin, you are forsaking the love of your youth. You're forsaking your original love, which is God. That God, when He loved you, He made you new. The Holy Spirit indwelled you, gave you a new and living spirit, gave you love for your Creator, gave you love for your Messiah. But here we are walking down the everyday road and we see the woman we s of temptation, we start to get dragged in by her smooth talk and we start to think maybe I love her more than I love myself. first love God. We start to get drug away, pulled away from our true love found only in Christ. You start to say, well maybe the new, the appeal this appealing woman would be better than what I already know. Solomon's using language, he's putting on a figurative lens here, so we start to imagine and understand what's happening internally to us with temptation and sin. Not only do we forsake our first love or the companion of our youth, but also forgets the covenant of her God. When we are drugged into temptation and sin, when we follow after the adulterous woman, when we follow after the smooth words of temptation. and go into sin. We have forgotten the covenant we have with your Savior. What is that? Is that He has redeemed you and I. He has paid for your sins. He has given you a new life and a new spirit. But yet what does sin do? Do. It causes us to go not even think about it. It's not a often, maybe sometimes, but often As Christians, we don't process through this. We don't see temptation and we go, I forget about God and his covenant with me and go into sin. No, no, no, no. What's it cause us to do? We just forget about it. We just follow after this adulterous woman of temptation. We just follow after our passions. We just follow after the sin, and we commit the sin completely forgetting that we ever loved God. Do you hear the draw? Do you hear what happens when we follow after temptation and go into to sin. We see that temptation is appealing, attractive to us. Temptation causes us to forsake God The third thing temptation does, temptation leads to sin and death. Verse 18 reads, For her house sinks down to death, and her path to the departed. Do we recognize the destructive nature of our sin? Do we recognize that sin has separated us from God? That sin is the reason that Christ came to die for us. Because without a redeemer, without a savior, without a perfect sacrifice, sin would have taken us into death. We would have received the just punishment of death and separation from From God for eternity. And that's what this so-called appealing woman, this attractive woman of temptation, has brought us down into. Your sin may look attractive in the beginning, but your sin takes you into death. It drags us down. It doesn't just drag us down. Listen to this language here. It drags her house down. Oh, if you're married in here and you believe that your sin 's only affecting you. Recognize that lie. Your house is being drugged down into death with you. Your sin Is that potent, is that disgusting, is that destructive, that the people around you feel the effects of the sin? And her path to the departed. It's the only path she's going. Temptation and sin has no other direction. She always has. She always will lead to death. There is no hope with her. This attractiveness that we've forsaken our first love for, the attractiveness of the sin gets real disgusting real fast. She becomes really ugly. She starts to look like a corpse that's been dead for a hundred years, decayed, and broken down. It's not as attractive anymore to us. So you think, well if she's not so attractive, if sin's not so attractive, then just go away from it. Well that's the fourth part of sin and temptation. Temptation and sin. None can get away. Look at verse 19. None who go to her come back, nor do they regain the paths of life. Oh, when that temptation grips you with her smooth words, her attractiveness, she then takes her claws and pierces them into your sides and drags you. Down into the pits of hell. Drags you down into the depths of death, sin, and muck. And hold you down. It doesn't matter how hard you fight. It doesn't matter how many good deeds you try to do to outcome, outdo the temptation and the sin. It doesn't matter how many times you put some money into the offering plate. It doesn't matter how many times you come to church. Her grips are deep into you. And you just continue to go back to that sin. Don't raise your hands, but how many of you have a sin that appears as though you've been fighting it your entire life? Or at least for the last few years. And it feels as though there's nothing you can do. There's nothing you can do to get out of it. This sin just keeps grasping you. It has your mind when you're in the shower. It has your mind when you're laying in bed. It takes control of you when you're on your drive to work. It takes control of you when you're interacting with your family and your friends. Is that grip of temptation, has that adulterous woman of sin sunken her claws so deep into you that has drugged you down to the pits of hell that you feel as though you can't get out? And Solomon says you can't. But remember we should always be excited when we recognize that there is a but in the gospel message. You who were sinners were dead in your sins. You who were slaves to the slave master. You who were children of wrath. But God being rich in mercy. Brothers and sisters, may we not forget what we read in verse 16. So you will be delivered. If you feel as though the adulterous woman has you gripped in the pits that you can't get out, doesn't matter how much you fight her, doesn't matter how much you you wrestle. You flail. The good works you do. You can't get out. Turn your eyes to Christ. Pick up your head. As she holds you down, you pick up your head and you look to Christ on the cross. And he breaks her claws. He breaks her. You become free from her grasps. You become free from the pit. And you are lifted up to be a child of God. How does this happen, you ask? Well, if you were here last week or you're reading chapter 2, you see in verse 1 it says, My son, if you receive my words. Receive the words of the Lord and treasure up my commandments with you. Jump down to verse 3. If you call out for insight. When the grips of sin have you so tight, instead of fighting, seek the Lord for insight. Look to him. Verse 4. You seek it like silver and search for it as for hidden treasures. Brothers and sisters, our liberation, our freedom from the grips of this adulterous woman. comes from the wisdom of God. What is the wisdom of God? It's the gospel. The wisdom of God came down in flesh 2,000 years ago and lived on this earth in the form of Jesus. As he lived the perfect life, not committing any sin, that adulterous woman looks nothing appealing to him. He never fell into the temptation and fell into sin. He fought it off. He had the perfect obedience to the law of God. He fulfilled the law perfectly, both what he did in his actions, how he thought, how he even worshipped God. And then he hung on the cross and paid for your sins, paid for my sins, paying the perfect sacrifice to liberate us from the grips of that sin. When we seek after Him, when we seek after God's wisdom, we find liberation and freedom in Christ. Now maybe you're going, Anthony, this is Old Testament. So this death language that temptation leads to sin and sin leads to death, that's old school stuff. We don't have to follow that. Well that's foolish of you to say that or think that. But I want to take you to James chapter 1 James chapter 1, verse 14 sounds very familiar to us as we read this. But each person is tempted when he is lured and enticed by his own desire. Ooh, you see the appeal there? It's kind of attractive? Then desire, when it has conceived, gives birth to sin. And sin, when it is fully grown, brings forth death. Brothers and sisters, do we see that this testimony, which uh Solomon has been teaching us in Proverbs has not stopped in today's wisdom. That temptation leads to sin and sin leads to death. And until we recognize the seriousness of sin , Till we recognize the destructiveness of sin, we will not fully recognize and fully understand the freedom and liberation we have won in the victory in Christ on the cross. It's why we must be reminded of this good news. For some of us, we just need to be reminded of this. Lift our heads up. Be excited for this. For others in this room, you may feel as though the woman has you in her claws And we must recognize that we look towards Christ. So you will be delivered when we seek his wisdom. We also must recognize that the wisdom coming from God gives us protection. It protects us. We look towards God. As we go out every day into this world that is still filled with sin. We recognize that there will be temptation. And when that adulterous woman comes to you with her smooth language, and maybe for just a second you're you're looking appealed, and then you go, wait a second. And you laugh her off for how foolish and f and nasty she really is of sin and death. And you look towards your God. You've you've meditated on the word of God, that the wisdom of God is dwelling in you. That you can't do anything but delight in his presence and his knowledge. Brothers and sisters, may we be encouraged that we have the ability and the command to fight temptation, to fight against it and look to Christ. So that's the liberation we have from temptation. The second part it goes along with that so well. It's the liberation we have from being the enemy of God. As Christians, we can fight against temptation. We can fight and and push off temptation and sin. But before Christ we could not. Oh, we were we were like pigs in slop. We were loving it. We were just lavishing up the sin. We were just lavishing up the depraved nature we had. And whenever this mention of God came up, we would reject him. We would mock him with our actions and our ideas. We would mock him with our language because we were his enemies. Oh, but what do we see? Is that the loving, compassionate ruler of the universe came down to us. broke our chains of enslavement to sin, broke the title of enemy, and gave us the title of children. Look at verse 20. So you will walk in the way of the good, and keep to the paths of the righteous. For the upright will inhabit the land, and those with integrity will remain in it But the wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it. If I may, let us start with verse twenty-two. The wicked will be cut off from the land, and the treacherous will be rooted out of it. Brothers and sisters, that was you and I before Christ. That was our status. We were the wicked. We would have been cut off. We were the treacherous. We would have been rooted out. And just like you cannot break the clause of the temptation and the adulterous woman on your own, you did not gain the status Or lose the, let's do it this way. You did not lose the status of wicked and treacherous on your own. Oh, but it was by the grace of God. is by the work of Christ on the cross. Is by the working of the Holy Spirit indwelling in you, giving you faith to recognize yourself. Giving you faith to recognize the work of Christ and your need for his work. And it was by faith given to you by the Holy Spirit that you repented and believed in him. And we're now called child. So then, what does this wisdom of God give us? We see in verse 20. So you will walk in the way of the good and keep to the path of the righteous. You will start to walk and live and look like Christ. You won't just start, but you will continue down that path. You will continue down the path, looking to Christ for his example. Looking to Christ what is good, what is righteous. Looking to Christ to know what you should do tomorrow. Looking to Christ to know how you should live your life. Because before you were walking down a path of death, but now you're walking down the path of life. That temptation's coming, that that influence from the world is coming, but we look onto the path Straightforward at our Lord hanging on the cross, seeing that the victory is won in him. And we actually do good and righteous things. Recognize Christian. As a Christian, we are righteous because of Christ. As a Christian, we do good and righteous deeds. Do not twist that. We do not do good and righteous deeds to become righteous. Our identity as righteous children of God is rooted in Christ. Therefore, this is what we do. When we seek after the wisdom of God , If you receive my words, verse 1, if you call out for insight, verse 3, if you seek it like silver, we treasure it up. What will be the result of that? You will be liberated from the woman. You will be liberated in Christ and not an enemy, and you will walk the path of righteousness. I don't need to give you a ten-point list of good things to do tomorrow. Look towards Christ. Look to God's Word. I don't need to give you a 10-point lesson of what not to do tomorrow. Look to Christ and look to his word This is the authority of how we live as Christians. His word and his word alone. God uses The minister, God uses the Christian to proclaim his word, but by no means in what I'm saying, what Matt says, what Jason says, what any minister says is more authoritative than the word of God. Our path of righteousness is found in his word alone. He uses us as instruments to proclaim that truth to one another and to the world. But not only do we walk the path of righteousness, but also look in verse twenty-one, for the upright will inhabit the land, and those with integrity will remain in it. Brothers and sisters, this imagery of inhabiting the land, I think, doesn't fully draft us like it probably did to the original reader. The original reader was looking for the promised land. They were looking forward to the land that was full and flowing with milk and honey Now in Solomon's time he was actually living in this physical land. Yet he still recognized that wasn't enough. Just having their own nation wasn't enough, because there were still enemies, physical enemies. But not only that, the physical land wasn't enough because it wasn't what God truly promised to his people. Because guess what land is God's? It's not just Israel. It's the world. It's his creation. It's all of his. Christ sits in heaven today having dominion over heaven and earth. Let us not forget that. So what is this about dwelling in the land? Why is it so valuable if it's all his land? I see a lot of wicked people dwelling in his land. Well, we must remember what's going to happen in 22. The wicked will be cut off. They will be destroyed. They will receive the just wrath of God upon them, just like Christ did for you and I. And then what will happen? God will establish his eternal kingdom here on earth. We see this fulfilled in Christ. that all of a sudden the new heavens and the new earth became tangible and real to the Christian And we start to see that the proclamation of the gospel takes the kingdom of God into the depths of the earth. Takes the proclamation of the good news that sinners Are now able to be called saints through the work of Christ. And the kingdom of God starts to build and spread And when Christ returns, he doesn't pluck up all the saints and take them somewhere else. No, no, no. He comes and dwells with them as he casts all the sinners and all of hell and all of death into the lake of fire. Recognize that the land that we are promised is the eternal dwelling with our God. And it is beautiful. It is glorious. And the only way this happens is because we have the identity of child. And the only way that happens is because through faith we have the wisdom of God. And as we live this life, We must continually seek after him. We must continually look to our Lord for wisdom. He will guide us. He will give us the wisdom and strength and knowledge to do good works and good deeds. He will give us the wisdom and strength and knowledge to fight temptation, to kill sin each day. And because of his wisdom, we will dwell into eternity with our God, worshiping him, fellowshipping with him, living with one another. You better start to like each other now because we will spend eternity with one another. But it will be glorious as we recognize That because of a God who loved us so deeply, while we were sinners, he's redeemed us and called us children. We get to have eternal life with him in the true and everlasting promised land. Brothers and sisters, we are free. We are liberated because of the wisdom of God. You are liberated from being an enemy of God. You are now his child. You are liberated from the temptation you may face tonight. You have the strength of God to fight against it. James chapter 1, once again. Verse 16 says, Do not be deceived, my beloved brothers. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. All your good works, all your good deeds are from above Coming down from the Father of lights, with whom there is no variation or shadow due to change, of his own will he brought us forth by the word of truth, that we should be a kind of first fruit of his creatures. That's you and I, brothers and sisters, when we see that our faith is in the wisdom of our God shown to us, revealed to us through Christ. prayer. Oh Father, your truth of wisdom, may we seek that. May we desire to know that richly. May we desire to know you more. As the sin appears as though it's taken us over, as temptation appears as though it's unbeatable, we can't defeat it. May we look to you. May we seek your wisdom. May we know that you are the one that puts the adulterous woman to death. That you are the one that liberates us from her grips. Lord, may we live a life that recognizes the beauty of our freedom, of our identity as children of you. May we reproclaim this to the world. May we proclaim it to ourselves. May we be reminded of this truth. May we know that true and everlasting wisdom comes from you and you alone. May we not seek after the wisdom of the world, but after your wisdom. May we walk the path of righteousness and the strength in the new life that we've received from from the Holy Spirit. you. We pray this in the name of Christ. Amen.