All right, if you'll take your copy of God's inspired word and turn to Genesis 2, 25 to 3. 8. Actually, today we're only going to make it through verse 5. As I've gone through the work putting these notes together, the sermon has gotten shorter and shorter. So you're getting like the third or fourth iteration of this thing. Talking about temptation, this in fact is the first temptation that existed in this world. Genesis 2. 25 to 3. 5. There are certain things that each one of us will face in our lives. There's just no avoiding. You will face difficult decisions. Maybe some of you are out there who are so young you haven't faced tough decisions in life yet, but you will eventually. Everybody faces tough decisions. Another thing, if you live long enough, you will face loss You will suffer loss in one way or another, and you'll have to deal with that pain. It's just unavoidable. And also, you will face sickness. To one degree or another, one kind or another, injury, illness, things in life that we just will face. And on that list Is temptation. You will face temptation. And the wiser we get to what temptation is, we'll be better equipped to recognize To resist and to run. Those are your three R's. To be able to have the discernment to recognize temptation. to resist it in our hearts and to run the other way by the grace of God. Say amen if you want to get better at that Are you with me? I mean, there are things in our lives right now that want to draw us away from God and His will. And those things are called temptations. And they reside within us, and they exist on the outside of us. as well. Sometimes they're in our homes, sometimes at the workplace. I mean just left and right. Spiritual warfare is a real thing and to be wise to temptation. So I'm praying, I'm hoping, I'm trusting God's word to help us understand what temptation is in a better and deeper way this morning. And the end goal is to be better equipped to recognize, resist, and run. Let's read the passage and then we'll pray. Genesis 2, verse 25. And the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden. But God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good, and And evil. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you for your goodness. Thank you for your grace, your forgiveness that you've given us in Christ. We pray that you would strengthen us this morning by your word, sanctify us by your word and your spirit. Help us, help us by your love, by your kindness, and by your wisdom. To grow in living for Christ and not ourselves. In his name we pray. Amen. First of all, a quick definition of temptation. A temptation is an enticement. All right? It is an enticement. You can think of uh Bait on a hook to lure the fish in. You can think of the chicken you put in the crab trap to entice the crab. Think of the peanut butter that I put on the mouse traps. And I do pride myself on being very good at killing mice. It's an allurement. It's an enticement. A temptation is an attraction. It is an attraction to something that's contrary to God and His will. It's the attraction of easy money. That brings the temptation to steal. It's the attraction of being in complete control That tempts people to manipulate one another and abuse one another. It's the attraction to pleasure that tempts people to adultery or sexual immorality of some kind. You see, it is the attraction or the allurement of a thing that is unholy rather than holy. That's what temptation is. It's an enticement that lures you away from God's will and it makes you feel like breaking God's command is the best thing for you. That's what a temptation is. It makes you think like the good thing to do would be to violate God's law. It makes you Feel truly in your heart, truly in your mind, to think and feel like the thing that would help me, the thing that would be better for me, is if I disobey God rather than obey God. And temptation, temptation has power. We'll see that this morning. If we underestimate the power of temptation, we're doomed in our walk with the Lord. You know, seeing the power of temptation is going to be one of the chief things that reminds us to cry out to God for strength, is it not? Is it not? Now, if you want victory over temptations, and yes, I was trying to emphasize the S there, because it's not like you'll have one of these the rest of your life. Right. Temptations. If if we want victory over temptations, we must understand what temptation is So, the first section of this message, the first section of the body of this message, number one, we'll talk about the innocence and the righteousness. Of Adam and Eve. The innocence and the righteousness of Adam and Eve. This is 225. The man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed This is before sin entered the world. This is before temptation entered the world. This is before the temptation. And there's no shame. What it says, the man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. This is the innocence and righteousness of Adam and Eve And they're not ashamed, brothers and sisters, for a very simple reason, because there's nothing in their hearts, minds, words, or behavior that was shameful They were innocent of sin. There was no guilt on their record. There was no corruption in their heart. There was no anger or hatred lashing out at each other. There was no idolatry, worshiping of false gods, and failing to give thanks to God. They were innocent and righteous. Now, in the back of your mind, think about the power of temptation. Temptation had the power to rip them out of that. Isn't that amazing? The power of temptation, the enticement, that bait on the hook that lures us in They are not ashamed. They have no regret for mistreating each other. Like we have that those kinds of regrets. Regret. But they had never mistreated each other. At this point, they had never harmed one another. At this point, they had never lied to one another. Adam and Eve didn't lie to each other before this. before this temptation, before the sin that we'll get into. At this point they hadn't manipulated each other, playing control games Now that's the goal of temptation is to get us to do those things. You know one of the things you can think about when you think about temptation in our lives is this game Tug of War. Do you all remember Tug of War? I know that you do. I absolutely loved the game. Game tug of war, if the gym teacher said today, we walked into the gym room and saw the rope on the gym floor. We were the guys in the class were just in all our glory. We love to tug a war. This is the perfect illustration for temptation in the life of a Christian. what's going on in our hearts. We have the Holy Spirit of God on one side pulling us, pulling us into the will of God. And pulling us into holy living and pulling us into sacrificial love. And we have the f what the Bible calls the flesh. It's that sinful part of us that we can't get rid of until these bodies die. And the flesh is trying to pull us, tug us away from God's word, away from holy living, away from sacrificial love. to pull us into apathy, to pull us into sin, to pull us into rebellion, to pull us into spiritual laziness, to pull us into the self-absorbed life, the flesh on this side pulling the rope, and the Holy Spirit of God on this side. pulling that rope. It's a spiritual tug-of-war. God wants us to be about these things of righteousness and holiness. And the flesh within us, the pride, the natural pride and selfishness is when I say flesh, if you've never heard that word before. That's a good It's our natural sinfulness, our natural pride, our natural selfishness, this natural inclination that all people have to live for ourselves at the expense of others God calls us to love others as ourselves. At this point, Adam and Eve are not ashamed. They had never loved anything more than God. Doesn't that sound nice? They never loved something more than they loved God. They never rejected God's existence. They never rebelled against God's authority. Can you imagine such a life? They had never rebelled against God's authority. Hopefully you're thinking the thing that I'm thinking about myself. I've rejected God's authority in my life. I've rebelled against God's authority in my life. You have too. That's why we need a Savior. What I'm trying to point out at this point in history. Adam and Eve didn't need to be forgiven. They didn't need new hearts. They were innocent and righteous, not ashamed. They had done nothing wrong. The goal of temptation is to get them out of that. To take them out of that state. And just making a beeline to practical application, we talk about this original image of God, this original innocence and righteousness. This is what God is restoring in us as his children. Jesus Christ died on a cross to win our salvation. By his blood we are saved. By his blood we are forgiven. We are justified. That means declared righteous in God's eyes. And Jesus also has given us of his Holy Spirit. He's renewing our minds. He's transforming our hearts into the likeness of God according to his word And what God is restoring in us is His image, in true knowledge and in true righteousness. So when we look back to the original righteousness, the image of God untainted by sin, we should remember that's what God is restoring to us and in us by the work of Christ. Ephesians 4, 23 and 24. Being renewed in the spirit of your minds and put on the new self. Put on the new self that's created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. That's the new self. Now, the old self was not being conformed to the likeness of Christ. The old self was lost in sin, enslaved to the darkness. But it's the new self. That's reconciled to God. It's the new self that's been made new. It's the new self that's being restored and revived and renewed in the image of God. Create quote. Created after the likeness of God in true righteousness and holiness. Now Colossians 3, 8 to 10. But now you must put them all away. A good illustration for that is just remember when you had to put your toys away as a child. Put it away! Or some of you right now can think of this. But just put it away. It's not supposed to be there. Put it away. Put it where it belongs. Here it's put it away. Get rid of it. Colossians 3. 8 3, 8, 10, but now you must put them all away. And it's not toys. Listen. Anger, wrath, malice. Slander and obscene talk from your mouth, do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self with its practices And you have put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image of its Creator. Being renewed in knowledge after or according to the image of its creator. Child of God, that's what's happening in your life That 's what God is doing in your hearts and doing in our minds and doing in our lips. He's renewing the image of God in us So that we better reflect his character and less reflect the character of sin. The innocence and righteousness of Adam and Eve is the context for this. First temptation. Recognize the power that it must have then. And let's be grateful. Let's be grateful that God sent his son to die for our sins And to save us so that the ever growing snowball of sin is not our destiny, but being conformed to the likeness of Christ is our destiny Amen? Do you like that? I like that. I don't want to go back to slavery to sin. I don't want to hop back on that snowball of sin. I'm happy to be in Christ And I'm thankful to be in Christ. And I'm thankful that God just hasn't filled my life up with layers of external religion. But God inside my heart has given me the Holy Spirit. And is renewing me and is putting sin to death. Apart from God's Spirit, we wouldn't be able to put sin to death. So If we want to have victory over temptation, we have to understand temptation. And one of the things we have to understand about temptation is it is effective, it is quite powerful. And um we really see that when we see the background context of this first temptation, which is the background context being the innocence and righteousness of Adam and Eve. Now the uniqueness secondly, secondly the uniqueness of this first temptation This will be the shortest point on your outline. But it does need to be said. And there's an important application that can come out of this. The uniqueness of the first temptation is this supernatural intrusion. into the world. This supernatural intrusion. Chapter 3, verse 1. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. You cannot work up a full doctrine of Satan from this verse, but we know from the rest of Scripture that this is uh some kind of satanic intrusion animating, possessing the serpent uh as a vehicle for temptation. Alright? It's a unique Supernatural historical events. This supernatural intrusion, the uniqueness of the first temptation. And I point that out, one, because it's true, two, because for us it's different. For us, it's different. Temptation in our lives does not require a supernatural intrusion. And that's because whereas Adam and Eve's natural condition was innocent and righteous, our natural condition is sinful and corrupt. So we do not need some unique satanic animation and possession Of a serpent or anything else to bring temptation into our lives. There are temptations that come from outside of us But in theory, even if God removed all of those temptations outside of us, temptations would still arise from within us. In fact, if you really want to go deep on this, what temptations outside of us are really doing, they're just stoking up the temptations that's already living inside of us. I was just stimulating what's already there. The rebellion and corruption. The rebellion and uh corrupt desires that are already I am not saying that Satan and other forces of evil are not at work in the world. Certainly they are. I'm only saying that temptation is our normal day-in, day-out natural experience. It's like Breathing, eating, talking. It's normal, day in, day out, natural experience. Temptations will be there. Temptation in the Garden of Eden was an intruder, but temptation in our lives and temptation in our hearts is a long-standing resident. Alright, so there's a difference there. In fact, uh the reading earlier in the service, which is James 1, 13 to 15, teaches this explicitly. James 1, 13 to 15, let no one say when he is tempted, I am being tempted by God. For God cannot be tempted with evil, and he himself tempts no one. First of all, let's just don't blame God. We don't blame God God doesn't sin, and God will bring trials in our lives. God brings trials in our lives to make us more holy, to bring us to greater maturity, not to bring us away from His will, but to advance us in His will. That's God's providence. That's God's wisdom. That's not a temptation. The temptation is trying to get us to sin. The temptation is trying to pull us away from God's will. God doesn't do that God does not do that. Verse 14, James 1, 14. But each person is tempted when he's lured and enticed by what? Did you catch it earlier? By his Own desire. Right? So you have bait on a hook is outside the fish That's the enticement. Peanut butter on the mouse trap is outside the mouse. That's the enticement. The chicken, you see where I'm going. The chicken in the crab trap is outside the crab. But The sinful desires that lure us away are not outside of us in a trap over there, but they're inside of us. That puts the battle into a different perspective, doesn't it? And um he says, but each person is tempted when he's lured and enticed by his own desire. Then that desire, once it's conceived, Gives birth to sin, and sin when it's fully grown, brings forth death. You see the progression? It starts with temptation. But if it conceives, that means if you fall for it. If you say, yes, I want that, I'm on board, I'm going that direction. If you fall for it. You go after that bait, now you're hooked. Conceived, that's when it gives birth to sin. You see, just suffering Uh uh and struggling and fighting and waging war, striving against temptation is not sin. In fact, that's the will of God for you. That's a sign of holiness. Brothers and sisters, are you awake? That's a sign of holiness You stay in the fight and you don't give up. And are you weak and are you weary? Okay. We all are if we're fighting against sin and temptation And that's God working out his will in our lives to get us in newer and deeper ways to look to him for strength and not ourselves. Because he is our only victory. He's our only victory against temptation and our only victory against sin. We're lured away By the desires within us, the corrupt desires within us. It's conceived when we fall for it, when we bite, then it gives birth to sin, and sin when it's fully grown brings forth death. So you see where it's leading. So a supernaturally animated, demon-possessed serpent, didn't ever think you'd hear that phrase, huh? Supernaturally animated, demon-possessed serpent, brothers and sisters, is not our problem. Now, Satan is one of our enemies, one of the enemies of God, yes, but The heart of temptation, the root problem, is our sinful desires. And Satan works to manipulate those and stir those up and entice us based on those. So the battle against Satan is indirect. We must battle against those sinful desires, and we do that by looking to Christ. Are you tracking with this? Or if we don't look away from Christ and look away from our desires and go head on against Satan, that you will never win. You'll just go deeper and deeper. In fact, what you what will happen there is just self-right, some form of outward Self-righteousness that's not really victory over sin, but have the outward form of godliness. And this is to help us understand temptation, because if we want victory over temptation, We have to understand what temptation is. First of all, understand its power, power that even in this original innocence and righteousness was able to rip Adam and Eve out of it. And secondly, understanding the uniqueness of this first temptation is not our situation. We don't need this supernatural intrusion Temptation is going to be there in our lives every single day. Now, number three, in understanding temptation, that we might have greater victory over temptation. Number three, the methods Satan uses. The methods Satan uses. I know I had that tug-of-war illustration. I forget God was on this side, right? God, the Holy Spirit within us is on this side. Satan is on this side, and he has his minions, his demons, his different strategies and tools to pull us away from God's will. These methods that Satan uses Number one, first and foremost, actually, number one, or letter A, I guess, on your outline, this is a letter A, he twists and casts doubt. That's your blank on your outline. He twists and casts doubt on God 's commands. Chapter 3, verse 1. Now the serpent Was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree in the garden? The New American Standard says, has God really said? Has God really said this? Did God actually say this? He's twisting and casting doubt on God's word, but specifically God's command. It's very important that we understand and As Christians grow in our understanding of what God's commands are and what does the practical application of those commands look like. That's a lifelong learning curve, brothers and sisters. Twisting and casting doubt on God's command. Has God really said? Did God actually say? And this is what our desires and this is what our pride does within us. It twists God's Commands, it casts doubt on God 's word. Philippians 2, 3. God's word says, Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit. But in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Has God really said that? Did God actually say this do nothing from selfish ambition? Or can see, can't I just do a few things out of selfish ambition and vain conceit? Can't I just do things when nobody's looking from selfish ambition? And vain conceit. Can't I do things out in the workplace out of selfish ambition and vain conceit? But then when I come to church, now I'm on this verse, I'll do nothing from selfish Ambition or vain conceit, and he also says, in humility count others more significant than yourselves. That does not come naturally to us. What comes naturally to us is to treat ourselves as more significant than others. That's called arrogance and pride and exalting self. And uh thank God that by his grace he intruded into our lives and knocked us off of that pedestal. Amen. Matthew 5, 44, but I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Did God really say that? Has God actually said that? Love your enemies? Can I join the world around? Can I go with the flow? And hate my enemies and lash out against my enemies and slander my enemies. Can't I just swim with the rest of culture? Love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. You pray for the salvation. Because, one, that's the best thing for them. And two, if they're saved, they'll stop persecuting you. Ephesians five twenty-two Wives, submit to your own husbands as to the Lord. Ephesians 5. 25. Husbands. Love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her. Ephesians 6. 1. Children Children, Ephesians 6:1, say it twice because children are probably drifting off by now. Children, obey your parents in the Lord, for this is right, which means the opposite is wrong. You know, this is just such a tiny sampling of God's commands, isn't it? You know it the the desires within us, the temptations that arise within us have this tendency to make us water down God's command. And the temptation, the pride within us, can function the way this serpent is doing, to cast doubt upon these. Whether these really do apply for me, or maybe it's just that culture and that older world. We're more advanced now. We're smarter now We know a whole lot more now than those foolish people who lived so long ago. I mean the rationalizations and the arrogance is off the charts on this kinds of this kinds of things. thing, these kinds of things. Did God really say? Did God actually say this? And mean for me to hear it and mean for me to Be challenged by it and mean for me to desire to apply it in my life? Yes, he did. So one method is twisting and casting doubt on God's commands. Letter B, another method is he stirs up confusion and the misuse of God's command. He stirs up confusion and misuse of God's command. Now this is verses 2 and 3, and this will be Eve's response to this twisting of God's word. And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden, neither shall you touch it, lest you die. Is that what God said? No, I'm getting some head shakes. That's not what God said. That is not what God said. God did not say you cannot touch that tree. If you touch that tree, you'll die. So you see what's happening, and now this casting doubts and twisting God's command is Really, it's already showing itself effective with Eve because it's taking her mind to places where it should not go. And she's adding to God's word. She's exaggerating God's command. And she's putting things in God's mouth that God never said. God never said you cannot touch The fruit, you cannot touch the tree of the knowledge of good and evil. Eve is saying that. God never said that But when Scripture and when God's commands are twisted to us, and when cast or when doubt is cast upon them, it can mess with our minds. It can take our minds in places they shouldn't go. So we see that the hook is baited. The temptation is causing Eve to stretch out God's commandment to be something that it's not. And that should serve as a warning to all of us, beloved. If we do that with God's commands, if we stretch them out to say more than they actually say, it will not strengthen us in holiness and obedience. But rather it will weaken us and it will make us more susceptible to temptation and, you know, l less able to recognize The sins in our lives. Because now we have God's word, which is perfect, God's commands, which are sufficient, but now we've added on top of that a layer of my own command, of man's word. And that's never going to grow us in true holiness and obedience. God's word is perfect and every aspect of his word is perfect. His gospel promises of salvation is perfect, but we do not need to add to God's gospel promises. And God's holy commandments are perfect for instructing us in righteousness. And we do not need to add to God's holy commandments. with a set of commandments on our own to create an extra layer of safety and protection. Both of those is rebellion against God and is absolute wickedness. Adding to God's gospel promises or adding to God's holy commandment. God has not given us the authority to do that. He's not delegated a lot of things in the kingdom. He's not delegated that authority. In fact, we have strict instruction in God's word: don't add to it, don't take away from it. And we're not to change, twist, and misapply God's word. And this twisting and casting doubt on God's command, letter A, is letter B, stirring up confusion and the misuse of God's command by adding to it. And let us see, let us see. He outright lies. Satan comes and he outright lies. The flesh within us outright lie to us. This is verses 4 and 5. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die. For God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened. And you will be like God, knowing good and evil. He should have said, we're already like God. We've been created in the image and likeness of God in perfect righteousness and holiness, and we don't need anything extra. He outright lies. Now what's the first lie? First of all, Satan is lying about the penalty of sin. You will not surely die. And there's many ways in our lives where the flesh lies to us about the penalty of sin. of sin. It's not going to be that bad. This is going to be good for you. Pursue this sin. This will be good for you. And you're not and the the lie of Satan, the lie of the flesh is, you're not going to have to answer to God. You accrue no guilt before God. There is no such thing as sin. Really, we're all good. If there is a God, He's loving, He's going to let everyone into His glorious presence forever. All of these lies about the penalty. Of sin. And the way we fight against that is just reminding ourselves of the penalty of sin that Scripture teaches You know, as a believer, nothing can separate you from God. But there's definitely sins you can allow into your life that will stunt your spiritual growth from now until the day you die. That's not the life God has called us to, beloved. That's not the life God has called his children to. Sin leads to death. Now that's the first temptation about the penalty of sin. You're not going to die. It's not really a big deal if you do this. Now, what other lie is rolled into that? Well, the other lie that's rolled into that is Satan is lying about the reliability of God's Word. Right, you see how that's rolled up into it? Because God said, if you eat of that tree, you surely will die. Satan's saying, no, you sh you will not die. So he's calling into question the faithfulness of God's word. He's calling into question, he's lying about, not calling into question, he's lying about the accuracy of God's word. God said, A And Satan's saying no, not A, B. Finally, Satan lies by way of implication, and I believe this is the worst one. This is the wor this is the worst lie. It's it's the diabolical nature, the uh well it's all diabolical because it's all stuff that Satan is doing, but this is the subtle This is between the lines, behind the scenes, this final lie that Satan is telling by way of implication, and he's lying about God's motives This comes from verse 5. Verse 5. God knows that when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. This scheme, this diabolical lies, and Satan is the father of lies Is that God, God 's motive is he wants to keep you from something good. That's the lie. God knows if you eat this, you'll be like him. He'll know good and evil. And that's put forth as an improvement. And it's put forth that God's motive is to keep you from this improvement, to keep you from this advance in your life experience. And God knows this. You'll be like him. You'll be more like God. You'll know good and evil. And it's put forth as a good thing. God doesn't want it for you. So now here comes our hero, Satan. It's going to give us what we need most. It's going to improve our situation. This horrific, grotesque even manipulation. God wants to hold you back from achieving more. That God is selfish and he has this good thing and he wants it only for himself. He doesn't want it for you. Now, it is absolutely true at this point. All Eve has ever known is good. has been that which is good. Except, you critical thinkers, I know you if you're if you're already thinking this, that's a good thing. Except what she's experiencing right now in this story But I mean, in her life experience and her relationship with Adam and the world around her, it's been all gravy, it's been all good. There's no sin, no death, no suffering, no wars, no oppression, no murder. No inner corruption. She's known only that which is good, only that which is a perfect reflection of God. So there's this truth that's twisted and manipulated because she's known only that which is good She's seen and felt zero evil in her and around her, but Satan is coming out like that's a bad thing. And that the better thing would be that she would live in a world where she can know and experience and see not only good, but also evil. You see the the diabolical calling into questions God's motives And this temptation, and this is the enticement that life can be approved upon once you reject what God has said. Quickly on number four, finding victory over temptation. I wouldn't be able to sleep tonight if we didn't do this section. I mean that literally. I would be up all night. Why in the world did you preach talk about temptation all morning and not talk about finding victory over temptation? Number one, pray continually. Pray continually. Matthew 6. 13, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Pray for strength. Every morning, pray for strength in the face of temptation. God give me strength in the face of temptation for the three R's to recognize it. To resist it in my heart and to run. And sometimes I mean that literally. Certain situations, get up off the couch, get up out of the chair, and run and leave the den of iniquity. Leave, just leave. Go somewhere else. Go do something else. But even when it's metaphoric, you recognize, you resist, and you run, you must pray continually. If we want to grow in that, we must pray continually. Number two, focus on overall spiritual growth. That's so important. Just focus on overall spiritual growth. Growing in the word, being faithful in worship, being faithful in prayer, crying out to God for sanctification over all spiritual growth. You can't isolate out one aspect of spiritual growth, like having victory over temptation. Forget about the rest of it. It'd be like a basketball player who only shoots. He only practices shooting. That's it. And he's the best shooter in the state. And he's completely out of shape. And he's so terribly weak, you only get through like two games of the season before he gets hurt. And he doesn't listen to the coach. He's a horrible teammate, but he's the best shooter. And he can't play defense and he can't dribble and he can't pass. He can 't even keep his head up. He's looking at the ground. He can't see. But he can shoot. You can't treat having victory over temptation that way You have to have the whole package of walking with the Lord and striving after growth. Number three, strive for contentment in what God has given you. The seedbed for a lot of spiritual weakness and a lot of falling prey to temptation is a lack of contentment in what God has already given us. Be content. Pray for contentment. Pray for a heart that's overflowing with gratitude toward God. Not grumbling and complaining, moping around because of what God hasn't given us. He's given us enough where we can rejoice. and say thank you from now until all eternity. Brothers and sisters, he's given us enough. He's given us enough. But isn't a fight, am I the only one, but this is a fight for contentment? Enjoy in what God has given us. Number four, do not judge yourself. This is important. Do not judge yourself. Am I saying that in a mean way? I want to say it with authority, but did that come across as mean? I exhort you, church, do not judge yourself by appearances or by what others say or think about you. This is so huge. If you want to hit a brick wall in your sanctification, just start judging yourself by outward appearances and start judging yourself based on what others say about you and think about you. That's the opposite of seeing to that overall picture of growing in the word and growing in prayer. Number five and finally, fight with all your heart and fight with all your soul. So I am calling you to take up arms this morning Fight with all your heart and all your soul for your sense of identity and for your sense of security to be found in Christ alone Not in your good works, not in your riches, not in your reputation, not in anything except for Christ and Christ alone who died on the cross for your sins who 's changed your heart by the Holy Spirit, and who sits at the right hand of God in heaven, reigning over everything with all authority. You look to him and his infinite love and find your security there. You look to him and his faithful kindness and compassion. He is a daily help to those who belong to him. Find your identity there Temptation, enticements, allurements, the tug of war to take you away, to pull you away from God's will so strongly that it wants you just to fall flat on your face in your walk with the Lord. Church, be strong in the Spirit. Give yourself to the Word of God. Fall on your face, yes, but in prayer, crying out to God for strength. To recognize, to resist, and to sometimes get up and run out of the room, that you might have victory over temptation. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness, kindness, mercy, and love. Thank you that you've made us your children. Thank you for the future you've given us, not only in this life, to be further conformed to your likeness, but in the life to come, being with you in heaven. Enjoying the bliss, the wonders of resurrection life in the new heavens and new earth. Father, we thank you. We give you all the credit, all the honor, and all the glory. In Christ we pray. Amen