Matthew chapter four, beginning in verse one. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted by the devil. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry And the tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. But he answered, It is written, Man shall not live by bread alone. but by every word that comes from the mouth of God. Then the devil took him to the holy city, and set him on the pinnacle of the temple, and said to him, If you are the Son of God, throw yourself down, for it is written, He will command His angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against a stone Jesus said to him, Again, it is written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. And he said to him, All these I will give you, if you will fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were were ministering to him. The emphasis is not that this was a sea a season of temptation, not forty days of temptation. Although maybe there were temptations during those 40 days. We don't know. It's not recorded. But this happens after 40 days and 40 nights. So day 41. Welcome, Chris. Popped in during my reading or something. Um, one other side note. Becky, can you get me a glass of water, please? I forgot my weekly glass of water to keep my throat from going out During the class. Um is it a sin to eat bread? No. No. Is it inherently sinful even to turn stones into bread? No. No, it's not. Unless God calls you to fast and to wait on Him for His provision. Is it uh sinful to trust in God's protection that He'll protect you and care for you Is it uh sinful to want Christ to reign, to have global dominion? No. But these are what the temptations are. So these are unique, this is a unique time of testing The covenant faithfulness of the Son of God. You can think back to the garden. It was is it inherently sinful to eat fruit? No, but it is sinful to eat fruit from one tree because of the covenantal significance that God gave that tree in the testing of Adam's obedience in that time of probation. So as we see these temptations, they are unique in testing the faithfulness of Jesus, the Son of God. And there's a there's a redemptive historical significance in Christ Being obedient that we need to grasp and overcoming temptation and proving himself faithful, that he will trust in God alone to sustain him, he'll trust in God alone to provide for him. And we'll see all that he proves about himself and his faithfulness tonight. Give you a little bit of an overview. I've already said This is about the covenant faithfulness of the Son of God. In verses three and four, we'll see the first temptation. Basically, the question is: will Jesus trust in God's provision? Well he uses powers to provide for himself. Use his powers to serve himself, really, which is the opposite reason he has his powers, which is the opposite reason why we have spiritual gifts We don't have spiritual gifts to serve ourselves, to get glory for ourselves, to get attention for ourselves, to build our own kingdom. But w God has given us spiritual gifts that we may serve each other, that we may serve the church for the strengthening of the church, for the advance of the kingdom. for the ministry of the gospel and the salvation of the lost. First temptation, verses three and four, will Jesus trust God's provision? Of course, you'll see early on you're already hopefully thinking that all of these will have application for us in our hearts. Do we trust God's provision? Verses 5 through 7 is the second temptation. Will Jesus twist God's word? It's really Satan who's twisting God's word. But he's trying to get Jesus to go along with him. Will he twist God 's word In a self-serving manner. Well, people never do that, do they? Never take God's word and twist it to suit our own desires, to suit our own passions. To make money for themselves. Will Jesus trust God's provision? Will he be manipulated by Satan's twisting of God's Word of God's promises in his word. Verses 8 through 11, the third temptation, will Jesus seek his own path? Will he follow the path that the Father has set out for him, through which he'll attain global dominion, or will he seek a worldly path, a satanic path? Will he forsake the will of God and go his own way? Verses one through one and two. Then Jesus was led up by the Spirit into the wilderness. So you see it is God by the Spirit leading Jesus into the wilderness. The Father, through the agency of the Spirit, leading his son into the wilderness. To be tempted by the devil. So God is sovereign over this. God has designed this. Temptation. And after fasting forty days and forty nights, he was hungry. I think on the brink of starvation. Forty days and forty nights. Try going a week. Try going four days. Try going two days. Try going a day. And it's hard for me to even conceptualize the psychological suffering And the physical suffering and the physical weakness. And just think about how much more how much weaker you are and how much more prone to anger and impatience and sin when you miss a meal. Or when you're two and a half hours late on a meal. Or when you don't have coffee before 9 a. m. You know, the the spiritual and the physical and the psychological are all tethered and bound together in one person. And Jesus had fasted. For forty days and forty nights. It's reminiscent of Israel in the wilderness It's reminiscent of Moses being prepared in the wilderness, 40 years, 40 years. We cannot look at all of the 40 years passages and instances in Scripture. But generally speaking, the 40 represents a time of trial and testing, but it's a time of trial and testing for a purpose. The time of trial and testing has a purpose to refine and to discipline. To refine and to discipline. It's a time of trial and a time of testing. Jesus didn't need refining. He didn't need discipline or correction from sin. But scripture does teach us that he learned obedience through the things he suffered. He advanced in obedience from this step in what God's called him to do. to this step in what God's called him to do, to the next step in what God has called him to do. He learned obedience through suffering. Time of trial and testing that refines and disciplines and really prepares for what God has for us. Prepares for the work that God has laid out. And I can think back through times of suffering and trial, and you probably can too. Maybe you're in one now. Well, God is maturing us He's sanctifying us. He's chipping away the pride. He's chipping away all the ways we trust in ourselves rather than God. He refines us, he matures us, he sanctifies us, he prepares us for what lies ahead. Through suffering. Now that wouldn't necessarily be the case if we didn't live in a world that's under the curse of sin and death. And if we didn't have sin living and dwelling within us, but that is the case. And so he's working through suffering to put to death. The worldly us, the old us. There's another significance of the 40. The 40 does represent a time of trial and testing where God Uh refines and disciplines, but it also represents a time of divine protection and provision. It's a time of God 's care, of his providential care His protection and his provision for his people. And that too has a purpose. That has a very, very important purpose. The 40 days is also representative of God protecting and providing for his people for the purpose of teaching them about his goodness and faithfulness. He wants to teach you, he wants to teach us, his people, that he is faithful, that he is good, that his loving kindness abides upon us, and that he has not left us, even when it feels like we're alone. And it feels like we're about to be crushed or have been crushed. God is with us. And in ways, and you know this is true, if you've walked with the Lord. For any amount of time, you know this is true. He teaches us about his goodness and faithfulness in unexpected ways. I mean, he will bring us to the brink. Drive us to our faces in tears and then show up. And lift us up from the ashes in unexpected ways. So that we cherish and appreciate his goodness and his kindness and his fatherly love in a way that we wouldn't have otherwise. This is what God does. protects us and provides for us through difficult times to teach us about his care and to teach us about his faithfulness. Did you ever think about this? If if God is not faithful, we can have no assurance of salvation. If God is not faithful. If God will go back on His Word, or if God doesn't have the power, doesn't have the ability to bring His Word to fruition, we cannot have assurance. God is faithful. And God does have the power. He does have the authority, the ability to do everything that He's promised to do. Do. And this is our assurance. All that He's promised us in Christ is ours and will be ours forever. Praise God. So it looks like on day forty one the faithfulness, Jesus' faithfulness to God is tested amidst Extreme weakness and hunger and duress physically, psychologically, will he endure hardship? And yet trust in God's goodness. No matter what. No matter what, will he keep the faith? That's the question. Will he keep the faith no matter what? And then in the second temptation, will he use his powers for his own comfort when suffering comes? See, a lot into the heart of Christ and a lot into the purpose of Christ As we go through this passage, he's laser focused. His heart is devoted to his father. His love is set and fixed on his people whom he came to redeem. And Satan will not get the better of him. Will he seek to attain God's goal for the world in a way that God has not designed? Will he seek God 's goal for the world, which is him ruling over the world and everything in it In a way that God has not designed. Hebrews 4. 15 is an encouraging Verse that gives a little bit of practical application related to Christ's temptations. Hebrews 4:15. For we do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses. But one who in every respect has been tempted as we are, and yet without sin The point of this passage is not how we can be like Jesus and overcome temptation if we employ the same strategy that Jesus employed. There may be some principles in there where we could apply to help us in temptation. The way we overcome temptation is by looking to Christ and pleading for his mercy and strength, that he would give us the victory. The point is twofold, at least, I'm sure there's more, but at least twofold. One, to just show us that he was tempted like we are tempted That's one. That's what the author of Hebrews is saying in 4. 15. He was tempted like we are tempted, therefore we know that he sympathizes with us. He sympathizes with our weakness. He sympathizes with the way we suffer. He sympathizes with the way we're assaulted by Satan and his lies and manipulations and schemes. How much easier would life be if you took out all of Satan's lies? All of Satan's schemes and manipulations in the church. How much How much richer, how much easier would the body life of the church be? How much more peace would there be in local churches if you took out the schemes and tricks and traps of the devil to divide people? And turn us against each other and make us to hold grudges, make things about ourselves, use our spiritual gifts for our own ends rather than the building up of the common good. At least, at least. One point is just to show us that Jesus was tempted like you were tempted. He suffered like we suffered. And secondly, secondly, the point of this is not to show us how we can be just like Jesus. If we employ the same strategy, but rather to show us how different he is from us, to show us that he's unique, he's different than us. He can win the battle. No, he did win the battle that we could never win. He overcame temptation. In our place A faithful covenant head over his people. Adam Did not make it through a time of testing. He fell for Satan's lies, and he sinned. He was an unfaithful son. Israel, the same thing in the wilderness And the whole history of Israel until this faithful son emerged, whose covenant faithfulness to God, please understand this. Jesus' covenant faithfulness to God is the basis of our right standing with God. We don't have a right standing with God ever. If Jesus is not faithful, he is the faithful, obedient, righteous Son of God. And it's this righteousness of his life, here we're seeing just this one instance of him overcoming temptation. But hit the righteousness of his life credited to our account as we stand before God. This is a really, really big deal that Jesus overcomes temptation. He was led by the Spirit into the wilderness. God is has ordained this to be tempted by the devil, and after fasting forty days and forty nights, he He was hungry. Questions or thoughts before we go to the first temptation? It just always reminds me of how we wrestle for against questions. We do not wrestle against questions about principality. We spend a lot of our time wrestling against people and things and so on and so forth rather than wrestling against the real enemy which is Satan and so on and so forth. So I mean it's difficult to do that. I mean you look at the world that we have today and you think, I would like to wrestle with this. Yeah, I think it's yeah. Right. I think it's a question of how we fight. Because The ultimate enemy is Satan and his demons' powers of darkness. But also those forces of darkness do come to manifestation through people all throughout the Bible, through leaders. through nations, through through governments, through people. So our battle is focused, like the verse you're quoting. We're on the spiritual realm of things. And we're fighting a spiritual battle with spiritual weapons, the word, prayer, sanctification , the promises of God. uh striving for peace, not conflict. And I think what you're saying is so important in thinking of something like conflict resolution in the local church. We're not each other's enemy. There's an enemy that's trying to dupe us into acting like we are. But we're allies, man. Paul says in Colossians, we're workers together in the kingdom of God. We're allies, we're on the same team, and Satan will try to turn us against each other and fight this battle like it's a worldly battle. And it's not a worldly battle. It's a spiritual battle in the world. And um we've got to always always remember that. Anyone else? Yes, Neil. about the Hebrew first and I've heard some people say that you're tempted in the same way that we are You could have said that it did, but die cannot do something that's contrary to his nature. So it could not have since it couldn't have succumbed to the temptation. So I think I think what you were saying made some sense to me that the purpose of the temptation first was not to show us how to go through it, but to show us that he went through the point. But I guess just bringing that up to just see what color you might have to have. Yeah, I've heard that before too. I mean the first thing that comes to mind is that definitely the purpose is not to send us off into some philosophical speculation about whether he could or could not have sinned because of what you're saying is true. He is God, the Son of God, by definition He cannot sin. As a man, he had the faculties that would have enabled him to sin. Almost like us when we're lost. We have the faculties to be able to choose God. But morally we're corrupt so that we will not and cannot choose God. But we still have the faculties of of choice that we can make a choice, but by definition, enslaved to sin, we won't. And we can't Jesus, it's sort of the opposite situation. He's fully man. He thinks, he feels, he has priorities. He makes decisions and he follows his will and he applies those decisions to his life. So he has the the faculties of a man where he wo could succumb to temptation. But because of his identity and who he is by nature , holy, pure, eternal God, he could not sin. Yeah. Absolutely. Absolutely. Yeah. I like the word you you I love that phrase you just used, just as real to him. Like his sadness when Lazarus dies, like his suffering in the Garden of Gethsemane. Those tears were real tears. The sweat is real sweat. And And um his pain when he was being flogged and being beaten. Uh the shame, the public shame of of the mockery and all that he went through. his his passion and crucifixion. Yeah. So what he experienced was real. He's not a robot going through these things, you know, m mechanically, but he's really truly experiencing uh temptation which is which is Satan trying to allure and to woo and to trick. He's going he's going through that Yeah. Yeah. Otherwise he wouldn't. Yeah. Yeah. I th I think I've heard that before too, and I I think there's some truth to that f for sure. And I I do think his his temptations are are unique in in many ways because he's unique in many ways and because his ministry and his purpose in the world is unique in so many ways. So this is a historically unique 40 days and 41st day. I had one other thing that came to the tip of my tongue, Neil, that you made me think of Give me a second to see if I can try to recall it. Where was it? Um This is gonna upset me now. What we were talking about that he is experiencing these things genuinely. He's truly a man. Hopefully it it comes back to me. It was a point of application. Um Okay, I'll just have to trust the Lord that if He wants me to think of it, it'll come back. Let's look at the first temptation. Verses three and four, looking at will Jesus trust in God's Provision. The tempter came and said to him, If you are the Son of God, right there, there's the focus. That's the theme of the temptations. His sonship. His messianic sonship. Will he be an obedient son? If you are the son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. There's the temptation. Eat bread. But he answered, It's written, Man shall not live by bread alone, but by every word that comes From the mouth of God. First thing I want to make sure that we understand is what it means that we live by every word that comes from the mouth of God. It's actually very, very, very simple. not I mean it's um it's a it's wrapped in metaphor. We don't live by bread. We so it's like bread that we eat. The word of God is bread that we eat. But what does it mean that we live by Words that come from the mouth of God. It means based on his character and his promises that are revealed in his word. We're sustained and strengthened. That's what it means. His promises, God's promises and God's character that come to us in His Word, that's what sustains and strengthens us. Through trials, through sufferings, through temptation. God's word sustains and strengthens. So we live by his word, by what comes from his mouth And that's the only way that can happen is if we trust the things that come from his mouth. If we don't believe the things that come from his mouth, they will not sustain and strengthen us. It's not sinful to eat bread. It's not sinful to turn stones into bread, unless you're called by the Father and led by the Spirit to not eat bread. And he is not duped into using his powers to deliver himself from suffering and danger. He has those powers to serve others. The focus is sonship. Again, you can we looked at these verses two, three weeks ago on the sonship of Adam and then the sonship of Israel. The Son of God is supposed to be the one who obediently and faithfully represents God on earth. That's the Son of God. Adam failed as a son. Israel failed as a son. Jesus will not fail as a son. Let's look at Deuteronomy 8, 1 through 10, where Jesus' answer comes from. All of his answers to these temptations come from Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy eight, one through ten. Setting will be uh things God is teaching Israel in the wilderness, through the wilderness. The whole commandment that I command you today, you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land that the Lord swore to give to your forefathers. And you shall remember the whole way that the Lord your God has led you these forty years in the wilderness, that he might humble you Testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. That's the I mean that's the best summary of the purpose right there. I'll read it again. These 40 years in the wilderness, and then he says the purpose that he might humble you, testing you, to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments Or not. And isn't that funny? The Lord the Lord just brought to my recollection what I wanted to say when I saw this phrase to know what was in your heart. We're talking about temptation. Is it possible for Jesus to sin? Is it not possible for Jesus to sin when he goes through these temptations? The temptations are real, or is it just really a show that looks like temptation, but you're really not? The fact of the matter is. Jesus' true desires, his heart of hearts, the nature of his soul is 100 % to love and obey God. And to love others as himself. And that's what you see about the character of Christ in well in all of his life, but in the temptation, you see his true desire. It's not a sin to experience temptation. It's a sin to give into temptation. Jesus experienced temptation. And as he refuses to give in to it, we see on display his heart. He loves God with all of his heart, soul, mind, and strength. He trusts the Lord his God And he's going to obey him. His obedience flows out of his heart the same way your obedience flows out of your heart. A heart that's renewed by the Holy Spirit. Not a flesh, not a flesh heart enslaved to sin. No true obedience can come out of that heart Alright. There's the purpose really good of Israel's forty years in the wilderness. He will humble you, test you to know what's in your heart. What ended up being in their heart? What do we what do you remember? Disobedience. Grumbling, complaining. Vince just gave a thumbs down. Sin. Hey, look. The same thing that's in our heart before we were saved. We'd have been on the same track, the Israel track, the unregenerate sin here, sin here, sin here. Everything is tainted by sin in the heart. It's the opposite for Jesus. And then of course whether you would keep his commandments or not. Verse 3. And he humbled you and Let you hunger and fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know. That he might make you know that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of God. See, God wanted to teach them. To trust in him, that he would sustain them. Verse 4: Your clothing did not wear out on you, and your foot did not swell these forty years. Know then in your heart that as a man disciplines his son, the Lord your God disciplines you. So you shall keep the commandments of the Lord your God, by walking in his ways, and by fearing him. For the Lord your God is bringing you into a good land, a land of brooks and water, of fountains and springs, flowing out in the valleys and hills, a land of wheat and barley. of vines and fig trees and pomegranates, a land of olive trees and honey, a land in which you will eat bread without scarcity, in which you will lack nothing, a land whose stones are iron, and out of whose Hills you can dig copper, you shall eat and be full, and you shall bless the Lord your God for the good land he has given you. That sounds much better than a nomadic life intense in the desert. To have all of that as your home where you can build a house. And this would be your nation that God gave you, so that you would overflow in praise and gratitude to him. I love the way that ends in verse 10. He has given you the good land he has Given you. You saw in the middle there, Jesus referenced was in verse three, man does not live by bread alone But man lives by every word that comes from the mouth of the Lord. He will take care of us No matter what. Maybe not by the evaluations and standards of the world. Maybe not by our own sensations of uh of maybe not by our own comfort. And security as measured by the world. Personal comfort and freedom from suffering is one of the biggest idols in our culture. We feel this need, this need or this entitlement to personal comfort and to be free of sufferings. In fact, maybe the number one false gospel, the health and wealth. The prosperity gospel is designed to manipulate people based on this idol. We know people idolize their own personal prosperity, security, and worldly comfort. So we'll make that the offer of the gospel and see how many people we can dupe. Let's go back to Matthew, the second temptation. Matthew 4, 3 through 4. Will Jesus trust God's provision or will he be duped into using his powers? To provide for himself. He's nearing starvation. He's probably physically on the doorstep of death. And yet he relies 100% on God to preserve his life. The psychological suffering. And then on top of that, the allurements of relief. From Satan's trickery, and yet he relies a hundred percent on God to provide for him. His father will preserve him. His father will provide for him. This is the faith of the Son of God. One thing this calls for is gratitude. You and I do not have to endure a time of testing like this to prove our faithfulness before God. That would be salvation by, starts with a W, works. And we're saved based on Christ's obedience, and then of course by his sacrificial death, where he removes our guilt. And we're no longer under condemnation, but also were clothed with righteousness, the righteousness that he attained to in his obedience. This is the kind of Savior we need: one who seeks our good At the expense of his own comfort, who will not give in to temptation, who will not seek his own way. Philippians 2, 7 through 8. You know it well. He emptied himself. By taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient To the point of death, even death on a cross, horrible death , long -drawn out, shameful death, excruciatingly painful death But that's the reason our sins are forgiven. Because Jesus was obedient to the point of death, death on a cross, our sin bearer. Matthew 20, 28. The Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve. And to give his life as a ransom for many, to purchase our redemption by his blood through suffering. He experienced a lot of suffering. Therefore, before we move to the second temptation, notice the faulty logic of Satan in this first. Temptation. If you are the Son of God, command these stones to become loaves of bread. Essentially, the structure is: if you're the Son of God, Serve yourself. But the truth is, since he is the Son of God, he's not there to serve himself. He's there to serve others He understands his calling. He understands the reason for his powers. There's truly Nothing in Jesus. This is so hard for us to grasp because of our nature and all we ever know about ourselves and others. But it's truly nowhere in his heart or nature to be self-serving or self-seeking. Nowhere. So this temptation comes, use your power, serve yourself, you'll be satisfied. You'll be strong again. Then you'll be ready for your public ministry. Is not there. He's there to serve others. And as he's serving others, his heart is fixed on serving others. Also, his heart is fixed on honoring God and obeying God. Will Jesus trust God's provision? You better believe it. Absolutely, 100%, the only person who's ever lived, who's every moment in every fiber of his being has trusted in the Lord his God. The Father who sent him. Second temptation, verses five through seven. Will he twist God's word or will he be Duped by Satan's twisting of God's word. Then the devil took him to the holy city, which is Jerusalem. And he set him on the pinnacle of the temple. Guys, that's really the center of the world. I mean, religiously speaking, in terms of what God is doing. This is the most important place in the world, the temple of God, in the holy city. And just imagine what the the Sanhedrin and the Jewish people, all the Jewish leaders, would have thought about him, how they would have esteemed him if Jesus were to fall prey to this. The pinnacle of the temple, verse 6, and he said to him, If you are the Son of God Throw yourself down. For it is written, He will command his angels concerning you, and on their hands they will bear you up, lest you strike your foot against the stone. Jesus said to him, Again it's written, You shall not put the Lord your God to the test. Satan is trying to twist God's promises of protection. What wickedness is this? This is why I get so Frustrated is too much, just angry at the diabolical twistings of false teachers, of heretics who will take God's word and twist it to manipulate others. It's not wrong to believe God's word when God's when God in His Word says he'll protect you and care for you. But it's certainly wrong to twist those words to our own ends. They get some kind of excuse that we go, oh, we'll just do whatever we want. God will protect us To twist God's word in order to gain glory for ourselves, to gain a worldly glory for himself. This is what Satan was trying to get Jesus to do. To gain a worldly or an earthly glory by throwing yourself off of the temple and having angels swoop down from heaven and lift you up and present you before the people as their king. and Savior. That's not the path that the Father mapped out for him. That's why he doesn't want to do it. You can twist God's promise of protection with a self-serving and with a worldly mindset. Jesus will not be tricked into a grand public spectacle for the applause and approval of man. He won't be tricked. He's not there for the approval of man, he's there for the approval of his father. He doesn't care about the applause of lost Man, but the applause and favor of his father, and of course the salvation of his people. He doesn't need to prove himself to the world on the world's terms. He doesn't need to prove himself to Israel based on Israel's faulty hermeneutics and their popular opinion of here's what the Messiah should look like. So he will not first temptation, he will not be tempted To use his powers for his own ends in second temptation, he will not be tricked into this public spectacle just to prove himself in the eyes of man and get the applause of man. Putting God to the test, what does that mean? It means to question God's goodness and to question God's faithfulness. Acting like God needs to be proven through a time of testing. Putting God to the test. to call into question God's goodness, to call into question God's providential care and providential mercies, to call into question God's faithfulness, put God's faithfulness on the table. Putting God to the test, well, He's going to prove His faithfulness to us, it's completely backwards. Man is not the tester of God. God is the tester of man We don't have that authority. He has that authority. And it's right that he does. Because if he's holy, we're unholy. He's wise, we're foolish. He doesn't need to be saved. We need to be saved. And he doesn't need our approval. We need his approval, which can only come to us through the blood of Christ. Putting God to the test is to question God's faithfulness. To treat God as if he needs to prove himself, to put in through a time of testing. Let's turn back to Deuteronomy 6. First 6. 16. Just quickly. Deuteronomy 6. 16. You shall not put the Lord your God to the test as you tested him at Massa. Masa, also known as Meribah, let's go back to that incident because it says, Don't put the Lord your God to the test as you did at Massah. Let's go back to that. Exodus 17 Well, that was a record for spending time on a verse. I usually say we'll spend we'll spend just a second there and I'm there for 47 minutes. Exodus 17. 1 through 7. All the congregation of the people of Israel moved on from the wilderness of sin by stages. According to the commandment of the Lord, and they camped at Rephedim, but there was no water for the people to drink. Therefore, the people quarreled with Moses. who's the God ordained and God appointed leader over them, God's representative. Moses was the prophet of God. Therefore the people quarreled with Moses and said, Give us water to drink. And Moses said to them, Why do you quarrel with me? Why do you test The Lord. See it? Why do you test the Lord? But the people thirsted there for water. Well, I guess God is obligated to give them. They thirsted for water, and the people grumbled against Moses and said, Why did you bring us up out of Egypt? To kill us and our children and our livestock with that with thirst? We've got to stop here The wickedness of this, and this is just a summary of their lashing out against Moses , grumbled against Moses as a summary, they're lashing out against it. Look at your question. Look at the question. Why did you bring us up out of Egypt? Well they should know the answer to that. Because God has bestowed his divine favor upon us because God loved us and chose us and redeemed us. That's why we brought us out of Egypt as a goodness to us. Look at what they're twisting this around. Why did you bring us out of Egypt? To kill us? To kill our kids? To kill kill all of our flocks? The wickedness, the enslavement of their hearts to sin. Verse 4. So Moses cried to the Lord, What shall I do with these people? They're almost ready to stone me. And the Lord said to Moses, Pass on before the people, taking with you some of the elders of Israel. And take in your hand the staff with which you struck the Nile, and go. Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb, and you shall strike the rock, and water shall come out out of it, and the people will drink And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel, and he called the name of the place Masah and Meribah, because of the quarreling of the people of Israel, and because they tested the Lord by saying, Is the Lord among us or not? That last clause of that last verse is where we see that definition, that summary definition of testing the Lord. They tested the Lord by saying, Is the Lord among us or not? Is God with us or is God not with us? Is he going to take care of us? Is he not going to take care of us? What did you bring us out here to die? You brought us out here talking about this God. There is no God. Where's God? That's putting God to the test. Acting like he's not there. Acting like he doesn't care. You know, if I were to if I were to preach on this, which I may be transitioning to that unintentionally right now. I would just talk about God's mercy. How does God respond to their grumbling, to their sin, to their testing him? With one more display of mercy and kindness, he gives them water because you see, God has love that needs to be manifested in the world, and this is part of God's plan to manifest his love in the world. This is one incidence within history where God showcases his glory. In a very particular way. It's the purpose of everything. Everything. It's the purpose of everything. All of creation, all of history. He manifests his glory through grace towards sinners. That's it. Without mercy, the world would have ended at the Garden of Eden And without grace, the world if he is that mercy that restrains judgment and the world keeps going. But if you don't have grace, no one's ever saved. So without God's love manifest through mercy towards sinners and grace towards sinners, you have nothing. I know God's merciful. Because every morning I wake up and the world still exists and I still have breath in my body Because I am a sinner and you are sinners. The world is full of sinners, rebels against God. You see, this is this is the lie of the world. That we're not accountable to God. That just by nature of our existence, we're off the hook. This is God's world. The steps we take, we take on God's ground We breathe his air, we eat his food, we drink his water, and we rebel against him, and yet he shows mercy and he gives grace to the sinner. So, the question is: who in the world are we to put God to the test? To call into question his faithfulness? Has he not proven himself? Has he not proven himself? As he said to the Israelites through Jeremiah, What did I do that your father strayed so far from me? What did God do that was so bad, that was so horrible, that you went the other way and tried to rid the world from all traces of God and what he's doing? Which is what sin wants to do. Sin wants to be like an eraser that just erases any trace of God's glory. from the world. God wants to manifest his glory. The impulse of sin within us just wants to blot it out. Even just bury it down. General revelation within us, we want to suppress within us. So we don't have to deal with that God who's revealed himself in creation and in our conscience. Anyhow, I told you I was transitioning into preaching. And when I read a paragraph like that in scripture, I just see the mercy of God. Because I know if I were there and I were still lost, I would have been grumbling. I would have been complaining. I would have been gossiping about God and God's tried to kill us. At least in at least in Egypt we had some food And God shows mercy. God shows mercy. The first temptation, we can go back to Matthew. You know, when you lose faith in God, plunge yourself, you plunge yourself into a heartfelt and hearty disobedience. That's what you have there, and calling God to the putting God to the test. The first temptation is it is a temptation for Jesus toward an inappropriate use of his God-given power. The second temptation is trying to trick Jesus, trying to get him to fall prey to an ungodly desire for worldly fame and the glory that comes from man by putting God to the test. Jump off the jump off. And will God save me? Will he be faithful to his promises? You know, God's servants seek God 's glory, not their own. John 7, 18. The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory. But the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood. Self -made preacher, self-appointed preacher. The one who speaks on his own authority seeks his own glory, but the one who seeks the glory of him who sent him is true, and in him there is no falsehood. Jesus talking first about himself and then about tea uh apostles and any teachers, preachers, whoever, who he would appoint and send. God's servants Seek God's glory, not their own glory. Secondly, God's servants seek God's approval, not man's approval. Galatians 1:10. Paul writes, Am I now seeking the approval of man or of God? Now that's a good question. How do why do we come to church? Is it for the approval of man or the approval of God? It's to worship God And then he says this, am I trying to please man? If I were still trying to please man, I would not be a servant of Christ. Now that's a sobering thought. You a man pleaser, you can't be a servant of Christ. Romans 14, 18-19: Whoever thus serves Christ is acceptable to God and approved by men. Which means he does that will have a good reputation and be respected in the eyes of men. The true servant of Christ is acceptable to God, approved by men. So then let us pursue what makes for peace And for mutual upbuilding. First of all, God's servants seek for God to be glorified, not themselves. Secondly, we strive for his approval, not man's approval. And third, which is just another way of saying that, God's servants seek God's commendation, not the world's. Letter of recommendation, so to speak. We want the commendation that comes from God. First Corinthians four five, therefore, do not pronounce judgment before the time before the Lord comes, who will bring to light the things now hidden in darkness, and he will disclose the purposes of the heart. And then each one will receive his commendation from God. That's what we're looking forward to. Commendation from God. Which is the opposite of what we would have if we were outside of Christ, which would be condemnation from God. Second Corinthians 10, 17 through 18. Let the one who boasts boast in the Lord, for it is not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. I mean that's a temptation for all of us. Just commend ourselves. God's called me to do this. God's called me to do that. I've called to do this. A lot of times that's just expressing something you want to do. And you just put Bible language on it. If you want just because you want to do it, this is how relativism uh and individualism has crept into Christianity. Just because I want to do something doesn't mean God has called me to do that thing and everybody else just needs to fall in line. We commend ourselves. It's not the one who commends himself who is approved, but the one whom the Lord commends. Now we've got to go quickly on the third temptation, verses 8 through 11. The third temptation, will Jesus seek his own? Path. First of all, before I forget to say it, this is what your handout is for. The path to redemption, which is what Jesus came for goes through rejection and through suffering and through death and then ultimately resurrection and glory, establishing his church, advancing his kingdom to the end of the world, and then his his return. And final judgment and the new heavens and the new earth. Third temptation, verses eight through eleven. Again the devil took him to a very high mountain and showed him all the kingdoms of the world and their glory. It's not like invisible theoretical things. That's real kingdoms, real nations, the world nations. Did you have? The story of the Old Testament. You have a world of rebellious nations. Within that world of rebellious nations, God uh chooses and creates his own chosen nation, Israel, and you have Israel ended in a world in darkness. And Satan shows Jesus all the kingdoms of the world and their glory, which was an earthly glory, a worldly glory. The glory of Nebuchadnezzar, the glory of uh the Roman emperors is not the glory that we want. And he said to him, All these I will give you if you will fall down and worship me. Then Jesus said to him, Be gone, Satan, for it is written, You shall worship the Lord your God, and him only shall you serve. If there's one Verse that's or one clause that summarizes what's in Jesus' heart and mind. That's it right there. That's it right there. Worship the Lord his God, and him only shall he serve. Verse 11. Then the devil left him, and behold, angels came and were ministering to him. So God does send sustenance. And strength and help to his beloved Son. Jesus will not break from the Father's Plan. He will not deviate from the path that the Father has laid out for him. He will not be manipulated to do things his way. How often are we tricked into doing things our own way Even with the goal, there's something, maybe something true or something right about the goal, but we go about it in an earthly way. We will not seek a worldly, aka, satanic path to global dominion. So, first temptation he won't use his powers to save himself from suffering and danger. Second temptation, he will not be tricked into a grand public spectacle for the applause and approval of man. Third temptation, he will not be manipulated to stray from God's path and do things his own way or the way of Satan Really comes down to the kind of kingdom that Jesus came to establish and how that kingdom is established. He did not come for worldly kingdoms. Or to establish another worldly kingdom. He came to establish a redemptive kingdom, a spiritual redemptive kingdom. And he Can only attain that by doing the work that the Father has set out for him to do. Living a righteous life, dying a sacrificial death in the place of his people. And then God will take care of the rest. He'll give him the reward of his suffering, the reward of his obedience, eternal heavenly resurrection life That Jesus then ascends into heaven, and from that exalted throne in heaven, he then shares that resurrection life with all who would believe. This is the kingdom of God. This is the kingdom that He came to establish. So he does not fall prey to Satan's wiles. I'll give you some cross-references for you to look up on your own on this idea. It's a theme throughout John. Jesus didn't come to establish a worldly kingdom, but a heavenly kingdom, the kingdom of redemption. Which is the fulfillment of Old Testament promises. It's not the postponement of the fulfillment of those promises. It is the fulfillment of those promises. John 6, 14 through 17 I think that's where they wanted to m take Jesus by force and make him king. And he resists and ph he's gone. So don't sometimes I've heard Jesus had offered himself as as king, but he rejected Israel didn't want him as king. No, Israel wanted to make him king. And he rejected it 'cause they had the wrong they had the wrong idea of kingship. And then later in that same chapter, John six, thirty eight to forty, Jesus gives the reason why he won't fall prey to the to the lost Israelites and their leaders to their idea of the kingdom. Also John 18, 36 through 37. John 18, 36 and 37, which begins, Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. And then later my kingdom's not at this place. Two more, John 19, 14 through 16. John 19, 14 through 16. Oh, this is a bone-chilling passage. I'll read it for you. Now it was the day of preparation of the Passover. It was about the sixth hour. He said to the Jews, Behold your king! They cried out, Away with him, away with him, crucify him! Pilate said to them, Shall I crucify your king? The chief priests answered, We have no king but Caesar. Chief priests appointed in service to God, we have no king but Caesar. I guess they didn't read the Psalms about who their king really was. So he delivered him over to be crucified, and finally John 19, 28 through 30. After this, Jesus, knowing that all was now finished, Successfully completed is what that means. Said to fulfill scripture, I thirst. A jar full of sour wine stood there. So they put a sponge Full of sour wine on a hisset branch and held it to his mouth. When Jesus had received the sour wine, he said, It is finished. And he bowed his head and gave up his spirit, and that's how his earthly ministry ends. began with the temptation in the wilderness and this is where it ends. And why did he do it? Why did he do it? Two reasons. He loved his father and wanted to obey his father and he loves his people and wanted to save them from their sins. Yes, let's pray.