James three, verse thirteen through eighteen Let's go ahead and read it. And then the first thing I'll do after I read it is give you the blanks. If you still have that booklet that I gave you and you're going to be taking notes on there, I'll give you the blanks for those three points and then I'll I actually have another outline for the lesson but it it tracks with that same one. Those are just overview points and you'll have the white space on your page to take notes. James 3, beginning in verse 13, he begins with a question Who is wise and understanding among you? Then he gives the answer. By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. But, if you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth. Which is another way of saying, don't be a hypocrite. Verse 15: This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly. unspiritual, demonic. For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder. Probably a better translation there would be discord. Disorder, and every vile practice. But the wisdom from above is first pure Then peaceable, gentle, open to reason. There's actually one word there, it means compliant. Not it's the opposite of being a troublemaker. Reasonable or open to reason, full of mercy and good fruits. Impartial and sincere. And a harvest of righteousness is sown in peace by those who make peace. If you can want to circle the phrase in 18, harvest of righteousness And then if you want to circle a phrase at the end of sixteen, every vile practice, which just means a harvest of wickedness. So this is not just theoretical issues, this is about how we live. Living according to worldly wisdom leads to a harvest of wickedness, living living according to God's wisdom, which we can only do By faith in Christ leads to a harvest of righteousness. Now, for those with your outline, it's called session seven: true wisdom. In a fallen world, true wisdom is what we need in a fallen world. We don't need the wisdom of the fallen world. We need true wisdom, even though we're here in this fallen world. Number one, true wisdom shows in behavior. That comes from verse 13. The key word is conduct. Conduct. Wisdom is not Knowledge, it's not just intellectual knowledge, wisdom is about character and interpersonal relationships. It's about how we live. Wisdom, true wisdom shows in behavior. Number two, true wisdom avoids jealousy. and selfishness. That comes from verses 14 through 16. And he r he's straightforward and plain on that point. Jealousy is not from above. Selfishness is not from above Number three, true wisdom is pure and peaceable. Verse 17 and 18. And he mentions the issue of peace multiple times in a very short area there. Blessed are the peacemakers. We should pursue peace and pray for peace and strive for peace. There's your worksheet. Now the outline I'm going to be working from, and you don't have this, nobody has this, alright? It's you're just going to hear it, and that's good. Faith comes from hearing Number one, the heart of wisdom. I've already said it. The heart of wisdom is godly character. Inwardly first. Always, always first. Inwardly godly character in our hearts, our values, our affections, and then outwardly in our conduct. Verse 13 He begins with this question, who is wise and understanding among you? That's an important question. By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. The meekness of wisdom simply means humble godliness So there's nothing glamorous here. There's no no radical ideas that you've not heard before. This is humble godliness, striving to live. Be in the presence of the Lord with humility and seeking godliness in the midst of a world that says that's nonsense. That's the last thing you But we out of the fear of the Lord, which is the beginning of wisdom, we seek what he says here The meekness of wisdom. It's in the meekness of wisdom that our good conduct is seen It's through our works. Now, if you were here, or if you've ever read James chapter two, the second part, it was this section that faith without works is Is dead. That's right. So he's still on this issue of works, the necessity of good works in the Christian life. He hasn't moved on from that. Here it's the works seen, but it's works in the context of a godly life. Let by his good conduct let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. The Pharisees had works The Pharisees had a lot of works. Did they show their works in the meekness of wisdom? Well, no, of course not. A resounding no. Godliness is good conduct. Wisdom is seen. Wisdom and understanding is seen. And good conduct shown In works done in humble godliness, the meekness of wisdom A father does not want his son just to do a lot of chores and then learn lots of facts about the house. Alright, and learn lots of facts about the family. The father wants the son to grow in his character. The father wants the son 's character formation to advance. Inwardly and outwardly. I think any parent would say that about their child. Don't want just to teach our children to do jobs. We want them to grow in their character. and in how they live in relation to the Lord and in relation to other people. What are the two greatest commands of God? Everybody knows 'em. It's not a trick question. What's the first greatest commandment? The first great commandment. Love God, love the Lord your God with everything that you are. Love Him most, with all that you are, everything that you are, love God first and foremost above all things. And then the second great commandment is like it, which is what? Love your neighbor as yourself. It's not. God's first commandment and greatest commandment is not do things for God. His first commandment and greatest commandment is not is not know things about God, but it's to love God that begins in the heart. An affection, a desire, a prioritizing of God above all things, not just as one thing On a long list. But to love God most. And it's out of that root of love that our good works will grow. And character formation will come, but it all begins with love. Love is the first act of obedience. Love is obedience, and any other act of obedience is only obedience because it comes from love. Is that too much of a tongue twister? Anything we do is only truly obedient if it comes from a heart of love for God. Love is first. Biblical wisdom comes to us as God 's children. Biblical wisdom Last week it was wisdom about our tongues. And it was very, for those of who are here, sobering. It's very weighty as we hopefully Studied through the first half of chapter three on Taming the Tongue and came under a heavy spiritual conviction for how we've been so sinful in our use of our tongues. Biblical wisdom comes to us like God's law. It's supposed to bring us under the conviction of sin so that we see our need for Christ. But it comes to us not as rebels who are lost, it comes to us as adopted children. It's like a parent's rules and discipline for their children. It's because they love their children that they teach them and discipline them how to act and how to behave properly. God's wisdom, yes. It should convict us of our sin and drive us to Christ so that we might grow in our wisdom. But it comes to us as children, adopted children. All that to say it's We don't strive to grow in godliness in order that God might love us more. We don't strive to grow in godliness in order that God might finally forgive us of all of our sins if we just do good enough. No, we are reconciled, we are redeemed, we are adopted, we are children of God in Christ that could never change. We receive his wisdom as children under his discipline. He does want to discipline us. He does want to change us and form our character. This is what wisdom, biblical wisdom, is all about. So who is wise? And who is understanding among you? It is not the person who knows the most. By his good conduct, let him show his works in the meekness of wisdom. Now that's something to pray for for every single one of us. Number two, the problem with the world's wisdom. This comes from verses 14. Through 16, problem with the world's wisdom. Well there's all sorts of problems with the world's wisdom 14 through 16. If you have bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts, remember I said it starts with in the heart. Do not boast and be false to the truth. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, but is earthly, unspiritual, demonic. Well, he really piles it on there, doesn't he? For where jealousy and selfish ambition exist, there will be disorder in every vile practice You see the order there of the impacts of this worldly wisdom. It begins in the heart, but then it leads to disorder, and the context is the church, and it will lead to wickedness. Every vile practice. Don't think that you can give yourself to ungodliness, secret ungodliness in the heart, and have it not impact your life And have it not impact your service in the church. And have it not impact your relationships with your family or friends. These things are all connected. Who we are as people. It begins in the heart. Obviously, you can see in here the root of worldly wisdom. and the fruit of worldly wisdom. First let's look at the root of worldly wisdom. It comes from verses 15. Verse 15. He says it in Different ways. I have five different ways, or four different ways, he says in this one verse. First of all, um it does not come from above. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above. Which means, very simple, it doesn't come from God. This is not of God. This does not come from God And then he says it's earthly. It's earthly. The earth is the realm of the curse. The earth is the realm of slavery to sin. It is not from God, but it's earthy. It's fallen. It may be According to popular vote, but it's not from God. And then he says, unspiritual I mean all he really had to say was this is not from above, this is not from God, but he's giving us the actual where it comes from. First of all, the realm of the curse This is earthly. Then he says it's unspiritual. Says, children of God, what are we praying to do and straining to do is walk in the Spirit. Here you're dealing with wisdom that's anti-the spirit. It's against what the Holy Spirit wants to do. This worldly Wisdom is not from above. It is earthly. It's the world's wisdom. It's unspiritual, which means it's uh it's coming from Our sinful flesh, that fallen part of ourselves, that still lingers, even though we're not slaves to sin any longer, sin still lingers. Not from above. It's earthly, it's unspiritual. And as if that were not enough, he says one more thing about it. What does he say? This is demonic. This is the way Satan wants you to operate. This is the way the devil wants you to live. This is the way the devil wants you to treat others. And this uh verse reminded me of Hebrews Not Hebrews, Ephesians chapter 2. Turn to Ephesians 2. Classic verse on regeneration is Ephesians 2. 1 through 10. It begins with lostness, and then it goes to regeneration by the grace of God. And then there's a comment about the new walk we have in Christ. Ephesians 2. one through three for thinking about how um the world's wisdom is not from above but it's rather it's earthly, it's unspiritual, it's demonic. He says this. Paul writes this in Ephesians two. You were dead in trespasses and sins. In which you once walked. That's how it begins. This is how you used to live. This is how you used to walk in the deadness of trespasses and sins, following the course of this world. It's earthly. Following the prince of the power of the air. That's the devil. The spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, a demonic influence, a satanic influence ruling in the heart of the disobedient, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh. Unspiritual, carrying out the desires of the body that's living in wickedness, or what James would call vile practice, and the mind, we were by nature children of wrath. Like the rest of mankind. You can go back to James three. This says it in different ways, but it's the same components, it's the same elements of this worldly wisdom and ungodliness. It's not from above, it's earthly, it's unspiritual. And it's demonic. Now, as children of God, why in the world would we adopt these attitudes? in the heart. These attitudes in the heart, especially knowing that it is going to have an impact. And that's when we come to the fruit. The fruit of The worldly wisdom or the world's wisdom. The root is not from above. It's earthly, unspiritual, demonic. The fruit is verses 14 and 16. If you have bitter jealousy, selfish ambition in your hearts, do not boast and be false to the truth. In other words, don't be a hypocrite. Don't be bragging about how spiritual you are. Don't be bragging. Remember the context of false professions. that uh he was dealing with in chapter two. False professions in chapter two and then early in chapter three Taming the tongue, boasting all kinds of things, boasting these great things with your tongue, and it should not be. Now you have Boasting and false being false to the truth, religious hypocrites are in view. This is not the wisdom that comes down from above, it's earthly and spiritual demonic. Verse sixteen, for where jealousy and selfish ambition exist There will be disorder in every vile practice. So first of all, he says, and I've got four of these. You may see more in there. If you do, just let me know. Bitter jealousy. Literally bitter zeal. But the word bitter there is stronger than just something that tastes bitter. Like we probably think of like a bitter herb or something. This actually is something that's harmful or a malignant would be a proper understanding and interpretation of this word. It's a bitter zeal, literally. It's this Jealousy, this energy that you have in your heart that's set against other people. It's a harmful jealousy. It's a quarrelsome spirit. Really, is what this is, is a quarrelsome spirit. It's having a spirit that's set against others. Maybe a critical spirit. Bitter zeal. We must strive against that and guard against that. We are not unaware of Satan's Schemes. We're not unaware of the traps and the tricks that he sets inside of our hearts to weaken the church To set us against one another, to get us off course, or to get us all focused, or to weaken us, or to discourage us, or to divide us. And we must War against the devil's schemes. And one of the ways we do that is warring against a bitter jealousy against others. Secondly, he says, selfish ambition. They're in the middle of 14, selfish ambition. And again, don't miss this phrase in your hearts Bitter jealousy and selfish ambition in your hearts. This simply means just being self-seeking, being self-seeking. Over against others. Again, a spirit of quarreling and rivalry in the church It's always been a problem. It's not just a problem in America today. It's not just a problem in Baptist churches. Wherever there's people, this will be a problem. And the only way to fight it is with the Holy Spirit, through faith in Christ, that He would change our hearts, because these reside in the hearts. So the remedy Will it be occurring in the heart? Only the gospel can transform us in these things. But where you have bitter jealousy, number one, and selfish ambition, number two. I'm putting numbers three and four together. You'll also have arrogance and hypocrisy. Arrogance and hypocrisy. Do not boast and be false to the truth. False to the truth just means hypocrisy. Right, so wherever you have those things, you'll also have arrogance and hypocrisy. Because the person who's Heart is full of jealousy and a selfish ambition is not going to readily admit that He's not going to like the humble spirit, the very prerequisite for admitting that and repenting from those things is missing in this heart. It's a sin issue, and only God can fix it. But arrogance and hypocrisy. And the word for do not boast is uh in Romans two eight also. I'm gonna turn to Romans Two verse eight But for those who are self seeking, self seeking And do not obey the truth, but obey unrighteousness. There will be wrath and fury. Something of a sobering verse, isn't it? I mean, if we believe in eternity and we believe in God's holiness and God's justice and final judgment For those who are self-seeking, self-seeking is the mark of an unbeliever. It's not the mark of a child of God, it's not the mark of a believer. Church should be a place where people can witness the work of God in us, the work of Christ in us. We should be a people who are actively fighting against selfishness. Working for the good of others in service to others. Also Galatians 5. 20 Galatians five twenty. You know Galatians five twenty-two and twenty-three quite well. The fruit of the Spirit. But in that paragraph, the fruit of the Spirit is being set in contrast to the works of the flesh. And among these he says, idolatry, sorcery. Oh, those are really, really bad, right? Oh, we would never do those. Enmity, which is hostility, this means hostility. Strife, jealousy , fits of anger , Rivalries, you see the same kind of things popping up. Rivalries, dissensions, and divisions It's all wickedness. It's all wickedness. Just because you're not practicing sorcery doesn't give us a free pass on these things. You know what God wants us to do is repent of our sins. Matt has to repent of Matt's sins. I can't repent of your sins. I have to take accountability and self-examination for my weakness, for my sins. As as you do yours. What is he doing here with this arrogance and back in James 3 when he says Don't don't boast and be false to the truth. I think he's still on the same thing from chapter two and chapter three, warning against a false assurance. That's what he's doing in chapter two with faith without works is Is dead. So don't profess that you have faith when there's no works. That's a false assurance, a false profession that comes from a dead faith, a false faith. I think he's still on this. Obviously, apparently there's a problem with the audience that James is writing to. As people in Christ, we've died to sin, but yet we're still dying to sin. We must put to death The deeds of the flesh. We must mortify sin. That's one half of sanctification being purified by the Holy Spirit. There's two halves of it. One is putting sin to death. Right, the other is cultivating holiness and godliness. No, both of those things take personal effort. They don't happen without faults. They don't happen without prayer. They don't happen apart from the gospel. They don't happen automatically. But we died to sin when we came to Christ in faith, and we are dying to sin as we walk in Christ by faith. A couple more here, disorder and wickedness. I guess this would be five and six, but this is even going further impact. Further impact. You had a s it began in the heart. Right? It began in the heart. And then it led to these sins of the lips, the boasting and being false to the truth. But now it's having an impact on the church. It's having an impact on others through outward behavior. Verse 16, where jealousy and selfish ambition exist It's a bit of a tongue twister for me. I don't know if you've noticed that, but I Not been able to say selfish ambition correctly until just then on the first try. Selfish ambition exist. There will be disorder in every vile practice It could be disarray. It could be discord. One of the ways you can think about it is just trouble. It would just cause trouble. Think of a bad apple on a Team, a soccer team. And if you've ever been on anything involving teams, teen uh group project at school a team project at work or an athletic team, anything you've been on a team where there needs to be a a common spirit working for a common goal, you know the impact and the discouragement Of one troublemaker. I mean it's just it happens quickly, it makes everybody feel, here's the theological term for you icky And there's just trouble. And it doesn't impact just the troublemaker. It impacts everybody and everything. That's what it's talking about here. Discord. But where did it begin? It began in the heart. And then there's the effect of those around. So as we repent, we're repenting for the glory and honor of God out of love for God first. And then also of a love for others. Love for others. As part of our witness as God's people, one of the ways God witnesses to Himself in the world is through the changed lives of Christians. Individually, the example you set, the life you live, the way you talk, that's part of God witnessing to his grace and transforming power in the world. And then another tier of that is as a church together. The way we love each other, witnesses to the world of the love of God in Christ. This is very, very important. It's not the center of our gospel witness in the world, but it's connected to our gospel witness in the world. What's the center of our gospel witness in the world? The actual gospel. It's the message that changes hearts But that message doesn't come to people in a vacuum. It's not just information, it's information that's always delivered and embodied by a group of people. The gospel. That changes lives, delivered by and celebrated by people with changed lives. And he says, Wickedness, every vile practice. Often hidden by the religious hypocrite, at least attempted to be hidden. Now the day will reveal all of it. The day, capital D, will reveal everything But it that it's uh the wickedness, whether it's hidden from human sight and just done in private and secret, or whether it's made public. In the providence of God. This wickedness is all part of the hypocrisy package. This is the package deal. Exists in the heart, comes out the lips, and it's seen in lifestyle and activities and hobbies. Let's go to the happy part of The the meekness of godly wisdom. We've seen the problem with the world's wisdom You know, hopefully uh at least at least three things are happening in our hearts when we hear the wisdom, which again should come to us like God's law. God's law in general is just what he requires of us. All right. Um since it when we it comes to us, number one, we s know that it it's contrary to God's character. So We should despise it. We should despise wickedness. Because God despises wickedness. It's God's children. We love what He loves and hate what He hates. We pursue what He pursues And wants us to pursue. So it should make, it should cause us to despise it when we talk about wickedness and worldly wisdom. Secondly, she calls us to despise how it shows up in us. We we despise our wickedness, our sin how worldly wisdom still lingers in my mind, in my heart, in my will, and in my words and in my life. That's how God shepherds his people, showing us our faults, showing us our weakness, showing us our sins, so that we would trust in him more and seek Christ more. depend on Christ more for his grace and transforming power. So we should despise it when we hear it. Secondly, we should despise it in us. Despise our sin and have a godly sorrow over it. And the third thing it should do, I've already I've already just said this, is look to Christ The purpose is always to drive us to Christ. Drive us to Christ in faith and rely upon him. And then you can put the period after that in terms of how this plays out practically. We can talk about what that's for in the grand scheme. That's for God's glory. Yes, of course. But just in terms of your life experience, this is meant to bring you to Christ as a Savior. Not just as a savior who forgives. Not just as a savior who forgives, but as a savior who forgives and as a savior who transforms. So that we would live godly lives. He really does that. And he wants to do that. And we must strive after it in the humility and meekness of godly wisdom. And again, we have the root, and we have the fruit Oh man, I didn't realize how many points I have on this. Take a little break. Any questions or applications On anything we said so far and just reviewing what we said so far was we talked all that about the root and fruit of worldly wisdom. But before that we talked about the heart of wisdom of uh godly character inside and out, and then that phrase, the meekness of wisdom, which I summarized, which I think is an easier phrase, humble godliness. Humble godliness. Godliness, not gadliness. Don't know what gadliness is, Jordan, alright? Humble godliness. Alright, any questions or insights or applications from you all? And then you know, uh seeing that that that 's where we need to go because and I guess sometimes, you know, when we go through different trials the The purpose a lot of times is just to keep us there. You pray God keep here for us and then just try us done. And they send you right there. If you're smart, that's where you gotta go. Yeah. It's it's a good thing. And God will use these trials to expose our weakness and more of our sin and our character of false, but it's all that we would go to him and grow through them and be sanctified through those trials. Absolutely. It's a great point of how Marie is saying how these uh the trials come and And stress levels go up and it gets difficult and sin starts to become we become weaker in trials when we're weakened by them and our sin is made more manifest to us. It can be difficult to deal with. And the only way to get through it is through faith and fellowship with Christ. Yep. Amen to that. He doesn't want to show us our sins to k to uh kick us into a pit of despair But to bring us to the cross and deepen our faith. Absolutely. Uh what you said reminds me of Second Corinthians chapter one, where Paul talks about all the sufferings and And little physical sufferings, spiritual sufferings that he went through and he says the reason we go through all these things is so that we would learn not to trust in ourselves, but to trust in God who raises the dead. And that's a process for us. We don't come up out of the baptismal waters and all of a sudden a hundred percent trust God instead of ourselves in every area of life and thought. It's a process. It's a process. And since we'll never be perfected in that in this life, we're always striving and always growing and straining. Anybody else? So quiet. You guys are so quiet. Nicholas? Uh he went like this. So doing a study in the book of Tabac. Uh and it's uh like many of the minor prophets, you know, they're just lamenting, God why are you letting this happen? Why? How long are we gonna stop talking? What is up with you? Don't you get it? And uh and it's interesting that at times you can look at you can look at uh the situation and uh and I've also been listening to fantasy and mosquitoes what she's been going through school or whatever. So is the trial really think the bad behavior of the Israelites and all the idolatry and all the things Or is it the prophet's journey with this faith of God? You know. Uh so if you look at it it could be, um, God's really testing your faith. How are you are you coming clenched fists or are you coming out in brokenness God, you know, uh and uh deepen my relationship, deepen my prayer, watch over these people or is it these things people straight. So it's uh sometimes the purpose of these trials, you know, is again back to the individual versus the situation. It'll take care of itself. And even for them they knew what the reason was. They knew Israel was under judgment. God told them. So even when you have ans like we think having more answers and intellectual insight into God's secret decree will help us with the suffering. Um and it doesn't always. Sometimes knowing more can help, but y the suffering and and the sh the trial is uh is still real no matter what. Alright, thank you for sharing that. Let's go to the meekness of godly wisdom. Again, the root and the fruit. Uh first seventeen. Um he says the wisdom from above, the wisdom from above And you can contrast that with 15, when he was talking about worldly wisdom, this is not the wisdom that comes down from above. Now I'm going to ask you to turn to some passages with me. The first two are in 1 Corinthians. So turn to 1 Corinthians 1. The last two are back in James, so we'll circle back. We're not going to be all over the place, but I want to give five defining aspects of wisdom from above. Wisdom from above. That sounds vague and by itself it is a vague term. That's James's summary statement for what I've just been calling godly wisdom. Biblical wisdom. That's what that is. Biblical wisdom. Wisdom from above First of all, wisdom from above centers on the cross of Christ. 1 Corinthians 1, 23 and 24. Let me go ahead and get there. So what is wisdom from above? That's what we're talking about. Godly wisdom, biblical wisdom, wisdom from above. First Corinthians one, twenty-three through twenty-four We preach Christ crucified, a stumbling block to Jews, and foolishness to Gentiles. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ is the power of God and the wisdom of God Christ preached, specifically Christ crucified, proclaimed, that means boldly Declared, boldly, clearly, authoritatively, publicly declared, faithfully announced. Christ Crucified, died on a Roman cross of execution, publicly shamed, stumbling block to Jews, of course you could see why, foolishness to Gentiles. Still is today. To those who are called, whether Jew or Greek , Christ is priest as crucified, is the power of God and the wisdom of God. Wisdom is the wisdom of God. And remember, I started the class this way, I don't know if this was the absolute first thing that I said, but one of the first things I said that when you think of wisdom, don't just think of intellectual knowledge. It's godly living. Now, do we have a power inherent to us for godly living? No. It has to come from somewhere else. So wisdom from above is whatever it is that enables us to live for God. It's not an advanced uh philosophical concept. Whatever it is that enables us to live for God instead of ourselves, that's wisdom from above, that begins with the cross. cross of Jesus Christ that saves us, brings us into fellowship with Christ. It leads to my next point. Wisdom from above not only centers on the cross of Christ, but it's received by the Holy Spirit of Christ. It's received by the Holy Spirit of Christ. The goal of preaching Christ crucified is that we would hear with faith and in doing so receive the Holy Spirit. 1 Corinthians 2 12. Now look at me. I went back to James on accident. Now I've got to get back to First Corinthians two. First Corinthians 2 verse 12. Now we have received not the Spirit of the world, but the Spirit who is from God. that we might understand the things freely given us by God. And we impart this in words not taught by human wisdom, but taught by the Spirit. interpreting spiritual truths to those who are spiritual. From the apostles' standpoint, the wisdom and knowledge of the secrets of the gospel, the mystery of Christ that they received is by the inspiration of the Spirit. But as they preach and as they teach, those words are then is human is uh is taught by the Spirit. And therefore Listeners are able to understand and receive it by the work of the Spirit. Not because some people, these people are smarter than those people. Not because these people are naturally more spiritually inclined than those people. It's by the grace of God, through the work of his Spirit, through the Word. The Word And the Spirit. Worldly wisdom is set against the wisdom of the Spirit and the wisdom of preaching here and this, just as it is in James. Different terms. I mean not not so different actually. He says human wisdom here instead of earthly Wisdom of the world above instead of earthly or unspiritual. Same thing. You have two different sets of wisdom, two different ways of living. Wisdom from above centers on the cross of Christ. It's received by the Holy Spirit of Christ. And number three, it's experienced in fellowship with Christ. Colossians 2, 2 and 3. You sa you may think that that's repetitive. Well I'm here to tell you if you haven't picked it up in the last three and a half years of me being here. I'm here to tell you tonight In no uncertain terms, that the Christian life is repetitive. It is essentially repetitive of sinners going back to Christ for help daily. And crying out to Christ in faith daily, seeing our need for forgiveness daily, the Christian life is a life of repetitively daily seeking fellowship and communion with the living Lord Jesus Christ. That's what the Christian life is It's so easy to get into the strap of just thinking we'd fill our head and learn more things and learn more things and come to church and do more things and do more things. Are you seeking Christ and growing in Christ? This is what Christianity is about. So I'm trying to emphasize that wisdom is not something we receive once and move on from. It's experienced in fellowship with Christ, Colossians 2, 2 and 3, in the middle of a In the middle of a prayer. Well, we'll just start in verse 1 since we're since we're there. I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you, and for those that lay Odyssey. And for all who have not seen me face to face, that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of full assurance of understanding, and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ, in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. The subtext here is Christian growth. They are Christians, they are saved, but first of all, they need encouragement And the need to reach. He wants them to grow up. It's very similar to some of his prayers in other places, thinking of uh the end of Ephesians chapter 1, to reach all the riches of full assurance. of understanding and of the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ. No, it's in Christ. In Christ. In whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And so if we're going to grow in wisdom, acquire the treasures of wisdom and grow in our wisdom. That will ha that will happen in fellowship with Christ, because it's in him that these things are hidden. And if we're going to acquire the treasures of knowledge. Of truth, of doctrine, of what's right and what's wrong, of God's will. Where will we enrich ourselves in that knowledge? Christ, in whom are hidden. Why does it say hidden? It's so easy. Because Christ is invisible. You can't see him. But you access him by faith. You're in fellowship with Christ by faith. His spirit lives in you. You're seated with him in the heavenlies, Ephesians 2. You've been united to Jesus Christ by faith. And as we walk by faith in him, seeking him, seeking wisdom and knowledge in him, he'll increase us in those things. He'll increase us in those things. Wisdom from above centers on the cross of Christ, it's received by the Holy Spirit of Christ, and it's experienced in direct fellowship with Christ. Fellowship by faith But that's not indirect. That's direct. There's nothing in between you and Jesus. This is what salvation is, right? There's no barrier between you and Jesus. And since there's no barrier between you and Jesus, there's no barrier between you and God. Just because you don't see him doesn't mean that's not real. This is a spiritual reality. Fellowship with Christ. Four. Go back to James, James chapter one. Wisdom from above centers on the cross of Christ. It's received by the Spirit of Christ. It's experienced and will increase in fellowship with Christ because in Him are the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Fourth, it's increased by prayer. Wisdom Is increased through prayer. James 1, 5 and 6. Since any if any of you lacks wisdom Let him ask God. Ask God for what? Wisdom. Ask God for wisdom. If you lack wisdom, ask God. Who gives generously, gives what generously? He gives wisdom. To all without reproach, it will be given to him. But let him ask in In faith. I wasn't counting. Maybe we can watch the playback, but probably use the word by faith. Through faith. It's faith. That guides this relationship. Let him ask in faith with no doubting. For the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that is driven and tossed by the wind. Well you can picture that illustration. That's one of the easiest ones in all the scriptures. The wave driven and tossed by the winds over here, it's over there, it's go there, it's good. We've all known people like this, and in our own lives we've had seasons. like this. I'm here, I'm there. I'm up, I'm down. I'm hot, I'm cold. I want to be focused on this, but I'm too distracted by this. Amen? Right? You're like a wave. You're like a wave. You're all over. I haven't prayed in months, but I know the importance of prayer. How come I'm not praying? Just because you're like a we're like waves. When he says Ask in faith with no dally. That means believe that God will give you the wisdom that you need. Believe it. It starts with faith. That's the thing that will drive us to prayer. If we really believe, think about it, if we really, really believe that someone has left us a million dollars in a storage locker, right? It tells you which one, gives you the combination. If you really believe that, let's say it's yours. You will go. There will be nothing distracting you from that. None of this, the games on, my favorite show, whatever. You're going to go. If if we believe it, if we really believe it, if we think they're a liar, then will we go? No, of course we're not going to waste our time. There's this idea of have faith, don't doubt. If we really believe that God will give us the wisdom to endure, the wisdom that we need for godly living. We'll go to him in prayer. That's the root What's the word? Problem. I was gonna say problem, but I don't think that's strong enough. Help me with a strong word. Sickness, darkness in our hearts is that the reason why we don't go to God in prayer is we don't believe He's going to give us these things. We doubt. And that's why he says, you're like a wave. You're all over the place. Just go to God. Wisdom will be increased. With prayer and through prayer, if you lack wisdom, let him ask God. Finally, on this wisdom from above, centers on the cross of Christ. It's received by the Spirit of Christ. It's experienced and increases in fellowship with Christ. It increases through prayer. Finally, it's a gift from the Father. Same context. James 1 17. James 1. Seventeen. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above Coming down from the Father of Lights, with whom there's no variation or shadow due to change. We change. We Variation like shadows. But God doesn't change. You see the same the same phrase from chapter 3, from above. Every good gift and every perfect gift is from above. That means from heaven. From the Father of lights, the Father of glory, the Father of holiness, the Father of goodness, God on his throne, in heaven, he's the source of wisdom. But we all need to pray for wisdom. In specific ways, in specific situations, but also in general ways, so that we can receive wisdom for in ways we don't know we need wisdom So we pray for all kinds of wisdom every day, help in godly living. Well, that's the root from above. If we Talk about the fruit of godly wisdom without understanding the root. It would just turn into moralism. We're talking about gospel realities. We're talking about life and relationship with Jesus. We're talking about the power of the Holy Spirit. We're talking about God your Father, your eternal Father, who loves you and cares for you and will hear your prayers and answer your prayers and give you wisdom. And sanctify you. Finally the fruit. This comes from verse 18. Now we can finally go back to James 3. James Three seventeen and eighteen on the fruits. This could be a whole sermon series The wisdom from above is first pure. And the word first there is not just chronological first, but first and foremost preeminently pure. It's talking about holiness. And then it's peaceable. Gentle, reasonable, or compliant. It's the kind of kind of kids you want, right? You don't want the kids who's gonna talk back all the time and not do it. US. You want the kids who's gonna listen and see, yes, daddy Full of mercy, good fruits. It's probably good works, being rich in good deeds, impartial or not showing favoritism Also favoritism to the rich like earlier in James or favoritism to our families which is nepotism or favoritism to our best friends favoritism to people who are just like us. No no no no that's how the world operates, my friend Not so in the household of God. No partiality, impartial and sincere Uh sincere just means being genuine. Don't don't come with the flattery tickling people's ears that you can get something out of it Building people up when it's not genuine because you want them to think one thing or another about you, that you're a good person, or you want to win them to your side in an argument or something like that. Be sincere Be sincere. It's the opposite of flattery. It's the opposite of tickling ears. And a harvest of righteousness, by the way, being honest with people is One manifestation of love. And a harvest of righteousness is sown by peace by those who make peace. I think that's his summary statement. Think of a harvest. Think of the size of a harvest. The harvest of righteousness. You know what that means? Life of obedience. That's what that means. Righteousness in our life in our lives is obedience. Obedience to God by His Spirit and for His glory. That's a harvest of righteousness It's the opposite of a harvest of wickedness and sowing discord. It's sown in peace by those who make peace, peacemakers. Well we don't have time to look at each one. I guess we've said a a few things about a few of these. Well let's look at the first one. It says pure. It's a word that's very similar to the Greek word for holy. It's in that same word family. It's uh it's not technically the word for holiness, but it means devoted to or given over to holiness. It means consecrated to holiness. Interested in holiness. It's something that's been made pure and or is being made Hopefully that makes you think of sanctification. And that's why it says this first. First and foremost, wisdom from above is first pure. That's preeminent when we're talking about wisdom, godly living, is God sanctifying us, it's God conforming us to the likeness of his Son, Jesus Christ. Think about this is an amazing thing. He's changing our character to be less like the old self and more like Jesus. Isn't that a terrific thing? I mean, understatement of the year of the century. This is amazing. First and foremost, wisdom from above is first and foremost, God is purifying you. God has set you apart to live for Him He's given you the Holy Spirit, and He's now, by the power of that Spirit, purifying you. to be more like him and less like the world. And if that doesn't happen, we'll just be more and more like the world. Because wickedness does not self correct. Hopefully if You know anything about your own life and your own self and your own history and the world around you, if you know anything about sin, you know that sin left unchecked will not self-correct. Sin doesn't get itself on the right road. We need God's intervention. And that happens by God purifying us. through the work of the Spirit. Wisdom from above is first of all, first and foremost, above all things Pure. So I'll end quickly on one application. Hopefully you can take this one application and multiply it in a million different ways. Pray for purity. Pray for purity in your mind. Heart, words, deeds. Pray for purity. Pray with faith, and God will provide