The sermon this morning is from 1 John 2, 18 through 23. As a title, I have published Antichrist. Now you can modify that. You can put an S and make that plural and call it Antichrists. You'll see that in the passage. And I'm also taking the liberty to add a subtitle. Antichrist. A present problem within professing Christianity. The Antichrist problem. The Antichrist issue is a problem that persists. For the whole church age, for the duration of the church age till Christ returns, we'll be dealing with the Antichrist problem. So don't think that this is just a problem way way in the past, and don't think that this is just a problem way way in the future, but the Antichrist is a present problem within Professing Christianity. Professing Christianity. It's just all those groups, all those people who in some way would profess to be Christians or profess the name of Christ in some way. Within that Antichrist is a problem. Let's read the passage and then I'll pray for us. 1 John 2, beginning of verse 18, and reading through verse 23. Children, it is the last hour. And as you have heard that Antichrist is coming, so now many Antichrists. Have come. Therefore, we know that it is the last hour They went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out, that it might become plain that they all are not of us. But you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge I write to you, not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth. Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the Antichrist. He who denies the Father and the Son No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also. Let's pray. Father, we pray once again that you would strengthen me as the preacher or strengthen your people as the hearers. For all those who are here today, including myself, I pray that as the words are verbalized, they would be received into our hearts with faith. Father, we pray that you would bless the delivery of the preaching, and we pray equally that you would bless the receiving and the hearing of the preaching. Father, show us who you are. Show us your goodness, show us your power, show us your truth, and in whatever way you have for each individual here, show us what it means to love you and live for you and serve Christ for your name, for your glory. Father, we pray more and more you would rip us out of worldly living and continue to bring our lives under submission to Christ. Father, we pray that as your word goes forth, your spirit would move into power like a flood in our hearts. It's in his Christ in Christ's name we pray. Amen. Antichrist is a present problem within professing Christianity and uh as we get to the points that will map through, that will track us through this message, we'll talk about how to resist. the Antichrist Spirit. How to fight against the Antichrist Spirit, which is a spirit of theological error within the church. How to resist the Antichrist problem. I mean, the word says a lot about what the Anti-Christ is. Because what does anti -mean? It means against. To set yourself against something makes yourself anti that thing. The spirit of the Antichrist Sets itself against the true Christ and the purpose of Christ and the glory of Christ. Antichrists are false teachers One of the things that makes talking about the Antichrist a little bit difficult is there's this huge man-made mythology about this figure. They're false teachers. Antichrists are false teachers within the church. Every passage in the scripture that talks about the Antichrist or Antichrists is about how they are false Teachers within professing Christianity that like wicked leeches try to start their own movement with their own doctrines for their own name and own glory and own riches. Antichrists are some of the richest people in the world today. They're false teachers within the church. It's really tied for third on the worst thing you could ever be. Satan and then all of his demons and then third place of the worst thing you could ever be is is really a tie between uh antichrist, which are false teachers within the church, and ravenous beasts. Ravenous, monstrous, wicked beasts in Scripture represent persecuting civil authorities, political persecution, military persecution against the church. That's the beasts. The Antichrist is a theological assault. It's false teaching within the church. But both of those things in different ways are manifestations of Satan's raging against the work of God. Antichrists are false teachers. Do you want to know how to resist? The spirits of the Antichrist? I'm really asking you, let me know. Do you really want to do you really want to know how to resist? Do you really want to fight against? The spirit of the Antichrist? Do you want to know how to overcome this as an individual, as a church? To resist the spirit of error, theological error. We live in an age where theological truth has been minimized and personal subjective experience is the main thing. So So in a lot of places, the goal of the church is to just to provide an emotionally stirring or a nostalgic sentimental religious experience that people feel is spiritual. And because of that, we've minimized theological truth. But theological truth just means the truth of God. The truth of God. We must be a people who love truth and speak truth. Part of being a People who speak truth and love the truth is being courageous to refute error. That's why John is going to deal with the Antichrist. And this isn't the only time he deals with it in 1 John So it won't be, you know, we won't try to say everything today. Part of being a spirit-filled church is not only Having the courage to speak truth, but also the courage to refute error. This is part of how we serve the community well Part of how we serve the community well is explaining the truth. And part of how we serve the community well is exposing error. That's true in anything, isn't it? I mean if you're a parent you want to show your child what's right and also show them what's wrong. You teach them what the truth is, you teach them what it is to tell lie, you teach them what it is to share, you expose what it means to be selfish. Here we want you to be like this, sharing, not be s selfish. Teaching piano. You show them what's right, you show them what's wrong Uh coaching coaching hockey, coaching tennis. Here's what's right, here's how you hold it, here's what's wrong. Stop holding it like that. In anything, in any of life. Showing what's right and exposing what's wrong. So when we come to the Antichrist problem, the spirit of error in the church. It's part of our calling. So how do we resist the Antichrist spirit? First of all. First of all, we resist the Antichrist spirit. We fight against this Antichrist spirit with the zeal for the kingdom of God. That's number one, with the zeal for the kingdom of God. Look in verse 18. Children, it is the last hour. As you have heard that Antichrist is coming So now many Antichrists have come. Therefore we know it is the last hour. So the arrival of the Antichrist spirit in the earth is a sign that it's the last hour. We'll come back to this last hour in just a moment. But you can't have people warping and twisting the teaching of Christ until after the revelation of Christ. And so it's after the revelation of Christ that people will then take that teaching and take that doctrine and twist it and manipulate it to their own ends. So that the Antichrist, if the Antichrist is present, we know it's the last hour. You can't have false teachers. in the church if there's no church. So once Christ comes and establishes his church, now it's the also the age of the Antichrist infiltrating and causing trouble. in the church. So we know it's the last hour. Now last hour is John 's way of saying the last Days, the last days, the church age. We are not waiting for the last days. Brothers and sisters, we're not waiting for the last days to begin. Here, clearly, it is the last hour. We know that it is the last hour. Hebrews 1, 2 teaches we are in the last days. Acts two seventeen teaches we are in the last days 1 Peter 1. 20 says that we are in the last times. If you want these verses, just come see me afterward. Hebrews 9. 26 says that the end of the ages is upon us. The end of the ages is upon us. In 1 Corinthians 10, 11, these things happened to them as an example, looking back at Israel, these things happened to them as an example. But they were written down for our instructions, upon whom the end of the ages has come. The church age is the last days. In between the first coming of Christ and the second coming of Christ is the last hour, the last days, the end of the ages, clear in Scripture. Now here's the summary of what defines the last days or the last hour, as John calls it. Christ advancing his kingdom over all the earth. This is God's purpose for the last days. Christ who lives and reigns in heaven with all authority in heaven and on earth, advancing his kingdom of salvation over all the earth. He's the Savior of the world. This is what marks the last days. You could say it in another way. You could say it's the age of the global conquest of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Saving souls for God's glory, for God's name, by God's power, through God's Spirit, establishing and gathering those people into local churches Which is the outward expression of the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God in its essence is invisible, it's spiritual, but it comes to manifestation in local churches and in individual Christian living. The last days is the era of Christ advancing his kingdom over all the earth. We, as God's people , must have a zeal for the kingdom of God. Which is another way of saying we must be zealous for the redemption of the lost. It's another way of saying we must be zealous for God to be known. God wants to be known over all the earth and loved and served and worshipped. He's creating worshipers. He's creating servants. He's creating priests and kings for his name and glory. How is he doing that? Through the gospel of Jesus Christ. Global conquest. Of the gospel of Jesus Christ, Christ advancing his kingdom. We must have a zeal. What are you most zealous about? What did you think about most this past week? What do you desire most so far in the year 2023? What do you what is your heart fixed on most? That you need, or that you want, or that you have to have. What are you zealous for? We must be zealous for the kingdom of God. We must have a zeal for God's name. This burning passion for the one true God to be preached, to be known, to be loved, to be served, to have songs sung about him all over the world. This is the kingdom of God. We must have a zeal for the kingdom of God. We must prioritize the kingdom of God in our hearts. In our lives, in our ministries. You know, there's a way to be involved in church ministry where it's all about yourself. You know that, right? Just doing things outwardly doesn't automatically make it honoring to God. This is a theme all throughout scripture. He's not just looking for religion. He's not looking for the machine of religion just to keep going with people who are willing to do the outward jobs. We must prioritize the kingdom of God in our hearts, lives, and ministries, and in all the world. Matthew 6. 33. You already know it. As soon as I say the first two words, you'll be able to finish it with me. And if you want to, feel free to do that. But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to you. All these things added to you just means God will take care of you. No matter what, God will take care of you. Seek first his kingdom. The advance of Christ's reign, the preaching of Christ's gospel, the worship of God in all the earth. Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, which is talking about obedience. Righteousness is another way of seeking righteousness is another way of saying strive to obey God, try to obey Him by faith, not by a principle of works. The verse does not say, but seek the kingdom of God. If you are listening carefully, you know that it says, seek First, the kingdom of God. Seek first the kingdom of God. You must have a zeal for the kingdom of God. I like Colossians 4:11 In Colossians 4. 11, Paul refers to himself and to other people who were ministering with him or who had ministered with him. He refers to them as workers. For the kingdom of God. Brothers and sisters, that's what we are. Workers for the kingdom of God. It's work to be a good church member. There's work to be done, there's jobs to be done. It's hard to care for people. It takes a lot of hands and a lot of feet and a lot of effort and a lot of trips to the church and it takes money. It takes standing on your feet longer than you wanted to. It takes making sacrifices for the sake of others, for the good of others. It's work. It's work to be a good church member, to be a faithful church member. But we're workers for the kingdom of God. Everything else is going to wash away one day All the stuff will wash you away, all the trinkets, all the collectibles. There's so many things I I just can't bring myself to throw away. Do you have that problem? Because you start to throw it away, you part of you wants to throw it away and rid yourself from the burdens of materialism that we've we've all fallen prey to. But as you as you pick it up and your body starts to transport it into the contractor bag, something happens to you where you feel like you're losing a part of yourself. It's just plastic. Well, it's just a piece of paper. It's just metal. It's all going to wash away. And what's redeemed in Christ will last forever. So as we have a zeal for the kingdom of God. We prioritize the kingdom. We understand it's the last hour. This is it. Last hour, last days, end of the ages. There must be an urgency about this. There's no second chance for people. There's no second chance for people. So we must have a zeal for the kingdom of God. Now If we don't have a zeal for the kingdom of God, which is based on truth and based on the spirit of Christ, we'll never have a have a a clarity or a burden to refute or resist the spirit of the Antichrist, which is the opposite The kingdom of God is about truth and about the Holy Spirit. The Spirit of the Antichrist is about error. And about spirit of the devil infiltrating Christ's church to get people to believe lies instead of the truth to their own destruction. Children. John says this definitively, and it's true not just for John's day, the first century, but still in our day. Children, it is the last hour. It is the last hour. And therefore, at the end of the verse, therefore we know it's the last hour. Say one more thing about this and the significance of that. We're not waiting for marching orders. We're not waiting for instructions. We're not waiting for God to reveal Himself. Let us know what's going on or what He really wants for us. No, we have a sure word, a clear word, and uh we must be zealous for his kingdom if we're going to resist the spirit of the Antichrist, the spirit of false teaching. Just understanding the age that we live in. And then, secondly , to resist the spirit of Antichrist, to resist and to fight against, to wage war against Antichrists. We do it with a devotion to a biblical local church. A devote your devotion, your personal devotion. to a biblical local church is one of the ways that you wage war against the spirit of the Antichrist. Look at verse 19 in our passage. Look at what defines the Antichrist, and by implication, the followers, those who fallen prey to their lies. They went out from us. But they were not of us. Now that's interesting because they're not they're not of them of them. He says, they were not of us. So they're not part truly a part of the body of Christ. But at some point, physically they were within that church. This is a problem within the professing church. So they went out from us, but they were not of us. For if they had been of us, they would have continued with us. They would have remained faithful to the simple, God -designed, biblical, local church. But they were not of us. If they had been of us, they would have continued with us. But they went out that it might become plain that they all are not of us. The spirit of the Antichrist is a spirit that causes division, is a spirit that splits off to start their own movements. It's a spirit where the teacher is more about gathering his own group of disciples than making disciples of Christ. Works to split off and cause division twice in this passage. Twice. Such a sobering phrase. They went out. Here's what God's doing: His local church, the advance of His kingdom, the preaching of His Word, the worship of His Son. They went out. Can you imagine? They went out. Must be devoted to a biblical local church. The local church. The the uh I was gonna say call I was gonna call it a system, but it's not a system, but it's the collection of local churches. Local churches is the way that God has chosen To organize his kingdom on earth and to advance his kingdom on earth. I didn't come up with that idea Former pastor, Pastor John, he didn't come up with that idea. We didn't call a church vote to come up with that idea. This is not a man-made idea. This is God's design. To gather and organize and advance his kingdom of redemption over all the earth. Biblical, spirit-filled local churches. So, of course, if there's a s a demonic spirit that's working against Christ and his purposes, they'll go out. Start their own movement. We don't want to be about that. We want to start our own movement. We don't want to believe that. We want to believe this. We don't want to do it that way. We want to do it This way. We'll start our own movement with our own beliefs, our own traditions, our own practices, our own documents, we'll do our own thing The spirit of Antichrist is the spirit that says, let's go out. It's self-serving by nature. It's for their own glory, not the glory of God, and it's for their own good, not the true good of the of people. They work to split off and cause division. But also the spirit of Antichrist infiltrates as impostors. So they will split off and cause division going out this way. But usually first they'll try to infiltrate as impostors. That's how they like a parasite. They come in like a parasite to feed off of what God is doing. And to drag people away from what God has said. That's what the devil wants. To drag you away from what God wants in your life. God wants you to live this way, the devil wants to drag you away from that. God wants you to prioritize these things, the devil wants to drag you away from that. That same paradigm is true in the spirit of the Antichrist. Here's what God's doing in his church. Well, the Antichrist wants to infiltrate and then drag people away from what God is doing in the church. They were not of us. They were not of us. Now, from one perspective, before they went out, think before they went out From a human vantage point, it would have looked like they are of us. They are a part of the church From a limited human vantage point. Well, it's proven that they're not because they went out. If they had been of us, which implies what? They were not of us, they would have continued with us. That's the point I'm on. Devotion to a biblical local church. Continued with the biblical local church. Faithfulness to a biblical local church. They work to split and cause division. They infiltrate as impostors. Turn to Acts 20, if you will. Acts 20, verse 28 to 30. This is Paul. In Ephesus, and he's talking to the Ephesian elders. Acts twenty, twenty through twenty-eight. And picking it up in the middle of Paul's speech. To the Ephesian elders, he says this how I did not shrink from declaring to you anything that was Profitable? No, that's the wrong. That's verse twenty. Twenty, but verse twenty-eight. Apologies. Verse twenty-eight. Picking it up in the middle of Paul's speech. He says Pay careful attention to yourselves and to all the flock, which is a way of talking about the church, in which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers To care for the church of God. That's the verse of an elder. To care for the church of God. That's to care for himself. To care for the church of God, which He obtained with his own blood. I know that after my departure, fierce wolves will come in among you, not sparing the flock. And from among your own selves will arise men speaking twisted things to draw away the disciples after themselves. So you see both aspects of what the sp the the MO, the methodology of the spirit of the Antichrist. Infiltrate and then pull away. Sneak in and then pull away. Sneak up like a pack of ravenous wolves and then devour. What a picture here. Fierce wolves will come in. Can you imagine being surrounded alone in the woods, surrounded by fierce wolves? That's the picture of false teachers, which is the picture of the spirit of the Antichrist. One more here. Just one more. Turn a little bit more backwards to Matthew 16, 18 Through nineteen. Matthew sixteen, eighteen through nineteen, another well known verse. And I want you to just in your own mind highlight these words: kingdom and church. And I want you to ask yourself, what is Jesus talking about? Is he talking about building his church or is he talking about granting people access into the kingdom? Here we go, Matthew 16, 18 through 19. And I tell you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I'll give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. Whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. So what is he talking about? Is he talking about building his church or granting people access to the kingdom of heaven? The answer is yes. Yes, somebody said it. Both Both, the building of the church, the advancing of the kingdom, sinners coming into the kingdom by the grace of God through the gospel. It's only by the death of Christ, only by virtue of the death of Christ, that any of us can have access to the kingdom of God. This is what the kingdom of God is about. It's about God saving sinners through the death of Christ. And there's nothing anybody can do, it's nothing nothing that God has called you to do in order to qualify yourself to come to Christ. There's nothing, there's no jobs that God has given you to do. Do this first, and now you qualify to be saved by Christ The thing that qualifies us to be saved by Christ is that we're sinners in need of salvation. What needs to happen in the heart is to understand that you are sinned against God, you are a sinner by nature, and you need a Savior. And the gospel is Jesus died to save sinners. If you put your faith in Jesus, all of your sins are forgiven. If you come to Jesus by faith, All of your sins are forgiven. All the guilt of all of your sins is completely erased, and you're no longer under the judgment of God. We're still sinners, but we're saved sinners. We're sinners who've received God's grace. Our hearts have been changed by God's grace. This is accessible to anyone You could be in here today, you could have lived all of your life up to this very morning in hostile rebellion against God, but you can come into a relationship with God today if you put your faith in Christ. Based on his blood sacrifice on the cross. Not based on opinions, not based on a spiritual feeling. Not based on uh a pledge to come to church more , but that Christ died in your place for your sins, for your salvation. If you put your faith in him, you'll be saved for all eternity. This is the way into the kingdom, and it's the way Christ builds his church. So if you want to fight, if we want to resist and fight the Antichrist spirit We must have a zeal for the kingdom, understanding, brothers and sisters, it's the last days, it's the last hour, as John says, and we must also do it with a devotion to a biblical local church. And there's all kinds of churches in the United States. All kinds of buildings with signs that have all kinds of different names that says church And if you go in the building, you'll find a Bible. And in one way or another, they use the name of Jesus, but they teach all kinds of crazy things. Strive and pray to find a biblical local church. Third, third, to fight and resist the Antichrist spirit. We do it with faith in the Word of God and the Spirit of God. Faith in the power of the Word and the truth of the Word and the power of the Spirit and the work of the Spirit. We don't fight this battle with our own strength. This comes from verses back in 1 John verses 20 and 21. First John two twenty and twenty-one. But you have been anointed by the Holy One And you all have knowledge. I write to you. Not because you do not know the truth But because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth. That's good philosophy right there. No lie is of the truth. No lie so if it's a lie, if it contradicts the word of God, it can't be it can't be true. It can't be God's will for your life if it contradicts the will of God. But look at the two aspects in these verses, 20 and 21 First is the Holy Spirit, and the second is the truth of God. So he says in verse 20, You have been anointed by the Holy One. How so? The Holy Spirit. That's the anointing. The anointing of the Holy Spirit. The Spirit of Christ that has changed our hearts, but now dwells within our hearts. We've been united to Jesus. We've been anointed by His Spirit. Are there some sins in your life that you hate and wish were not there? More of you should be saying yes. Are there sins in your life which you hate and wish were not there? That's bec there we go. Just need a little prodding. That's only because you've been anointed with the Holy Spirit. If you did not have the Spirit, the Holy Spirit of God guiding you and living in you, you wouldn't care about your sin at all. Except for the ways where it makes you look bad in front of others and brings about bad consequences in your life. But truly hating sin for the right reasons because it dishonors God is a result of being anointed with the Holy Spirit. And uh sometimes I feel mel melodramatic when I say things like I'm about to say. I'm really not trying to be. But if we're not filled with the Holy Spirit, if we're not being guided by the Holy Spirit and filled with the Holy Spirit, everything we're doing here is fake. You understand that, right? Fake man-made religion that means nothing. We must be filled with the Holy Spirit of the exalted Christ who lives in heaven. That's what makes us Christian. That's what makes us a church, and that's what will make us a fruitful church, and that's what enables us to truly worship God. Is the presence of the Holy Spirit. But that's not all that he says in verse 20. He also says this you all have knowledge I write to you not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it. They know the gospel truth. They believe the word of God. So they for that reason they have knowledge, knowledge of Christ, knowledge of sound doctrine, knowledge of what God's word truly teaches. It's literally impossible to be a spirit-filled church who doesn't know the truth and rejects the truth. To be a spirit-filled church is to be a people who loves the word of God and knows the truth of God and understands it not perfectly. No one has a perfect understanding. But a true understanding of the gospel, of the person of Christ, of the nature of salvation, of the nature of the church, there's a truth that's been revealed and a Holy Spirit anointing that's been received. This is what makes the true church the true church. The Antichrist visibly was a part of that and they went out. We don't want to be about that. That's not enough for us. We've got to go out. Diabolical work. So, faith in the Word, trust in the Word, and faith and trust in the Spirit of God is the way we fight against error, and the way we fight against The spirit of the Antichrist. Do not be afraid of the Antichrist Do not be afraid of the enemies of Christ. Are they more powerful than God? Are they more powerful than the Holy Spirit? Satan is not the supreme uh leader of all things who's perfectly working out his will in all the earth God is the supreme leader of all things. God is perfectly working out his will in all the earth. It's God who will not be stopped. God is the sovereign king over all things, spiritual realm and earthly realm. Christ will not be stopped in building his church. In fact If you go back to that Matthew 16 passage in your uh in your devotions, you'll see that all the forces of darkness cannot stop the advance of the gospel in all the earth. In fact, on this point of don't be afraid of the Antichrist, he's already said this in chapter 2 of 1 John. Look up at verse 13. Right in the middle of verse 13, you have overcome the evil one. And then in verse 14 at the end, you have overcome the evil one. You've overcome his lies, and now you believe the truth, and you've given yourself to the truth. You've overcome his mastery over your life because you've turned to Christ in faith. And you've now received the Holy Spirit. You've overcome the evil one. Friends, that's a picture of victory And greater is he that is in us than he that is in the world. That's the Holy Spirit. Don't be afraid. Be sober minded. Be diligent, be aware of the devil's schemes. But please let's not live as if Satan is the victorious one and we are the defeated ones, and Christ is the is the defeated one just trying to pull together a few little scraps. Never, never, never. We fight and we resist with a zeal for the kingdom, with a devotion to a biblical church. Please don't minimize that. I know we live in an anti-authority age, an anti-institutional age, an anti -doctrine age, and therefore an anti-church age. Please don't minimize your devotion to God's church. Please. This is the centerpiece of how his kingdom comes to expression on earth. It's a really big deal. It's a really big deal And we fight with the word and with the Spirit of God. That means with prayer, with preaching, with teaching, with perseverance, fighting with the word and with the Spirit. And finally. Finally , the great sword of our battle. We fight, we resist the spirit of Antichrist with the knowledge of Jesus. You want to resist forces that are working against Jesus. Grow in your knowledge of Jesus. The best way to spot a counterfeit Let's say you work for the FBI and you you work in some department, I don't know what it's called, that is in charge of finding and prosecuting counterfeiters. The best way to spot counterfeits is by what? Knowing what the truth looks like. Knowing what the real thing looks like. And by the way. Even before the issue of the Antichrist comes up, it should already be our number one desire in life to grow in our knowledge of Christ. Grace. That should already be true. We're just looking at one practical application of it. But look at verse 22 and 23. This is where this comes from. Verse 22 and 23. Who is the liar? But he who denies that Jesus is the Christ, which is just a way of saying, the one who denies that Jesus is the Christ That's the liar. That's the embodiment of being a liar. That he says, this is the Antichrist. This is the Antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also. There are many liberal churches. Uh many people in general who will say they believe in Jesus, say that Jesus is a good teacher, even a great teacher, even the greatest teacher. He's a good moral example, top three moral examples of all time, maybe top, but they can't take that next step, which is the step of faith, which really is everything, hangs on this, of of saying that he is God and Savior. Jesus is God and Savior. Jesus is the only way to God. The Christ, He says in verse 22, who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ. And we can just isolate that one phrase and we can say this is this is our central confession as a people. And that's who we are. We are a people. We are a people of faith. And our sensual confession is that Jesus is the Christ. He's the anointed king of God that conquers sin, that conquers death, that conquers Satan, He conquers us by slaying the old man and bringing to life the new man through faith in Christ. He's the anointed king of God. He's the anointed savior and priest of God that reconciles sinners to God for all eternity. Jesus is not just a good man. He's not just a great teacher. He's not just the best moral example. He is God and Savior. This is our confession. The world will scoff at that. Many professing Christians, many professing churches will scoff at this. But it's the truth, and friends, it's the truth that saves We're putting all of our eggs in this one basket. Brothers and sisters, are you with me? All of our eggs in this one basket that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God, and that by his death on the cross is the only way That our sins can be forgiven. And it's the only way that we can be reconciled to God. And it's the only way that we can receive the gift of eternal life. That's what I want. I've been the worldly living past, and I don't want to go back. I want the gift of eternal life in this life. And in the age to come. I want a resurrection body. I want to dwell in the presence of God for all eternity. I want to be without the presence of sin in this wretched, dreaded, flesh-packaged, sin body. I want to be without sin, without temptation, without suffering and tears and death and loss. And sickness and surgeries and and and all that goes on in the sinfallen world And I hope you want those things. By the way, wanting those things doesn't make us better than anyone else. Doesn't make me better than you. Does it make us better than anyone else? Christianity, local churches, is not some elite group of people who figured it out. We are pathetic sinners saved by grace And if you're a pathetic sinner, today you can be saved by grace. Come to faith in Christ. Put the worldly living behind Put your devotion to sin behind. Put this pride of living on a pedestal behind. Humble yourself and be saved. Come to Christ in the faith Come to Christ in faith, and in coming to Christ in faith, you've come to God, and nothing can separate you from that. Yes The Antichrist problem is a present problem in professing Christianity And we need to be a people who know about it and who fight against it and resist it in a biblical way, with a zeal for the kingdom of God, with a devotion to a biblical local church. With faith and trust in the Word of God and the Spirit of God, not our own wisdom, not our own strength, and finally with a knowledge of Jesus Christ. The knowledge of Jesus Christ. The greatest treasure that could ever be found is the relationship with God through faith in Christ. Let's pray. Father, there are so many distractions in this world. And Father, there are so many distractions within us So we come to you and we ask for your mercy. And we ask for you to reach down into our hearts by your power and by your loving kindness and help us. Sanctify us. Use us. Humble us for your name and for your glory we pray. Amen.