We are in Matthew 4 again tonight. It's going to be 12 through 25. The launch of Christ's earthly ministry, the beginning. of Christ's earthly ministry. And I don't want us just to know that his ministry began. I want us to understand the meaning of the beginning of Christ's ministry, the theological, historical significance, the redemptive meaning of. This unique period on earth. It's really uh really important that we understand not just that Jesus did things and he did these things. But what's the over what place does that hold in the overarching story of Scripture and of redemption? Let's pray and then we'll get into it. Father, we thank you that you have provided for us what we could never provide for ourselves: a righteousness. Justification by faith, a savior. Thank you for sending your Son to die for our sins. Thank you for giving us the Holy Spirit to change our hearts and to sanctify us into the Thank you for the scriptures, the sure word to guide us, to to exhort us, to help us, to encourage us. Father, we thank you for the church for an opportunity. To serve you, to worship you together. As sinners who do not deserve to be in your kingdom, you see fit even further to give us the grace and privilege of serving in your kingdom. Father, we long for the inheritance you have stored up for us in heaven. But we also want to make the most of every day, every breath we have here. Help us to live more and more In submission to Christ and to your word. Help us to never walk by works, but to always walk by grace through faith in the shed blood of Christ. Help us in our study to enjoy your word. To be corrected wherever that needs to happen, to be encouraged, to be comforted, to be lifted up, to be filled with the joy and peace of your spirit. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Matthew 4, beginning in verse 12, all the way to the end of the chapter, and then we'll back up and look at three sections. But I just want to read it first. Now when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee and Leaving Nazareth, he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea, in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali So that when so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah might be fulfilled. If you're into underlining words, you can underline The word fulfilled. By the way, the sea is the sea of Galilee, so northern Israel. Verse 15: the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, Naphtali. The way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, aka Nations. The people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, upon them a light has dawned. From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. While walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter, and Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And he said to them, Follow me, and I will make you fishers of men. Immediately they left their nets and followed him. And going on from there he saw two other brothers, James. the son of Zebedee, and John, his brother, in the boat with Zebedee their father, mending their nets. And he he called them. And immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. Then he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every affliction among the people. So his fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, epileptics, paralytics, and He healed them, and great crowds followed him from Galilee and the Decapolis, and from Jerusalem and Judea. And from beyond the Jordan. So the ministry is northern Israel, but fame is spreading For the for the other side of the Jordan River, even and then down south, and then still on this side of the Jordan River, the western side of the Jordan River, also down south, all the way down to Judea and Jerusalem. So the fame spread early, and people were coming early because of the impact and power of Christ in his earthly ministry. Quickly want to highlight something in verse 16 and then connect it with something in verse 16. Verse 17. So the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light. So we're highlighting great light. And then going even further in verse 16, and for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, on them a light has dawned. So they've seen a great light. On them a light has dawned. It's the light of salvation. And that light of salvation comes to them through a person, Jesus. You 've seen a great light. On them a light has dawned. From that time, Jesus began to preach. Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. So the light dawns in Jesus preaching the kingdom, the light of salvation over all the world. It rises in Christ 's earthly ministry. And the first thing that's said about his earthly ministry, although obviously this is not the only thing about his ministry, But the first thing they said is he came and preached the kingdom of God. The good news of the kingdom that comes with the call, repent and believe the good news. So we're looking at verses twelve through seventeen. The point is not only that Christ's ministry begins, but that his earthly ministry on the doorstep, on the threshold of The Gentile territory is the fulfillment of prophecy. That's this first point. This location of Christ's ministry The beginning of his ministry, right on the doorstep of the nations , fulfills prophecy. And I've said this many times, and I'll keep saying it. Christ's first coming and all that he did, all that he accomplished in his life, death, resurrection, establishing the church and the power of the Spirit. This is all the fulfillment of prophecy, not the postponement of the fulfillment of prophecy. Prophecy. And we can see this over and over and over and over again. This is the apostolic interpretation of the Old Testament scriptures. This is the the apostolic teaching of the meaning of Christ's work. This is what the apostles did through Revelation. It wasn't their own wisdom. They preached and taught not only what Jesus did, but they interpreted what Jesus did. That's all throughout the Bible. That's what the prophets always do. God works in history, and then he sends prophets to the people to interpret what he did, to interpret his works and give the significance of his works. So the beginning of Christ's earthly ministry on the threshold Of the nations fulfills prophecy. Let's look at it. Verse 12. Now, when he heard that John had been arrested, he withdrew into Galilee. And leaving Nazareth he went and lived in Capernaum by the sea in the territory of Zebulun and Naphtali. Verse 14 tells us why Verse 14 gives us the significance of this, so that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah would be fulfilled. So there's something that Isaiah prophesied that's fulfilled in Jesus launching his ministry and living in Capernaum by the sea, the territory in the territory of Zebulun. And Naphtali. And what is that prophecy? Verse 15 and 16, which comes from Isaiah 9, 1 and 2, which we'll turn there and The land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, the way of the sea, beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light, and for those dwelling in the region of the shadow of death, on them a light has Dawned. been a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little bit of a little From that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The kingdom of heaven has arrived in the person of Christ and in the preaching of Christ. He's come to establish the eschatological kingdom of God, that means the eternal kingdom of God, the eternal kingdom of redemption. that was promised in the Old Testament. Remember there were when Israel and when the Southern Kingdom was in exile in Babylon Two restorations were promised. A provisional restoration of Israel was promised back to the land, a rebuilt temple, but that was still under the old covenant. That's a provisional restoration that was promised. There's also an eschatological or a latter days um restoration that was promised, which would have not just been reconstituting the old covenant people in the land, but it would have been the inaugurating of the new covenant people over all the earth. I mean if we really want to summarize the significance of this verses 12 through 17 It's the fulfillment of prophecy, right? Jesus starting his ministry on the threshold of the nations, the doorstep of the Gentiles, is the fulfillment of this prophecy of the light of salvation dawning for the whole world. And Jesus is the Savior of the world. He is not just the Savior of Israel. His restoration, the salvation that he brings, is not just a provisional A restoring of an old covenant kingdom under the law, but the new covenant people under grace. The establishment of the kingdom of God. Let's go back to that Isaiah passage. Isaiah nine, one through two There will be no gloom for her who was in anguish. In the former time he brought into contempt the land of Zebulun and the land of Naphtali, that's when they came under judgment. God used Assyria as his instrument of judgment against this would have been the northern kingdom. But in the latter time , in the latter time is the old testament way of speaking about in the last days or In the latter time he has made glorious the way of the sea, the land beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the nations. The people who walk in darkness have seen a great light. Those who dwell in the land of deep darkness, on them a light has Shown. And this is what Matthew says that the beginning of Christ's ministry, right there on the threshold of the nations, is the fulfillment. Of this promise and prophecy. Since we're in Isaiah 9, we can skim down to another well-known verse that's a prophecy of Christ and Christ establishing his kingdom. Isaiah nine verse six. For to us a child is born, to us a son is given, and the government shall be upon his shoulders. Uh that that's not an earthly government, that's not a worldly government like the government. government of the United States or even the government of Israel, because this kingdom is not of this world. Uh it's the government of all things. It's the government that's always belonged to God. It's the rule over all things. What the govern government is is the rule over the world. The government of all things, the government will be upon his shoulders, and his name shall be called Wonderful Counselor, Mighty God, Everlasting Father, Prince of Peace. Of the increase of his government and of peace there will be no end. The increase of his government is talking about the spread of the kingdom. Immediately she becoming the mind, that stone from Daniel 2, that took dominion by destroying the worldly kingdom. Taking the authority over the nations from them, and then growing to become a mountain, and that mountain growing to become the size of the earth, filling the whole earth. uh on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it With justice and with righteousness from this time forth and forevermore, and the zeal of the Lord of hosts will do it. We know from Luke chapter two, this also is fulfilled in Christ. The throne of David is a way of talking about the rule of David. David was the type of Christ. Adam was a type of Christ. David also is a type of Christ And we know and we've gone over this so many times I'm not going to spend more time doing it tonight, but in the first sermon, the first exposition Of Scripture in the church age, which God has given us in Acts chapter 2, Peter preaches that this throne promise of David is fulfilled in Christ, specifically in Christ's ascension to be That's the reality that the the type or the shadow of David's rule pointed to. Acts two, verse thirty. This is a major point. This is this is a a major Roman numeral within Peter's sermon on the day of Pentecost. Now in his resurrection and ascension to sit at the right hand of God, God's promise To David to establish an heir on his throne that will reign forever is fulfilled in Christ. We can go back to Matthew So, if there were a test next week, I don't think I'd be a mean a mean professor and ask you to write an essay on this Maybe for bonus points. But if there's a question about the general significance of where Christ's earthly ministry began, you should be a first of all you should be able to say where it began. Right. Capernaum, so north northern Israel, right on the threshold of the nations. And what does that s what does that fulfill? It fulfills this prophecy from Jeremiah. uh that the light of salvation has come to the nations. The establishment of the eschatological kingdom of God, which I'm going to give you six little six points. Six little points. Not little in significance, just little because I don't have time to give the biblical backing for this. But we've done it before. I don't want to just You know, I want to I want us to have a clear picture of what this kingdom is, this kingdom of God, this kingdom of heaven that's inaugurated in the coming of Christ. But before I do that, any questions on any of anything from twelve to seventeen that I got wrong or that you saw and I didn't or just a follow-up question to something I said Um question. So when I say a problem size is right side back in nine, it seems fully cognizant that he's talking messianic at that time or is it revealed through God that he's talking messianically Well the f the full meaning of it, the full light of it wouldn't have come to the apostles, but that's true with all prophecy, really. I mean, ever since Genesis three fifteen Uh everything is centered around this messianic promise. The promise of a redeemer who will destroy the works of the devil and restore man. to right fellowship with God. That promise of the Redeemer is that thread throughout all of redemptive history. Alright, so I want to give you six quick quick hitting points on the nature of We just call it the kingdom of God. I call it the eschatological kingdom of God just because we're in the last days. Now there's there's no era coming after this that needs to Move us a little closer to the Savior arriving. This is it. If you're a citizen of heaven, uh a citizen in the kingdom of God There's this is a the full inheritance is coming for you, but uh there's no more further developments to move us closer to the establishment of This kingdom of God. Alright. Number one, it uh is marked by the establishing of a new covenant It's the new covenant that's established in Christ's blood that formally, formally inaugurates this kingdom on earth. Earth. When we study the kingdom, man, it's almost a year ago, we talked about how it comes in stages and it grows gradually. It's com it's perfectly biblical, it's perfectly fair to talk about the first coming of Christ in general as the establishing of the kingdom His incarnation is a part of that. Even his temptation, his baptism is a part of that. His temptation in the wilderness is a part of that. I skipped John the Baptist. Even John the Baptist preaching is a part of that. And Christ's earthly ministry is a part of it's all a part of this kingdom coming. And Jesus preaching and John the Baptist preaching, that's the main theme. Repent for the kingdom of God is near. Repent for the kingdom of God is at hand. It's arrived, but it's still arriving. The establishment of the new covenant in Christ's blood Is what formally inaugurates this kingdom on earth, and then the goal of gospel ministry is is to To bring sinners into this new covenant saved by Christ's blood. Number two, it's also marked by the inclusion of the Gentiles, the inclusion of the Gentiles. The establishment of the new covenant. The good news first comes to Jew, but then also to Greek and to Gentiles, grafted in from all over the world. And now as you zoom out even further, right, when you look at Old Covenant and New Covenant, basically coming from Abraham to the blood of Christ. Let's zoom out even further and just look at the like the book ends of the whole thing. First creation, new creation. The Bible starts with the first creation. That creation is now under the curse of sin and death. It's a fallen creation under the judgment of God. The Bible ends with a new creation where there is no curse and there is no sin. That new creation has been inaugurated in Christ. So the establishment of the new covenant, the inclusion of the Gentiles, and the inaugurating of the new The new creation. If you have the Holy Spirit, you already have a share of the new creation. You are already a partaker of the new creation. Not of the full blessing. Of being glorified. But this but within you, internally, invisibly, in your union with Christ, if you're united to Him, you have a deposit that guarantees Guarantees your inheritance. So the establishment of the new covenant, inclusion of the Gentiles, inaugurating of the new creation, and number four get just tacked on right to the number three, but I wanted to give it its own point to give Give it some prominence. it a This kingdom of God we're talking about is uh brought about by the power of the Holy Spirit. We also would accept by the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. But it's the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit of the exalted Christ. This makes living. uh as a child of God in this kingdom era unique from all other er eras. Of course you would have needed the Holy Spirit to believe the promise of God in the Old Testament Paul writes about that, about Abraham specifically in Galatians chapter 3. But there's a substantive dis difference and there There's a historical difference of possessing the cre the spirit of the new creation, the spirit of the exalted Christ, the incarnate Christ at the right hand of God. has filled us with his spirit. And Abraham couldn't have had that because the incarnate Christ didn't exist yet. The establishment of the new covenant, the inclusion of the Gentiles, the inauguration of the new creation, the outpouring of the Holy Spirit Number five, uh global salvation or global discipleship. I guess that's part of number two, the inclusion of the Gentiles, but I want us to understand the scope of the conquest of the gospel and all the earth. This is the Great Commission. Global salvation, global discipleship, go for go therefore and disciple the nations. Not just uh make disciples in the nations, but make disciples of the nations is the exegesis there. Now number six is the it's is the most important one because number six is the main theme of all of those. It's the glue that holds all of those together. It's the the thing that enables all these other things. Number six is that all this happens through the suffering and glory of Christ. Everything in this kingdom of God, the new covenant, inclusion of the Gentiles, the new creation, the outpouring of the Holy Spirit. Spirit is all accomplished through Christ's suffering unto glory, which is how Luke in Luke twenty-four summarizes Not only summarizes Christ's ministry and his accomplishments, his suffering and then entering his glory, but also that summary that he gives, he's giving that summary as a summary of what the Old Testament prophesies. About redemption. Don't you know that the Christ had to suffer these things and then enter his glory, and then after that, salvation and repentance in his name will be preached in all the world? So there you go, six points. If you could get me a seventh, which I'm sure there is, that would be a nice biblical number. So there's a I know there's a lot there, but it's what God is doing in the world. The establishing of the new covenant, the inclusion of the Gentiles, inaugurating of the new creation. um an outpouring of the Holy Spirit, global salvation and discipleship, and that this all happens through the suffering and glory of Christ. Verses eighteen through twenty-two , second point for tonight. Jesus Calls disciples to join him in the kingdom work. So first he starts his ministry on the threshold of the nations. In the fulfillment of prophecy, the light of salvation for all the world. Then he calls disciples to join him in his kingdom work. Pretty simple concept, right? If you're a disciple, that's what you've been Called. You've been called to join God in what God is doing. You've been called to partner with Christ in what Christ is doing. Well, verse 18, while walking by the Sea of Galilee, he saw two brothers, Simon, who is called Peter. And Andrew his brother, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen, and he said to them, Follow me, and I'll make you fishers of men. Immediately they left their nets and followed him, and going on from there he saw two other brothers, James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, in the boat of Zebedee. Their father. Mending their nets, he called them. Immediately they left the boat and their father and followed him. Now that most Bibles put a paragraph break between verse seventeen and eighteen. That's fine. I mean I have a a subheading there, so it's not just a new paragraph. complete break in the story. So you have the preaching in verse seventeen and then the call to discipleship this begins in verse eighteen. And it's kinda almost floating out there. You get this picture of the these random guys out in the boat. Jesus walks up to them and says, Hey, c follow me as if they never heard the preaching. As if they don't know what's going on Uh in the context, and it just looks looks like this is Matthew's point as he's describing this, this is uh a response to the preaching, repent for the kingdom of heaven is at hand, and he's walking by the sea and he And just zooms in on some specific men whom he calls in a particular way to come and join him in the work. At this point it would have been the work of preaching, just to be his disciples, to be with him, to learn from him and to learn ministry from him. So Jesus calls disciples to join him in the kingdom work. I want to do a little bit of New Testament explanation on this concept of fissures of men. You okay with that? Alright, turn to Matthew 13. Is it a metaphor or is that literal? Let's test your hermeneutics Your hermeneutical chops. M we got one from metaphor. Do I have a second? I'm teasing. I am teasing. I know that you know that this is a metaphor for evangelism That's what Jesus is doing in the verse on Jesus evangelizing, preaching and calling to repentance is followed by him calling The call to discipleship. Matthew 13. Matthew 13 is the chapter of Kingdom Parables. Alright, where Jesus teaches Some of the secrets, some of the essential secrets, secrets of the kingdom, to give us a little window into the nature of the kingdom. And in verse forty-seven through fifty , the parable of the net. Where kingdom work is likened to fishing with a net. Again, the kingdom of heaven is like a net That was thrown into the sea, gathered fish of every kind. I always like to pause at the after the first sentence of a parable and just try to picture it. Especially if I'm going to preach on one of these, I'll try to really picture what's going on because it is the picture that gives the lesson. So the net is being thrown into the sea. And gathering fish. The kingdom is like the net. So I'm picturing in my head a fisherman just throwing a net into the sea And it does gather up fish of every kind. And it and that's what the kingdom of heaven is is like. Verse 48, when it was full The kingdom net. When it was full, men drew it ashore and sat down and sorted the good into containers. But threw away the bad. Now that, if nothing else, that should be intriguing. The kingdom, it's the kingdom of God, the kingdom of the Son. And in this net are both good and bad. Verse 49: So it will be at the end of the age. The angels will come out and separate the evil from the righteous and throw them into the fiery furnace in that place where there will be weeping and There's a very similar, if not parallel , parable here that is the same basic message. Starting in verse, well the parable is verse 24. Let's look at verse 24, the parable of the weeds. Just a different picture , but the same message of the parable of the net. I mean, what you see in the parable of the net, definitely the kingdom is a matter of salvation. It's a matter of saving souls. Uh he verse twenty-four. He put another parable before them. The kingdom of heaven may be compared to a man who sowed good seed in his field. But while his men were sleeping, his enemy came and sowed weeds among the wheat and went away. So when the plants came up and bore grain, then the weeds appeared also. And the servants of the master of the house came and said to him, Master, did you not sow good seed in your field? How then does it have weeds? That's a good question, right? He didn't Plant weeds. It's his field. He sowed he sowed good seed. Verse 28, he said to them, An enemy has done this So in in the realm that truly does belong to this man, an enemy. has done this. The enemy is active in some sense within the realm that's truly under the authority of the man who owns the field. So the servant said to him, Then do you want us to go and gather them? But he said, No, lest in gathering the weeds you root up the wheat along with them. Let both grow together until the harvest. And at the harvest so now this is what's parallel to the separating of the fish. Right, good from the bad. Now you said you have a harvest. At the harvest time I will tell the reapers, gather the wheat first, bind them in bundles to be burned, but gather the wheat into my barn. Now, go down to verse thirty-six. This is very helpful. To me, hopefully it's helpful to you as well, where this parable is interpreted. The parable is explained. Remember that pattern in Daniel? When God would give the vision or the dream, but then he also would give the interpretation so that people could understand the vision in the dream. Similar thing, not the exact same thing, but a similar thing here where some of the parables are given, the interpretation is given to help us. Then he left the crowds, verse 36. Then he left the crowds And went into the house, and his disciples came to him, saying, Explain to us the parable of the weeds of the field. He answered, The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. Right, so the one who's sowing the seed is not us. In the first parable of Matthew 13, the parable of the sower, yeah, the sower represents workers in the kingdom. But here The sower is not the workers of the kingdom, but the king of the kingdom. The one who sows the good seed is the Son of Man. The field is the world, not the church. The field is the, say it with me, world. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. The field is the world, and the good seed is the sons of the kingdom. That's also different from the parable of the sower. In the parable of the sower , the beginning of Matthew 13, what does the seed represent? Yeah, the word of God, the gospel, the the word of the kingdom. That's right. The seed is the word. Here, the seed is not the word of the kingdom, the seed are the sons of the kingdom. And the weeds are the sons of the evil one. All it means is lost people. And the enemy who sowed them is the devil. The harvest is the end of the age. And the reapers are the angels. Just as the weeds are gathered and burned with fire, so it will be at the end of the age. The Son of Man will send his angels, and they will gather out of his kingdom All causes of sin and all lawbreakers, which means for this period of time, in one sense, causes of sin and lawbreakers are in the kingdom. That's talking about his dominion over the whole world. And throw them into the fiery furnace. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Then the righteous will shine like the sun and the The reason I look at the weeds and the interpretation of the weeds is because it is a parallel message to the net. Within that net, the fisherman's net of the kingdom Are both good and bad, and they're separated out at the end of the age. Anyway, the main point is this the matter is of eternal significance. Eternal significance is the issue, salvation or eternal condemnation. Let's do a little bit of Old Testament background on it and then I'll pause for questions. Jeremiah 16 Fourteen through sixteen. Jeremiah Chapter sixteen fourteen Through 16. So being a fisher of men would be uh being an evangelist, it would be uh soul-winning. It would be trying anything you could do through ministry efforts and through prayer to try and bring others into the saving kingdom. Of God, the kingdom where there's justification and that and not condemnation. Jeremiah 16, 14 Through sixteen, again the context is just like in Israel, the promise of restoration. Therefore, behold, the days are coming, declares the Lord, when it shall no longer be said, as the Lord lives, who brought up the people Who brought the people of Israel out of the land of Egypt, but as the Lord lives who brought up the people of Israel out of the north country. The provisional restoration, uh bring them back into the land from the north, just like in previous days he brought them into the land. He brought them out of Egypt, and then eventually the next generation brought them into the land. Anyway, just a little bit of background on Fishermen in verse sixteen. Behold, I'm sending many fishers, declares the Lord, and they shall catch them. And afterward I'll send many hunters and they'll hunt them from every mountain and every hill and out of the clefts of the rock. For my eyes are on all their ways. They are not hidden from me, nor is their iniquity concealed from my eyes. Um now there's different interpretations on that, whether that's a good thing or a bad thing that he's sending fishers or hunters. I think it's a good thing. I think it's a metaphoric way of talking about the restoration. Because in verse 18, he says, but first I will doubly repay their iniquity and their sin. Now that's definitely a bad thing. That's judgment. So before the restoration There's gonna be a full judgment, a full discipline on their iniquity and on their sin, because they've polluted my land with carcasses Of their detestable idol idols, and have filled my inheritance with their abominations. So just a little bit of background where fishing for men is as a metaphor is used in the context of restoration. And uh Jesus does that not in in uh here, follow me, I'll make you efficient. Let's turn back to Matthew 4, not talking about a provisional restoration to the land, but the ultimate restoration. in the new covenant. Follow me, I'll make you fishers of men. So they obey and they will join him. I mean if you don't remember anything else, we just remember this is gonna join they're going to join Jesus and Jesus Work. They're going to follow him. They're going to learn from him. They're going to learn to preach from him. They're going to learn ministry from him. He's going to send out to do ministry to preach to teach to advance the kingdom to bring others into the kingdom through preaching and through a call to repentance. That's what makes fishers of men. Joining Jesus in his work. Which I mean if we can't see the practical application of that, there's a problem because that's what we are as Christians. It's one of the things we are as Christians That's not all we are. We're not these drones, worker bees who have no joy. We're just doing work. What do you want me to do? We're doing these jobs. No, no, no. But it is part of part of being a Christian is the duty that God's bestowed upon us to join Him. in his work of discipling the nations. So the first point was about the beginning of Christ's ministry in northern or southern Israel. Northern on the threshold of Gentile nations is the fulfillment of this prophecy. And basically, the fulfillment of the prophecies, the light of salvation is dawned for all the world. And then the second point is now Jesus is preaching, and then he immediately starts calling disciples to join him in the kingdom work. Good reminder of the way God works in the world, the way he establishes his kingdom and organizes his kingdom and advances his kingdom is through sinners. It 's incredible. It's incredible he uses pathetic tools like us to build his house. So the third point will be from verses twenty-three to twenty-five. Really summarizing what comprises or what makes up Christ's ministry. And he went throughout all Galilee, teaching in their synagogues, and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. I could go on a rant right there that would take us to 1030. That teaching and preaching are two different things. There are two distinct genres of communication. They're related, they're interrelated, you don't want to have one without the other. Sometimes when you're preaching, you're going to be doing some teaching within that. And when you're teaching, sometimes you'll be doing preaching within that. But they're two distinct things. They're both essential for healthy discipleship and for a healthy church. You need teaching and you need preaching. And , middle of verse 23, and healing every disease and affliction among the people. So his fame spread throughout all Syria. And they brought, so the word gets out, and they brought him all the sick. Those afflicted with various diseases and pains, those oppressed by demons, epileptics, paralytics, and he healed them. And great crowds followed him from Galilee, the Decapolis, and from Jerusalem. Jerusalem and Judea and from beyond the Jordan. Now, what the rest of the gospel narratives will do, what the rest of Jesus' earthly ministry is, is just uh examples of those things. Examples of the healings, examples of the teaching, examples of the preaching. Examples of the great crowds and what happens when the great crow crowds gather and then Jesus' ministry and the context of his teaching evolves and at some point he starts to talk in only parables And at some point he starts to talk explicitly about going to Jerusalem to be rejected by the leaders and to suffer and to be crucified and to be risen on the third day. He doesn't just sh unlease everything at once. There's a progression, a gradual progression through his actual teaching and preaching content As his ministry progresses. So there's a story that moves forward as we get the various examples of the preaching, teaching, and miracles. And of course, throughout there's interpretation. The gospel writers will give the interpretation Apostolic interpretation and understanding of these things as they're happening. Just like the Old Testament writings. God did this, now here's what it means. Nebuchadnezzar saw this dream. Okay, here's what that means. So you get the deeds, and you get the word. The word interprets the deeds so that we can understand their meaning. So, what comprises Christ's ministry? First of all, preaching and teaching the gospel of the kingdom. Preaching and teaching the gospel. of the kingdom. Preaching is a bold heralding of the arrival of the kingdom. It's the image of a town crier. It's the image of an urgent messenger sent by the captain of the army. With important news, with good news, with urgent news, with Zeal and clarity, lifting his voice to herald, to publicly announce the reality of what's happening. That's preaching. And it comes with a call upon sinners to repent and believe. Thereby entering the kingdom that's being proclaimed. It's the proclaimed kingdom. And all of that centers on Christ, the person and work of Christ. That was true in it's In one stage during Christ's ministry, because he's calling people to himself. And it's still true now that this preaching centers on the person and work of Christ. just in a from a different historical era since his work has been accomplished and he's reigning in heaven. But it's still his kingdom. It's still fellowship with him that we need. Boldly heralding the arrival of the king of God's kingdom and calling upon sinners to repent and believe, thereby entering the kingdom. That's preaching At least that's my summary of preaching, all right? Teaching is explaining Is proving, is illustrating, and applying. I'll say this again. I mean, you could probably make a list of ten different aspects of teaching. Teaching is very diverse. It's not as laser focused. It's not this sharp tip of the arrow that preaching is very specific thing. Teaching is broader. It's explaining, proving, illustrating, applying. The nature of the kingdom. It's explaining, proving, illustrating, and applying the ethics of the kingdom. Think Sermon on the Mount. It's explaining, proving, illustrating, and applying the future of the kingdom. Where is this going? Where's the story headed? And it's doing all of that according to Scripture. Well, the preaching is according to Scripture too. The source book is God 's word. And of course, new revelation was being given Well, the source is God. So preaching is boldly heralding the arrival of the kingdom and calling upon sinners to repent and believe thereby entering. Now we are not bold heralding as a church, we're not boldly heralding the arrival of the king. Kingdom, we're boldly heralding the kingdom that's already arrived, that's now growing and expanding, and the gates are always open, and there's no entrance fee. There's no period where you you want to enter the kingdom of God. Well, okay, go out and prove it. Seven weeks, devote your life to the Lord, full of good works. If you do that, come back, you're entered the kingdom of God. God. No sinners come with empty hands, on their faces, only guilty, only deserving of death, with nothing to offer, and with no possibility of offering something that could gain them entrance. Only putting their trust in the blood of Christ alone and they're granted free entrance. Teaching is Now, on that kingdom that's being heralded, on that kingdom that you're inviting people to come into, teaching is stepping back, explaining, proving, illustrating, applying all the various aspects of this kingdom, the nature of the kingdom, the ethics of the kingdom. The future of the kingdom. For example, in the in the age that excuse me that we live in, teaching would include like discussing how the kingdom comes to its outward expression in local churches. And then teaching that from scripture, what does that mean? And how does the church function? How has God organized his church? Okay, God has put in place pastors. And deacons, here's the duty of pastors, here's the duty of deacons. Uh he's he's uh commanded and called us to uh to uh celebrate the Lord's Supper, here's what that means. So teaching is broad. There's So many different things to be taught about the nature of the kingdom, the ethics of the kingdom, the future of the kingdom. But if that's ever divorced From the preaching of the kingdom, it loses all of its power. You see, the power is in the gospel. The gospel must be heralded. The gospel is the power for the kingdom to advance, not only in the world, but brothers and sisters. In our hearts. It's the gospel that saves and it's the gospel that sanctifies. It's actually not a theoretical thing. It's a very, very, very simple thing to grasp that it's the gospel of Jesus Christ that sanctifies us. Two points on this. I'll I get as soon as I say these two points, I'll get to that hand wave from my wife. All true obedience Grows out of love and gratitude toward God. That's point one. Al true obedience. Alright. What's the thing that creates love and gratitude toward God in the heart? It's the gospel. It's the gospel that creates and nourishes and deepens and expands and increases love and gratitude in the heart toward God. So it is the gospel that sanctifies. That's through faith. See, and now the the - that's the practical way of thinking about it, that I think is very, very, very simple. But that's the pattern, that's how sanctification happens. If you want to if you want to uh not think of it in the just the that practical way, but in the theological way, which is also very important. Um as we see Christ in the gospel, which is the glory of God revealed to us, as we see Christ in the gospel, Christ transforms us into his image. Second Corinthians 3 18. So that's what's happening on a spiritual level. We're beholding the glory of God as revealed through the gospel, and Christ through the Spirit is transforming us. But at the practical level, it's, you know If it's easier for you, just remember if I'm going to obey God, if I'm going to repent of sin, if I'm going to get better on losing my temper, if I'm going to if I'm going to repent in this area, the only way that's going to come is love and gratitude in the heart. Okay, where does that come from? It comes from the gospel. You must see the Savior. You must see God's grace. You must see God's mercy in the gospel that creates love, that creates gratitude, and out of that springs forth any obedience. Or else Uh it's not real obedience. It's just an out it's just a form of obedience that actually is sin. That leads to self-righteousness or despair Um because good you know you know that good works formally that aren't true good works, right? Good works done the faith, you know that's a sin, right? You know that doesn't make us righteous. All right, Becky, now to your hand wave. Would you say Oh no. She's making this face like this is gonna be the hardest question ever. But but a sermon and preaching is not In some way, Christ must be proclaimed. That's what makes it preaching. Now, do every week do you have to rehearse every single aspect of the gospel? His incarnation, his righteous life, his sacrificial death, his glorious resurrection, his glorious ascension, his giving of the spirit. Now I don't think you have to rehearse everything, but Christ must be heralded. Christ and His self Christ as Savior must be heralded in some way. That's what makes A discourse, which is a sermon, is a public discourse. That's what makes it biblical preaching, gospel preaching Now within that you'll have things that are taught. Of course, because you're going through the passage and you explain what the passage means, whatever it is. It could be a passage on parenting, whatever. It could be a passage on deacons. You explain what it means and you teach on it. But you want to take everything in context. So if you're going to take for me, this is just me. Alright, so if you if I need pushback on this, just see me afterwards. The whole point of this book is to get people to see Christ This book exists to herald Christ. It has God's law to show us that we're sinners, that we need a Savior. But that's to move us toward the gospel so that we would see Christ and trust in Him as Savior. So for me to preach any paragraph properly, it needs to be in that context. So if I'm not doing the very thing that this that this book purposes to do Yeah, Vince just gave this motion like, well have Vince on the side with this big hook getting me off. So I'm saying the uh bibli the the preaching A sermon is more than a lesson. A sermon is different than a lesson. You give all kinds of lessons. Think practical, all right? Sometimes this gets theoretical. What does the world need most? They need redemption in Christ. This is what the church has been put here for to herald Christ. Evangelism, Paul tells Timothy, do the work of an evangelist. Do the work. And w we're all evangelists. We're all evangelistic in some way, at least we should be, but the But the preacher should be on a steed leading the army into battle, heralding, thundering the gospel with joy and zeal, and then the trickle-down from that will happen. So does that answer your question? You gotta be fired up. I just have a high view of preaching. And I had to gra I had to grow in that over time. I mean, God had to rebuke me many times for having a low view of preaching. And just that the more and more I come to Scripture and see the role that it has uh uh all throughout scripture, but especially in the New Testament, in the pastoral epistles, in the book of Acts. It's the heralding, the joyous, zealous heralding of Christ is the the thing. with the power to change hearts on a spiritual level. It's the only thing that has the power to change the nature of a human heart is the gospel proclaim, not general Christian truths that people say somehow get interested in. This is going to lead to self-righteous moralists who really enjoy religion. Alright, I've got to close. I'm sorry. Oh no no no I'm I'm not closing. I know it's eight oh one. But in fairness I usually go to eight oh four Constitutes yes, consistency. What constitutes is earthly ministry, preaching and teaching, and then secondly, confirming and illustrating the reality of the kingdom. Through miracles. So preaching and teaching of the about the kingdom, and then confirming and illustrating the reality or the power of the kingdom. Through the miracles. And the miracles are illustrative of the reversal of the curse of sin and death. It's a mercifully healing, the effects of the curse on mankind. The effects of s sin and its effects, death, sickness, uh of course judgment and This is teachings of forgiveness are often buttressed or tethered in with miraculous healings. So you have preaching and teaching, and then you have miracles that confirm and illustrate. What's being preached and what's being taught and his fame spread, and that's the right thing to do. I mean that's what should happen on earth. The fame of Jesus should spread to the glory of God. That's the business we're in. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus and all that He has done is doing and will continue to do for your sake, for your glory, and for the salvation of the lost, for the strengthening of his church, I pray that you would keep us focused and seek first your kingdom. And your righteousness. And trust you with everything else. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen