Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. Thank you. I appreciate that. Those who are watching online did not hear the finger tap drum roll. But there was one. Daniel four, twenty-eight through thirty-seven. God fulfills his word. God fulfills his word. If you want to change the title and say God fulfills his promise. That would also be acceptable. If you want to change it and say God fulfills his prophecies, you could do that. God says he's going to do something. He's going to do it. God says this is going to happen. It's going to happen. God fulfills his word. He is not a liar. He does not have short a short memory. Uh with what he says he's gonna do something, but then he gets wrapped up in something else and forgets, like husbands do. We need to be asked thirteen times to do a job that takes twelve seconds. What about people? Do we always fulfill our word and fulfill our promises? No, of course we don't. What are some of the problems or some of the hindrances that keep us from fulfilling our promises? Yeah, life, the busyness of life, yep. Forgetfulness. Forgetfulness, sometimes we just forget. Yes, we just don't care. And then we just say, well, whatever. Yeah, we have a better way of doing it, yeah. Um sometimes we just straight up lie uh and when we know from uh beforehand we're not going to do it. Sometimes we Have all the best motives and we remember and and we want to fulfill and sometimes we just lack the ability. Sometimes we're just not able to do the thing that we said we're going to do. Do you know how many times that's happened to me with little chores around the house where I say I'm gonna do this and then Saturday I get working, I get the tools out and uh you know at some point on the Saturday Sweetheart, I cannot do this. I just can't do sometimes we just can't do the things. But of course, uh a a moral problem is doesn't apply to God, right? He's not going to uh uh to try to back out of something. Alright. Knowledge and wisdom isn't a problem for God, so he's not going to forget. And and lack of ability or lack of power is not a problem for God. All that to say is God fulfills his word. He fulfills his promises. He fulfills his prophecies. This is important for us to know Trust in God, to trust in His Word, to believe what He says about life and about what He's going to do. We get a r a good glimpse into this and Daniel 4, 28 through 37. Let's read the passage as a whole, and we'll back up and study it. All this came upon King Nebuchadnezzar. All this, all this from the verses before. We talked about in the last study. At the end of twelve months, he was walking on the roof of the royal palace in Babylon, and the king answered and said , Phew is not this great Babylon, which I have built underline that by my mighty power Circle that as a world resonance and for the glory of my majesty. Highlight that With a self-admiration is off the charts. While the words were still in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven: O King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken The kingdom has departed from you, and you shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field, and you shall be made to eat grass like an ox And seven periods of time shall pass over you until you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men, and gives it to whom he will. Now if you've been here at all in this study in Daniel, you know that that's the major theological theme. that we've been talking about. God is the most high ruler. He controls the kingdoms of men. He gives them to whom he will. Verse 33 Immediately the word was fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar. The word was fulfilled. For all of you who were wondering, that's where I got my title from. It's this what's happening in the story, but out that's where the words God fulfills his word. The word was fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar. He was driven from among men and ate grass like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven, till his hair grew as long as eagles' feathers. His nails were like birds' claws. At the end of the days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me And I blessed the Most High and praised and honored him who lives forever and ever. Well, at least at the very least, we can say he has an intellectual understanding of two very important aspects of the doctrine of God or two very important attributes of God, God's sovereignty and God's eternality He's the most high, sovereign God, who lives forever and ever. He's an eternal being. For his dominion is an everlasting dominion. Dominion means rule, particularly a rule over a realm, an area, is dominion over And it's an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom endures from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing, and he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven. So of all the inhabitants of the earth, no one or the all the inhabitants taken together No one can stop God from exercising his lordship and kingship on earth And he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of earth. That reminds me of Jesus' statement , all authority in heaven and upon the earth has been given to me. Therefore, going, make disciples. God does according to his will among the hosts of heaven, the spiritual realm, with spiritual authorities, spiritual beings, and among the inhabitants of the earth. Not one of the other. Don't think that God is only concerned with invisible, ethereal, spiritual matters out there, but matters on earth, things on earth. He does what he wills. And none can stay his hand or say to him, What have you done? Like question God like he made a mistake. None of us ever do that here, right, when things don't go our way. Verse 36, at the same time my reason returned to me, and for the glory of my kingdom, my majesty and splendor returned to me. My counselors and my lords sought me, and I was established in my kingdom. And still more greatness was added to me. Verse 37. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of heaven, for all his works are right. And his ways are just, and those who walk in pride, he is able to humble, which he just gave Nebuchadnezzar a living Less than a living example of that. So it at the very least on an intellectual level, some level, he got the point of what God was trying to teach him. God fulfills his word against Nebuchadnezzar. Remember this was the prophecy, the dream of this giant Earth-covering tree, this grand tree that represented the greatness of his kingdom, but then it was chopped down to be a stump, and then it was chained. It was shackled to represent that he's remember he was terrified at this, and even Daniel was so terrified I said, Oh great king, may this happen to someone else. It was just really bad that this was going to happen. His kingdom is going to be taken away. He was going to be driven to madness and and shamed. And that's what happens. He loses his mind. Um he's out in the wilderness, uh, homeless Existence, probably living by foraging. We don't know all the details. God doesn't give us all the details, but We need to know that this is something that God does in judgment against Nebuchadnezzar for his pride. Alright? And he humbles Nebuchadnezzar. to teach Nebuchadnezzar. What he what was one of it wasn't our last study, maybe two studies ago. Oh no, I i I think it was our last study. That God wants people to know that He rules the world. This is part of what he wants the world to know, is that he rules the world, that he's the king of the world. Do people believe that? That God's the true king of the earth? No, a lot of Christians don't believe that. He it God is the king of the earth. Why do you think that all men everywhere are accountable to God, to obey God? And we'll stand in judgment against God. We need to know this because this is our situation if we're not saved. This was us before we were saved, under the judgment of God, because we were accountable to God. Turn to uh put a marker in Daniel, but quickly turn to Romans Because my South Jersey comes out when I say turn to. Turn to Romans. It's turn to Romans, not turn to. T, I don't think is a word. It is in South Jersey, that's right. Verse 19. Now we know that Oh, chapter three. Just go go to all the verse nineteen until you find it. Chapter three Paul had already taught that both the Jew and Gentile had the law of God given in a different medium. Law written on stone, one of the works of the law written on the heart. We know that whatever the law says, it speaks to those who are under the law, so that every mouth may be stopped and the whole world may be held accountable to God. What does that include? What does the word whole mean? The whole world is obligated to submit to God as the great king of the earth. Who made the earth? God, he has rights, a friend of mine says he has rights on everything. He has rights on all things. We owe God obedience. We owe God to worship him, to love him, and that's right. And the devil wants, here's the devil comes right in. And wants us to think that that's a bad thing. Like that's going to be bad for you. You know, maybe do it because God wants it, but that's going to be bad for you. No, that's a trick of the devil. That's a lie. It's It's good to love God. It's the best thing for us to know Him and to love Him, to submit to His authority, to want, to obey His commands. To be a blessing. We go back to Daniel, but the whole world is accountable before God. Otherwise it would be unrighteous and unjust for God to hold the whole world accountable in judgment. Of course, that's theoretical, right? He's going to do that. But what I'm saying is, don't think he's going to do that, but the well, the world's not really accountable You know, morals are relative. Ethics is a subjective matter. That's the thinking of the world. That's the thinking of the world. But the thinking of the Bible is that God made the world and everything in it. He created people in his image to know and love him and to serve him. We are accountable before God. So is Nebuchadnezzar. And he is coming under judgment for his wicked, wicked pride in a kingdom that God gave to him as part of what God is doing and his purposes. And he takes full credit for it. And he has no problem for it. Well, what did Nebuchadnezzar, how did he picture himself. What did he build? He built he built a giant it was 90 foot, 100 foot, I think something somewhere around there. Gold statue Representing himself and commanded that all come and worship it, aka worship him. Boy, did he need to be humbled or did he need to be humbled? Well, listen, we need to be humbled too. And don't go easy on Nebuchadnezzar, but let's not go easy on ourselves either. First, God fulfills his prophecy again about Nebuchadnezzar, and the the verse says, the passage says, against his word against Nebuchadnezzar, but we'll just say God fulfills his prophecy about Nebuchadnezzar. Verses twenty-eight and twenty-nine. All this came upon Nebuchadnezzar And at the end of twelve months, after a year, after that dream, he was walking on the roof of his royal palace. And so all this came upon Nebuchadnezzar. This is such an important biblical principle, you know, Christian principle to understand that what God says is going to happen is going to happen. We live with hope. That's and that doesn't mean just like good feelings. um of things that might possibly happen. But hope means the assurance of actual things that are going to happen because God said they're going to happen. Christ is going to return. There is going to be a righteous judgment. There is going to be a resurrection. We are going to dwell with him forever in glory in the new heavens and the new earth. And before all that happens, he is going to bring his gospel and power to the nations. And uh what was the image from Daniel 2 of how the kingdom of God grows? It begins like a Hewn stone, a cut stone from a mountain, that grow that becomes a mountain, and then it just stops because it comes a mountain. Right? No what happens to it? It grows. It grows to fill half of the earth. Right? The success of the gospel in Christ discipling the nations. That's going to happen. Then there will be a final rebellion. And a a final and great apostasy and all the things that go along with that. But Christ will return in the final judgment and m and pull back the veil on absolutely everything, even the secret deeds. Of our hearts. And if not for the blood of Christ, none of us would be able to stand in that day. And He is our only plea. We find ourselves before the judgment seat of God. The judgment seat of Christ. Our only plea is the blood of Christ. There's no other reason, there's no other grounds. There's no other way but his cleansing blood. Well, God fulfills his prophecy about Nebuchadnezzar. We should not be surprised at that. Application would be our trust in God's word to believe what God says, specifically here about the future is going to happen. Secondly, Nebuchadnezzar's pride is the thing that triggers this fulfillment. We believe in secondary causes, right? The ultimate cause, and you know, it's mysterious in many ways Is God and His plan and His purpose and His work and His Spirit and His providence and His special providence in the world. But God works through secondary causes. For instance, the person who shared the gospel with you. Right. Or a book that you're reading that God might use. It's Nebuchadnezzar's pride that triggers this fulfillment. And the fulfillment is Judgment against Nebuchadnezzar for his pride. Verse 29 to 33. Well, he was walking on the roof in the royal palace, and the king answered and said , Is not this great Babylon? Well he's not wrong about that. Is he wrong about that? That's great. Babylon's great Which I've built by my mighty power. Now is he wrong about that? Is he wrong about that? Right. Did he did he have mighty power? Yeah, but where did it come from? This came from God. As a world residence And for the glory of my majesty. So then there he's expressing his motive, right? Is that the right motive? Motive is always a part of ethics, right? And you should have the right goal. Right, the right result that you're looking for, like in Christian ethics, it would be the glory of God. But you want to have the right motive within yourself, right? The love of God. Uh the hope that we have in Christ, faith in Christ, right motive, right goal, and a right standard, like what is right, what is wrong. His motive is completely wrong. What's his motive? The glory of my majesty. It's the polar opposite, where the human heart is supposed to be, particularly the human heart of a governing authority, of a civil magistrate. They're put in place by God as servants of God, which we'll look at if we get to the passage in Romans. All people that's why I made a big deal about this earlier. Well one because it's true. Two, I was building up to this point. That all people are accountable to God to obey Him and live according to His word and His will, the governing authorities are not off the hook for that. They don't have free reign just to live however they want and decide things based on their arbitrary beliefs about morals and ethics and justice. They stand before God and govern before God and they are accountable before God to submit to God and God's revealed will. This is his earth. So it's not okay that Nebuchadnezzar is all about his own glory. By the way, it's not okay if we're all about our own glory. And then he goes on, verse 31. While the words were still in the king's mouth, there fell a voice from heaven. Well that'll get your attention. O King Nebuchadnezzar, to you it is spoken, the kingdom has departed from you. At that point it uh hadn't uh technically happened in a concrete way, but in terms of the reality, it's already departed. It's it's the sim it's the uh The flip side version of, but but it's parallel to when God told Israel that he had already given them the promised land. Before they went in and actually took the promised land and lived in it. It was already decreed by God. It was already decided by God. I've given you the land. Go in and take it. And that really gives you a a little insight into the atrocity of their sin of being afraid to go in and take the land. Because they didn't trust in God's promise or God's ability to give them what he already said. It's yours. I've given it to you. Or here it's the just the flip side of that. Kingdom's departed from you. I mean at that point the judgment actually he didn't start living out the judgment yet. But it had been decreed, it had been decided, Nebuchadnezzar for your pride. This kingdom that you think is yours and because of you and for your glory is being stripped away from you. Yeah, same thing. Judgment against King Saul Boys, King Saul loved outward religion. Read the narrative of King Saul again. And uh you just see over and over, he really loved to make a show of the religion and And as you get further and further along in the narrative, it's just like uh boy this illustration has been used to death in different ways, but different layers of the onion being peeled back every chapter you get just a a different layer peeled off and you get closer and closer to see the n The nature of Saul's heart, truly. And he comes under judgment in in uh different ways, tormenting ways, psychological ways Try to picture some of the things that he does, he's eating dinner, you know, in the Royal Hall, David's there, tries to throw a spear to kill somebody that didn't like this really happened, right? Wicked, wicked soul. How did we get up on Saul? Who brought that up? Is that you, Denise? Yeah. Yeah, and it it's parallel too, because uh Now that was in Israel, but that's in the governing authority. His job was to rule according to God's revealed will. And he's accountable to God. He's not a free-for-all. To rule however you think is appropriate. And the kingdom is departed from you, and you shall be driven from among among men. Your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. Looks like he's wasn't like completely out in the wilderness, but in the fields. So maybe in a place like Jarrett's film just out in the fields. Yeah, down at Grimmels Farm, just living out in the fields, so still you know part of the civilized earth, but completely lost his mind. Eating grass like an ox, right? Living with ox. Seven periods of time. Is that seven years, seven periods? Yeah, I think so. I think that's the traditional take on that, is that it's seven years Yeah, if if anyone has a footnote on that, just be skimming them as we're talking and chime in. That's how I understand it. I could be wrong about that though. And then God in the middle of thirty two gives the overarching Purpose for Nebuchadnezzar. It's a teaching purpose. What does he want Nebuchadnezzar to know You want him to know that the most high rules the kingdom of men, number one. Rules the kingdom of men So who's the supreme authority on earth? The kings of the kingdoms of men or God who rules the kingdoms of men? It's God. The supreme authority on earth is God. Kings are accountable to Him. The president is accountable to Him. The Senate, the judges are accountable to God. You can have a separation of church and state. You should biblically uh biblically defined and qualified, you should have that, but you nowhere does the Bible teach the separation of God and state It is a state in God's world, on God's earth. They are people accountable to God to do God's will. And they will be brought into judgment for their leadership and decisions. The way they've governed. Until you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will. And you you know that. We've looked at that before. We've talked about that I don't want to say several times, but a few times during this very series, but I hear it come up all the time in sermons and in different Bible studies. God is the one who sets nations in place, He sets borders and boundaries in place, and He's the one who sets leaders in place, governing authorities in place. God is the one who does that. So he rules over and he orders and gives the gives earthly authority. To whom he will. Why? Well, he's the only one who has the authority to do that, to delegate authority on earth. It's God's job. Immediately the word was fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar. And it says fulfilled against Nebuchadnezzar because it's a word of judgment against him. And he was driven from among men, and he grasped like an ox, and his body was wet with the dew of heaven. I think it's a w a way of I think that's literally true. I don't think I don't think he was always wet. I think it's just a way of saying he didn't live in a shelter. He didn't Didn't have a cottage. You know, he wasn't living in the peaceful cabin out near the lake, away from society. Just enjoying the peace of God's nature. He was being he was in torment. And his hair grew as long as eagle's feathers, so hygiene nails were like bird's claws. Hygiene, he wasn't taking care of himself. No one was taking care of him Away from the providential grace and mercy of God to allow him to give him such a such a kingdom and such prosperity on earth, on God's earth. And he had the complete wrong motive about it, the complete wrong Goal for his kingdom. He just was completely wrong about it all. It was all to put it in uh you know slogan, a slogan of modern Christianity. It was all about him. It was all about him. And he thought it was all because of him and based on him. He had no idea about what life on earth is supposed to be It's supposed to be lived in submission to God. And to be happy about that. What's his duty? Well, his duty is repentance. He's accountable to God. And let's uh do I have your permission to chase a rabbit on the role on the role of the governing authorities? Let's do it. Turn to Romans 13, 1 through 4, if you please. The governing authorities or the civil magistrates Are not the supreme authority on earth. They are an authority on earth, put in place by God. We are meant to submit to them. We are commanded to submit to them and honor their authority and respect their authority To be good citizens, peaceable citizens who obey and are not troublemakers or rebellious lawbreakers. But they are not the supreme authority on earth. What is the supreme authority on earth? God. Now, on this side of the work of Christ, how's that how's that exercise differently than it was before Christ's coming? This picture of the throne in heaven, right? Before the coming of Christ, did you have God 's human representative king on the throne in heaven with God? No, you didn't. You had imperfect human representative kings on earth that are foreshadowing the perfect human representative king, aka the son of God, the son of man. The heir of David, the son of David. Now God's human representative king, who is perfect in justice and is equal to God, is reigning in heaven with the ancient of days God the Father and God the Son is reigning at his right hand. So God still rules over the earth. Now, our brother, our savior , our representative, ruler, and king, God's representative king, reigns in heaven with the authority of God. That's Christianity right there. A human king reigns in heaven with the authority of God to do his will on the earth. Uh which is what we mean when we say Jesus Christ is Lord. So that's what we mean. Romans 13, 1 through 4. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities. That's a command to Christians. We should be submissive. We should be obedient. We should be good citizens. For there's no authority except from God. That's what I've been saying. That's one of the things I've been saying. Where do the authorities come from? From God. Who puts them in place? God puts them in place. They're from God. So in the providence of God, he puts authorities in place. He says this exhaustively: no authority. There's no authority except from God. We can't map out the details of God's providence in doing all this, but that is an absolute and exhaustive statement. Let every person be subject to the governing authorities because there is no authority except from God. Those that exist have been instituted by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. There's in these three different ways. It's from God, instituted by God. God has appointed Also, multiple times, be subject to, don't resist. And then later in verse 2, those who resist will incur judgment. Now it gets really interesting. Those use usually where we stop, and I've heard that that many times implicitly or explicitly been applied as if therefore the government has supreme authority. You submit to them no matter what, and maybe in our day, don't even voice your opinion. For rulers are not a terror to good conduct But to bad. Ruler should be a terror to bad Not good. Well, begin to meditate on something as I continue to read and rant. What happens if rulers don't know what's good and don't know what's bad? What happens when rulers are a terror to those who are good and not to the bad? Now, would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Do you want to live without fear? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval. For he is God's servant. Whose servant is the governing authority, the civil magistrate? It's God's servant. So God is the in the picture, the master, the governing authority is the servant. He's God's servant. For your good. He's accountable to God who is his master. Like if I say you're you're a servant of the Lord, you're God's servant. One of the things that implies is you're accountable to him. You must obey him. He's God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. So he bears the sword to punish the evildoer. For he is the servant of God. So there you have twice now. He's God's servant, now servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath. on the wrongdoer. Whose wrath does governing authorities carry out? God's wrath. He is put in place by God, right? God's servant, servant of God. To carry out God 's wrath against the wrongdoer. It's written in the uh middle of verse 4. He is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. It's meant to punish lawlessness. This is the purpose of the governing authorities. Now, let me just ask you. We'll finish reading. How should the governing authority, therefore, decide who's the wrongdoer and who isn't the wrongdoer? What's the wrong and what's the right? Yeah, by God's word. That's not the predominant belief in in churches today, in Christianity today We've bought into the mindset of moral relativism and also secularism, where we functionally, maybe we wouldn't uh say this, but functionally we live as if and act as if we're not supposed to have a voice with the governing authorities and laws. You know, not everybody. But by and large, I'm just saying that's the spirit that's the spirit of the age and it's crept into the church. The governing authorities do not have supreme authority supreme authority on earth, they it has not been delegated to them to decide what's right or wrong. It's not been delegated. That's that's decided That's decided by the nature of God. He's the standard of the right. He is the right. He is the good Governing authorities are accountable to God in the same way that you and I are accountable to God, to live according to his will. And since we haven't We need Christ for salvation. Because of their office and their servants of God put in place by God , For God's purposes on earth, they're also accountable for carrying out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. And they will be judged for their leadership. Therefore, one must be in subjection not only to avoid God's wrath, right? God's wrath coming through the civil authorities, but also for the sake of conscience. No, for because of this you pay taxes. The authorities are ministers of God. Again, ministers of God. And they wouldn't say that. Yeah, guess what? Nebuchadnezzar didn't say that either. Ministers of God attending to this very thing, pay to all what is owed to them. Taxes to whom taxes are owed, revenue to whom revenue is owed, respect to whom respect is owed, honor to whom honor is owed. Give to Caesar what is Caesar's. Give to God what is God's. Don't give to Caesar what is God's. Don't give to Caesar supreme authority. Don't give to Caesar the right and make it seem like it's his right to decide what's right and wrong. It's not. He's accountable to God I mean the church should function as something of a conscience in preaching what's right and wrong from uh from our own opinions From the Word of God. The Word of God is the standard. Since we're uh called to Obey the civil authorities and not cause trouble. Let's just say you're let's say you're in prison. wrongfully accused. Is it is it wrong or right to break out of prison? Show of hands right. Show of hands wrong. Wrong. Show of hands wrong. Show of hands right Okay. Well , it has your prison and your own has a phone Yeah. Show of hands wrong. Shouldn't do it. Don't try it. Okay. Show of hands right. Brian, good, he's they got one. In Acts five nineteen, the apostles are imprisoned by the authorities. God sends an angel to break them out of prison. And the angel commands them to do the very exact thing that the authorities just commanded them is the last thing they should do. In Acts 12, 7, God frees Peter from prison and in Acts 16, 26. God frees Paul and Silas from prison. God is the ultimate authority. What about the Hebrew midwives in Exodus 1? When they're commanded to kill the sons of the Hebrew women. Would it be right for them to kill the sons of the Hebrew women? No, it would not. Verse 117 in Exodus, it says, They feared God and said, They did not do as the king commanded. The king is not the supreme authority. And in 119, they lied to Pharaoh about the reason they did not. They said, well, these Hebrew women, they give birth fast. We couldn't get there in time. And then in 120, God rewarded them by showing them a special favor. Rahab and Jericho hid the spies, lied about it. It is not seen as a sin, but in fact seen as an act of faith. And in Hebrews 11:31, it's considered a defining act of true faith. And she's being and she's shown a special mercy from God. The Magi, Matthew 2, 7 and 8. We can turn there. There are more examples. He's trying to take some of the the highlights. Matthew two, seven and eight. Oh, she 's on the deal. Not telling you to go out and lie. Not telling you to break out of prison if you're imprisoned for something But living out the will of God and specific ethical decisions is often complex. And we need to know in those situations. Who's the ultimate authority and what's the ultimate standard? And if we don't know those two things, we won't be able to make the right decisions. Rahab lied to preserve life. The midwives lied to preserve life. God broke his apostles out of prison for the sake of his church To manifest his power for his church against the enemies of the church in its early stages. So we're not we're not uh nullifying What the Bible commands us about submitting to the authorities, understanding God puts these in place, He puts them in place for the good of mankind. What we're saying is they're not the supreme authority God is the supreme authority, and what the governing authority commands and says is right and wrong is not the ultimate standard of right and wrong. What God says is the ultimate standard. We've got to get that right in our hearts. So that when the difficult ethical situations and uh decisions are in front of us, we're able To to live out the will of God in faith, in the fear of the Lord, not in the fear of man. Matthew 2, 7 and 8. Now Herod summoned the wise men secretly Do you remember this happening? He summoned them secretly , secret meeting, very clandestine, and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared And he sent them. Did you remember that part? He sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go, search diligently for the child. And when you found him, bring me word so that I too may come and worship him. Well, Magi , just submit to the governing authorities. Right? God put them in place. After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold the star they had seen, when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. So they get there, they get the information And going into the house they saw the child with Mary his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Then opening their treasures they offered him gifts, gold, frankincense, and myrrh, which is why we say there's three of them, but there's three gifts. We don't know how many there were. And being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way. God comes to speak to them In a dream, maybe through an angel, sometimes in the dreams it's God, sometimes in the dreams it's God sending an angel. Here we don't get that detail, but God's word to them. Is what causes them to disobey Herod. Obedience to God always trumps Obedience to any earthly authority. So they departed to their country by another way. Here's the lesson. God is King. He's King of heaven, and therefore He's the highest authority on earth. He must be honored and obeyed before anyone, before anything. He must be honored and obeyed at all costs. And quickly, um we won't have time to get to this God as King handout, but we'll save that for next week. But let's just read Nebuchadnezzar. It's it comes again to him speaking or probably writing. This is probably part of his letter that he sent out. Testifying to what God did. Verse 34, at the end of days I lifted up my eyes to heaven, my reason returned to me, and I blessed the Most High, praised and honored him who lives forever and ever. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom endures from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. He does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of earth. You know that I'm on a hobby horse on that one tonight, and none can stay his hand, or say to him, What have you done My reason returned to me for the glory of my kingdom. My majesty and splendor returned to me. My counselors and my lords sought me. I was established in my kingdom and still with more greatness. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar, praise and extol and honor the King of Heaven. Great phrase there, for all his works are right, and his ways are just, and those who walk in pride He is able to humble. God is king, always has been, always will be, and his redemptive plan has gradually uh it's been advancing throughout history. It's gone through different stages and phases according to his plan. But God's kinship It's over all the earth, all the heav all heaven, all earth, and nothing can stop him from doing what he wants to do