Let's take our Bibles and turn to Ephesians chapter 3. This morning we are in Ephesians Chapter 3, verses 14 to 19, on the topic of grasping the love of Christ. Grasping the love of Christ, grabbing on to Holding on to, gripping the love of Christ. We've been in a series this summer on the various blessings that are found in Christ. And without reviewing all of those blessings, just to remind us of a few, the blessing of justification that is found only in Christ. That through faith in Christ, Based on his death on the cross, we are declared righteous before the throne of God. That's justification. That's one Blessing that is found in Christ. Another blessing that's found in Christ is the blessing of sanctification. Again, through faith in Christ. On the basis of his sacrificial death. And by the work of his spirit in us, the blessing of sanctification, the blessing brothers and sisters, of being made holy by the Spirit of God. The blessing of being conformed to the likeness of Christ By his word and by his spirit. Those are two examples of blessings that are found in Christ: justification and sanctification. There are other things that we've talked about, and there are other blessings yet to come. This morning is really an overarching blessing. I would even go as far as to say this is the best blessing that's found in Christ. I would even say it, and maybe this is an irreverent way, if you take all the blessings of Christ and mush them all together into one mega blessing. That's this morning's topic. And what that blessing is, is living with the experience of Christ's love in our hearts and lives. living with the personal experience of the love of Christ in our hearts and in our lives. All of the blessings of salvation, mushed all together, this is the central blessing. This is how we live. We live in daily communion with Christ. Daily experiencing his love, daily feasting on his love, daily in awe of his love, daily grasping the love of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is at the heart of Christian living, grasping the love of Christ, grasping the exceeding greatness of his love Grasping the vast expanse of his love. Grasping the rich treasure of his love. Grasping the love of Christ. That's our topic. So now every single one of you is equipped. If you walk out of church and they say, what was the sermon about today? You know the answer is very easy. The sermon today was about grasping the love of Christ. Are you with me? Grasping the love of Christ. Grabbing, gripping, holding on to. Now, one more thing on love before we read the passage and pray. Again, that passage is Ephesians 3:14 to 19. Just a basic definition of love. I don't want to go any further unless we all understand just a basic definition of love. Love is that which seeks your good rather than your harm. From a heart of a genuine affection, seeking your good rather than your harm, that's love. That's when you love someone. From a heart of genuine affection, from a heart of a genuine desire, when you seek To bless someone rather than curse them, that's love. When you seek to help someone rather than harm them, that's love. When you seek to do good to someone rather than evil, that's love, and that's what we're talking about. Jesus Christ, the exalted Lord of heaven, seeking your good rather than your harm from a heart of true and sincere devotion and affection for you. Personally, as a person, Christ in heaven wants your good, not your harm. That's love. That's what we're talking about. The love of Christ. Now, things in the world can't do that for you. All the money in the world cannot do that for you. All the popularity, all the attention, all the fame in the world, all the land in the world cannot do that for you. Only Christ is the source of this kind of love for your welfare and well-being rather than for your harm. Hey, I got one amen out of that. Brother, I will take it. This is my favorite topic. I may appreciate till dinner time. This is topic of topics. This is it. Brothers and sisters, friends, guests, neighbors, this is it. The love of Christ for sinners like us. That's it. This is where we are, the center of everything The blessing of blessings. Let's read this passage in Ephesians 3, 14 to 19, and then we'll pray before we go into the body of the message Paul writes, For this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that, according to the riches of his glory, He may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints. What is the breadth and length and height and depth? And to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge That you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Let's pray. Father, we join our hearts in faith and we call upon your name and we cry out to you in the name of Christ. Show us the love of Christ. Help us to grasp his love. Help us that he will be first in our hearts. And first in our minds, and first in our lives, and first in our desires, and first in our priorities That you would give us an ever-deepening cherishing and treasuring and desiring of Christ, our Lord and Savior. Help us to see the beauty of his love, the beauty of his righteous life, the beauty and radiant glory of his sacrificial death for our sins, for our salvation, for our souls. Help us to see the power of his resurrection. Help us to see that power of resurrection made available by the Holy Spirit and by your living word that's sharper than a two-edged sword that cuts to our souls and hearts. Show us Christ and help us to rest in Him and be conformed to His likeness. We pray in His name. Amen. First order of business. I want to prove This topic of grasping the love of Christ comes from the passage. All right, I want to demonstrate That this idea, this topic of the importance of grasping his love comes from this passage. First Look again with me at verse 18. In the middle of Paul's prayer, verse 18 says, may have strength to comprehend. Alright? Strength to comprehend. That's strength to grasp something. Strength to understand something. That's what comprehend means. Paul's praying that we have Strength to comprehend what? Well, let's keep reading. Strength to comprehend with all the saints what is the breath? And length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ. Just stop there. Strength to comprehend this great love of Christ that measures off in every direction. Strength to comprehend The love of Christ, verse 19, to know the love of Christ. To know the love of Christ, to comprehend the love of Christ, or as I put it in the title, to grasp The love of Christ. That's where it comes from. That's my argument for this topic and making such a big deal about this topic. And beloved, this is not just talking about mere lifeless mechanical head knowledge of Christ. This is talking about the daily experience of His love. This is talking about the personal Experiential, spiritual love of Christ at work in our hearts, minds, and lives. This is not A shell of religious intellectual knowledge. This is experiential, spiritual, knowing, experiencing the love of Christ. And to clarify, Paul is talking about the love of Christ. That is revealed to us in the gospel. This is not a vague spiritual idea. That makes us feel good, but we don't really know what it's talking about. Brothers and sisters, we know exactly what this is talking about This is talking about the love of Christ that has been made clear to us in the gospel of our salvation. The love of Christ in his leaving heaven to come as a man and live on earth. He did that out of love for our sake. His love and his righteous life, his love and his suffering in our place and dying in our place. Dying, taking our guilt, taking our shame, taking our sin, taking our death, taking our judgment for our behalf, on our behalf, the love of Christ as seen in the gospel. And we're to grasp more and more his love. So it's not intellectualism, but it's experiential. And it's not a vague idea or philosophical topic. This is talking about the gospel. It's talking about what God has taught us and taught you clearly in the gospel. Christ's mighty and wondrous acts of love for his people and for his church. Now the main Point or the main exhortation is going to be this: Grasping the love of Christ conforms us to the likeness of Christ. Grasping the love of Christ conforms us to the likeness of Christ. It's no point in talking about grasping the love of Christ if we don't give it a goal. If we don't give it a purpose, if we don't attach it to a practical application, why? Ultimately, why does Paul want the Ephesians Why does God want us to see and to comprehend and to know the love of Christ? Because seeing and comprehending and knowing the love of Christ conforms us to the likeness of Christ, and that's what God wants for us. He doesn't want us to go with the flow of the lost culture. He doesn't want us to just blend in with the wickedness and with the immorality all around us. He doesn't want us to just follow our hearts and follow our sinful flesh in whatever direction it goes God wants to conform us to the likeness of Christ. And so, yes, he deeply wants you to grasp the love of Christ because Grasping the love of Christ will conform you to the likeness of Christ. And now, if you're a Christian, you've got to want that I mean you've just got to be dying for that. For God by his word, for God by his spirit, for God by the love of Christ. to change you more and more into the likeness of Christ. Amen? Now where does that connection come from? in the passage. I've already shown you in the passage to comprehend, to know, that's grasp. But where does this idea come from Where we're connecting, grasping the love of Christ with being conformed to the likeness of Christ. It comes from the end of verse 19, where Paul says That you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Comprehend the love of Christ Know the love of Christ, that is the result, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. That's talking about the life and work of God inside of your heart. That you may be filled with all the fullness of God. That you would just experience the work of God and the power of God and the comfort of God and the joy of God more and more and more that you be filled with all the fullness of God What's bigger than the fullness of God? What's better than the fullness of God? And Paul's praying that you would grasp the love of Christ, that you'd be filled with all the fullness of God. That's the power of God in you. That's the presence of Almighty God in you. And that's that's the only way we'll be conformed to the likeness of Christ. That's not something I can do. That's not something you can do. We can't conform ourselves to the likeness of Christ. Now, in our flesh, we can conform ourselves to the external things of religion. That's easy to do. In fact, the flesh loves that. The flesh loves putting together external religion because then the flesh gets glory for that. But true sanctification True spiritual growth, mark this down, beloved, can only come from the life of God within you. can only come from the presence and power of God within you. And that's what you ought to be praying for. Pray for it for me I'll pray for it for you. We pray for it for ourselves. We pray for it for our families and friends that they would experience the power, the fullness of God So that's where the connection comes from. Are you with me on that connection? It's in the text. Brethren, it's in the text. To comprehend his love, to know his love, that you may be filled. With all the fullness of God. Now, as we open up this topic and work through this text, we'll do it in three steps. First of all, we'll look at a prayer for his love. A prayer for his love. Secondly, we'll look at the power of his love, which I've already been alluding to. Well, I guess I've been more than alluding to. Kind of what's harping on. That's the point of preaching, right? The power of his love. And third, we'll look at the preeminence of his love. That'll be most of our time. That's the main topic, or the main point, rather. In the paragraph, the preeminence of his love. Now, first of all, a prayer for his love. This is from verses 14, 15, and 16, where we see Paul Crying out to God on behalf of the Ephesians. Paul is praying. Paul is crying out to God for the spiritual growth of the Ephesians. It's like a hungry baby crying out for help. Here you have Paul, this hungry apostle, crying out, crying out for the Ephesians. Verses 14. To 16. For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father. So what's that? That obviously is prayer. Paul is praying. He's telling the Ephesians about his prayer. But at the same time, he's praying. I bow my knees before the Father Verse 15, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named. Now, what's that acknowledging? What is that talking about? It's acknowledging and talking about something that's very important in prayer. It's a very important aspect of our mindset in prayer, and that is acknowledging God's sovereignty. Acknowledging that God is the only true and living God, and that He has authority over all flesh. The earth is the Lord's and the fullness thereof. And everything and everybody that is in the world, every person, every nation, every leader, every judge, every family, everything falls under God's supreme authority. Sovereign God. That's the part of the mindset we ought to have in prayer. And now he gets into the meat of his prayer. Verse 16, that according to the riches of his glory, and make no mistake, God is rich in glory according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit In your inner being. Now, when you by the time you get to the end of verse 16, Paul has not yet arrived at the exact way he wants dephesians to be strengthened All he's prayed for so far is the fact that they need to be strengthened by God. Look at it again in verse 16. That according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit. Now, that's what we need That's what the Ephesians need. That's what Paul himself needs. That's why he knows that other Christians need it. I know that I need this. I know that you need this. You need to know that you need this. You need to know that I need this. We all need to let me just quote the passage: quote, to be strengthened with power through his spirit. In our inner being. End quote. Of course he says your because he's talking to the Ephesians. We'll just apply it to all of us. In our inner being. You see, this is talking about an inward Spiritual experience in your inward being, the invisible you. This isn't about us doing things for God. This is about God doing things inside of us We need to be strengthened with power, strengthened by his spirit. That's what it says, by his spirit. So the Holy Spirit, if there's nothing else you do and you walk with the Lord, cry out for the work of the Spirit in your heart Cry out for the Holy Spirit. Beg God for the Holy Spirit to help you act the right way. That's part of my prayer. God help me act the right way. God help me stop saying things by your spirit. Help me stop saying things I shouldn't say. And God, you know what? There's a lot of things I should say and I need to say, but I say them with the wrong way. I say them in the wrong way. I say them in um From the wrong motive. Help me, purify me, help me by your spirit. We all need to be praying that prayer daily. Daily. Unless you have another source of holiness that I don't know about. Cry out to the Holy Spirit. Cry out to the Holy Spirit. That's what he's praying for. Strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. That's a prayer. And what I call this point a prayer for his love. This is a prayer for Christ's love. Because I'm trying to break it up into bite-sized portions. The sentence continues. The sentence continues in verse 17. And we find out from verse 17 on, we find out the rest of the prayer. We find out the detail. We find out the specific way Paul's praying for them to be strengthened. And so we go to number two, the power of his love. The power of his love. Well, verse 19. Actually, I put these out of order. And the only reason I put these out of order is because that third point, the preeminence of his love, which is really the meat and potatoes of this passage, that's going to be the longest point and the central point and And the number one thing I want us to get. But uh number two, the power of his love is that ultimate goal from the end of verse 19, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Paul's the goal of his prayer, the goal of his prayer is for the Ephesians to experience the power of God in their lives. To be filled with the fullness of God. That's experiencing the power of God in their lives. We all need the power of God in our lives. Amen? When we become Christians, we haven't graduated from needing God. In fact, for the first time ever, now we'd wake up every day understanding I need God today. I need the power of God today. I need the patience of God today. I need the forgiveness of God today. I need God to teach me wisdom today. I need God to give me self-control today. I'm just saying mine. You say yours in your own heart. I need God's power today. I need God to fill me with all his fullness today. I need God. I need God's word. I need God's Spirit. I need to cry out to God in prayer. That's the goal of Paul's prayer. This lowly preacher, and that you yourself will be filled with all the fullness of God, the power of God at work in our lives. How in the world are we going to repent of the sins in our lives apart from the power of God? How in the world are we going to cultivate genuine holiness apart from the power of God? How in the world are we going to muster up the discipline to put everything down, get alone, get rid of distractions, and pray Apart from the power of God. We all know by experience it won't happen. God has to work. The power of God has to be in it, or there'll be nothing That's the power, the power we need, that we be filled with the fullness of God. Only gasoline Can power my car's engine. Lemonade won't work. Water won't work. Milk won't work. Any other kind of fuel, anything won't work. Only gasoline. That's it. Only gasoline. And I'm telling you on the authority of God's word today. Only the power of God within you can turn you away from sin and cultivate holiness and prayer in your life. That's what I'm telling you. If it's apart from the Spirit of God, it's it's just it's fake, it's a counterfeit, it's false. It's done, it's religion done in the flesh. And what we want is not religion done in the flesh. What we want is to be filled with all the fullness of God, to be daily experiencing and daily crying out for the power of God at work within us. That comes by his word, that comes by his spirit, the spirit of Christ that fills us. Now, if you couldn't tell, I've been rushing through points number one and two, as excited as I have been about the introduction. And improving the topic with the exegesis, to comprehend, to know, to be filled with the fullness of God, and really getting hyped about number one, a prayer for his love, and really getting psyched about number two, the power of his love. Now we come to number three, which has really captivated my heart, and it should captivate all of our hearts. The preeminence of his love. The preeminence of his love. Let's read once again and contemplate verses 17, 18, and the beginning of 19. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love , may have strength To comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth And to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. The preeminence of his love. The love of Christ is the highest point of doctrine that you could ever learn. It's the central theme of God's revelation of himself and his grace. It's this central diamond of God's shining forth his glory and his radiance So that we would see him properly, and that we'd respond to him properly, and that we would praise, worship, and serve and love him properly. The love of Christ is the highest mountaintop. It's the brightest star, it's the deepest ocean, it's the most glorious, beautiful, radiant sunrise. It's the most precious jewel. It's better than jewels. It's better than gold. It's better than silver. The love of Christ is the top. It's the best. It's the greatest. It's the highest. thing there is. The climactic work of God and the central work of God in history is revealing the love of Christ. The climactic work of God in your heart and in my heart is revealing the love of Christ. The climactic and best work of God in the local church. is making known and expounding and applying the you guessed it to the love of Christ. It's all about the love of Christ This is the way God has chosen from eternity past to manifest his glory, that he would be praised forever and ever through his Son, Jesus Christ. And I've said this before. Some of my favorite passages of Scripture, especially to preach from, are those that have the illustration in them. So that I don't have to come up with the illustration. And this is one of those passages where you see this four-dimensional love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, it surpasses, it's out of the box, it's far far beyond, it transcends human knowledge and understanding. And it's this it's this incredible description Wonderful illustration of Christ's love. He says he wants us to know, to comprehend with all the saints. What is the breadth of his love? That's how broad it is. That's how wide it is going in this direction. But he also wants us to understand the length of his love. That's how long it is. If you start walking down that road, that's It's not only so broad, this immense love. His love is so big you can't see that side and you can't see that side, and his love is so is so big you're going this direction, the depth of his love, and you just keep going and going and going and you'll never exhaust the depth of Christ's love. It's an infinite love going in this direction. It's an infinite love going in that direction. And then he says Height and depth. Height and depth. Now that confused me for a while because I thought there were only three dimensions. Aren't those the same things? You know, if something is this high, then it's that deep. But there's four dimensions. If you think of this as a structure, just think of yourself on ground level. You're ground level and you can build up, but you also can dig down. There's a height to the structure, but then there's also a depth to the structure. It's every dimension, the the breadth of his love, the length Of his love, the height of his love, which is height to the heavens, and the depth of his love. You can never stop exploring it. You can never stop You can never exhaust the love of Christ. It goes off in every direction. It's so big, it's so massive, it's so grand. The exceeding greatness of Christ's love, the exceeding greatness of a desire in Christ's heart to do you good. Isn't that amazing? Do you believe that this morning? That Christ, the Lord of glory, Christ the perfect in holiness, Christ who reigns in heavenly majesty genuinely desires to do you good and not harm, though you've sinned, though I have sinned We have broken every commandment in our hearts and our thoughts and our words and our deeds, and yet Christ loves us. He has an infinite love for sinners. He has an infinite love for people who do not deserve his love we deserve Judgment! We deserve wrath. And if you don't get that, you don't get the gospel. If you don't get that, you don't understand the death of Jesus Christ on a cross. This church is committed to preaching the biblical gospel, the true gospel, the true message of the Bible that we are all sinners. That we are all rightly under the judgment of God. That we are all guilty. Naturally speaking, we are all guilty before the throne of God. And there is a judgment coming. A right and just and good judgment coming. Now, once we say that, now we can give the true meaning of salvation. Salvation is being saved from that coming judgment. Salvation is being saved from sin and from the guilt of sin and from the consequences of sin. That's what salvation is. Jesus died on a cross so that we could be saved from that judgment. That's the biblical gospel. You know, there are a lot of good churches in America And praise God for that. There are a lot of true churches. Don't think we're the only ones. Don't think God is asleep. Don't think that God is inactive. Don't think that God has been pushed out There are a lot of Christians, and there are a lot of gifted and good Sunday school teachers and pastors and preachers and local churches and organizations of churches fellowshipping together. Let's give God the glory and thanks for that, and let's acknowledge His goodness in doing that in our nation and in other nations as well. But at the same time, there's a lot of false churches, and there's a lot of false gospels, and there's a lot of so-called churches who do nothing more than entertain people and just get them involved in religion done in the flesh. We want to be, by God's grace, by God's faithfulness, we want to be abundantly clear about this. Brothers and sisters, part of your evangelism To your friends, family, co-workers, neighbors. Part of your evangelism, I would say the biggest part of any of our evangelism is just being clear about what the gospel is. I mean, before even trying to persuade people or come up with like a program or a strategy or something, just be clear. Just be a person who communicates clearly that the Bible teaches that God is holy, and that we've all sinned, we're all guilty and under judgment, and yet, and yet, God has a love for sinners. God wants to do good to sinners And so he sent his son to die for our sin so that we could be saved from judgment. You don't have to say it in my words. Put it in your own words. You know it. Every believer in here is already equipped to be an evangelist. And I know that for certain. If this is not up for debate, You don't need to go to a workshop to be equipped for evangelism. Maybe a workshop to encourage us. We all need that. Let's just go to local church. Go to local church. That's your workshop. It's always going on. To be encouraged. But the reason I know that every believer is equipped for evangelism is because the thing that you need for evangelism is the gospel. And if you're saved. You know the gospel. Because if you didn't know the gospel, you wouldn't be saved. So this is not like advanced philosophy. But being just straightforward, clear communicators, do you know how much the world needs that? People are hearing all kinds of things about the Bible. All kinds of things about Jesus All kinds of things about salvation and God's character and Christianity and church. People hearing all kinds of things. Let's purpose in our hearts to be a voice of straightforward, no bells and whistles, just clear communication. Of what the gospel is, the true message of salvation. If God doesn't save people with the truth, he's certainly not going to swoop in and save them with a lie. If God doesn't change someone's heart with the true gospel, He's not going to turn around over here and change their heart with a false gospel. So let's be on this side of it, just clear communicators of the true gospel, trusting God to do the work. The preeminence of Christ's love. The preeminence of Christ's love is made known in the gospel It's infinite direction this way, infinite direction that way, infinite, infinite direction that way, reaching to the heavens Infinite direction, that way, going all the way down, the breath, length, height, and depth, to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. You know, one of the applications from that phrase that the love of Christ surpasses knowledge is the only source of learning about Christ's love is the Bible, which comes to us from God. Human knowledge didn't arrive at this Human speculation, philosophy didn't arrive at this. Me and Anthony didn't have a staff meeting, a pastor's meeting, and arrive at this conclusion and decide what the love of God in Christ is. Or what it could be, or what it should be. It comes to us in the Word of God. That surpasses knowledge. Humans didn't come up with this. God has revealed this. He's revealed the love of Christ. It's the greatest thing there is. I want to close our time in this final section by going very quickly, because this is going to scare some of you Very quickly, in a spirit of contemplation and meditation, go through twenty features Of Christ's love for helpless sinners. Number one, his love is transformative. That's been the theme all morning. His love is transformative. It doesn't leave us the same way. We see it with faith It transforms who we are. Number two is love is comforting. We all need the love of Christ to comfort us because we all have hurts sorrows and sufferings in this world. And the fleeting things of this creation cannot give us the comfort to endure these trials. Some of you are going through trials and hardships that you just never could imagine this could happen in your life You need the comforting love of Christ. Number three. Boy, this is a good one. Hopefully this gets at least two amens. Not that I'm asking for amen, but this is so good. His love is free. Amen. Right, good, because if I said after church, I'll have cheeseburgers for you that are free, everybody's heart would have immediately been filled with joy and excitement. I'm telling you, the love of God that's found in Christ that saves you from the judgment of God is free. free. Yes and amen and yes. Awesome. His love is gracious. His love is gracious. It's an undeserved gift. His fifth is love is merciful. Which means part of his love is it it restrains God's judgment and anger. It keeps it from us. Even though we deserve it, it keeps it from us. So it gives us the gift that we didn't deserve and it holds back the judgment that we do deserve. Number six, his love is tender and compassionate. His love is tender and compassionate. The best kinds of friends. When you're in trouble. The best cons of counsel and counselors and helpers when you're in trouble are not people that are harsh. are people who are tender and gentle and compassionate. And I'm telling you that that's the kind of love that Jesus has for you. His love is self-giving or sacrificial. Husbands, that's the kind of love we need to be giving to our wives. Parents, that's the kind of love we need to be giving to our children. Children, that's the kind of love you need to be Giving to your parents, And to your siblings. Brothers and sisters in Christ, this is the kind of Christ-like love we need to be giving to each other, self-giving sacrificial love, which is the complete opposite of the self-absorbed, self-seeking culture around us. Number eight, really happy about this one too. Christ's love is patient. Man, I'm glad Christ is patient with me. Boy, oh boy, am I happy That Christ is patient with me. Number ten, his love is praiseworthy You can say it's admirable, which is why so many of our songs are about Christ and His love. Number eleven, His love is assuring. It assures us of salvation. It assures us of eternal glory. And it breaks my heart, really, I see it so many times where believers lack assurance. It's because they're they're looking at something other than Christ as the source of their assurance. Maybe how they feel, maybe how many sins they've repented of, or how holy they can be, or how much how much they read the Bible. how many how many times they go to church, how many good deeds they do. It's something. It's something other than Christ that they're looking to as their source of assurance. So they're so there's like they're played. This chronic lack of assurance. Christ is the only source of assurance. Number 12 is love, is an active and dynamic love. Oh, it's doing stuff. Man, his love is doing stuff. That should be in our prayers. As we're praying, we're asking God, through the love of Christ, do stuff in my life. Put sin to death. God, do that by the love of Christ. Remind me to pray every morning. God do that by the love of Christ. Give me the energy To get showered and get dressed and get in the car and go worship the Lord Jesus Christ. God, do this with the love of Christ. Stir me up, revive my heart. It's an active love. It's a dynamic love. 13, it's an accessible love. Accessible love. You literally could have for your entire life until this sermon. Not thought about the love of Christ at all. You could have hated the Bible, you could be living in sin, loving sin, but God's love and God's forgiveness is a hundred percent accessible to you the same. This morning. You put your faith in Jesus Christ. You then are a recipient of this love. And everything we're saying about his love and all the all the features of his love, they're yours. They're all the treasures of heaven, they are yours. And all their breath, all their length, all their height, all their depth, all the love of Christ is yours. If you believe in Jesus for salvation, based on his death on the cross, Jesus is accessible. 14, his love is faithful and reliable. Makes him different than us. God's faithfulness is perfect. He doesn't forget things. He's reliable. He's always going to be there. Number 15, his love is eternal, it's infinite, it won't run out. You can't out sin the love of God. Alright, well, I've sinned too much. Now Christ doesn't love me anymore. No. No. Strike that. Number sixteen is love is a conquering love. That should be a big one for you because there are sins and strongholds in each of our lives that we need conquered. And I'm telling you, only Christ and His love can conquer those sins and strongholds. Give you the repentance that you want. His love is a brotherly love. It's a friendly love. That's number 17. Number 18, his love is a humbling love. If I'm walking in pride and I'm walking in arrogance and I'm looking down at you, and I'm just legalistic and critical of everybody else, and I'm up here and they're your way down here. If I'm walking in that that arrogance and that pride, if that's what defines me , that's what characterizes me, it's it's doubtful Me doubtful that I've been changed by the love of Christ and have the Holy Spirit. You mean to tell me That the omnipotent God, that the infinite, all-powerful, almighty Spirit of God has entered into me And given me a new heart, and convicted me of sin, and filled me with the joy of the Holy Spirit, and I have no humility, but only pride and arrogance toward others, I don't believe it for a second. That's unbiblical. His love humbles us. 19. It's a willful and joyful love. Nobody had to twist the arm of Jesus Christ to love you. Jesus Christ does not love sinners begrudgingly. It's genuine, as real and sincere as it gets, where the Lord of glory has a genuine affection for you and wants to do you good, not harm. And finally, you really can say this about any topic of theology or Christian living. Number 20, his love for you is a God-centered love. It's a glory of God focused love. As much as Christ's love is for us and pointed to us At an even deeper level, at an even more important level, his love for us is focused on the glory of his Father. See, we need to imitate Christ in this In being centered on God and not ourselves. The gospel is for our benefit, but ultimately the gospel is for God's glory. Give yourself to seek the love of Christ. Give yourself over to rest in His love because Grasping his love will conform you to his likeness. It will happen. If you comprehend are given strength to know, grasp and grip and hold on to for dear life, the love of Christ I guarantee you that the Holy Spirit will conform you to the likeness of Christ for the glory of God. Center yourself on the love of Christ. So that you and me and we and others might be filled with all the fullness of God, just as clay is molded and shaped by your fingers. To be made into a useful object. So also our hearts need to be molded and shaped by the love of Christ revealed in the gospel, so we may grow in holiness. Fix ourselves in the love of Christ and grasping his love, being conformed to his likeness, so that when our final breath comes to us, and the final breath is coming to each and every one of us. When that breath comes, when that day comes, we may be filled with a sense of contentment, and we may be filled with an other worldly peace and joy. Thinking to ourselves as we come closer and closer to the end, thinking to ourselves, thank you, God, that you taught me about the love of Jesus Christ. Let's pray together. God, we thank you for Jesus. I pray that in the coming days, weeks, months, and years, you'll do this gradual but powerful work. Of making the love of Christ the most important thing to us. Help us to grasp His love, to seek His love To avail ourselves of his word, help us to cry out for his spirit, and through all these things, to conform us to his likeness for your name and glory. And it's in Christ we pray. Amen.