Well, let us turn to Colossians 2. This is not Groundhog's Day. That is actually, we are going back to the same passage we were at last week Colossians 2 verses 1 through 10. Colossians 2 verses 1 through 10. Once again, what we are examining tonight is the heresies of eternity. Last week we talked about oppositions to the Trinity, and most of those came outside of the so-called uh Christian faith or Christian church. And now we're going to be looking a little bit more inwardly, even though we will argue that they are actually denying Christ and his identity often. Which then would remove them from the Christian church. But within the broader sense of the culture, many of the groups and people that you hear uh holding to some of these heresies are considered to be Christian, quote unquote. Um while I was in the army I had uh the wonderful opportunity to have quite a few different chaplains, but the most common chaplain I had were Mormons. And that Mormon chaplain was considered a Christian, and he was in charge of the Christian Protestant services whenever we were away. He wore a cross on his uh on his chest. And I I just remember so clearly that at one point the one chaplain uh we would we were we were away and he was teaching the Protestant service and he would say something and he would look at me and like am I you know, we're we're on the same page and I would just go, No, we're not. We're so far off. Um Um and we would have some conversations. He always had a box of Oreos with him, so we were good friends. But we we disagreed. Yet the world and and the government looked at him as though he was a Christian. And we see that with a lot of the heresies that we'll address The other thing that we're gonna notice is that the heresies that we're addressing aren't very new. It's not like they just popped up in two thousand twenty twenty, or twenty one or twenty-two. It actually started way, way, way long ago. Um fairly shortly after fairly shortly after the early church was created. It's not like these heresies popped up real late. It was early on that the church fathers and some of the early saints were fighting against these heresies throughout church history. And that's one of the reasons that we spend the time studying it. One is we want to sharpen ourselves and be prepared with a defense as we go into the world. But the other one is that we want to reassure ourselves that we're just not coming up with a new faith. We're not just coming up with new ideas of who God is. uh tonight or you know in the last ten years or in the last forty years. But that we're actually standing on the shoulders of men and women who have fought for the faith who have walked with Christ, who have given us the Word of God, who have defended it throughout the centuries to arrive to today This isn't something fresh and new, but we actually rely on the eternal truth of who God is. And that's why we're spending so much time in the heresies tonight. But let me just remind you of where we're at. This has been a journey. We started off this series of the Trinity looking at what is the Trinity, but our question is who is the Trinity? How the triune God is unified in one, yet we see the diverse uniqueness of the three persons, and we examine that for a few weeks. We then went into each person of the Trinity and saw their roles and and some of their functions and there's no way in one night we could cover the totality of each person or the totality of the unity of the Trinity And then for a few Sundays we examined the so what? How do we then respond in our worship and how the Trinity affects and was active within our salvation? And then last week we got to objections, and then tonight we're at the heresies. Brothers and sisters, I hope this series has been beneficial to you. It's helped you grow and just your confidence for who God is. Helped you understand when we sing and when we worship, when we pray. How's that flowing and operating and who God is? As we just grow in our knowledge of the God that we worship, we should grow more confident as Christians. We should rejoice in our identity as Christians, and we should have a little bit more zeal and energy. to go and uh defend our faith and our identity as Christians. And that's what I desire for us in this last section, this last sermon on the Trinity. Obviously we could not cover everything in the Trinity We could preach the rest of our lives and and just address the character of God and the nature of God and we could do this forever and then we will die and get to witness it firsthand and we will still learn so much more when we enter into glory. This purpose is just for to encourage us and and I've heard as I've talked with people that you know they're starting to make connections. As they're reading, they said, oh, you know, you should have mentioned this passage as a good one. Or hey, I never even thought about how you were talking about the Trinity and then we made this connection the other night. I know when when I got to listen to to Jason and Pastor Matt preaching, it was like, man, my mind was just Oh, I was just so excited and hearing how the Trinity is functioning, and I just got more excited. So I hope that happened for you all as well. And may tonight we leave with confidence. So let's get back into Colossians 2. Let's remind ourselves where we're at and what we're doing here, and then we'll dive into the heresy. So Colossians 2, starting in verse 1. For I want you to know how great a struggle I have for you and for those at Laodisha and for all who have not seen me face to face. that their hearts may be encouraged, being knit together in love, to reach all the riches of fullness, assurance of understanding, and the knowledge of God's mystery, which is Christ. in whom are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. I say this in order that no one may delude you with plausible arguments. For though I am absent in body, yet I am with you in spirit, rejoicing to see your good order and the firmness of your faith in Christ. Let's pause there Remember, we're to be encouraged and be reassured that the mystery of this great knowledge that we're looking for is found in Christ alone. That when we are rested and rooted in Christ, when He is our cornerstone, we have all the knowledge we need. We don't need the new trendy hip, new philosophy and theory. We don't have to be tempted by someone coming in and twisting words that sound good, but Christ isn't involved and Christ is an afterthought. We can arrest in Christ. You don't have to go off to college and get a whole bunch of degrees and study foreign languages and Greek and Hebrew and you have to understand Second temple Judaism and you don't have to understand anything other than Christ. Our identity, our knowledge comes from Christ. And we have God's word to reveal Christ to us. He has spoken to us. So we should be encouraged that as simple-minded as any one of us may be, we are still Brilliant because of the knowledge we have in Christ. That's been revealed to us through the working of the Holy Spirit. Let's continue on in verse. 6, and this is where we're we're going to unpack the heresies tonight. Verse 6. Therefore, as you receive Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Rooted and built up in Him and established in the faith, just as you were taught, abounding in thanksgiving. See to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit. according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world, and not according to Christ. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily And you have been filled in him who is the head of all rule and authority. Notice here that Paul is drawing out where our focus and intention must be. It's in Christ. You 've received Christ Jesus the Lord. So welcome him. Isn't it kind of a simple commandment from him? You've received him You've gotten the knowledge of him. You've been transformed by the Holy Spirit into his likeness, into his image. You received the righteousness of Christ. Now walk according to that new image you have. Now walk according to the Christ who you proclaim. So as we start to fight against these heresies, we're going to focus in on Christ. Most of the heresies address an issue with Christ, address an issue with Jesus And we're going to focus in on Christ. We're going to find that the root is Christ. Most of the cults in this world and this society and throughout history have been rooted in messing up and and changing the identity of Christ. Most of the the great cult leaders, great's not the right term there, but most of the cult leaders that became famous somehow tried to make themselves the identity of Christ try to take on his likeness and say, I am Christ. I am the Messiah. And and we should be able to defend and fight against that because we have received Christ and we're rooted in him. We're built up in him and we're establishing our faith in him. So we're going to focus our attention tonight mainly on Christ. Well, when we're dealing with any single person of the Trinity, we're going to deal with all of the Trinity, of course. And notice this that so uh back in verse 7 uh we're establishing the faith just as you were taught. So we need to be taught this. We we need to study the words, we need to uh wrestle with these ideas. But this piece is very encouraging to me, abounding in Thanksgiving. So often when we face trials and and uh challenges to our faith we we we don't like it and we want to flee from it and we want to never have to interact with that again. But if we're rooted in Christ and our faith is found in him We actually can be joyful even in the face of challenges, even as the enemy attacks Christ. We can be joyful. We know who Christ is. We know the truth. We can fight against the lies of the enemy. And we can do that with joy. We're all warriors as Christians. We're all fighting a spiritual battle. We're also fighting a physical battle in many senses, and too often the warriors want to put on a grim face. But rest assured that the enemy is most intimidated by a warrior that is laughing and smiling in the battle That's an insane person, right? If you ever get in a fight with someone that's laughing, just leaf. Don't don't even entertain that fight. That person's insane They have something in their mind that's beyond what's right in front of them. Well likewise, Christians, we have something in our minds, the future, the eternal, that we know is so much grander than the battle we're fighting here. And now we know the victory that's in Christ already. So let us be joyful in this battle. Let's be joyful when we face the challenges of the enemy. And let us go and attack the enemy, not physically, but with the word of God and with our faith rooted in Christ. So what are we talking about? We see this in verse 8. Paul's addressing, see to it that no one takes you captive by philosophy and empty deceit according to human tradition, according to the elemental spirits of the world. That's what we're going to see in the heresies. It's a philosophy. It's this thinking pattern that someone has come up with, or a group of people has come up with, that on one hand It sounds semi-plausible. It sounds like maybe there's something there. And they're really relying on thinking and logic and and this uh th this idea of if we just if if we line up all the stakes perfectly and all the sentences perfectly in a human standard, then I'm going to be absolutely right. The heretical person is going to be absolutely correct. But we know that's not the truth. We look to Christ. We look to God and His wisdom. Not that philosophy is inherently wicked. I mean all of us are thinking, hopefully. Anyone not thinking? Okay, good job. Either you weren't thinking and couldn't raise your hand, or you recognize that that would be foolish. That we're all thinking and our minds are working. So there's our philosophy there, but may we not be taken captive by this. May we not be enslaved by it. May that not be our master. It's just the philosophy May the deceit of the enemy, may human tradition, and may the elemental spirits of the world, may the enemy not be our master. Our master is Christ. Our Master is Christ. He is the Lord. He is the King. So let us focus on Him and worship Him accordingly. Alright, so let's talk about some of these heresies. That gave us three. If you want to have a fun evening, just go home and Google Trinitarian Heresies, and you can read all of Wikipedia. until your your heart's desire. But I pick three that I think we most likely will face in some aspect or have faced uh most recently in history. There's some heresies that actually fall into the objections that we studied last week. So I think these three which are on your paper will be three that are most likely for you to face. And regardless if you'll face these, and maybe you'll face a different heresy or a different challenge, or maybe it doesn't have the perfect name to the heresy. The scripture that we'll study and examine here will help strengthen us for really any challenge that comes against the triune God. So the first one is modalism. It's a pretty common uh name, modalism, and it makes quite uh sense once we break apart the word. The definition is the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are not distinct persons or personalities, but different modes of God's self-revelation. That's why it's mode. So imagine that this this imagery here is if if God was a TV And before picture in picture was a thing you could only have on one channel at a time. So God, the Father is the sports channel, and when that's on. That's the that's God and we have him in that image. And then we turn to a different channel, the news channel, and that's the sun, but you know obviously you can't see God and he's not functioning at the same time, and then the Holy Spirit would be a different channel. You can make up any silly imagery to to explain that. But the idea here is that the triune God is never functioning. Each person of the Trinity isn't functioning at the same time. So when the father 's functioning, the son and the spirit, they're not they're not operating. They're not alive in a sense When the Son, when Jesus was on the earth, the Father and the Spirit weren't weren't active. They were they were uh uh laid back, they weren't functioning. Um they Some would argue within this hair uh camp that they weren't even a thing, that God can only be one of them at any one time. So so he he reveals himself as the Son, he withdraws that revelation of the Son, and then he reveals himself as the Holy Spirit And when he withholds he withdraws that revelation of himself as the Holy Spirit and then as the Father. And he's constantly having to do that to function. It's a heresy. It's incorrect Some of the advocates that you may be familiar with for this is the Oneness Pentecostals , another that falls under the United Pentecostal Church International. I went on to their websites to verify this this week. You know, it's it'd be wrong of me to accuse someone of such a heresy. Um but but you can go on there and they're they're very bold about their statement of this that That God is not, they don't believe in a triune God. The Trinity, as we understand it, and as scripture reveals it, is not the God they worship. They now argue that the Holy Spirit is the final form of God that we see, and that we interact with and that is existing now And some of them will argue that uh in the eternal, once uh once the Holy Spirit withdraws itself and Christ represents himself or God re represents himself in Christ and returns to earth, then Christ the image of Christ will be withdrawn, and then the Father will be the eternal image of God that they will see. You can see the complexity here. It's even a bit confusing as we try to explain it. Some of you right now are sitting in some passages going like, no, I know in Scripture we see all three persons of the Trinity functioning and working at the same time. And you're right. And this is some of the tension that comes here. What's some of the dangers from this heresy? Well what what kind of God do we have that has to turn on and off a switch to function correctly? I mean, think back to Pastor Matt's sermon on the Trinity within our salvation, Ephesians 1, a beautiful, beautiful passage. Could you try to read that? This is maybe dangerous to say, but try to read that as a motalist. Try to read that and see the on-off switch that would have to happen for the triune God to function if he could only operate in one mode at a time. The dangers of modalism is that God's not actually functioning all at once. He's only revealed in a certain way, and the other identities are died off Now why does that matter? It's because the the relationship, let's think about the relationship between the Father and the Son. Well that's not actually a relationship. That's just God turning on an image of himself, turning it off, and turning on the image. Well now our understanding of how we relate to God completely changes. If the Father and the Son don't actually have a relationship within the eternal triune God, then how can we have a relationship with God that's actually changing constantly? Because he's turning on a mode and turning off a mode. We start to see that the image of modalism is quite dangerous to the understanding of who God is. Let's look at some verses that will defend and help us root ourselves in Scripture to see that modalism is false. It's a lie. The first one I want us to look at is Acts chapter 7. Acts chapter 7. This is Stephen's sermon. It's actually at the very end of the sermon, so verses 54 through 56. Acts 7, 54 through 56. Notice the Triune God functioning. All three persons of the Trinity functioning at the same time. Acts 7, verse 54. Stephen has just gotten done with his beautiful sermon, and this is what we read. Now, when they heard these things, they were enraged, and they ground their teeth at him But he, for the Holy Spirit, that's the first person, well, it's the third person, but it's the first one we see here, gazed into heaven and saw the glory of God Who is the Father? And Jesus standing at the right hand of God. We see all three persons Of the Trinity all at once. Continue on in verse 56. And he said, Behold, I see the heavens open, and the Son of Man standing at the right hand of God. But they cried out with a loud voice, and stopped their ears, and rushed together at him. Then they cast him out of the city and stoned him, and the witness laid down their garments at the feet of a young man named Saul. Do you see all three persons of the Trinity functioning and operating equally at the same time? Now, we don't have a modus in here to answer this, but what do we do with this? Is this just a a rapid reaction of God's modes turning on and off within this imagery, uh within this vision, within this this entrance into the heavens that Stephen has? Or does this refute and destroy the idea of modalism. Well, I'm I'm gonna tell you that yes, it does. We see that. Let's also turn to John 1. John 1 is uh verse 29 through 33 is the baptism of Jesus. Which is a beautiful imagery of the triune God, all three persons at the same time. We're not going to look at the other three. uh gospels for this, but I'm going to give them to you so you can write them down and take a look. Matthew 3, 13 through 17. Matthew three thirteen through seventeen. Mark one nine through eleven. Mark one nine through eleven And Luke 3, 21 through 23. Luke 3, 21 through 23. All three of the synoptic gospels give us a clear image of the three persons of the Trinity functioning at the same time. Operating at the same time, as they do throughout all of history. John 1, verse 29 through 33 gives us a look at the three persons as well The next day he saw Jesus coming toward him and said, Behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world This is he of whom I said, After me comes a man who ranks before me, because he was before me. I myself did not know him. But for this purpose I came baptizing with water that he might be revealed to Israel. And John bore witness. I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, and it remained on him I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, He on whom you see the Spirit descend. and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. And I have seen and have borne witness that this is the Son of God. So the voice of which Reveals the identity of Christ, the Holy Spirit which uh descends onto Christ. We see all three persons of the Trinity at work there. So let us not be tempted to follow after modalism. May that philosophy not tempt us because we see here in Scripture, and there's plenty of other places throughout Scripture that give a clear identity. of the triune God, three persons unified and operating together and at once. God does not have to turn on different persons to activate himself and reveal himself. All three eternal. That's why we started off the entire series of talking about the co-eternal, coexistent triune God Co-eternal, co -u -existent. Eternal, existent, co-equal. They're all three persons are functioning together. The second heresy that we want to look at is Arianism. Arianism was a very old heresy. The definition here is that Jesus is the Son of God. Okay? Sounds good so far, right? Who has begotten, who was begotten by the Father with the difference. that the Son of God did not always exist, but was made before time by the Father. Jesus was not co-eternal with the Father. Alright, so this idea is that while Jesus is God, he did not always exist, that he was actually created by the Father. He was formed by the Father. And let's be honest, there's something a bit tempting about this heresy. Because we do see this language of begotten in scripture with according with Jesus. We also have the language of Father and Son from a very earthly point of view. Your son , you were begotten, right? You're from your father. So from a very earthly human understanding, we get this. Maybe this is right But we'll see here that this is definitely not a truth. This is a lie about who God is. And some of the advocates for this is the Latter-day Saints or Mormons. Talked about them. They believe that Jesus was formed. He was created. If you really want to get into the weeds of it, they get down into this. There's a heavenly mother Alright, and she was active in the creation of Jesus. And the Jehovah Witnesses as well. They may not perfectly align with Arianism, but they do hold to this idea that Jesus was created. He was created. And their main hang-up there comes from a mistranslation of John 1. 1. It's it's honestly that simple. That that they've mistranslated John 1 1, which then has changed or uh it's changed their entire framework to of how they think about God, or it's probably the reverse They were already thinking about God and Jesus in this way. So then when they went to translate John 1. 1 and other passages, they had to twist and turn things to meet their standard. That's usually what the heresies are. We have a human logic idea of how things will work, and then when we go to scripture and it doesn't match quite right, we then start to twist and change things to meet our human standard. Some of the examples of how are we going to fight against this, how do we defeat this idea, is actually in our passage, Colossians. Two nine Colossians two nine. We see there that the full deity of God Dwell within him. Colossians 2 9. For in him the whole fullness of deity dwells bodily, not partial deity Not the the offspring of God, not one that inherited the name of God or or the last name of God, but the full deity, the totality of God. We see here that Jesus is not formed later, but he's always dwelt in the triune God. The other example we want to look at from Scripture is John 17. The entire Gospel of John is maybe one of the best defenses against Arianism. Throughout there you see over and over again this This clear pointing to how Jesus is God and always has been God. His union with the Father is so tightly knit that you can't peel them apart And this is we we talked about this last week. This is why the Jewish leaders and people wanted to stone Jesus because he was announcing that he was God. And that the unity was there. The Father and Him were one. And we see this throughout the book, the Gospel of John. But John seventeen, uh we'll start in verse three. And this is eternal life. That they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. I glorified you on earth. having accomplished the work that you gave me to do. And now, Father, glorify me in your own presence with the glory that I had with you before the world existed. So there's a glimpse into the eternal history that before the world began, Christ was already with the Father. The Son and the Father were already unified. We see this in Genesis in the creation narrative, this plural language of when God is creating humanity. The reason this is helpful is because Arianism, their argument is that Jesus was born and created in Bethlehem about 2,000 years ago Maybe there was an idea of him, but he wasn't actually created and begotten until Bethlehem 2,000 years ago. But Jesus himself is announcing here that he has always existed. Before the world existed, before how we understand history, how we understand creation, before that, he was already existed. The unity of the triune God has always been there. Some other verses you can look at in John that will help. Actually, we'll look at John 1. 1. I wasn't going to, but It's St. Patrick's Day, so we're going to celebrate by reading John 1-1. I'll go ahead. At least you got it as a joke. John 1-1. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. All things were made through him, and without him was not anything made that was made. In him was life, and the life was the light of men. The light shines in the darkness, and darkness has not overcome it. And we know from John 1. 14 And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son, from the Father, full of grace and truth. We now see that the Word, we give the definition of who the Word is, and that's Jesus. The Word has always dwelt, has always existed. The triune God is the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit through all of eternity, past into the future. Why is Arianism dangerous? Well, if Christ is created, if he is formed, is he really sufficient to redeem us? Is he enough? If he's just a creation of God, like you and I are, well then why don't we just rely on ourselves to accomplish salvation? Well maybe there will be some new creation that will come in the future that will be able to redeem us. Maybe do a better job than the creation of Jesus. That's not the case. This is the eternal God that has redeemed us. The eternal God in the Son has hung on the cross in that in our place. The eternal God has paid the eternal perfect sacrifice for us. It's vital that we understand that Jesus has always existed. Because he has the name Son and the name Father does not mean that one was created out of the other. They have always existed. And the last heresy that we'll address This d docetism, docetism comes from the Greek word that talks about i it that is used for phantoms or or the there's a spiritual nature here and this is what we will see here. The definition is that Jesus is truly God. Okay Right? This is where some of these heresies like they they can captivate us, right? Alright, cool. We're agreeing up to a point. And took on the appearance of human who was never truly human. Okay, let's stop. Here's the problem. Uh this is uh uh the advocates here, uh there's hard to put a a a name or a specific group into the advocates group here But we actually hear this heresy quite often in our culture in different forms in different ways in different ways. John's letter, 1 John and 2nd and 3 John are all addressing part of this issue. That there's people teaching that yes, Jesus is God, yes, he did come to earth, and yes, he did appear to die on the cross. But he never actually took on human flesh, he never actually took a human death, and he never actually died as a human Now this is one of the arguments that Muslims will also bring in. How could God die? How could God take on flesh? So we've already addressed this a little bit I think we actually hear this often in our culture, unfortunately within our own churches, maybe not North Hartford. I haven't heard it here yet, but some of the bigger churches in America talk about this idea of how uh have you heard have you heard this argument when when you you say, well I'm struggling with this issue And someone goes, yeah, yeah, I I hear your struggle. I hear your temptation there. Have you looked at how Jesus walked? How did Jesus deal with his enemies? And they'll go, oh yeah, that's Jesus. That's God, right? Of course he could do it. And there's this idea that they're actually pulling away Jesus' humanity Oh well he's just God. Of course. How can I look at Jesus as my example if he's God? How can I look at Jesus as as the definition of how I am to live? Of course he's always going to do better than me because he's God And we actually we peel away his hu humanity there and we w rightfully so, we're saying that he's he's God, but we're missing that he was he also took on human flesh, that he actually does relate to us He is the example of how we should live. This idea also of uh of Jesus not taking on human flesh destroys the hope that we have an actual death and resurrection to come. I didn't write this one down, but uh write down 1 Corinthians 15 And you're going to see that Jesus really did die a physical death, and he really did have a physical resurrection. And if that's not true, then you and I have no hope. If it's only a spiritual, theoretical world Well then, what's the purpose of today? What's the purpose of these lives that we live here? What's the purpose of this life? If it's all just spiritual, if it's all just a metaphysical There's nothing physical that we're dealing with. Well then what's our hope? If it's uh if it's just spiritual and there's nothing physical, well then all of our problems that are physical we can just push to aside and say We actually don't need to care about that. We only need to address sp uh spiritual issues and spiritual things. But we see that God has created us with both a soul and a body. Likewise, we see that while God is spirit, we also see that Jesus took on flesh to relate to us so that we can see How to live. Not only that, the fact that he took on flesh is how he was able to pay for our sins. If it was just a spiritual God that hung on the cross , Then were our sins really paid for? Was blood truly poured out? If it just looked like blood, if it just looked like uh it was a problem, if it just looked like he had died, Well then, did we actually get redeemed? Is there actual salvation in Christ? This argument has been made uh uh throughout history to uh refute that Jesus actually died on the cross. Well they wouldn't say he was God, they would say that him dying on the cross it just appeared as though he had died. But he actually didn't physically die. He got off before he had really died. Um and he just had some piercings on him, but he wasn't actually dead. And we see in the Gospels the clear image that he is dead. His side was pierced open and water and blood flowed out. He was clearly placed into a grave and he was dead-dead. In the South, that means you're dead. Right? When you're dead, dead, there's not just, you know, uh mostly dead. There's a movie that talks about that, but no, you're dead. No, he was dead dead. There was no life in him. Now how could there be no life in him if he didn't have flesh? It's because he actually did bear flesh Look at Philippians chapter 2. Philippians 2. We're going to see how scripture defends that Christ really did take on flesh, that he was truly God and truly man. Philippians 2, we'll start in verse 5. Have this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grass But emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form He humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on the cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. If Christ didn't take on flesh, he didn't become a servant here on this earth, he didn't go to the point of death in obedience, then we have no hope. We have no salvation. The sec uh yeah, the second verse I want us to look at is Romans eight. Romans eight verse three Actually I'm going to start in verse 1. Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Good news, right? This is good news. There's no condemnation for those found in Christ Jesus. How is that possible? Let's find out. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. Praise God. Right? Praise God. This is good. Verse 3, for God has done what the law weakened by the flesh could not do. by sending his own Son in a likeness of sinful flesh, and for sin he condemns sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the Spirit. For those who live according to the flesh set their minds on the things of the flesh, but those who live according to the Spirit set their minds on the things of the Spirit. If Christ didn't take on flesh, and live an obedient life to the law, then our sins can't be atoned for. There would still be sin to be addressed. If he was only spirit and didn't actually take on flesh then he didn't actually fulfill the law. We see the law and flesh go hand in hand. But his taking on flesh and fulfilling the law, being obedient to the law, and then his death on the cross, paying the perfect sacrifice, is the only way that we have salvation. Truly God and truly man. The last place we will look to defend the triune God and that Jesus took on flesh. And refute this heresy is Hebrews chapter 2. Hebrews chapter 2. We'll start in verse 14. Hebrews is another book that's packed full of Trinitarian theology to reassure us of our confidence in the triune God. But Hebrews 2 verse 14, it reads, Since therefore the children share in flesh and blood, he himself likewise partook of the same things that through death he might destroy the one who has the power of death, that is, the devil. And deliver all those who through fear of death were subject to lifelong slavery. For surely It is not angels that he helps. It's not angels that he helps. Who is it? But he helps the offspring of Abraham. That's you and I. Therefore, he had to be made like his brothers in every respect, so that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God to make to make propitiation for the sins of the people. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. If Christ didn't take on flesh, we have no hope. But because of the truth that Christ is God and man, he took on flesh, we have hope. We have hope, brothers and sisters. This is where our salvation lies in the beauty of the incarnation. It's why we celebrate Christmas, the birth of Christ. It's why we celebrate Easter, the death and resurrection of Christ, because we see all of that requires the human body, which our loving God. Sent his son to take on that body, to be tempted, to die an actual death, to resurrect an actual to actual new life And to live eternally as king. This is the God we worship. It's who we we follow after. It's where our name comes from. And it's why we spent so much time studying God That's why we spent the last two Sundays studying the lies against his identity so that we can go against the enemy and and trust his word and know that our God He's good, he's righteous, he's eternal, and he's triune. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you that you have given us confidence To stand against the enemy. You've given us the truth that has been revealed in Christ. Lord, may we live lives that reflect this. May we study your word. May we know you more and more. May we seek to sit at your feet and to dive into the depths of your identity. May we have these conversations about who you are with one another? May we go into the world with boldness to defend our faith in you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.