Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to Galatians 4, 12 through 20. That's Galatians chapter 4, verses 12 through 20, pleading with the Galatians. It will be Paul pleading with the Galatians to not lead the way of grace. And and fall for the way of works. He's pleading with them to stay on the road of grace. Don't put yourselves back under law. Don't get onto the the way of earning your righteousness. By works. Stay on the way of grace. Stay on the road of grace. Paul will be pleading with the Galatians. Between walking in the way of grace on the one hand and then walking in the way of works on the other hand. Walking in the way of works is living as if we have to earn our righteous standing before God by our obedience. That's the way of works. The way of grace, the way of gospel is our righteous standing before God is a free gift. It is a free gift that Jesus gives us I hope that our hearts would be stirred just in hearing that. That's a wonderful, wonderful message. This is the miracle of salvation. And Paul is going to be pleading with the Galatians as we should be pleading with each other and we are pleading with you. Stay on the way of grace. Don't become a legalist. Don't become self-righteous. Don't be one who lives as if you have to earn your righteous standing before God. You do not Have to earn your righteous standing before God. If that were the case, none of us would ever attain to a righteous standing before God Um Galatians four twelve twelve to twenty pleading with the Galatians. Here we go, beginning in verse twelve. Brothers I entreat you, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. You did me no wrong. You know it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first. And though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me, but received me as an angel of God, as Christ Jesus What then has become of your blessedness? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me. Have I then become your enemy by telling you the truth? They make much of you, but for no good purpose. They want to shut you out, that you may make much of them. It is always good to be made much of for a good purpose. And not only when I am present with you, my little children, for whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth, until Christ is formed in you. I wish I could be present with you now and change my tone, for I am perplexed about you. Lots to cover here. And um first thing I want to do is look at the book and phrases of this passage. The last thing Paul says is what? I'm perplexed with you I'm confused. What's going on? You're the way you're behaving is perplexing. I'm perplexed about you That's the end. The first thing he says is, I entreat you, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. Now we'll talk about the meaning of what that specifically what that means, become as I am. But first, what he says is, I entreat you. It means to beg. It means to plead. And so you see the connection, Paul's perplexed. with the Galatians and the direction they're headed, or at least the direction that some of them are on the verge of heading, away from the true gospel, falling for a false gospel. He's perplexed and so he's pleading with them. He's begging them He says, Become as I am, for I also have become, or even became, would be a proper translation, as you are. So four simple points. Just Just work through the passage bit by bit. The first thing I want us to look at is their initial reception of Paul. Their initial reception of Paul. Powerful language here This is uh the end of verse twelve, where he says, You did me no wrong. So they treated him well, but then mainly verses thirteen and fourteen. Verses thirteen and fourteen You know it was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first. Um so it it's something in God's providence Paul was sick, and something in God's providence brought him to the Galatians. And when God brought Paul to the Galatians, what did God really bring to the Galatians? He brought the gospel. He brought salvation. It was because of a bodily ailment that I preached the gospel to you at first. And though my condition was a trial to you, you did not scorn or despise me But received me as an angel of God. An angel of God is a messenger of God. They received Paul the way you're supposed to receive a messenger of God. And he even says after that, you received me as an angel of God, comma, as Christ Jesus. Because Paul was an apostle of Jesus. Paul was sent by Jesus. Paul was authorized by Jesus. Paul was an apostle. And you receive, you're supposed to receive the messenger of God in this way, because the messenger of God brings what we all need the most. And that is God's word. We need God's truth in our lives. We need the message of salvation to come into our ears and to come into our hearts and to change our hearts and reconcile us to God. And Paul was a messenger of Christ, sent by Christ, a messenger of God, an angel of God, and they received him the proper way. That's a good application point there, isn't it? There is a proper way to receive teachers and preachers of God's Word because there's a proper way to receive God's Word. You see, God's Word is the key. God's Word is the issue. How does your heart receive the Word of God? Does it receive it humbly? Does it receive it joyfully? Does it receive it in the desperation that's fitting for Weak and lowly sinners or does does our hearts just bat it away like it's no big deal and run to other things as a source of hope. And r run to other things. as a set for a sense of security and identity and meaning and purpose. The messenger of God Is important because of what he brings, not because of who he is. God can use anyone to speak his word. God can use anyone to be his messenger. But the critical issue is how do you receive the message? You can picture uh the coach and his whole coaching staff having to be at a meeting, having to be away from practice. And so all the players are out on the field by themselves, and so the coach sends the captain with instructions on what they're to do for their practice time because the coaches won't be there, the real authority won't be there But the messengers of the coach will be there, the representative leaders will be there, and the way the team receives the captain is the way the team receives the coach. Because it's the coach that gave the orders by way of the captain. It's a similar thing here with Paul and any messenger of God's word. Whether it's a speaker or an author or a pastor or a friend or a family member, the speaker of God's word. It's bringing what we need to hear and what you need to hear. Christians must set an example of this for the watching world. We must be a shining example of people who warmly receive the Word of God. We must be a shining light, the shining beacon of light. Someone always praised that our church would be a beacon of light. I think it's you, brother. That our church should be a beacon of light. Well, part of that shining forth as a beacon of light is being an example of people who are desperate for the word of God We need God's word. We need God's truth. We want God's truth to burrow its way into our hearts, to build us up in the faith. Receiving God's word the right way is not something that just happens once, but it's something we not only continue in, but brothers and sisters It's something we grow in. As we get older, as the Lord matures us, we get better and better, so to speak, at receiving the Word of God. And our hunger for the Word of God grows stronger and grows deeper. And um their initial reception of Paul was proper. Their initial reception of the true gospel was proper. You know, another application that's Just just behind the curtain, just behind the scene, is that just because you initially received the word of God properly does not guarantee that you always will. That's why Paul's pleading with the Galatians. Because they've lost their way. In fact, in Hebrews 5. 11, the author of Hebrews tells the first audience, you've grown dull of hearing. You've grown dull of hearing. You're not hearing. You're not learning. You're not receiving the word the way you ought. And so you need to be taught again the basics, the elementary things, so that you can start moving again toward proper maturity. God 's children must give careful attention to the faithful hearing of God's word. The faithful hearing of God's word. Now what is Paul pleading with them to do specifically? What is he pleading with them to do? Well, I said even before we read the passage. I gave this in the opening that just in a general sense he's pleading with them not to be steered off the way of grace. That's what the false teachers with the false gospel were leading and were tempting the Galatians to do. They were trying to steer them off the way of grace, trying to steer them away from the true gospel and put them onto a way of works. Where their adherence to law is part of their righteous standing with God. Um where you get this in the passage is A kind of cryptic statement that's unique in Paul's language and scripture. What is he pleading with them to do specifically? Well, it's verse twelve. You just have to read it right there in verse 12. He says, I entreat you, which means I plead with you. Here's what he says: Become as I am, for I also have become as you are. What in the world does that mean? Become as I am, as I became as you are, or as I also have become as as you are. Well just we can start understanding this just by using different language to smooth it out a bit. He's saying, imitate me the way I've imitated you. That's just another way of saying that. Be like me the way I was like you. Imitate me the way I imitated you. Become as I am the way I became as you are. Namely, namely, stop trying to justify yourself by the law of God. That clearly in Galatians Clearly was the direction or at least the temptation that had slithered its way into the church. Not only do you need Jesus, but you also need to justify yourselves by your adherence to the law of God. Now, when Paul evangelized Gentiles, He, in a sense, he became as the Gentiles. Namely, he became as one who is not under the jurisdiction of God's law. Now Most of you in here know the classic verse on this. The classic verse on this is 1 Corinthians 9, 21, where Paul says to those outside the law, I became as one outside the law. Did you hear it? I became as. To those outside the law, I became as one outside the law. He's talking about Gentiles. And in the evangelistic setting, to Gentiles, Paul became as them. He became as those who are outside the law. Now, let me read that full verse, 1 Corinthians 9, 21, without chopping it off, because it's a longer verse. And here's what Paul said. To those outside the law, I became as one outside the law, not not being outside the law of God, but under the law of Christ. That I might win those outside the law. It's that classic passage where Paul explains why he becomes all things to all men, that he might win some to salvation. One author says this, uh, it's uh from Doug Moose 's commentary on Galatians And he says this when he's explaining the meaning of this statement, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. He says, quote, Paul has exchanged his life under the law for a life under the dominion of Christ. An existence no longer determined by the law. How foolish for the Galatians, then, to be contemplating the opposite exchange, to put the law in the place of Christ. And so Paul's calling them back. Don't put the law in the place of Christ. You've already put Christ in his proper place. Under the jurisdiction of Christ, under the Lordship of Christ. Christ mediates your relationship to God. Christ gives you a righteous standing before God. Don't swap that out. For law, as if you needed to earn your righteousness. So he's pleading with them again. Don't forsake the way of grace. Don't put yourself under the law. Stop trying to justify yourselves by adherence to God's law. That's a very helpful explanation by Doug Mu in his commentary, but you know where the clearest explanation of the meaning is for this? It's actually in the book of Galatians. Flip over. Well, you may not even have to flip over. It should be on that same spread in your Bible. Chapter 5, verses 1 To six, where you'll see clearly that the temptation or for some I'm sure it's already happened or this wouldn't be Such a big deal for Paul is to put themselves back under the law, to put themselves back under a yoke of slavery to the law when they've been set free. Why would you exchange freedom for slavery? So he says in chapter five, verses one. Through six. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore. And do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look, I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are Severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law, you have fallen away from grace. That's the last thing you ever want to hear. His the two have been severed from Christ And that you've fallen away from his grace. Why? Why are you severed from Christ? How have you fallen away from his grace? Because you're trying to justify yourself by law. That's what he says. That's a vivid, vivid verse for what's going on in the Galatian churches. And then he says, verse 5, for through the Spirit. By faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus, neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith. Working through love. Remember that remember these false teachers, this sect, this heresy, false gospel Jewish sect in the early church. Not all Jewish believers, but there was the Judaizers with the false gospel infiltrating the church and spreading a false gospel, putting people back under a yoke of slavery. Um Remember Acts 15. 1. Acts 15. 1. Some men came down from Judea and were teaching the brothers. Listen to this. Turn your ears on if they've been off. Here's what they were teaching the brothers. Unless you are circumcised according to the custom of Moses, you cannot be saved. Can you imagine if I preach that? I'm serious. Such as they were teaching in the churches. Unless you're circumcised according to the law of Moses , You can never have salvation. You can never be righteous before God. Brothers and sisters, this is big stuff. It doesn't get any bigger. That's why if you go back in tonight in your nighttime devotions And read Galatians chapter 1, where Paul lays out just how big of a deal this is, that this false gospel is infiltrating the church. We'll understand of just how serious this is. So back in Galatians, back in Galatians, he's pleading with them, pleading with them, don't fall away from grace. Don't put yourself under the slavery of the law. He says, You well, it's not just a big deal. We're just accepting circumcision to be righteous. What does Paul say? He says, Man, if you accept that You're obligated to keep the whole law. You can't have one without the other. You're either justified by adherence to the law and made righteous by your obedience to the law, or you're justified by free grace that's found in Christ It's not a mixture. It's not a mixture of Judaism and Christianity, gospel. It's the gospel and Christ alone that saves. But all that, all that. It comes out in verse 12 where he's, well that's the literal pleading. He says, become as I am, for I also have become as you are. Their initial reception of Paul was good, but something had steered them off course, and that's the second thing we see. Something had steered them off course. If you've been tracking with Galatians, you already know what it is. We've been talking about it pretty much this whole time. A false gospel by false teachers. Something that steered them off course. Look at verse 15 and 16 I mean it's clear something had steered them off course. Verse 15, Paul writes this. What then has become of your blessedness? Right, that warmth. That warm reception, that proper reception, they treated him like an angel. They treated him as Christ Himself because he was the messenger of Christ. What has become of your blessedness? For I testify to you that, if possible, you would have gouged out your eyes and given them to me. That's how much they loved Paul. That's how thankful they were for Paul and for his ministry and for his gospel and for the salvation that they knew only because God brought it into their lives. Have I then become your enemy by telling you the truth? Well that's a powerful verse. You ever tell someone the truth that they need to hear, and what do they do? They turn themselves against you like never before? And they treat you like an enemy, all you're trying to do is help. You didn't need the extra drama. You didn't need the extra stress. You're just trying to help. Trying to make a sacrifice for the good of someone else that they turn themselves against you. Man, isn't that the worst? But isn't it a blessing when they receive it the right way? And the and ultimately say thank you. You know, no one's ever showed no one's ever had the courage to tell me that before But thank you. That is what I need to work on. That is what I need to change. That is where I need to repent. That is where I need to do better. And thank God for those people in my life. Thank God for those people in your life. God puts those people in our lives to help us. We don't want to become enemies of People who are our true friends. We don't want to set ourselves as enemies against those who are just trying to help and do God's will and help us to live according to God's will. Some people connect this verse um you would have gouged your eyes out and given them to me. Some some people connect that to this this this view, this belief, and there's other verses that support this too, that Paul had a seeing problem, he had an eyesight problem. And so this is a very personal way he is acknowledging their love. for Paul that if they were able to, they would have gouged their eyes out and given them to Paul to fix Paul's eyesight. They would have become donors, organ donors, so that Paul that's how much they loved him. But he says in verse 15, what then has become of your blessedness? So something's taken them off of that course. Something has changed that great, great love. And what is it that scared them off course? Well the the clue is in verse 16. Have I then become your enemy by telling you the what? The truth. Right, so the obviously the thing that's steered them in the wrong direction is the opposite of truth, and the opposite of truth is Lies, fal false message, error. They fallen for error. And when they fallen for error from false Apostles. Now they're making themselves as enemies to the truth and to the true apostles. That makes perfect sense. And we're we should be enemies of heresy We are to fight off heresy and tear down strongholds, standing up for the truth of God's word. Flip backwards a couple pages. Look at chapter 1, verses 6 and 7. It's it'd be one thing just to be steered off course from loving Paul But it's more than that when you s when you forfeit the true gospel and when you adopt the false gospel Verse 6 in Galatians 1, I'm astonished that you are so quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ. And are turning to a different gospel. Quickly deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ. Quickly deserting Who? Him who called you in the grace of Christ. Brothers and sisters, that's God. That's God. You can't make a stronger statement to the Galatians. I'm astonished that you're deserting God. He called you in the grace of Christ. He gave you the greatest gift you could ever receive. He gave you true and lasting hope. He erased the guilt of all your sins, and you're deserting him who called you in the grace of Christ and are turning to a different gospel. Turning to a different gospel is not a morally neutral thing. It's a personal rebellion deserting the God who called us. Go back to our chapter, chapter four. These false teachers with a false gospel that's not based on the way of grace, but based on the way of works and Putting people back under the law. It's causing believers to walk in a way that's not in step with the gospel. There's another place in Galatians where Paul has to publicly confront other believers. He has to publicly confront who? Who is the biggie that Paul publicly confronted? Peter, because he they he was walking in hypocrisy. They were not walking in step with the gospel, but they were walking in hypocrisy. And it was because of this false gospel had slithered its way in because you can follow it out, you can connect the dots, you can map this out. What else happens if we walk under law instead of under grace? What else is going to happen? Just map it out, connect the dots in your mind. What else is going to happen if we walk under law instead of under grace? Well, number one, we'll live by a principle of works instead of a principle of faith. We'll live by a principle of works instead of a principle of faith. Now living in a principle of faith is I'm always, always, always looking to Christ and depending on Him for everything For righteousness, for repentance, for comfort in my heart in times of sorrow, for strength in the midst of temptation, whatever it is. Whatever it is, for practical obedience at home, treating my wife and kids the right way, for practical obedience at church, treating the church the right way, treating the church members the right way, treating my associate pastor the right way. We're looking to God, we're crying out to God for help and all of these things. We're completely depending on God for all of these things. We're like walls depending on a foundation. If you take the foundation out, the wall , it just collapses. That's the way of faith. But the way of works, the way of works is not like that. The way of works, the principle of works is different than the principle of faith. The principle of works um might include some looking to God and Trusting in God for His help. But it also includes looking to myself and my ability to keep God's law as a part of my righteousness. Well it's God's power, not by itself, but it's God's power plus my power that's going to get this thing done. That's the way of works And number two, what else is going to happen? If we live under law instead of under grace, the first thing that's going to happen is we're we're going to live by a principle of works instead of a principle of faith. faith. And what that's going to lead to is it's going to breed self-righteousness instead of humility. It's going to breed self Absorb self-righteousness instead of a deep and genuine humility. And what that's going to lead us to do is look down on others. We'll think highly of ourselves, we'll look down on others. And that's said about the Pharisees in the Gospel of Narratives. Jesus told parables to those who trusted in their own works that they were righteous and they look down on others. And as those who Have nothing, nothing to bring before God except for pleading for mercy, pleading for salvation. Those are the one who are justified in God's eyes. Why? Because of Principle of faith that leads to humility, not a principle of works that leads to pride, self-righteous spiritual pride. It glories in self and looks down on others. Let it never be, brothers and sisters, let it never, ever be. The gospel must humble us. What else is going to happen if we walk under law instead of under grace? Well, first we'll live by our principle of works. Instead of a principle of faith. And second, what that's going to do is breed self-righteousness instead of humility and a sense of superiority looking down on others. And third, what's the now this is this is really what the problem is. Third, it leads to drawing attention away from Christ and putting it on me, myself, and I. That's the real diabolical sin. That's the problem. We're j we're drawing attention away from Christ and putting it on ourselves in our obedience. That's the opposite of what we're called to do. That's the opposite of what we're called to be. All every fat every fabric of our being. as individuals and as a church is given over to making much of Christ and drawing attention to Christ, not drawing attention away from him and putting it on ourselves. That's the opposite That would be the opposite. Fourth, a rejection of the biblical gospel And a false assurance. A rejection of the biblical gospel and a false assurance. There's a lot of people who have a false assurance Because they did something religious or they jumped through some religious hoop. Somebody told them if you do this thing You'll be saved and you'll go to heaven. So they did that thing. They did that outward thing. They jumped through the hoop, but their hearts were never changed, and they never had a genuine faith in Christ. That's a false assurance. Salvation is a miracle. Salvation is a supernatural work of God where the gospel comes in and changes the heart to believe in Christ and love God and love his word and hunger after righteousness. It's not jumping through religious hoops. And on the basis of my adherence to those religious hoops, now I think that I'm saved. A rejection of the biblical gospel and the ministry of a false gospel. The ministry of a false gospel always leads to a false assurance. God's not glorified in the false assurance. God's glorified in the true assurance. And I hope you're not hearing this the wrong way. Christians are supposed to have a strong, confident assurance. before the Lord. But that strong confidence assur confident assurance before the Lord is based on Christ and His work. It's not based on us and our work. Anything that we did It's all based on Christ. We're to magnify Christ, to speak highly of Christ, and to highly esteem Christ, and to draw attention to Christ and all that He is and all that He did and all that He promises and provides daily the false gospel that draws attention away from Christ and puts it on me or puts it on us. I don't want to have anything to do with it. I don't want anything to do with it. It's all about God glorifying himself and bringing glory to himself through his beloved Son Jesus Christ. Did you know that that's the real purpose of your salvation? God saves the sinners to bring glory to himself through Jesus Christ. The real purpose of your salvation Is the glory of God revealed in Christ? And that's what makes it really great is that you get to have a part in God's great work of bringing glory to Himself, shining forth all that's glorious about Himself. That 's great. Uh that our sins are forgiven and that we're going to heaven and we'll share in the resurrection, we'll be made righteous. All that is great, all that is good, but the ultimate purpose of all of that The ultimate purpose of every aspect of salvation is the glory of God in Christ. Their initial reception of Paul was great. But number two, something has steered them off course. And number three, just to point this out, this happens quickly in the verse. This is verse seventeen. This happens quickly in the passage, rather. This is verse seventeen. The true intentions of false teachers You can see a little glimpse into this and of their MO, of their strategy in verse 17. They make much of you, but for no good purpose. They want to shut you out, that you may make much of them. The true intention of false teachers is their glory, not God's glory Isn't it true? Their glory, their name, their fame, their bank account, but not God's glory And they're working for their good, not for the church's good. But they know how to use flattery. That's the first thing he says. They make much of you, but for no good purpose. That's flattery. That's flattery. Um that's Making much of people, but for selfish gain, just manipulating them. That's how con artists work, isn't it? Sarkan artists work. They make much of you. It's it's uh flattery. Par excellence They want to shut you out. They want to exclude you. They want to shut you out of the true fellowship and draw you away. You see that pattern consistently in the New Testament, the MO of false teachers. They slither in like snakes in the grass. They slither into the church. And they want to they bring their false message and through flattery They want to draw a group away from the true fellowship into their own group, draw disciples to themselves, away from the biblical fellowship of the Holy Spirit. and the biblical faithfulness, they want to shut you out from that. They want to bring you away. And in cults you see that to the extreme, don't you? The isolation to the extreme of cults, to shut people out from their own families, from the whole world, bring you living on a compound that shuts completely shuts you out. That's to the extreme in cults. But you see that in varying degrees with false teachers who infiltrate the true church and try to win their own disciples for their own glory. And ultimately it's that you may make much of them. That you may make much of them. That's their own glory. They want to make they're using flattery to draw to draw you away, to shut you out, so that you will make much of of them. Have you ever met a professing believer? A professing believer who is a ardent believer, ardent disciple of a particular false teacher that you might see on TV. someone like a Benny Hinn or a Kenneth Copeland or a Joyce Meyer. There it's astonishing the allegiance that they will have to the false teacher. And you can bring them a clear, I'm not talking difficult topics, I'm talking about easy Christianity 101 clear verses that contradict a false teacher and it's like it can't register. It's like it there's like it can't even get into the it's like my mom used to say, in one ear, out the other with the It's in one ear, it's out the other. The allegiance to the false teachers has a blinding effect. And that's what this is getting into, that they may make much of you. See the false teachers and what the Galatians to highly esteem the false teachers, not the true gospel. And that will create an allegiance, and that allegiance will then be like a stronghold that hinders them from seeing and loving the truth. You know, spiritual strongholds are such devastating things. They do cause spiritual blindness. And I'm sure you've had people in your life that um You've tried to share the Bible with and it does nothing. It has no impact. I mean, before the words are out of your mouth, it's rejected. Swatted away like an annoying fly. Um the true intentions of false teachers There's another passage in Galatians about this. Galatians 6, chapter 12, where you see the false teachers. You actually see more detail here in chapter 6. more detail of what's going on. But you see this theme again of they're for their own glory. They're for their own glory. They want to make a good show religiously, publicly. They want to be highly esteemed. It's all about them. It's all about their glory. Um chapter six, verse twelve. It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh who would force you to be circumcised. And only in order that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. For even those who are circumcised do not themselves keep persecu But they desire to have you circumcised, that they may boast in your flesh. But far be it from me to boast, except in the cross of our Lord Jesus Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision, but a new creation. You see, that's what matters. Are you a new creation? Are you a new creation through faith in Christ? And if you are, you do not need to be circumcised. And as a matter of fact, you don't need to do anything in order to become righteous with God. If you're a new creation, through faith in Christ, You are already automatically righteous before God in heaven and and always will be. You always will be. You can't lose that Now you can stray and walk in a way that's not in accord with that, but once you are saved, you are always saved because God is faithful to complete his work. Um boy, the true satanic intentions of false teachers, you've got to grow in discernment so that you can see through the religious facade. Because it's so easy to look spiritual and to look religious and to pluck words and phrases and concepts from the Bible and make it seem like truth. Just like criminals who manufacture counterfeit cash do the absolute best job in the world they can making it look and feel and seem and actually be as much as they're able. be like the real thing. And you need a discerning eye to tell the counterfeit from the real thing. And it's the same thing with preachers and teachers of scripture and people who use the word gospel. And people who use the word and the name Jesus. Because I'm sure the false teachers in the Galatian churches were using those words and concepts Their initial reception of Paul was warm and welcoming and great. Something had steered them off course, obviously the false gospel and the way of works. Steering them off course from the way of faith and the way of grace. Number three, you get this glimpse into the true intentions, the false teachers. It's not about for them, it's not about Christ's glory. It's salvation in Christ alone. It's about their glory, winning a group to themselves, drawing you away from the true fellowship of the church. But fourth and finally, we get a little reminder of Paul's steadfast love for the church. Paul's steadfast love for the church. We have let's just go right ahead before I expound on that and flesh that out. Let's just go ahead and I'll apply it to me and you go ahead and you apply it to you. We have to have a steadfast love for each other. Amen We've got to have a faithful love one to another. We've got to have a persevering, enduring, Christ-like love for one another. Because we're all sinners and we all make mistakes and we all do things that are frustrating. We all you know, we all need grace. We all need grace from God and we all need grace from each other. And Paul models the steadfast love for the church, verses 18 through 20. It is always good to be made much of. For a good purpose. Paul also makes much of the Galatians. But For the right purpose in the right way. He had said about the false teachers, they make much of them, but there's a way you could do that in a warped way, for the wrong reasons, in the wrong way, through flattery and manipulation Um but to make much of each other for the right purpose in the right way is good. And that's what Paul says. It is good to be made much of. For a good purpose. And not only when I am present with you, my little children, you see some of Paul's affection coming out here, my little children. And he's saying that because they were the result of his evangelistic ministry. They were fruit that God bore through Paul's evangelistic ministry. He calls them my little children, for whom I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ. Is formed in you. The anguish of childbirth. Could you get a stronger illustration of the anguish, of the suffering, of the pain? Um but you go through that because of what's coming. Because of the new life, because of the joy, because of the gift, because of the baby. Paul says he's using his metaphor, I am again in the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you. He could see inside Paul's heart this anguish. This this pain. He's really concerned for them. And you've had this with people in your life where you just see them going a direction and there's just nothing you can do to get them off course and you see they're headed right for a brick wall, they're headed right for disaster. And you just you have this anguish and nothing you say is getting through, nothing anyone else is saying is getting through, they're on this path, they're heading in this direction, and you're just in anguish for them You have this deep sorrow, this piercing sorrow for where they're headed. Um Most of us are on the other side of that where where we're the knucklehead going in the wrong direction. And so many times in our lives we've had to just, how do they say, learn the hard way. And you've got to learn through mistakes. You've got to learn through suffering. Well Paul's an anguish, the anguish of childbirth until Christ is formed in you. That's talking about maturity. There's a there's a particular area of Christian maturity that they need to attain to And Paul's in anguish for them to get grounded in the true gospel, to be able to stand firm in the true gospel and not be susceptible to false gospels Not be susceptible to teachers who will come in and say, unless you're circumcised, you cannot be saved, and say, oh, all right, that's great. Sign me up. I need to be circumcised. Paul says, no, no. Stand firm in the true gospel. Someone comes into church and says you need to be circumcised in order to be saved, you say, absolutely not. That is unbiblical, that is unscriptural, that's a violation of the gospel. And that brings no glory to God to teach that. But that's not where they are yet. They need this maturity. They need Christ formed in them. He says, I wish, verse 20, I wish I could be present with you now. Change my tone, for I am perplexed about you. I'm perplexed about you. I'm perplexed. Why would you receive an infinite gift? It's gifts of infinite worth, right? Why would you receive a gift of infinite worth for free? For free, right? And then forsake that for a different message And the different message is you have to earn part of that gift, then it's no longer a gift. It's partly a gift, partly a work. You've got to earn it. Why would you receive an infinite gift For free and then leave that way of grace. So, yeah, that is perplexing. That's why he says, I'm perplexed about you. I'm astonished, chapter one. This is crazy. This is absurd Um the gospel, brothers and sisters, in our lives, is the only source of true contentment in our hearts The gospel in our lives is the only source of rest for the soul. Don't you want peace in your heart? Don't you want rest for the soul? Don't you want contentment in the midst of this crazy materialistic world? Gotta get more, gotta get more, more, more, more. Don't you want a true contentment? That you'll have no matter what, in no amount of poverty or even riches, if you're rich, you you still won't put your um your hope in riches, but you just have a contentment, a true peace A true rest, a true contentment, a true assurance, the gospel in our lives is all of these things. No true preacher of the of the word wants people to walk In the principle of works. Did you get that? No true teacher, no true Bible teacher or genuine Bible preacher wants His hearers to walk in a principle of works. The true teacher wants you to walk in a principle of faith. The true teacher wants you to walk under grace, not under law. I'll close on this. Hopefully this will be an anchor for every single one of us, no matter what teaching comes our way. There's only one condition for salvation. Only one condition for sinners, for them to be saved. And that condition is you must be joined to Jesus Christ through faith That's it. You must be joined. You must be united to Christ by faith. And the way that happens is the message of the gospel comes into your heart And he lived a righteous life that you could never live. He died a sacrificial death, receiving the penalty of your sins. On the basis of that, if you put your faith in him , You are then joined to him. And if you are joined to him through faith, you are saved. You are saved. And nothing can take that away from you. That's our prayer for every single one of you and for everyone who comes in our path. Families, friends, co-workers, neighbors, visitors at church. We want them to know Jesus Christ. And in knowing Jesus Christ, Through faith, we want them to have the gift of eternal life. Amen. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the gift of eternal life. Thank you for the way of grace. Thank you for the principle of faith. Thank you for your infinite love that is deeper than a million oceans. that will never run out. No matter how much we sin, no matter how far we run, your love will cover it. Thank you for sending Jesus to die for our sins. Thank you for opening the door to heaven that we might not only know you in this life, but that we might be with you in the life to come. Thank you. Thank you. In Jesus' name. Amen.