The words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Joel chapter 3, starting in verse 17. Joel chapter 3. Verse 17. We've made it. We've made it to the end of Joel. You could imagine three simple chapters or s heckful Such promise of who God is, what he does, such beauty of God's justice being poured out upon sinners. Such grace and mercy demonstrated in how he saves and redeems even those that have sinned and rebelled against him at times. As we see this tonight, as we examine the end of this book, may we see that God has given us glorious promises. May we leave tonight being encouraged, being reassured of who God is, being reassured of the promises we find in Him alone. I I I hope and I desire that as Christians as we see this, we recognize that this isn't just for some people long ago, thousands of years before us, but these promises that God has given are promises that we should hold to today. That we should hold to tomorrow as we wake up and we go back to work, back to school, whatever it is, may we see hold tight to these promises. May we see the grace and the mercy and the love of our God. May we see how He has redeemed the people like you and I. May we see the promise and our hope that we have for the future May we rest in the presence of our Lord. So let's read Joel chapter 3, starting verse 17. So you shall know That I am the Lord your God, who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. And Jerusalem shall be holy, and strangers shall never again pass through it. And in that day, the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk, and all the streambeds of Judah shall flow with water. And a fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord in wood of the valley of Shaytan. Egypt shall become a desolation In Edom, a desolate wilderness, for the violence done to the people of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land. But Judah shall be inhabited forever, and Jerusalem to all generations. I will avenge their blood. Blood I have not avenged, for the Lord dwells in Zion. So we see the conclusion of this prophecy. We see the reassurance of who God is. We see the promise that God's covenant people, his chosen people, will know him. We see the promise that his sweet grace will flow into all the nations. And then we see the promise that all of God's enemies will pay for their guilt, pay for their sins This is an encouragement. You know, we've heard some really hard things throughout this prophecy and throughout the study of this book. We've heard of the destruction of the fields, we've heard of the destruction of the cities, we've heard of how the enemy is attacking them. We've heard how the worship within the temple has been destroyed and and prevented. But then throughout this prophecy, throughout this book, we've heard promises of restoration, the promise of of reas Re restoring what they have lost. But then we've also seen the future hope. Eternal hope, the eternal restoration, the eternal promises of And Joel sets us and concludes this book with those promises and those reminders. Look, I and we do this a lot, and we could we could spend all night and we could just be reminded of our sin. We could be reminded of our rebellion against God But God never leaves us there. The gospel never stops with that you are a sinner and there's no hope of you saving yourself. No, the gospel always goes forth. If we stop there, th this is a depressing story. This is a pressing gospel, and the good news isn't that good. If all we do is we say, we're sinners, everything's falling apart, and there is no hope. Goodbye. Go and live your life. That's not what we see here. And that's not what Joel uh stops us on. What he does is he reminds us Of the goodness of God. He reminds us of the grace of our Lord. He reminds us of how He will be victorious. We must be reminded of this. Day in and day out, Christian, be reminded of the promises of God. In the lowest of your lives, in the hardest of your times, in the most anxious, stressful, sad periods of your life. We must be reminded of the promises of God. In the highs, the best times, the new life, the graduations, the the promotions, the best of days, we must be reminded of the grace and the promises of God. May we be reminded over and over and over again that God has promised things, and if He has promised it, it will be done. He's never broken a promise. Anyone have a promise that he's broken? Anyone want to raise your hand and take that risk? No. We may not understand it right now. We may not fully see how it's gonna work out, but we're re we can rest assured that God will keep his promise. promises. He always has, he currently is, and he always will. So let's look here. What's the first promise that we we will see and that he will keep is that they will know that he is love Lord. Right there in verse 17. So you shall know that I am the Lord your God. But notice We what happened last week and how Jason wonderfully preached through this passage and pointed out uh the nations being judged. But notice that Joel is showing that the judgment of the nation is a mark of how we will know that the Lord, that God is the Lord. That the Lord Excuse me, that I am the Lord your God. Look just back one verse in verse sixteen. It says the Lord roars from Zion and utters his voice from Jerusalem and the heavens and the earthquake. For the Lord is a refuge to his people, a stronghold. to the people of Israel. So while God is pouring out his wrath against the unjust, he's pouring out his wrath that he justly deserves to pour out and can and should pour out against the enemy. He also reassures that there's refuge. That there's safe having for his people. And God's wrath and his protection are tied together and they're used right there to show that he is the Lord. He's showing that his wrath and his protection are are the the ways that we will know that he is the Lord our God Sometimes we take wrath and we say we don't want to talk about we want to push it over here. Just give me the good stuff, give me the love, give me the safety, give me the salvation. Yes and amen, those things are good, but we don't recognize how great they are until we recognize. how great his wrath is, how grand it is, how he pours out his just wrath upon the wicked. And that we are those wicked, that he then saves by his grace, by his mercy. He has redeemed people like you and I. This is good for us to know. And actually shows us who God is. All week, all week, I've been st talking about knowing God. Right Pay attention during chapel. That's all I talk about, knowing God. Right? John 17 3. You want to quote it for us? Okay, I won't do that to you. But John 17 3, this was our key verse for Kids Camp this week. And all about Kids Camp was all about knowing God. And we know God, and this is why it's so important for us to know God. John 17, 3 says, and this is eternal life. Who here wants eternal life? Alright, here's the answer. How do we get eternal life? That they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ whom you have sent. Can we go home? This is it, right? Yeah, John's like let's go. Let's go get some ice cream. This is it. This is the Christian life You want people, people come and say, How how am I how can I be saved? How can I have eternal life? Well, it's faith in Christ. It's knowing God and His Son Jesus, who has died on the cross for us, who's paid for our sins, who has made us right before God, who has taken on our wrath, our punishment that we deserve. Friends, church, may we recognize that this is the pinnacle of who we are, that we know who God is. All of our studies are good. Go to university. Get your doctorates. Get your doctorate of doctorates God I'll whatever is beyond that, go and that's good. We need to be educated. God has given us minds to do such a thing. But none of that is more valuable than knowing God I'm just repeating what I've spoken about all week, so that's why I feel like we need to see this, but Joel's connecting it that we will know God. We will know God. How do we know God? Is because we have heard and testified to the life, death, and resurrection of His Son. That is the complete revelation of God right there. We've seen his wrath poured out upon our sins in the perfect sacrifice of Christ. We've seen that our sins have been paid for and we have been atoned by the blood of Christ. And we also see That we have received his righteousness. We also see that he has had victory over sin and death. That's how we know God. This is what we see. This is who we are as Christians. We know God because we believe and trust and have faith that Jesus is the Son of God. And he has truly and completely paid for our sins. Praise God. We truly and actually believe that He really has resurrected from the dead, defeating sin and death. This is how we know God. This is the promise that we have, that we will know God. We will know who he is. We will know how he works. We will know his character. That's why he has given us his word. So that for the rest of our lives we can read through all sixty-six books of the Bible and know who God is. May we see who he is. When I started Joel months ago now I think. Not that long ago. One thing I wanted us to think about is that as we study Joel, we're gonna get to know God more and we're gonna get to know ourselves more. And we're going to see this chasm between us grow. And we're going to see the beauty of the sun filling that chasm. As we know God more, we see his grandness, his greatness. His awesomeness grow and grow and grow. We're going to see our disgusting sin and and see the depravity of it, and that's going to be magnified to us. We're gonna see that there's no way that we'll ever reach God. And then we see Christ come and we know our Lord through his thought and his work on us. And Joel's promising that this will happen. But he continues on. He doesn't just let us have the head knowledge, but there's actually an outworking of what happens here. Verse 17, so you shall know that I am the Lord your God, who dwells in Zion, my holy mountain. And Jerusalem shall be holy. So here we have God's promising that he's going to rule. These two positions, uh the Jewish people would have taken these as as the the the kingdom of Israel. If you go to Jerusalem, you see that that uh uh Jeru if you go to Israel, you'll see that Jerusalem uh is the is the seat, is the kingdom of Israel. And and if you go the reason that the wailing wall is there is that the Jewish people uh can this is as close as they can get to where the temple used to sit. And they go to that w uh the wall and they cry out to uh God there, crying out so that someday they will get back to the rock, they will get back and build the temple right there They're still in this physical mindset because they know that this is the seat of the kingdom, that this is where the king sits and rules over his kingdom. And this promise is actually good news for us. Is that God is promising that He will rule from Zion and He will rule from Jerusalem. It shall always be holy. But now you're probably going, well, let's pull up the news right now and see just how holy Cruzone is. Let's pull up the news or you just heard what I said that the temple's not there They can't even get to the rock that they want to build the temple on. So did God lie? Or do we see that the physical example that Joel's pointing to Is pointing it's a type it's a type that's pointing to the eternal promise that God has. Do we really think that God needs to sit in a physical building to rule? I hope not, because then Jesus' ascension into heaven is is a loss for us. But we actually see that he reassures us that as he goes to the Father, as he sits at the right hand of the Father, he has dominion over heaven and of earth. So what do we see here? And this is why I read Hebrews and and Revelation for us before we got to the sermon. is because we recognize that the physical temple, the physical Jerusalem, the physical Mount Zion are just types pointing to the eternal And God promises that where Christ is, where he is, is the true in eternal Zion. Where Jesus sits and has dominion is the true and eternal Jerusalem. That we don't need to wait for something to be built here on this earth. We don't need to go and seek and find a place that that the temple is going to be physically built because we don't we don't need to go and worship in a physical temple. Pastor Matt preached this morning that, or maybe it was in Sunday school, I'm kind of getting mixed up now, but that that where Jesus is is the temple. And if we're promised that He indwells us, then we are His temple. So let's be excited. The promise of knowing God is that he indwells us and we take on his character, his nature, we become righteous, and that he's ruling all of his creation. Friends, may we not look and hope on something physical. May we look to our eternal King. May we look to our Savior. And where he rules now, where he's seated now, he is ruling the nations. Now. 2024. He will rule tomorrow. This is a good promise that we have. And then notice here. It finishes, verse 17 finishes, and Jerusalem shall be holy. Now, something's holy Unholiness, unrighteousness cannot enter, right? If something's holy, you can't you know holy, you can't you know, if I uh think about a surgical room, it's clean surgical room Would that c surgical room be clean if I showed up with two pigs and let them lose something? Yeah, hopefully the answer's no. Some of you in Little Country are like, ah, that's not that bad. I've done worse. Yeah, so have I. But it is not clean. It is not uh holy. So if Jerusalem is holy, unholiness and uncleanliness cannot enter into it We saw this in Revelation. God promises that His His dwelling is in the heavens and when He comes and and we see the new heavens and the new earth collide in a in a way that we cannot comprehend right now. We are arrested. You can rest assured, brothers and sisters, that no unrighteousness will be there. Man, the kids had some great questions this week. strange questions this week as well. But so many of the questions they were trying to wrap their heads around this idea that there's not going to be anything bad or sinful in heaven. And let's be honest, that's not that strange of a question, because all we ever see is brokenness. All we see is sin in our lives. But we see, we have the promise that God is restoring all of creation. All the wrongs that have ever been committed, He will make ready. All the hurt and the pain we've ever faced, he will soothe and comfort us. All the enemies that have attacked him have called him a liar, called him false. Saying there is no God. I don't care about his rules. I don't care what he says. All of them, and that's promise number three we'll get to, all of them will receive the just punishment they deserve. And we see that the dwelling of God is holy. And we should rest assured, we should look forward to the day that we enter into his presence, perfected by the blood of Christ. We should look forward to the day that we enter into his presence and we don't think about the sin of the world. We're not worried about the pains we've had. We don't worry about past events in our lives. But all we do is we worship the true and the living God that has redeemed us. And we will not be strangers. Brothers and sisters, it's the reason we use this term of brothers and sisters, even though none of us are related. I think. Maybe. Let's not check out uh uh family trees too much. Is is uh Hoover here? We may be related. That's the only one. might be related to. But we aren't brothers and sisters because of our blood. We're brothers and sisters because of the blood of Christ. And then when we see that there's no strangers, we aren't strangers to God. He knows us by name. He calls us. Child. Child. While you were an enemy, he now calls you a child of this. And we Rejoice in the promise that we will know our Lord. We know him now and we will know him fully in his presence. The second promise that Joel gives to us is that sweet grace will flow out to our nation. Sweet grace will flow out to all nations. Look at verse 18 with me. And in that day the mountains shall drip sweet wine, and the hills shall flow with milk. And all the streambeds of Judah shall flow with water, and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord, and the water and water of the valley. This is good news to us. I believe that this is already occurring. You're like, wait a second, where's the wine? Where's the milk flowing down the rivers? Can we be honest? Does anyone want to drink the milk flung down a river in the Middle East? No. Okay. This is this is language that's affecting both the hearer that's currently that uh the original hearer that Joel is speaking to and it's also addressed uh addressing language to us today. Think about Joel was talking to a people that have lost everything they have, lost their fields, and throughout this prophecy Joel has been reassuring them that God will restore and And give back what they have lost. So is their hearing sweet wine flowing, milk, the the water's gonna flow and bring life. This is all good news to them But we also see language in Scripture that there this promise of a of a river flowing, bringing life to the nations. Points back to the temple. Look uh don't turn there, but Ezekiel 47. Mark that down. I encourage you to read Ezekiel 47. And there Ezekiel receives a vision and he's seeing this this trickle of water coming out of the temple. Just drop, drop, drop. Up. As he starts to walk around it's it's growing a little bit more and and then he he he measures out the angel measures out a thousand cubits and as he gets out there it says that the stream's coming up to his ankle. And he measures out the thousand cubits and then the streams up to his knee. And he keeps doing this, and at the point he says he gets to a point in this river that started as just a a a drop coming out of the temple of God. It's now to the point that he has to swim in it You go, well, what are we talking about here? We're talking about the gospel. The day Christ resurrected from the grave, the gospel and the mission of God was completed. It was complete. His work was finished. Christ had redeemed sinners. But it was just a drop at that point, right? Grip, grip, grip, a handful But people saw Christ that morning. A handful believed in Christ. That number slowly grew and started to spread. Then we see a Pentecost, thousands of people come And then we see from the from Pentecost and and the growth that was happening in Jerusalem, the persecution Then shotgun blasted the world with preachers. The persecution of the enemy took the gospel and sent it around the world. And we read that right after um that we first see Saul uh or Paul introduced there And now we we can go to almost any continent. No, we can go to any continent in the world and hear of gospel -believing Christians. We see Bible preaching churches in every continent. The nations are multiplying. The gospel is going forth to the nations. Each day or each year I I receive an update of how the Bible has been uh translated into new languages that the Bible has never translated before. Going to the hands of those people speaking that language. Those people are being taught and trained how to read their own language so that they can read the gospel. We hear of churches growing, churches that are hiding under the oppression of a wicked leadership, yet growing. We hear Christians preaching, being persecuted, the gospel going forth. We hear baptisms happening day in and day out around the world. May we not fall for the lie that the gospel is not efficient. May we not fall for the lie that the world is winning. May we not fall for the lie that Satan has built a dam that has prevented the stream of the gospel going into the world. world. No no no. It's not what we read in scripture. We see the exact opposite. That this flood of the gospel goes into all nations. It's a piece of why we are part of the Southern Baptist Convention. It's because we we looked around and said we can do a lot more when we partner with other churches. We can send the gospel farther around the world when we partner with other people, and that's what we're doing. as an organization. So may we not lose hope and focus of that promise that God has assured us will happen today. He's promised that this is going to happen. The sweet grace will flow out to all nations. Now Joel gives us a little insight here, and he talks about this valley. You go, why does he mention this valley? So what Joel is doing is he's showing that the grace that God pours out is a radical transformation. It's a radical transformation that goes into the lands, the most wicked of places, and takes the most wicked of men. And makes them children of God. Like you and I. You and I once were the most wicked of men, and we have now been made children of God. How can I make this argument? Turn to Numbers 25 Numbers twenty five, verse one. Numbers 25, verse 1 gives us a glimpse of what this valley is like. While Israel lived in Shitem, the people began to whore with the daughters of Moab. News flesh. That's not good language. You don't want to be described like this. Well what are they doing here? They're actually they're worshiping other gods. Verse 2 continues These invited the people to the sacrifices of their gods, and the people ate and bowed down to their gods. Lowercase speed So Israel yoked himself to Baal of Pior. And the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. Now this story continues on and you can go back and and read that section. But here, Joel is pointing to a very wicked place in the history of Israel. He's pointing them back and saying, when your forefathers poured themselves out to other gods The sweet grace of God is going to flow flow out to valor such and stuff. The sweet grace of God is going to flow out To the valley that worshipped other gods, who sacrificed most likely humans, most likely infants, to their gods. The sweet grace of God transforms even that wicked of a location Take something in your mind today. The most wicked place you can envision. Konar Valley of Afghanistan The deep oppression of China. Name it. Wherever you want to name it. The sweet grace of the gospel will go into this land and translate. Think about the most desolate place on this earth. The deserts, the the winter tundra of the North Pole or the South Pole where nothing can live The sweet grace of God will flow like a river into those places and restore all of his creation. Rest assured that the promise that God is pouring out his grace upon the nations is happening. Are you gonna hold to that promise? Are you gonna go into the world and preach the truth of forgiveness that is found in Christ alone? Are you gonna pour out the sweet wine for the for the sinners to drink on to be merry? Will you give to the the hurting and the lost that are crying out for their bellies hurt, not because of a physical lack of nutrition? nutrition because of the spiritual lack of nutrition. Will you pour out and allow the hills to flow with the milk of the gospel? As you see the nations dying around you Will , you take the the the river of life and pour it out and let it flow to the nations This is who we are. This is what we should be doing as a Christian as Christians. We should rest assured and take joy that our Lord has found favor in us, not because of what we have done, but because of what Christ has done, and we are drinking. We are lapping in the living water that's flowing out of this river. Maybe you still don't believe me that this river And the sweetness that's being poured out is of the mercy and the gospel of of Christ. But Revelation twenty two, you don't need to turn there, but mark it down. Revelation twenty-two, then the angel showed me the river of the water of life. Brightest crystal flowing. Where is it flowing from? The throne of God and of the Lamb What's Joel tell us? Where's and in verse 18, and a fountain shall come forth from the house of the Lord. Where's the house of the Lord? The temple. We saw in Hebrews in Revelation 21, the temple is where God dwells. So now we're seeing the river of life flowing flowing from the throne of God and of the Lamb. Where's God now? Heaven. This throne. Where's Jesus now? Right. The river is flowing out to the nations. We don't see the the totality of this river yet because we see that the river will flood the nations. The river will flood this earth Verse 2, through the middle of the street of the city also on either side of the river, the tree of life, with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month, the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nation. No longer will there be anything accursed, but the throne of God and of the Lamb will be in it, and its servants will worship him. They will see his face, and his name will be on their foreheads. I encourage you, go back to Ezekiel 47 and see the dripping coming out of the throne room of God, and then compare it to Revelation 22 and see the river of life flowing out of the throne room. It is the gospel going into the nations. It is the gospel that brings salvation to the world. We will drink, we have drunk, drank from, and we will continue to drink from the The third promise we see here in Joel is that all of God's enemies will pay for their guilt. All of God's enemies will pay for their guilt. Look with me in verse 19 back in Joel 3. Egypt shall become a desolation, and Edom a desolate wilderness, and for the violence done to the people of Judah, because they have shed innocent blood in their land. But Judah shall be inhib inhabited forever, and Jerusalem to all generations. I will avenge their blood. Blood I have not avenged, for the Lord dwells in Zion. Once again we get this promise of the enemies of God being destroyed. Brothers and sisters, we tonight need to hear that promise That the enemies we see, the real enemies we see around us today, God will pour out his justice upon them. They will not get away with their rebellion against God. You did not get away with your rebellion against God. Your rebellion was paid for by the blood of Christ. The Holy Spirit has given us faith in him, and we have a new identity in Christ, but he has paid for our sins. For those that do not have faith in Christ. Those that go to their deathbeds rebelling against the God that lives and dion today, they will receive the just punishment that they An eternity in a lake of fire, separated from the Creator, separated from God. And they will be punished for their sins day in and day out Be encouraged that the unjustice we see all around us will be made right in the end. That is a hard concept for us to hold to. We don't like it, duty. No, no, I want I want the warlord to be punished the way I want him to be today, right? I want the guy that that stole from me, I want him to be punished today to the fullest extent. And our our human justice system is not perfect. You see people regularly getting off of crimes that they really did commit. And then they write a book titled If I Did It But we know that sin will be completely paidful, either by the blood of Christ or by the rebel and enemy of God. This should bring us hope. As we see nations warring against one another, we can rest assured that then those nations one day will be completely destroyed. And that the nations will be made new in Christ. As we see the enemies of God raise up Make their voices loud, and it appears though they are going to win the day. We can rest assured that they will l they will lose the war Joel's using the enemies that the the reader in his time, the here in his time would have pictured and understood. Egypt, Edom, these are all places and enemies that these people had to face. And Joel is pointing them to saying that someday they will all be gone. What's the enemy in your life? What's the enemy in your life that just appears as though it's victorious? Is it your lust? Look to Christ. Know that that enemy has been defeated in Christ. Is it doubt? Look to Christ. Know that he has defeated that enemy. That when you rest upon Christ, you know that you have victory over such an enemy as thou. Not easy in the moment, is it? There's no need I don't need to sugarcoat this. I don't need to give you a a a two-pill Jesus. Take these two pills of Jesus and and your anxiety is gonna go away Take this pill of Jesus and you won't lust anymore. But we can rest assured that that enemy has been defeated in Christ What's the enemy in your life? Is it your boss? Right now is your boss your enemy. You look at him or her and you just picture like I can't go back into work tomorrow and face them They will be defeated. They will either be the become children of God or they will receive the just punishment. And maybe you're going, My boss is a Christian. That's what makes it ten times harder to work with them right now. Guess what? They too are fighting the enemies. They too will see their enemies defeated. They too are being sanctified For the Spirit day in and day out just like you and I are. Look to the enemies of God and recognize that God will make all things new. No matter how great the enemy is, no matter how grand it appears that they are, they will be destroyed. Either be made ch children of God or receive the just punishment that they deserve And Joel continues on in verse 20 to remind us once again, but Judah shall be inhibit inhabited forever. Not inhibited. inhabited. It feels as though they're inhibited right now. But the eternal kingdom is inhabited forever Now the hearer, the original hearer has got to be thinking about this and going, this is not true, because they're stuck in the physical They're stuck in only the physical. They don't see the typology that that that God uses in prophecies. But as we've seen, the land of God, Jerusalem, is a heavenly one. It's a holy one. It's where he dwells now. And we see that Jerusalem will come down out of the heavens, and the new heavens and the new earth will uh descend out of the heavens, perfect and holy, and will rest on the physical earth. We understand it. And it will be dwelled forever. It is being dwelled now. The saints that have died in the past, they're dwelling in Jerusalem now As we perish on these physical bodies, we too will go and dwell in Jerusalem with our Lord. And there will come a day. Where the dead will rise, the saints on earth will go and join the victorious parade as our Lord enters. Down onto the surface. As we see him marching with the blood of the enemy dripping off of his cloak, as we see him marching forward, leading the saints, showing that he has been victorious over all the enemies. We know that that Jerusalem, that Jerusalem, will never be destroyed, that Jerusalem will never be inhabited by a foreigner, by a stranger, by an enemy. We can rest assured that we will dwell with our Lord forever. It's a good promise that we have. And he reminds us that he is a God that avenges. I will avenge their blood. No sin will ever get away with. No sin will ever go unpunished. But also, notice that blood I have not avenged. It almost sounds like God's contradicting himself Stuff right there, doesn't it? I will avenge their blood, blood I have not avenged. Well there's two pieces here. One is that we see that that God is patient. Oh, let us rejoice in the patience of our Lord. He is patient. But we also see that while we think that he has not accomplished what he has promised, as we think that he's he has not paid or atoned the sins that we see happening around us. We see that he will avenge the blood that he has not avenged yet. Nothing will get away from him. Nothing will go untouched. Nothing will go unpunished. And then this glorious reminder, may we rest in this. May we be uh uh confident in our Lord, for the Lord dwells in Zion. He is king today He is king now. The nations do not do anything out of his control. The enemy does not rise up out of the authority of our sovereign Lord who dwells and die on them The Lord dwells in Zion. This is a promise to go all the way back that we must rest on. May we know that He is King. May we know that he is good, gracious, and we know that he is just in all of his dealings. May we be encouraged by this May we look forward to the day where we fully understand all the promises of God. May we look forward to the day that we fully understand His His. May we look forward to the day where we truly and understand how all his enemies are completely destroyed May we rejoice and live lives as confident today. May we live lives that demonstrate that we actually believe that He will keep His promises. Brothers and sisters, I hope that this study through Droll was was encouraging when it needed to be. I hope it revealed who God was I hope it drew us into him. May we see our sin and and see the destruction that it brings, but may we also see the forgiveness of God. Found in Christ. May we have hope for tomorrow. May we have hope for the painful situations we're maybe in right now. May we look to our Lord and Savior. As we go forward next week we'll start a new series. It's in the life of David. Each week we'll take a different story or event of David's life. And we'll study it. We'll we'll unpack the narrative of that story. And uh get your thumbs ready because there's so much of connecting from the Old Testament there to the New Testament So we'll be going back and forth, we'll be in the Psalms, we'll be in the prophets. Our goal in just about three months is we will study every single piece of the Bible. We won't be able to do that. We're not going to be able to cover the historical books of David completely. But may we just get a glimpse of who David is and how God used him, but may it also point us forward to the true king. of Christ. So you can look forward to that coming up starting next week. But let us close in prayer and then may we go into this world. Rejoicing in our solemn word. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have redeemed us, that you have given us promises, that we know you will keep, know you will make known to us at the appropriate time. Lord, I pray that we recognize how little the enemy really is before you May we recognize how big you are, how powerful you are, how great your victory is. May we see how grand the work of Christ is. And you look to him in all this. You pray this in his hands. Amen.