That song is well chosen by Jesse for tonight. So we talk about the remote of David. We think about the call for the sinner to turn from their sin and go to the Lord. Friends, that's what this song is all about. So it's one of my favorite things. Come ye sinners. Come you sinner. It's very personal, you sinner. Come. Turn to the Lord. And as that sounds scary as we think about a sinner coming before a holy God, there's there's intimidation there, maybe we want to solve our own problems. We want to fix ourselves. The call is for you to come and enter into the arms of your Savior. And there you'll find endless treasures. It says ten thousand, so I think maybe that's It's too little. I think probably that number needs to be much greater in the song, but the symbolism there. You'll find great treasures. We find great joy and rest in our Savior. But we must recognize that we're all sinners. And tonight we will talk about the rebuke of David, that David is called out of his sin. As we think about this, this is one of our maybe least favorite topics to talk about, right? Sin, we talk about sin quite a bit. Um if you were here for the season of Joel, you've heard sin, you've heard the call to to repent of sin. Turn to the Lord. But one of the things we don't like to talk about in the church today is the calling one another out, And what has happened, the reason that we struggle with this is there's been great harm and abuse done with this topic of calling out sin. rebuking one another. We've allowed our feelings, our emotions, and just our preferences to be the reason for calling others out and saying, you're a sinner, you need to repent. And the person's looking at and going, well, well no, that's not an issue there. And what that has done for us is we've gone to the extreme opposite side and said, okay, we just, we're not going to call out sin at all. We don't like how that feels. It harms relationships. And we're just not going to do it. Well, friends, we don't really have an option as Christians. We don't have an option. The commandment in Scripture is to call out sin, to call the sinner to repentance. And instead of looking at it as a bad thing, I want us to think about it as a glorious salvific cult. Do you see your brother and sister walking down the trail into the pits of hell? Through their city. Do you see the world just driving their buses full of their family as fast as they can down the road of pleasure and pride and lust? Just taking them directly into the gates of hell. If you believe that the sinner receives the just punishment and the just judgment of God, of eternal separation from God, eternity in hell. then should we not desire to call out the sinner from that destiny? Should we not desire to call them into the precious arms of Jesus who brings them Salvation. That's for the unbelievers. But friends, likewise, should we not desire for our brothers and sisters in Christ? Likewise, do we not desire for them to receive Repent of their sin, to turn away from their wicked acts, and turn back to the arms of Christ, to be reminded of who their identity is found in. To be reminded that they are forgiven through the blood of Christ And to be obedient to God. So may we not think about rebuking one another as a bad thing, but may we actually start to recognize it as a loving act that God has called us us to do. to do. Turn your Bibles to 2 Samuel chapter 12. This evening we're going to be examining verses 1 through 25. We're taking marathon passages. I know that. And we will not be able to do justice to every single verse here, but I want us to understand the rebuke of David, the sin, the effect of sin. So we're going to unpack a lot. In this section. But before we do that, we just need to understand kind of the situation we're in. Because we've heard, as we've been journeying along, we've seen David has been anointed To be king. He has had to flee for his life for quite a while. And then finally Saul dies and David becomes king. So not totally, right? We saw the divided kingdom. And then uh Was it last week, two weeks ago, two weeks ago, we saw uh the United Kingdom coming together, David being king over uh all of Israel. And then last week we saw God reassuring David David of his covenant. And that covenant we actually see is fulfilled today through the work of Christ. So really that this journey, David's kind of have been the main character and he's been the good guy throughout most of the story. We know that it's because of God and his sovereignty and his work that David has been able to do all these things. But David's been really good. I think if we would gray David, we'd give him an A Maybe an A minus if we had the greatest. But today we're going to see that even a great leader, even the man that God has selected to rule his nation, The man that God has chosen, the man that has trusted God in so many things, even this man sins. In 2 Samuel chapter 11, we see the Sins unfold. I'm sure many, if not all of you, know this story. The story of David and Bathsheba. You know the the sin really started with David not going out to war with his men. Stayed back. He was not leading his men. And while he's out on the roof of his house, he looks down and sees Bathsheba. He likes what he sees. And he says, I want her. And he has her. And he gets her pregnant. Here's the problem. Behsheba 's not David's wife, Beathsheba has a husband that's out fighting in the war. David recognizes that he has a problem in front of him. His sin will be found out by the people that this baby's born. So he calls Uriah, Bathsheba's husband, back from the front lines. He says, sleep with your wife. He's a good man. That's not what the customary thing is to do during the war. So he doesn't. David gets him liquored up trying to convince him that he needs to sleep with his wife and he stands firm and does not sleep. Do this. So now David has a problem. So he thought he was going to cover up his sin. He's going to hide uh this this adulterous uh relationship by getting Uriah to to sleep with his wife and then David just think well the baby's his. It doesn't work out. So David comes up in another plan. Once again David's trying to hide his sin. How's he going to hide his sin? Because he's going to commit more He's he he comes up with this battle plan. It's arguably the worst battle plan in history. He's he tells the men to push up against the the front lines, the the front walls of the anime And just as Uriah and his team are pushing forward, the team will receive a secret announcement. The team will retreat from the front lines, leaving Uriah vulnerable. And essentially, he is the mother. on the front lines. This happens, David thinks, all right, perfect. My sin is going to stay a secret. No one's going to know about the sin. I'll go and marry that Shiva now that her husband has died. And then when that child is born in the next nine months, it'll just the timeline will look out perfectly and no one will know that I am a sinner. Right? We know this story? Well this is where we're going to pick up in 2 Samuel chapter 12. Going to see Nathan coming and rebuking David. We're going to see David's response to this rebuke, and we're going to see the punishment for his sin, and then we're going to see how David So join me in 2 Samuel chapter 12, starting in verse 1. I'm going to read straight through, so stay awake. 2 Samuel chapter 12. And the Lord sent Nathan to David. He came to him and said to him, There were two men in a certain city, and the one rich and the other poor. The rich man had very many flocks and herds, but the poor man had nothing to do but one little ew lamp, which he had bought. And he brought it up, and it grew up with him, and with his children. It used to eat of his morsel And drink from his cup and lie in his arms. And it was like a daughter to him. Now there came a traveler to the rich man, and he was unwilling to take one of his own flock or herds. To prepare for the guests who had come to him. But he took the poor man's land and prepared it for the man who had come to him. Then David's anger was great And he said to Nathan, As the Lord gives, the man who has done this deserves to die. And he shall restore the Lamb fourfold, because he did this thing, and because Verse seven Nathan said to David , You are the man. Thus says the Lord, the God of Israel, I anointed you king over Israel, and I delivered you out of the hand of Saul. And I gave you your master's house and your master's wives into your arms, and gave you the house of Israel and of Judah. And if this were too little, I would add to you as much more. Why have you despised the word of the Lord? To do what is evil in his sight. You have struck down Uriah the Hittite with the sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have killed him with the sword of the Ammon. Now therefore the sword shall never depart from your house, because you have despised me and have taken away for Uri, the Hittite. To be your wife. Thus says the Lord, Behold, I will raise up evil against you out of your own house, and I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to you. your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of his son, this son. For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David, the Lord also has put away your sin. shall not die. Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly scorned the Lord, the child who is born to you shall die. Then Nathan went to And the Lord afflicted the child that Uri 's wife boards David, and he became sick. David therefore sought God on behalf of the child. And David fasted and went in and Lay all night on the ground, and the elders of his house stood beside him to raise him from the ground, but he would not, nor did he eat food with them. On the seventh day the child died, and the servants of David We were afraid to tell him that the child was dead. For they said, Behold, while the child was yet alive, we spoke to him, and he did not listen to us. How then can we say to him, the child is dead? He may do himself some harm. But when David saw that his servants were whistling together, David understood that the child is dead. And David said to his servants, Is the child Dead has said he is dead. Then David arose from the earth and washed and anointed himself and changed his clothes. And he went into the house of the Lord and worshipped. He then went to his own house. He w and when he asked they set food before him and he ate. Then his servant said to him, What is this thing that you have done? You fasted and wept for the child while he He was alive. But when the child died, you arose and ate food. He said, While the child was still alive, I fasted and wept, for I said, Who knows whether the Lord will be gracious? To me, that the child may live. But now he is dead. Why should I fast? Can I bring him back again? I shall go to him, but he will not return to me. Then David comforted his wife. Bath Judah, and went into her and lay with her, and she bore a son, and he called his name Solomon. And the Lord loved him and sent a message by Nathan the prophet. So he called his name Jedediah because of the Lord. So here's the story. This is the story of David being rebuked and his response. What we must understand about sin is that man knows what is sin and is without excuse. Point number one: man knows what is sin and without without is without excuse. Nathan comes to David and gives out this little story about a rich man that has a lot and about the poor man that has one you, baby Lamb. baby sheep and that sheep is precious to him that sheep eats his food drinks out of his cup lays in his arms this is the dream of my But we see this lamb is precious to him and the rich man has a lot, but when there the time arises that he needs to slaughter his sheep, he steals the sheep from the poor man, slaughters it, and gives it up. And the story's laid out, and what happens is David gets angry About it. He's upset about this story. He's upset about how this rich man stole from the poor man. David recognizes what is just and what is unjust. David recognizes that with such a great crime as this, there deserves a great punishment. He knows the truth. What Nathan does, and I think this is the beauty of the story, and how Nathan just lays out this story here, is what he does is he draws David in to have compassion. He draws David in to get upset about Sin. He hates it. He's frustrated by it. And he draws him in so that then David gives a response. This is what we should do. This is how we should answer such a great sin. And then in verse 7. Nathan said to David, You are the man. You are the man. Well, we must recognize that David I knew what was right and what was wrong. David already knew that such a crime, a sin of stealing from the poor, a sin of of taking and putting to death, such great sins deserve a great punishment. David David knew the answer. And God uses Nathan to show David already knows the truth. We should not be afraid to call out sin in this World. Too often we want to say, well, they may not know it's sin. They may not recognize that it's sin. We need to just be slow and and and not call it out Well friends, we all know that there's sin in the world. We all know that we are sinners. Romans 1, verse 18 through 21 is a classic passage. When you're Trying to understand you. The sinners know that they are sinned. How do we know what is right and wrong? Romans 1, verse 18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against how much un Godliness, all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men, who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. For what can be known about God is Is plain to them un because God has shown it to them. For his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and divine nature, have been clearly perceived and Ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made. So they are without excuse. For although although they knew God, they did not honor him as God Or give thanks to him, but they became futile in their thinking and their foolish hearts were dark. Friend, everyone knows God. He has revealed himself to all of creation through his creation. The very fact that man has breath in his lungs, a heart in his chest, a brain with thoughts bouncing around in it. Is evidence that there is a holy God that has created them. The fact that that even the most rebellious person in the world does not like if the wallet would get stuck Solden is evident that they know of right and wrong. The atheists in the world cannot defend this. The atheists of the world, when faced with the moral trials of this world, when faced with is murder wrong, is rape wrong, is child abuse wrong, they they they have to say yes. And you say, well where does that come from? Well, science, well, just the the communal aspect of it, well, well, it's better for all humanity. And they go, stop. Stop. It is the knowledge of your Creator that is imprinted into you because you are made in his image. Friends, may we not shy away from calling out sin because we're afraid Well, they just don't know it. They do know it. We all know sin. Now, do we know each and every sin that we have committed? No. Does the atheist, does the rebel against God, understand all of the laws of God? No. But do they have a knowledge of right and wrong? Absolutely. We should not shy away from calling out sin. This is what Nathan does. He lays out a story that he knows the answer. He knows how David's going to respond. And then when David responds, according to how Nathan knows he's going to, Nathan shows him, you are just like the sinner. There's a common apologetics style, I can't think of the guy's name. off the top of my head. But what he does is he just takes the Ten Commandments, right, and he lays them out. What's that guy's name? Ray Comfort many of you may be familiar with this. He goes around and says, all right, uh it says that a lying is a sin. one of the Ten Commandments. Have you ever lied? And and everyone's like, Yeah, yeah. You know, it's just a little one, but yeah, we I've lied. And then he goes, Have you murdered anyone? And they're like, No, I haven't murdered and then he goes, Oh well Jesus says that if you've hated your brother in your heart you've murdered. Have you ever hated someone? It's often college kids. You can just see their face like, yeah, I kind of hate you right now. So so you see this crime that and and you know you can love or hate the style of but what Ray's doing is he's just pointing out that everyone knows they're a sinner. He's just calling that Hey, this is sin against the Holy God. And now you must respond to it. Friends, may we not shy away. May we know that man knows what is sin. And is without excuse. Maybe they couldn't put words to it. Maybe they couldn't say, This here is a sin. You know, we think about people that don't worship God. That is a sin. But then comprehend that. I think we could get them to that level. But but we must call them out on sin. We may we cannot just say, well, because you didn't know it wasn't a sin, that worshiping God Excuse me. Because you didn't know that worshiping God was a sin, I can't call you out on it. Whoa. No, this is what we do. Why do we do it? It's because it's the call to the sinner to turn to the God That forgives. If we don't recognize the sin, if the sinner doesn't know that they're a sinner, then it's pointless. There's no meaning behind it. Why turn to a God that forgives if I don't know that I'm wrong? Man knows what is sin and is without excuse. Point number two we see here is the reach of sin has no limits. The reach of sin has no limits. Here's David, the man after God's own heart, the man God has chosen to lead his nation, his people. Arguably, maybe arguably the best man in history at this time. And here he is, a sinner. We think about the the reach of sin has no limits. What I'm trying to persuade us of and just show us is that all of humanity, all of us, are sinners. From the poorest to the richest. To the least influential in society, to the most influential in society. Everyone is a sinner. Romans 3. 23. Anyone know that off the top of your heads? For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. All. All has sinned. Friends, can we understand The strength, the courage, it takes Nathan to go to the king of Israel and call him out of the state. We don't even want to do that with our spouses, right? We're scared of that relationship. My wife is never saved, so I'm not fault. She has the fear coming at me. But could you imagine going to the king? of the nation, to the man that leads the armies, to the man that holds the sword of justice and righteousness in the civil realm And here Nathan goes to him with boldness in verse 7. Nathan said to him, You are the man. Not in the positive. I just Heard that when I said that loud. Not like you are the man, you're the best. No. You are the man, you are the one guilty of this sin. You are the one guilty of the crimes against your brother and against the holy God. You are the one, the man that deserves the punishment for those sins. Nathan did not cower away just because it was a ruler. Friends, we cannot Power away just because it's our friends that maybe have committed the sin. We cannot cower away just because it's a leader in our families or a leader in our workplaces, even our leaders within the church We cannot cower away from calling out sin. We cannot cower away just because the government has sinful leaders. We can't say, well, because you're president, because you're governor, because you're mayor. We can't call out their sins. It's the exact thing that the people of God do. They call all the nations, all the people, to repent of their sin in turn to the Lord. And we are power away from speaking the truth to leaders, kings, and rulers of this earth. Just two weeks ago we saw an influential man within. uh the reformed Christian world have a moral sin. He he's he uh from what we understand it was an adulterous sin Relationship. Years and years, decades of just great ministry, preaching the word of God with boldness and raising up other leaders to preach. And his In his seventies, he now is removed as a pastor. His his lineage is completely destroyed because he had an adulterous relationship. Very similar story we have right here with David. May we never think that anyone is out of the reach of sin. May we never think that anyone has surpassed all the wisdom, that anyone has gotten to the holy of holy levels of Christianity. May we not think that any governmental leader has reached this pinnacle point that they are an untouchable Sin needs to be called out at all levels. Friends, may we have the boldness to call out sin in the election? May we have boldness to call out sin in the person we really want to vote for and we really like. May we recognize that if all people are sinners, then we must be willing to call out sin. Are we ready to call out the sins of the nation? Are we ready to call out the sins of the society we live in? I think too often we we step them to the side and say they're untouchable, it's unrealistic that they're gonna repent of them, it's it's uh it's a sacred cow. Um if we If we say something about it, then we're not going to be a good image of Christ. Why are we calling the sinner to repent in terms of the Lord? When we call the nations, when we call America, I'm going to make a right person alone we call the United States to repent of the sin of abortion are we not calling them to turn to the holy God We're not saying uh oh we wish you were dead, we're saying we wish you would stop murder and turn and find forgiveness in Christ. When we see the nations and America chasing after the sexual perversion of pornography, after sexual per uh uh perversions of of gender identity and homosexual and lesbian relationships. We're not saying we hate you and we wish you were dead. We're saying turn Turn from your wicked ways that are sending you to hell and fall at the feet of Christ when you find true forgiveness. We want them to come and know the Holy God that will judge them according to their deeds. That they can only find forgiveness in Christ. I don't care about how poor the homeless person is. If they are a sinner, call them to repentance. Newsflash, they're a sinner. I don't care how rich the President of the United States is If he or she is a sinner, call them to repentance in Christ. News flash. We all are sinners. I hope you hear my passion. I'm really tired of a Christian church that's sitting back and saying, we can't touch the sins of the world. Untouchable. No. We have forgiveness in Christ. Now may we call the world to come to that same forgiveness. May we do it with joy. With brothers and sisters, may we have hatred for that sin. And may we do it with passion. And we call them with joy to the forgiveness, but may we detest the sins of the world. Just like we should detest and hate the sins of ourselves. Do you hate your sins as much as you hate the sins of your brother? Do you hate your sins as much as you hate the sins of Russia? Do you? Too often we set our hatred on that side of things. And we forget about the internal. And sometimes we're so focused on the internal in our sins that we say, well, no, we actually don't hate the sins of the world. I think we're called, no, I don't think. We're called to hate the sins of all the world. And we're called to call all sinners to repentance in Christ, us and the world. The reach of sin has been witnessed. Do not think that anyone has not fallen guilty of sin. And this is what Nathan does in verse 7 and then 8. And I give you your master's house and your master's wives into your arms and give you the house of Israel of Judah. And if this were too little, I would add to you as much more This man has everything. Don't we all want that? We want that retirement check, right? That you all have a number in your head. Like once I get this number, I'm going to retire for Ever. I'm just gonna I'm gonna travel the world. I'm gonna tithe extra money because I'm gonna have so much. And every time you get a little closer to that number of retirement, you think, well, a few more shekels. would actually make it easier for me to go to this location. And then when you get 80 and you're retired and your mind is always racing for the next thing. I want more, I want more. That's part of the thing. David had it all, but he still wanted more. The reach of sin has no limits. Point number three, sin is an offense against God. If you would ask who did David sin against, you would say, well, he sinned against Bathsheba, he sinned against Uriah the Hittite, he sinned against Against Israel as a nation. And all of those are true, but ultimately the sin is against God. Look at verses N verse nine. Why have you despised the word of the Lord? To do what is evil in his sight? You have struck down your eye, the Hittite, with a sword, and have taken his wife to be your wife, and have Kill him with the sword of the Ammonites. We see here that the sin is that David has despised the word of the Lord. He has despised the commandments of God. Verse 11 echoes even louder this language. Thus says the Lord, behold, I will rise up evil against you out of your own hand. house and I will take your wives before your eyes and give them to your neighbor, and he shall lie with your wives in the sight of the sun. Excuse me, it's supposed to be verse thirteen. David said to Nathan, I have sinned against who The Lord. God. The sin is against the Lord. That's why we hate sin. That's why we hate sin. We hate sin because it's an offense against the holy God. Friends, we should hate the sin of the world because they're insulting our Savior. We should hate the sins of the world because they're insulting their creator. We should hate our own sins because we're sitting in the face of the truth and the knowledge that we have been redeemed by the blood of Christ. Hate sin. Oh, I want us to hate sin. I want myself to hate sin more and more. I want myself in the world to see sin as God sees it, and may we despise it. It is an offense against God. Keep a bookmark there in 2 Samuel, but also put a bookmark in Psalm 51 because this is David's Psalm he writes about this event. And in Psalm 51, verse 4, he sins against you. You only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. She's speaking to God against you. And you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. Against God. Think about often in in human relationships when we have offended one another. Um I'll just use my my own instance. When I when I have to go to Kensing and say, I'm sorry, you know, I I've I've spoken out of anger, I was sharp with my tongue here. Often, often my repentance is just because I've offended Kensey. I just want a house a house uh a happy home, right? So we're just gonna say, I'm sorry, I want to restore the relationship I have with Kenzie. But often it ends there. Often what I'm missing, and I think many of us are missing in the restoration is that I've actually offended God in my sharp tongue and my mistreatment of my stuff. That my sin, while yes it affected Kendra, yes it was against her or whatever relationship we're talking about, ultimately it was a sin against God. And that's why we should uh be disgusted by it. That's why we should uh reject it and we should actually wince at it when we see it. Not just because I've hurt my wife, but also because I've sinned against God. Ultimately, that's why it is a sin. Sin is offense against God. David recognizes this. David sees it. While he affected that Sheba, while he affected Uriah and all of Israel, ultimately he's recognizing that this is sin. was against the Lord. Why is this important? Well one is for our lives. The more we recognize that our sin is an offense against God, I think the quicker we are to confess it and repent of it. But also the the stronger the fight is against temptation in future sin. Right? Because we're we're we're actually recognizing the true identity of the sin and our true identity in Christ. And and we're seeing That we hate it. I think it's one of the struggles that people have with lust and pride, these two things. Pornography, pride, lust, they really have similar things. Because we say, well, there are an internal uh sin. They're not affecting anyone else. So I I can just deal with them and keep them secret and hid it. Just because we don't actually recognize that it's an offense Against God. Your pride is offense against God. Your lust is an offense against God. And as we start to grow in our understanding of what sin really is is, the more and more we're gonna fight against it, the more and more we're gonna hate it, and the quicker we're going to repent of it. And this is good for us. Point number four, there's no way to hide your sin from the Lord. There's no way to hide your sins from the Lord You shouldn't be surprised by this, but I do believe that we often live our lives as though uh there's certain things that will just say secret that no one will ever know about. No God doesn't even know about. That's not the case. David thought he had gotten away with it. He killed the only person that could really rat him out even though your eye didn't realize it and he solved in his mind he solved the problem he took Bathsheba as his wife they're gonna they're now allowed to uh by marriage standards to sleep with one another, so then when she has the child, everyone will just go, interesting, that happened quickly, right? That's not what happens here. God knows the sin. Look with me at Samuel 12, twelve. For you did it secretly, but I will do this thing before all Israel and before the sun. So David thought it was a secret, but ultimately we know that God saw it. In Daniel, we read that passage and we saw that whatever man does, God sees. You can just write this down. We don't have to turn there, but Jeremiah 16, 17 says, For my eyes or Excuse me, for my eyes are on all their ways. They are not hidden from me, nor is their iniquity concealed from my eyes. Nothing Hidden from the Lord. Friends of tonight you're sitting in here and you have this sin that you have been hiding from the world. And it's it's burdened you many times, it's affected you many times, but ultimately say it's it's secret. No one knows about it. You're lying to yourself God knows all that we do. He knows all of our good deeds. He knows all of our sins. He judges our sins accordingly. There's a punishment that comes with that. There's no way to hide your sins from the Lord. Keep that in mind. Don't fall for the lie that you are your sins Going to get away with. A common prayer I pray, and I encourage you all to pray, because I learned it from someone, is that the Spirit convicts us, convicts me. This is my prayer. Lord, convict me To confess my sins and convict me to never think that I'm going to get away with my sins. We should live lives to recognize that our sins are known to the Lord. Should want to confess it. If we know that he already knows, then how fast do we run through the arms of Christ if we confess our sins? Point number five. We're going to make it in time. Point number five, your sin affects others. How often do we think that this little lie, this little pride issue, this little lust issue, this little little cheating thing. Oh whatever it is, it's only affecting me. You're not worried about the people around you. It's not gonna affect others. But what happens here is that David Sin affects others. Look at 2 Samuel chapter 12, verse 14. Nevertheless, because by this deed you have utterly scorned the Lord, the child who is born to you should Shall die. Ooh, we do not like that, do we? How could God be so? How could God take the sins and the offense of David You take the child to life. Well, friends, I don't have the answers necessarily for that question. But what I can assure you is that sin, the filth of sin, the effects of sin, don't just stay with the one that has committed the sin. The effect the family, they affect the the household, they affect the workplace, they affect the church and they affect the nations. May we not think that our sins are only Now let me put some bones on this, all right, because sometimes it's hard for us to comprehend and understand how does the sins of of an individual affect the people. So let's just put some real clear evidence on um realistic situations. And I hope you start to see see the effects of it. What happens in a in a marriage, all right? Let's say there's a marriage and they have some kids and that man goes and cheats on the spouse and ultimately they have a divorce. Who's affected by that cheating? The the spouse? The children? And I I'm sure maybe some of you have this testimony yourselves or you are aware of this that even Even the children's children have some kind of effect from this. We see uh a long-lasting effect of the sin. Now, are the children guilty of it? No. Is the wife guilty of the cheating because of her The spouse cheated. No. But the effects are still there. What about drunkenness? Someone gets drunk and and starts to drive their vehicle and crashes. They could kill another driver? They then spend time in prison. More than just one person is affected by such a sin, right? We we can't think, we can't just assume that the sin is only going to affect the individual. We must recognize that sin affects others. This is why in the church we call out sin. This is an aspect though, it's not the only reason, but may we recognize that part of the offense of sin within the church is that That it completely destroys and affects and uh causes a blemish on the image of Christ Bride. Right? We all know the stories, we're seeing one. There's a church, their leader has an affair, their leader does some kind of And now they're they're the the pastor of that church is removed, but that church is affected. Many people within the church leave. Uh the people are are questioning their salvation because they heard the preaching of the gospel. Under that leader and possibly that church may never grow again. So let us call out sin. Let's not take the leader aspect, let's take down into the If someone within our congregation is is just going out to to the club, I don't know, something so funny to say here, but if anyone's going out to the bars and just getting drunk drunk and going home with a different lady each night. And then they're saying, hey, you know, in their drunken soup, they're saying come join me at North Harvard Best Church tomorrow morning for church. Good on inviting people to church. But what kind of image does the Bride of Christ take? Maybe our numbers would go up because all the drunks are going, well, they're allowing drunks drunks and and people to sleep around. That sounds like a good place. I like that guy. Do we see that we're actually marring the image of Christ and his bride when we just allow sin to grow to be rampant within the church. Within our own lives. Sin affects others. Don't fall for the lie that it's only an individual problem. Point number six, God forgives a repentant sinner. Oh, how sweet those words are. God forgives the repentant sinner. That's why we must hate the sin. It's why we're calling the sinner into repentance. It's because we actually believe that there's forgiveness for sin. Friend, I cannot, I don't know the word, just Voice and call us to have this heart. As we call our nation to repent of the sin, may we call them to find forgiveness in Christ. Boy, I want that to be our message. If if if if next year, when I get invited to go sit in the White House and talk to the President of the United States, may that be my message to that president. Come. Repent of your sin. May I be clear what their sin is. May I not just say in general your sin. No, may it be focused on their sin. I know this is going to happen, and I'm going to call them to their sin and say, Turn to the Lord. Find forgiveness in Christ. That's the kind of messengers of the gospel we must be. While the call and calling someone out of their sin is sharp, there's a sweet healing balm that we give out in the gospel. You 're piercing the sinner, saying you are a sinner, but you're giving the remedy and the healingness of the gospel. Look at 2 Samuel 12, 13 with me. It says David said to Nathan, I have sinned against the Lord. And Nathan said to David, The Lord also has put away your sin. You shall Do you see how quick that forgiveness is? It wasn't like David said, I have sinned against the Lord, and now I'm going to go on a six-month sabbatical, I'm going to step back from leadership. I'm going to work through the process and you know I have this whole plan. I need to go through a 12-step program. And by the end of that six months in the program and everything I do, I'm going to find forgiveness. No, immediately. David confesses his sin, and immediately it says, the Lord also has put away your sin. You have forgiveness in Christ. Friends, that is the call to each and every one of us. That's how quick the forgiveness of our sin is. The moment we have faith in Christ, you're forgiven. I don't even know if we could put a timeline on it because it's the they're they're overlapping that much. Faith in Christ, forgiveness, righteousness in Christ. Faith in Christ, sins washed away. It's like this moment is so quick. The speed of light is not fast enough to show it. But the moment we have faith in Christ, there is forgiveness. The moment we turn from our sins, we find forgiveness in Christ. May we call the world to this. May we recognize that there is sweet, sweet forgiveness. Psalm 51, let's turn back there and see this. Verse 7. Psalm 51, verse 7. Remember David singing this song about his sin. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities Create in me a clean heart, O Lord, and renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence, and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation and uphold me with a willing spirit. Friends, if you're a Christian here this tonight and you have a sin, confess it now. Know that you are forgiven in Christ. Find the sweet, sweet forgiveness of your sins in Christ alone. And may we call the world to that sweet forgiveness. May we see the ten thousand of charms that are provided in such a gospel truth Is this. Point number seven. We did it. The guilt of sin cannot stop us from living. I don't know. I may Maybe you wrote that different on your page. The guilt of sin cannot stop us. Let's just put it simple. The guilt of sin cannot stop us from living. We see that David confesses his sin. And the temptation in our own lives when we are in sin, when we're guilty of sin, we confess our sin, is that we want to pull away, right? I'm in this sin. I'm in this dark place. I want to pull away from the church. I want to just stop. I can't keep going on. How could such a great sin, how can I keep Keep moving? How can I keep living? Well, if you have been forgiven by the blood of Christ, your call is to keep moving on. Friends, you cannot stop after just one sin. If that was the case, none of us would ever do anything. You'd wake up, you would think of your sin, and you would just lay in bed being miserable all day long. But if we recognize that there's forgiveness to the repentant sin Then that gives us the ability to step forward in faith and keep living. One of my favorite pastors, Michael Schittmann, has a saying that the Christian life is of two steps. The Christian life is of faith, or hope, faith, confidence in God, and the next step is of repentance. And for the rest of your lives, you walk that way with faith. Repentance, for asking for forgiveness, and taking the next step in faith and hope and confidence that God forgives. And is and that is how we move forward in this life. The guilt of sin cannot stop us from living. Look at David. We see his son is taken from it. We see that that all the servants are thinking David's going to harm himself, put himself to death because of the pain. of the loss of his son. But actually what we see is David gets up. He goes and eats. And then, in verse 24, then David comforted his wife, Bathsheba, and went in to her and lay with her, and she bore a son. David could have just said, I can't do it anymore. I can't live. I can't interact with my wife. I can't eat anymore. The pain of my sin is so great that I'm just gonna lay here until the till the vultures come and pluck out my eyes. That's not what he does. He gets up. He's nourished. And he goes in. He comforts his wife. It's vitally important. And then he has a son. And we're going to see other parts of the story, not tonight, but this son is Solomon. And many of you know the story of Solomon and what he has done. But could you imagine if David just gave up and quit? No, it's not how God has it worked out. Christian, we must not give up. The guilt of our sin cannot stop us. We must be willing to get up after our sins, after we find forgiveness in Christ, and you will, and we must step forward. And live life with joy. May we do it with joy. Why can we have joy? As David says in Psalm 51, it's because we know that our iniquity has been blotched out from the eyes Of our Lord. Let's go to Him in prayer. Father, we thank you for this truth. Lord, we thank you that we know and have forgiveness through Christ. Lord, and tonight I ask that you convict us of sins that maybe we're unaware of. Give us the ability to confess them before you, to know that we have forgiveness in Christ. And Lord, I now ask that you You give us the strength to call out sin. forgive May we do it with love. May we do it with kindness and gracefulness. But Lord, may we do it with boldness. May we be faithful to the truth and to your word. May we love our neighbors so much that we want them to turn from their sin and turn to forgiveness in Christ. We pray this in his name. Amen.