Let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis 3, verses 6 to 13, continuing our series in Genesis. This morning looking at the dynamics of sin in Genesis 3, 6 to 13, the dynamics of sin. That means How does sin work? How does sin operate? What does it do? The dynamics of sin. Up to this point in the Bible. Sin has not entered the world. Everything was good, but temptation has entered the world, but mankind has not yet fallen into sin But that's what we see this morning, not just the dynamics of sin that we'll talk about, thinking about our own discipleship as we talk about that. But what we're seeing is historical What we're seeing is a unique time in human history where human sin enters the world, brings death, brings judgment to the world. So Genesis three, six to thirteen The dynamics of sin. Let's give our time to the Lord in prayer and then we'll begin. Father, we thank you for your word, and we pray That you would open our hearts to receive your word humbly this morning. Help us to see our need for Jesus Christ. Help us to see the sufficient provision that you have made in Jesus Christ. And Father, I pray every single heart in here would not only see Jesus But would receive and rest in his grace. And we pray that in seeing him by faith We pray that your Spirit would conform us to His likeness and further enable us to live for Him and not for ourselves which we see as the result of your grace, not the prerequisite. Father, we pray that you would turn our hearts to you Help us to be dependent on your Spirit. Help us to hunger for your word, to trust the power of your word. And again, we pray that you would deepen our love, affection, and devotion for our great And merciful Savior, Jesus. It's in his name we ask for help this morning, and it's in his name we lift this prayer. Amen. Genesis 3, 6 -13. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, And that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and ate And she also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were opened And they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together and made themselves loincloths And they heard the sound of the Lord God walking in the garden in the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves. from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. But the Lord God called to the man, and said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid because I was naked, and I hid myself. He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman who you gave to be with me She gave me fruit of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate The more and the better that we grasp the dynamics of sin and how it works, then brothers and sisters, the better we'll be at fighting against sin. And that should be something that we all want Anyone who has the Spirit of God should want to fight against sin in obedience to God, out of a love for God Never trying to earn God's favor, but out of a heart that's filled with gratitude because of God's favor We strive to fight against sin in our hearts, minds, words, and lives. Amen? And the better we grasp the dynamics of sin, the better equipped we'll be to fight against sin, to sense its presence. Right? Because sin is a poison to the heart. It's like a spiritual poison. Right? And we want to be able to sense its presence. And in sensing the presence of sin, we want in our hearts to hate what it stands for, to despise what sin stands for. For because it stands for the opposite of what God stands for. And in sensing sin, in hating sin, and what it stands for, we want to be able in our lives to reject sin. By looking to Christ. That's the end goal. That's the end game in our lives every day to learn how to reject sin By looking to Christ. And both parts of that statement are critically important. Rejecting sin by looking to Christ You have to do it in the right way. The way we reject sin is by looking to Christ as a mighty Savior. Who is able, exclusively, Christ is exclusively, that means he's the only one who can do it, able to turn us away from sin in our lives. So sensing its presence, hating what it stands for, rejecting sin by looking to Christ is the end game. To fight sin, we need to know what it is. It's rebelling against God, it's breaking God's commandments. To fight against sin, we need to know what the remedy is. The remedy is the living Lord Jesus Christ, who we must look to in faith to defeat sin. What is sin's strategy? How does it work? What is its MO? In other words, what are the dynamics of sin? This also we need to know if we are to fight sin in our lives. And my prayer, and I hope that your prayer, is that each one of us would become wiser And would become more alert to the schemes of sin working against us. 1 John 3:8. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. And that's what we should be praying for in our lives and praying for each other. Jesus would be at work within our lives to destroy the works of the devil that are trying to get us off track. That are trying to discourage us and bury us in despair. That are trying to distract us so that we focus on all kinds of things, but forget about the Lord and growing in Him. We need Jesus every day to destroy the works of the devil in our lives. The better we grasp the dynamics of sin, the better equipped we'll be able to fight against it You'll see on the outline five points, five different aspects, or five different features of the dynamics of sin. Sin deceives, sin disobeys, sin defiles, sin is delusional, and sin deflects. I'm sure you saw that one at the end of the passage. This historical deflection. Sin deceives, sin disobeys, sin defiles, sin is delusional, and sin deflects So, first of all, sin deceives. This comes from the very first part of verse six. Alright. The very first part of verse six. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, And that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise. Well, the bait was on the hook And she's heading toward it. The peanut butter was put in the in the mouse trap, the rat trap. She's heading Eve is heading toward it The chicken leg is in the crab trap. You remember doesn't make sense if you didn't hear the sermon on temptation. That's what the essence of temptation is It's an allurement. It's an enticement. It looks great. It makes you feel like this would be uh a good addition to your life, but it actually brings harm and death But she has fallen for the lie. The devil has made Eve think that what God said was wrong was actually right. And that what God said would be the worst thing would be a good thing. The devil's duped Eve the way it dupes us. To make her think that what God said Will bring you death. Now she thinks it actually will make her wise. You see how sin Flips things around. It flips reality around. It makes us think that what God says is bad for us is actually good for us. And it also makes us feel like what God says is good for us. is actually bad for us. God said it'd be good for you, it'd be obedient for you, it'd be wise for you to refrain from eating from that tree. Well the devil the devil has her traps. The devil has her ensnared to be thinking the opposite. She thinks this is good for food. This is to be desired, to be wise. What's the opposite of wisdom? Definition of wisdom: the foundation of wisdom is walking the fear of the Lord, obedience to his commandments. The whole duty of man is summed up in that: fear the Lord and keep his commandments. Now she's on the hook for this. She's believed this lie. That's what sin does. Sin deceives. Makes us think makes us think that the good is bad and the bad is good. Makes us feel like bad ideas are terrific ideas. The sin that lives within us makes us feel like jealousy and materialism are a good way to live Sin makes us feel like gossip and slander are good ways to talk. Sin makes us Think that grumbling and complaining is a beneficial way to behave. Sin makes us think that drunkenness and sexual immorality is a great way to spend our free time Sin makes us think that violence and unrighteous anger are the answer to solve our problems. Sin makes us think that living for ourselves Rather than living for God will bring us to the full experience of human life. Sin makes us think that sarcasm is a good idea. It's not a good idea. It tears people down. It takes little chips out of people. But you always leave yourself an out with sarcasm because you can say, well, I was just joking. Sin makes us think that stealing is a good idea, at least when nobody's looking. Sin makes us think that it's a good idea to disobey God and give us a fuller experience of human life. Jesus said about Satan in John 8:44, When he lies, he speaks out of his own character, for he is a liar and the father of lies. Isn't it true? He is a liar, and he is the father of lies. But what baited hook are you headed for? What baited hook have you already bitten? What baited hook Do you continue to swim toward and continue to bite, even though it continues to bring harm? to you. And even though intellectually you know God does not want that for you. He is a liar and the father of lies. But we are the ones who buy those lives, aren't we? Now Thinking in terms of application, given this dynamic of sin that it deceives , practical Help is we must be grounded in and always growing in the truths of God's Word. To be grounded in and to be growing in the truths of God's Word. Because, beloved Knowing the truth will enable us to spot the lie. And if we're growing in the truth, we'll be able to spot the lie. We'll be able to sense the sin. We'll sense the lie. We'll be able to have a hatred for what that lie represents in our lives, which is taking us out of the will of God. And by the Spirit of God and by the grace of God, we'll be able to reject the lie, to reject the deception of sin by looking to Christ. Who is our priest in heaven? You have to know the truth of God's word, and we have to be diligent to be growing in God's word. That's the way that the truth sets us free. It sets us free from a practical bondage to sin in the way we live our lives, because it enables us to spot the lies, sense, the deceptions, the schemes, the wily trapped. Of the devil, and instead of biting that hook, swim the other way. Sin deceives You need to know that. Every morning, we need to know that. And every morning, each one of us Should be praying to God that He would build us up and establish us in the truth and enable us to reject and turn away from the lies of the devil. Secondly, sin disobeys. And this is the essence of sin actually, disobedience. Very simple. Because we all know what disobedience is. Um a violation of the rules, a breaking of the commandments. This comes from the end of six, the end of verse six. Once Eve believes the lie, it leads to the action. The end of verse 6, she took of its fruit and ate. She also gave some to her husband who was with her and he ate. Because misery loves company, doesn't it? That's part of the dynamics of sin. I didn't even flush this out in its own point, but one of the dynamics of sin Sin loves to get other people involved in sin. Right? Sin has a snowball effect Sin wants to recruit others in your its effort against God. So she eats And also brings Adam, entices Adam. She actually joins the serpent in what the serpent was doing. She makes herself part of the invitation to break God's commandment. This is Isn't the see the corruption, the diabolical nature of sin? Anyone who is in your life who is encouraging you To walk away from God. You it you need to separate yourself from that person to one degree or another. Not t don't take that in an unqualified sense and say I just need to remember Move myself from the world. That's not what Christians are called to do. But in some instances, you need to exercise practical wisdom and discernment. People in your lives who are an influence For sin, encouraging you to sin, enticing you to sin, dragging you away from God's will for your life, you need to distance yourself from that influence. From the influence and impact of that person, one way or another. I can't give you five rules for how to do that. But that just needs to be in your mind. That needs to be settled in your heart You're going to make decisions in your life and build relationships in your life that are going to help you do God's will, not help you come out of and run away from God's will. Does that make sense? And we each have a responsibility for that. Some of those decisions are difficult. Some of those relationships are difficult. That's why I can't give you a set of rules that you can go home and do this and implement this It's a case-by-case, relationship-by-relationship situation, but you should at the very least be praying that God will give you wisdom in how to do that when that's what's needed Sin disobeys. Sin disobeys. The one thing God said not to do, in terms of this added command, Of don't eat from this one tree, it will bring death. The one thing he said not to do, Eve did. Sin disobeys. Now we know that commandments and rules in life are good, provided on what they are. And provided how they're implemented. But just in principle, rules and commandments are good. You need those for order. You need those for morals. You need those for a moral and ethical foundation. That's why the moral and ethical fabric of the nation is deteriorating, because we've rejected the belief that rules and commandments Especially the the ones from God. We've rejected the belief that we need those things and that we are accountable to God for those things. And the more and more you go against the idea of God's rules and God's commandments, the more and more you'll see moral and ethical degradation in anything, in the life of an individual, in a home. in a culture and society in general. It's disobedience. That's what sin does. And you can put point number one on your outline. With point number two on your outline, in your mind's eye, you can just link them together like two lengths of a chain. The reason sin deceives us is because it wants us to disobey. Right? That's very simple paradigm. The lies of Satan are coming into our minds, and the lies of sin reside in our own heart And those lies have a specific purpose. Your disobedience, your rebellion against God's authority Now, in terms of application, given this dynamic of sin, that is the disobedience to God's commandment, we need to learn. God's commandments, and we need to learn to delight in God's commandments. We need to learn His commandments, and we need to learn to delight in His commandments The grand or the supreme commandment of God is be holy, for I am holy. That means we're to reflect God's character in everything, the way we feel, think, speak, act. If you can flesh that out into two greatest commandments. Love the Lord your God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, and love your neighbor love your neighbor as yourself. And you can flesh that out into more details and go the ten commandments. But then there's all kinds of examples and specific situations where we would need to apply the Ten Commandments at home, at church, at work, wherever. So it's just a thing for all of life. I mean every aspect of our life, but then also it's a thing for all of life in terms of until the day we die, and learning God's commandments, and learning to delight in God's commandments. When we learn to delight in God's commandments, it's really showing us that we're learning to delight in the character of God. Because God's commandments are a reflection of his character. So as we're conformed to the likeness of Christ By his word and spirit, we learn to love God and to love his character, to love his purity, to love his majesty. To love his righteousness, to love everything that God stands for. And as that's happening, what the fruit we'll see in our lives is we're we're delighting in his commandments And we want to learn more about his commandments and the spiritual essence of his commandments. And we're praying to God that he would help us to delight in What he's required of us, and he's helping us to delight in uh knowing and rejecting what he's forbidden in our lives, which should have been the case here. Should have just the easy answer? Tell the serpent, that's actually not a good idea to eat that fruit. That will not make me wise, but rather that will bring death And that that would be disobedience. I don't want to do that, but that's not what happened. Sin disobeys And we need to learn and delight in God's holy commandments. Psalm 119, 47. Psalm 119, 47. I find my delight in your commandments, which I love. Isn't that a nice verse? I find my delight in your commandments, which I love. And please don't get it twisted That kind of heart comes after we receive the grace of God. That kind of heart, a heart that loves God's commandments and delights in God's commandments That kind of heart is created by the gospel. So, gospel transformation first And then obeying and learning and delighting in commandments, second Now I won't be able to sleep tonight unless I ask you. Do you get that? Do you understand Transformation of the gospel first, and then obedience and learning and delighting in commandments, second. Otherwise, we're just turning to self-righteous legalists. Who who think we're getting to heaven because of what we're doing, and it just leads to hypocrisy and outward religion that is abhorrent to God. You have to have gospel transformation first. And then growing, growing and being sanctified, we'll learn God's commandments. And then the end game in that is by God's Spirit helps us to sense what would be disobedience And to hate what that disobedience would represent, which is rebelling against God, and and to help us to reject that disobedience. By looking to Christ. Sin deceives, sin disobeys. Number three, sin defiles. Sin defiles. Which means it leaves corrupt. It renders filthy, sin defiles, and this comes from verse 7. Then the eyes of both were opened, and they knew that they were naked And they sowed fig leaves together and made themselves loin cloths The language, in that time, in that culture, this language is communicating something that is not confusing. Sometimes it's hard for us to see it. We're just looking on the surface of what these terms and ideas may mean to us. But the takeaway point and the main point is very simple is that they are burdened By the shame of their sin, but at the same time, what are they trying to do? They're trying to conceal it. And we now we all relate to that. Because it's called a conscience. This is the conscience now has come in To do its work after the sin has been committed. So a change has taken place, not just in history, but for Eve and for Adam. Their hearts are changed, their minds are changed. They have fallen into the corruption and defilement of sin. And so now their conscience starts to work. And they are burdened by the shame of their sin. But at the same time, trying to hide it. They feel guilty, they sense that they have defiled themselves, they know that they have turned against God. Now what do they do? They try to fix the problem on their own. That's what they do. And so now, in this self-salvation project, now what you have is sin. Heaped upon sin. And this is part, again, of the dynamics of sin. It brings us into this defiled state. You have sin heaped upon sin because not only do you have the original sin, Of disobeying God's commandment, but what else do you have? You have a sinful response to the guilt and shame of sin. Listen. As if you weren't listening. Listen. We're supposed to sense guilt and shame. For saying, right? That's not the the bad thing for what's going on here. We're supposed The more the deeper and deeper the more we give ourselves over to sin, the less and less sensitive we'll be to the guilt and shame of sin. We're supposed to sense that. We're supposed to feel that. That's one of the purposes of the human conscience. But the right response is not to to uh try to conceal it, it's not to try to fix it. By ourselves, but the right response is to humble ourselves before God and ask for forgiveness That's what's supposed to happen when we sense and feel the guilt and shame of our sin. In fact, a sign of spiritual health is that you're growing in how much you're feeling and sensing the vile, defiled, corrupt nature and shame. And guilt of sin. Because that's the thing that's going to drive us back to Christ. And drive us back to Christ. Look to him again for mercy. Cry out to him again for grace. Look to him again. Put your faith in him again for forgiveness. Plead with him for sanctification, all of these different ways. Look to him again. Pray to him daily for strength, strength to have victory over temptation. To swim away from the baited hook. So always going to Jesus when the proper guilt and shame of sin is welling up in our hearts But the self-salvation, trying to conceal it, is sin upon sin. Now, given this dynamic of sin, once again trying to think of practical application, given this dynamic of sin. This defilement where we're burdened by shame, but at the same time trying to conceal it, pretend pretend it's not real. That'll make it all go away, right? Given this dynamic, we must strive and diligently pray for integrity Strive and diligently pray for integrity, where our public lives, public behaviors More and more and more are parallel and accurately representing our private lives and our private devotion and a private morality. We should understand what's going on here when Adam and Eve. Try to cover their own shame and try to have their own remedy for sin. We should be able to relate to that impulse. Just think of things that you do, things that you say. Places that you go , ways that you act privately that you would never publicly Because when you're public, you put the loincloths on. When we're public, we want to keep certain things concealed. Because why? Because we know that they're shameful. And because we know, we know that would heap shame upon us publicly. That's the defilement So we need to pray for integrity that what will happen over time is our conscience, our conscience will be more aligned to God's will. And number two, our spirit Will be more tuned in to following God's will. Now, if you have anything on your prayer list, put those two things on your prayer list. Number one, that God would get your conscience more and more aligned to His will. And number two, that your spirit would be more tuned in to following God's will. Basically, that you'd get better in listening to your conscience. Do we get better at listening to our conscience as we grow in the Lord? But that is not going to make a difference. Unless our conscience also is just getting more and more aligned with God's will. But that will happen if we pray for integrity. We increase in discernment, increase in wisdom, increase in godly character. And then this uh this secret hypocrisy that we all have over time will decrease. That's part of our sanctification. Sin deceives. So we need to be looking to Christ that we would sense those lies. And hate what those lies stand for and reject those lies by the grace of Jesus. Sin disobeys. So we need to be looking to Christ so that we would sense and discern that disobedience, that law breaking, that we would hate what it stands for, taking us away from God's will, and that we would reject it by the grace of God. And sin defiles. We need to be looking to Christ that He would help us to sense whatever measure of hypocrisy And lack of integrity is in our lives. And that He would help us to hate those things because of what they stand for, and that He would help us to reject to reject those things, hypocrisy, lack of integrity, that he would help us reject those things by his grace. Sin deceives, it disobeys, it defiles. Number four, sin is delusional. This comes from verses eight to ten. Sin is delusional. And they heard the sound of the Lord walking in the cool walking in the garden in the cool of the day. Some translations may say the spirit of the day. If not, you may have a footnote on that the the cool of the day, and the man and his wife hid themselves from the presence of the Lord God among the trees of the garden. Now before sin they did the opposite The thing you want most is to be in the presence of God. But what has sin has reversed that we gotta get away from this guy. So verse 9, but the Lord God called to the man And said to him, Where are you? And he said, I heard the sound of you in the garden, and I was afraid, because I was naked, and I hid myself. In other words, I brought shame upon myself, and so I hid from you. The delusion of sin is trying to evade judgment by evading God. Trying to evade judgment. Trying thinking that we can escape judgment If we can just get away from God, if we can just not think about the fact that we have a soul. If we can just not think about the fact that we're created by God and accountable to Him If we could just not if we can just stop thinking about the fact that one day we'll we'll answer to God, if we could just stop thinking about, just pretend like it Spiritual things don't exist. Eternal things don't exist. This is our mental way of running away from God, doing mentally what Adam and Eve did physically. Try to get away from the judgment by getting away from the judge. This is the delusion of sin. And this is more of what it what we said earlier. Sin heaped upon sin. First, you have the disobedience. Buying the lie, breaking God's law, and then you have the failure to go to God for mercy. Failure to go to God as forgiveness for forgiveness of sins, for that shame and guilt. And now you just have running away. Running away from God. Now, given this dynamic of sin, once again, trying to turn our hearts to personal and practical and daily application, given this dynamic of sin, we must daily seek to repent and believe. in Jesus. Daily project for children of God. Striving to over and over again Repent and believe in Jesus Christ, which means very simply turning away from sin and putting our faith in Jesus. As for victory over sin, for the forgiveness of our sins, and for salvation from sin, based on his death on the cross. Jesus died on the cross for our sin. He took our guilt as his own. He took our shame as his own. He took our penalty as his own. Why? Why? So that those things would be removed from us, so that the record of our sin would be completely erased. The opposite of this whiteboard over here, where you still have all the scribbles on it The scribbles are the guilt of our sin, the death of Jesus Christ, blots out and erases all of the guilt of all of our sin. And we look to Him daily as a living Savior. To help us turn away from sin. God has mercy for the sinner. Wouldn't it be absurd for someone who's dying of thirst? To run away from a fresh fountain spring of water that can save him Wouldn't it be foolish to refuse medical attention when you have severe internal bleeding Wouldn't it be foolish if you're drowning and you swam away from the rescue boat and hid yourself under the water? Water? Where's where's Pastor Anthony? The word is water. Yes. God has mercy and help for the sinner. He has grace for lawbreakers. Don't swim away from him. Toward him. Don't try to evade him, but go to him, cry out to him, seek to the Lord. You will find God if you seek for him with all of your heart And for those of us who that has happened in our lives, we look back and we know that it was God's gracious providence working in our lives to bring Him, to bring us to that point. But as it was happening, Uh we were just from from what we knew at the time, we were just seeking the Lord. We were seeking help from God. And that's what you need to do. That's in response to the conscience, the guilt and shame of sin. The problem of sin, the remedy is seek God and His grace that He's revealed in Jesus. Sin is Deceptive, it disobeys, it defiles, it's delusional, and finally it deflects it deflects. Verses 11 to 13 He said, Who told you that you were naked? Have you eaten of the tree of which I commanded you not to eat? The man said, The woman whom you gave to be with me, she gave me Fruit of the tree, and I ate. Then the Lord God said to the woman, What is this that you have done? The woman said, The serpent deceived me, and I ate Sin deflects. It shifts the blame away from self. And the reason it does that, you all know why we blame shift. Right, to minimize personal responsibility. We want to take our responsibility, our accountability, whatever part we had, we want to make that look as small as possible, incidental, and we want to blow up. All of the other factors. That's your role. Or my background. Or the culture. Whatever the and there may be other factors. Certainly. We don't live in a vacuum. But personal responsibility is the issue. Personal accountability before God is the issue. And sin deflects. It shifts the blame away to minimize. Personal responsibility. Eve was deceived, and what she did was she judged by outward appearance, and she judged by personal opinion and feeling She was responsible. And Adam did the same thing. He was deceived. And he judged by outward appearance, and he judged by personal opinion and feeling, and he is responsible And in my life, I have been deceived many times by sin. I have judged by outward appearances I have judged by personal feelings and opinions. And I am responsible. And you, in your life. You have been deceived in many ways by sin. That's what we mean when we say we're all sinners. It's not just some religious slogan, it is a spiritual truth. And you have judged by outward appearances. You have judged by personal opinions and feelings, just like me, just like Adam, just like Eve. And you are responsible. You are accountable. And this is the heart of what Scripture means when it says we're to walk in the fear of the Lord. It means to walk with an acknowledgement. That we are accountable to God, and that we answer to God, and that we have sinned against God. Now, what do we do? What do we do when we come to know the facts, like Adam and Eve, when we come to know I am responsible? Well, one thing we could do is try to minimize that and blame other people. And that's what they do. That's the natural sinful impulse. And we try to cover our own shame. We try to run from God. We try to save ourselves. Or, or we can humbly look to Jesus as the great and gracious Savior that God has provided There's only two paths. You have to pick one of them: the path of self-salvation or the path of looking to Christ for salvation. And I urge you, I plead with you, turn to Christ and believe in Him to be your salvation, to be Jesus, the Lord who saved. You on the basis of his death, on the basis of his resurrection, your great and awesome rescue from sin. Sin is an internal problem And it requires an internal and supernatural solution. And only Jesus can provide that solution. Religion cannot do it. Good works cannot do it. Good intentions cannot do it Living in a Christian family cannot do it. You need supernatural power. You need Holy Spirit transformation. to this internal problem that requires an internal spiritual solution. Our closing thought is To make a contrast very quickly. The temptation and the urge to sin For Adam and Eve in the garden originated from outside of them and outside of the garden. You have this intrusion of Satan, this intrusion of sin. But for us, on the other side of that, it's different. Sin lives within us. We don't need a serpent. We don't need a supernatural intrusion of Satan. To bring us the sin. Listen to this, Jeremiah 17, 9. The heart is deceitful above all things. And desperately sick. Who can understand it? The heart is deceitful above all things And desperately sick. Before we get out of bed, the deceitfulness of sin is already with us. Before we get out of bed, our hearts are already Infected with the poison and the illness of sin. Therefore, I encourage you, I exhort you, every single one of you, and this goes first to myself. Every morning, therefore, look to Christ as a remedy for sin and cry out to Him for mercy Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Thank you for salvation. And I pray that you would either change our hearts if that needs to happen. To be saved, or just continue to strengthen our faith and sanctify our hearts for those who are already saved. Father, I pray you give us the fortitude, the spiritual strength To take the steps of obedience that you've given us to take once we do come to faith, that we might grow in you and please you and gradually learn to live for you and not ourselves. It's to To this end that your son died and was risen. It's to this end that you give us the Holy Spirit. It's to this end that you bring us together and give us your word that we might turn to you and look to you and believe in you and have victory over sin. It's in Christ we pray, Amen.