Going to be in James chapter four. James Four One through ten Truths That are tough to admit or tough to accept What is God's purpose when he tells us truths that are tough for us to admit about ourselves or that are tough for us to accept? What's his purpose in that? Is it just to make us feel bad? No, no. To grow. To grow, right? To teach us so that we can grow. And it's So it's an act of love. It's like a parent disciplining a child. It's an act of love. It's like a a good friend who has the courage to speak truth to their friend in love to help them. Let's go ahead and pray, and then we'll start in with this passage. Some truths that are tough to admit. I need to get myself a pencil. Here we go. All right. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you for your word, and we thank you that you do teach us. Uh so many lessons uh in the world, but the lessons we really need are from you. And we're thankful that you do grow us, and we need it And I pray that you would show us our need. Give us wisdom where we need it. Give us patience where we need it. Give us faith. Strengthen our faith. Help us to live and walk as those under grace, as those cleansed and washed by the blood of Christ, whose citizenship is in heaven You have loved us with an everlasting love, and we thank you, and we love you, and we worship you. And we come here to study your word because we want to hear from you. And it's in Christ we ask. Amen. James 4, 1 through 10, let's begin with the reading of the word. What causes quarrels and what causes fights among you? Is it not this? That your passions or your lusts are at war within you, you desire and you do not have, and so you murder. You covet and cannot obtain. And so you fight and quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask. You ask and do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. You adulterous people. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? That means hostility. That means strife with God. Enmity with God. Therefore, Whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God? Or do you suppose it is to no purpose that the scripture says He yearns jealously over the spirit he's made to dwell within us. But he gives more grace. Therefore, it says, God opposes the proud But gives grace to the humble. Submit yourselves, therefore, to God Resist the devil, and he'll flee from you. Draw near to God, and he will draw near to you. Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts, you double-minded. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning and your joy to gloom. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Well, hopefully you can see the subtext of this paragraph with some of the themes. It's coming out as they were exalting themselves. And they're being called to repentance to humble themselves so that they might be exalted in a true and spiritual sense by God. Look at verse 6. The end. God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Obviously, in the context, There's a snare of pride that has and captured many people to whom James is writing. They are the proud. God gives grace to the humble, so they're called therefore to submit themselves to God. And repent. And he says that at the end of verse 10, or all of verse 10 rather. Humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. You give that exhortation, you give that command, humble yourselves before the Lord to what kind of people? To people who need to humble themselves before the Lord. And that's all of us to one degree or another. Not everyone is caught in a snare of habitual and acute pride. But we all still have pride that dwells within us that needs to be mortified or needs to be killed. So there's the self-exaltation problem and as you see as the paragraph starts, if you When a glance at verses 1 and 2 again, you'll see what is that inward problem of pride causing in the church? It's very simple. Fighting. Dissension, quarreling, divisions, bickering, grumbling, murmuring, complaining, gossiping. I'm sure it's the whole package, it's the package deal. The strife in the local church So truths that are tough to admit. God wrote the Bible Because we're sinners who need to be saved, and because we're fools who need to learn wisdom. And when he teaches us about our sins, sometimes that's hard. Well, always, if we hear it properly, that's always hard to hear. Not to drive us to despair, but so that we would see our need for Jesus, and then that we would go to Jesus in faith as the remedy for our sin. And in a parallel way, when God gives us wisdom and he teaches us about our foolishness. James is a wisdom book. Um it's to it's to show us our foolishness, not that we would uh be led into despair, but that we would go to God for wisdom. No, as a remedy. Go to his word. Go to God in prayer. This has been constant. This began in James 1. Go to God for wisdom. Pray to God for wisdom. Seek wisdom from above. Wisdom is so closely connected to the idea of holiness. Wisdom is Not just the knowledge of godly living, but wisdom is skill in godly living. It's ho it's holiness. It's just a different way of saying it. So James is wisdom literature, and if you've caught this um Week to week theme that some things in James are difficult for us to hear because they sting the heart. And they're showing us our sin, they're showing us our foolishness. So that we would go to God for help. Now one more thing on wisdom in general and wisdom literature. Turn to Proverbs 26, 12. Proverbs 2612. At the end of the day, who is the fool? Christians can act foolish, but in the Bible, the fool is a technical term. Like the lost person, the rebel. Proverbs twenty-six , twelve. At the end of the day, who is the true fool? Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? There's more hope for a fool than him. Now that's A radical statement. Because at this point in the book of Proverbs, the fool is like the worst thing you want to be, is the fool in the book of Proverbs. A man who's wise in his own eyes, there's more hope for a fool than for him. So the true fool is the one who doesn't think he needs God's wisdom. It's the one who thinks he's fine with his own wisdom and understanding. This is foolishness. The wise thing to do is to have a humble heart and a humble spirit and a learning spirit that we're always not just once and then moving on but always always coming back to God to help us and teach us in wisdom and godly living. So when that scalpel of the word of God comes, and it's come a lot in the book of James, that's to help us. That's to help us to seek God for wisdom. All right, let's um actually I need my sheets to give you the blanks I'll grab one from the back. I'm going to give you the outline points first to fill in the blanks. on where it says this main page where it says eight and then some truths that are tough to admit. I'm going to give you these all at once to get us started and then we'll circle back and look at the different sections. So, first of all, number one, it's tough to admit that quarrels and fights are the result of inward sin. That comes from verses one It's tough to admit that quarrels and fights are the result of inward sin. Number two, it's tough to admit that worldly living is hostility toward God. Worldly living is hostility toward God. Just blending in with the status quo of What how people are living in the culture, the values of culture, the principles of culture, the beliefs of culture, the habits and hobbies, and on and on and on Just blending in with the way of the world rather than seeking first the kingdom of God is not a spiritually neutral way of living. That is active hostility, active rebellion. God. God wants to get us out of that. He wants to give us a new life and a new purpose and a new direction, new habits, and new hobbies and new values and new principles and new beliefs. Number three, it's tough to admit that God gives grace to the humble It's tough to humble ourselves, in other words. It's tough to it 's tough to really apply this truth. That a meek and gentle and humble, lowly, broken spirit Is the recipient of grace. What is the natural human impulse? It's not humility, it's pride, it's self-righteousness. It's to act like and think like we don't need God, like we don't need his grace. Number four, it's tough to admit that God demands repentance. He demands repentance. And that is not just to the unbeliever. Of course, it's to the unbeliever. But Christians should always be passionate about repentance. And why is that? Because we love God and we want to obey Him. I mean it's All right, let's circle back to verses one through three. What causes quarrels and fights among you? James asks a lot of questions in the book. It's one of the ways he starts. the sections many times. He'll ask a question and then he'll answer the question uh here with another question. And the obvious implication is Is here the obvious answer is implied here. Is it not this? Your passions are at war within you You desire and you do not have, so you murder. Not literally murder. If we understand the commandments properly, that that uh there each commandment is much broader than just the that specific one. The commandment is against hatred. It's against malice. Murder is the representative example, like the biggest example of malice. So here's really simple principle, and you We see this all the time in our own lives and in the lives of others. You don't get what you want, and so you're full of anger and rage. You're full of malice. And what do you do? You lash out at other people. You take it out on other people because you don't have what you want and I don't have what I want. So where do these quarrels and fights, this bickering, where does it come from? Some people aren't getting what they want. That's number one. That's the first thing he says. We've seen that, right? So I'm not make sure I'm not going crazy up here. I'm not the only one. We've seen this is a normal part of human experience, not just outside the church, but inside the church. We should be passionate to repent of that. You desire, you don't have, say you murder. You covet and you cannot obtain, so you fight and quarrel. He's basically saying the same thing over again. Just summarizing it, putting it in a nutshell, bringing it together. You covet , blatant violation of the tenth commandment, and Since you don't get what you covet, what do you do? You start fights. You do not have because you do not ask. So they don't have because they're not asking God. But then this is interesting, and in a plot twist in verse 3 You ask, you do ask, and you do not receive because you ask wrongly to spend it on your passions. It's selfish prayer, self-absorbed prayer, which is no prayer at all. We don't ask God to fulfill our selfish fleshly desires so that we can get what we want. Actually, we're at one of the things we're asking God to do is put to death our selfish fleshly desires, not to fulfill them according to our will and purpose, but that He would burn them away and refine us. Into the likeness of Christ. Verses one through three Zoom in on this phrase at the end of verse 1. Passions at war within you. Passions could be interpreted pleasures or lusts. And then where it says within you, it literally says in your members, in your members, in your body. What this is is the indwelling sin of the believer. Now what I'm about to ask you is not trick questions. All right. Is the believer still enslaved to sin? No. Is the believer still blinded to his or her sin? Does the believer still commit sins? Yes. And why does the unbeliever, or why does the believer still commit sins? Because sin still lives inside the believer. Not as master, not as Lord, but the indwelling sin of the believer. It leads to sins that are committed. You see them here. The quarreling, the fighting. But James is cutting to the root. It's a heart problem. Selfish passions and lusts Inside of you that we'll not get rid of until we leave these bodies. So he's not talking about sins committed with this phrase. He's talking about sinfulness in the heart. And this is why the believer must be zealous for repentance. The most zealous people on the planet to repent and turn from our sins. And seek the will of God. Let us never grow apathetic in our personal spiritual growth. Are we fully forgiven of our sin? It's not a trick question. Yeah, I'm getting nods. I'll take that. Yes, we're fully forgiven. Are we fully reconciled to God perfectly and that can never be changed? Yes. Are we fully adopted into the family of God? Yes. Are we fully justified by faith? Yes. Are we fully sanctified by the Holy Spirit? No. We're not fully sanctified It's a it's a it's a gra that was a great phrase Maria just said. We're working on it. We're working on it and the spirit is working in us and there's your biblical paradigm for how to pursue Sanctification. Right? Personal effort, not on our own strength, but personal effort as we're depending on God who's at work within us. We are not fully sanctified. We are fully saved. We're forgiven. We're children of God. Praise the Lord. Rejoice. We're children of God. Nothing can separate us from the love of God that we've received in Christ. But he's working on us, and we're working on it. And we're all growing. God keeps us humble during the Christian walk. He keeps us humble. We are always needy sinners. We never graduate from that. We are needy sinners, and every day we must be seeking Christ. Every day. So Passions at war within us, the indwelling sin of the believer. Now get this sheet out: our natural sinful passions and lusts. Some practical application, a personal application, but this will really bolster our prayer life and um totally stimulate our prayer life. You saw this phrase in James 4 War within you, or at war in your members. So if these sinful passions are at war within us, We must be at war against them. We must fight against sin. Sin does not cease automatically. If we know anything from the scripture, we know lots of things from scripture, but if we know anything from scripture, we know that wickedness does not self-correct. It just helps deeper and deeper into wickedness. So if these selfish passions Live within us that are at war within us, we, by the power of the Holy Spirit, through faith in the risen Lord, we must fight against them with all of our might. Okay, number one, I have five points on this, looking at some cross-references. Our natural sinful passions or lusts want to choke out the word of God, will also accept the truth of God. But in the in the passage, it's referring to the Word, the Word of the Kingdom. The Word of God. And even as those who've already received the gospel by faith and been changed by the gospel and Believe in God's word and hear God's word, still in the daily battles and the specific battles and just the grind of life Our passions can often get the upper hand and choke out the word of God. We can become dull of hearing, is what you see in Hebrews. Luke 8. 14, on this we want to uh the sinful passions want to choke out the word of God or the truth of God. Luke 8. 14, and as As for what fell among thorns, now we have to stop there, because you don't know this parable, you won't know what that means. The thing that fell among thorns is a seed. Many seeds, not just one seed, many seeds. But the seed represents what? The word. So in the symbolism, this is talking about the word of God. As for what fell among thorns, there are those who hear, hear the word. But as they go on their way, they are choked by the cares and riches and pleasures of life or passions of life, and their fruit does not mature. The word of God came. God brought the word. The word was received. But what happens? Life distracts you. Life distracts the heart and the cares of the world and the riches of the world and the pleasures of the world. Choke out the word. And so the word does not bear the fruit that it should bear in the life of this person or these people here. So we must be aware of this because we're surrounded by distractions. We're surrounded by cares and riches and pleasures and all kinds of things. And we must be diligent in receiving the word with faith and being hungry for the word, cultivating a hunger for the word and seeking to apply it by faith I've said this many times, and Lord willing, I'll say it many more. We're not called to just be Bible believers. We're called to be Bible appliers, Bible doers, hearing the word and doing the word Number two, natural sinful passions once enslaved us. They once enslaved us. Now we still battle them as an enemy But we're not under their ruling power any longer. And brother, sister, I'm going to tell you, you have to take that by faith. You have to take that by faith. That is a promise of God to his children. If you've been united to Jesus Christ by faith, if you belong to Christ, Sin is not your master. You must believe it. You must believe it. If you want to win the battles over the sin And over the temptations that have been defeating you and defeating you and defeating you over and over, maybe year after year, it begins with faith. It begins with faith. You must believe Faith comes by hearing the word and will be the wellspring of true obedience. Titus 3:3. We ourselves were once foolish. Disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures. Passing our days in malice and envy, hated by others and hating one another. Well, there's a lot there. That'll make for a sermon right there Foolish, disobedient, led astray, slaves to various passions and pleasures. And then in that section you'd have to talk about multiple ones because it says various passions and pleasures And then passing our days in malice and passing our days in envy, hated by others and hating one another. But the point of this passage in Titus is to the Christians, that's who you used to be. That's not who you are any longer. We were once enslaved to these passions and pleasures. But now Christ is our master. Now holiness is our desire. And now we live in the fear of the Lord to please and honor the Lord, not based on people's opinions and our own image. And temporal pleasures. So these sinful passions, the indwelling sin of the believer Is not asleep. He's not asleep. He's awake. And he's active. And he's fighting. He's waging war. Wanting to choke out the Word of God in your life. Wanting to bring you back into acting like a slave when you are no longer a slave. You were once enslaved. Number three, obviously, hopefully this is obvious. Are contrary to the blank spirit. Any guesses? Everyone's laughing because it's so obvious. Holy Spirit. This is the battle. These are the two front lines coming together, our indwelling sin, and the power of the Holy Spirit within us. Apart from that, we have no hope of victory. Romans 7, 5, and 6. While we were living in the flesh , that's the opposite of living in the spirit. That's a parallel to what Paul said in Titus , we're slaves to various passions and pleasures in the flesh. Our sinful passions aroused by the law. We're at work in our members Same word that James used. We 're at work in our members to bear fruit for death. That's disobedience. That's what that means. Fruit for death. Disobedience that deserves death That's the past. And while we were living in the flesh and did not have the Holy Spirit, our sinful passions that were aroused by the law. Verse 6, but now. Now we're released from the law. We're no longer under the uh the law as a master. Now we are released from the law, having died to that which held us captive, so that we serve in the new way of the Spirit. The new way of the spirit, and not in the old way of the written code. It's really talking about the purpose and function of the law, what the law can do, what the law can't do. And how the Christian needs to understand the role of the law in the Christian's life. We don't have time to get into all that. The one thing I wanted to point out here is the before and after. Before we were enslaved to sinful passions. And when the the law of God came to us It didn't change those passions. It just stirred those passions up to violate God's law more. The thing that changed those passions and set us free from those passions It was the Holy Spirit that came to us through the gospel. It's the gospel that changed our hearts. It's the gospel that set us free, not the law. The law, because we're unspiritual. And sinners by nature, the law only stokes the flame of wickedness in our hearts. It's the Holy Spirit that enables us. To war against sin within us. We serve in the new way of the Holy Spirit. So obviously This oh I said this point was obvious that the that the blank is holy, right? Or whole uh contrary to the Holy Spirit. The thing I wanted to say now is obviously on the practical application. If we wanted to have any victory over sin in our life in our life, it were completely and utterly dependent upon the work of the Holy Spirit. We must be praying for the work of the Spirit in our hearts and in our lives, always, every day. Number four. Now this reiterates exactly what James said. Peter says the same thing. Number four, these natural sinful passions are at war against us. And in such a powerful and vivid way, Peter says it in 1 Peter 2. 11. Beloved, I urge you He's pleading with them. He's pleading with them. I'm urging you. You're not just teaching them like bullet point facts that he wants them to agree with. pleading with them. As sojourners and exiles on earth, right, because our true and eternal home is where It's in heaven. So as sojourners in exile, exiles, abstain, what does abstain mean? Stay away from it. Keep it out. Keep away from. Refuse Abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. You must abstain from them. You must keep from them. You must fight against them inwardly, and then the things that these passions are driving us to do. For example, in James, the fighting and the quarreling, we have to abstain. And that'll take one of the The fruit of the Spirit is self-control. That'll take discipline. That'll take prayer. That'll talk uh zipping the lip. James chapter 3 was this was The applic the application teaching is all about how sinful our tongues are. It will require not saying things that sin within us wants us to say, and not going places that sin within us wants us to go, and not doing things, and partaking of things that sin within us wants us to do and partake of. We must abstain. From the passions of the flesh, which wage war against our soul. And number five, our natural sinful passions Now here we're talking specifically about the believer, when God's word and God's Spirit reveal these things to us. They should drive us to Christ as our only hope and help. Jesus is the remedy, and he ever lives. To serve his people. He serves you every day. Should drive us to Christ as our only hope and help. Romans 7:21 through 25. So I find it to be a law. And there he's using the word law as uh as a like principle, like an operating principle. I find it to be a law that when I want to do right Evil lies close at hand. Let's just stop right there. That's a very vivid picture. You want to do right Because you are a believer and you do have the Holy Spirit. So you have true godly desires. You want to obey God. The believer wants to obey God. But where is evil? Close at hand. It's right there waging war. Here the imagery is more like a shadow Or uh like what was said to Cain, sin lies crouching and it wants to have you You want to do right, but evil lies close at hand, so it makes it difficult to do right. It makes it hard to do right, because evil's right there, taunting and tempting and lurking Verse 22, for I delight in the law of God, in my inner being. So that's the believer. Unbelievers don't delight in the law of God. We delight in the law of God. We know God's law is good. We know it's holy. We know it's right. We know it's a reflection of God's character. So if we delight in God, we'll delight in His law. I delight in the law of God in my inner being, but I see in my members, where here's that word again. I see in my members another law. waging war against the law of my mind, and making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Sin that dwells in my members. And you see, again, the same kind of language. We see it in James, we saw it in Peter, and we see it in Paul. Of a war, a spiritual war inside the believer. This is not believers against the world. This is not the church against the world. This is sin. Against the soul of the believer. That's the way Peter put it. Passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. This is a uh incredible passage from Romans 7. You know, in my inner being I delight in God's law. I want to do what's right, but I see in my members another law waging war against that. Making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. Verse 24, wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death. Now that's the question. Friends, that's the question. Who will deliver us? Thanks be to God through Jesus Christ our Lord. So then I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but with my flesh I serve the law of sin. He's not consigning himself and just throwing his hands up in defeat and saying, well, I guess they're just going to live a life of sin. No, he's he's just trying to articulate that as long as he's in this body, he cannot escape sin He cannot escape this battle. He cannot escape this war. It will not be over until we die bodily and the soul is made righteous and departs to the presence of God. Who will deliver me from this body of death that cannot escape sin? Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ our Lord is the only And our Redeemer, our Savior, who saves us from sin and all of the effects. And all of the personal ramifications of our sin. The wages of sin is death. But the gift of God is eternal life in Jesus Christ. Well, hopefully, hopefully, that will impact your heart a little bit to up the ante in your war against sin Believers must be striving for holiness. The things of James 4:1 through 3 are tough to hear. It's tough to hear that these quarrels and these fights Come from sin that dwells within us. We have to stop rationalizing away problems like this. And making we have to stop making excuses and putting a spin on it. J uh because maybe it's socially acceptable. Or maybe there's well that's just his personality. He's all we know, that's him, he's always like that No, that's not okay. That's not okay. There's an inward problem. And that's why it's tough to hear. But God hasn't left us He hasn't left us without a helper. He hasn't left us without a remedy. He loves us and he wants to help us with this inward sin. Now the next point is verses four. And five. Verses four and five. I lost my outline again. Didn't I earlier walk up and get get an outline? Is that it? I got it. Truths that are tough to admit. Short-term memory loss. It's tough to admit, number two, that uh worldly living is enmity or hostility toward God. Verses four and five. You adulterous people. Which is uh boy, that is a stinging rebuke. That parallels and Uh sh harkens back to God's rebukes to Israel in the Old Testament for their spiritual adultery and idolatry. There were supposed to be a light of holiness in the midst of the nations, they became worse than the nations around them. So for James to write, you adulterous people. It's a really big deal. Do you not know that friendship with the world is enmity with God? That doesn't mean having friends in the world. That doesn't mean being in the world and living life. That just means worldly living That means you're living in a worldly carnal way instead of a godly spiritual way. That's what that means. Friendship with the world is an enmity with God. You're so wrapped up and caught up in the world that you're not Living properly. Therefore, whoever wishes to be a friend of the world makes himself an enemy of God. That's where I got the point from. It's tough to admit that worldly living is makes you an enemy toward God. Host hostile is hostility toward God. Then he says in verse five, which is a very it's a notoriously difficult verse. For translators and interpreters for multiple reasons. And the grammar is such that it can be interpreted or translated in different ways. What I'm going to do is bypass all of those interpretive difficulties and just summarize. I think either way, at the end of the discussion, if we went through all the issues and all the different possible translations, the general point, I believe, is going to be the summary. Here's what it says, or do you suppose it is to no purpose that Scripture says, and now this is the first difficulty is going to say something that it's not a quotation from Scripture. Jesus does the same thing in the Gospel of John. As the scripture says, rivers of living water will flow within you. That's not a specific scripture. That's summarizing a point that Scripture teaches. So that's the first problem here. The scripture says he yearns jealously Over the spirit that he's made to dwell within us. Now, in some translations, one of the options, and this is one of the options, looking at strictly the grammar, it would be the spirit who is yearning. Jealously. Here it's he, which would be God the Father, yearning jealously over the spirit that he's made to dwell within us. And the other direction that interpreters go is that it's the Spirit yearning jealously over what He's made to dwell within us, which would be the word. And true wisdom that's come from God. Remember earlier in James, with meekness received the implanted word. So both Would be acceptable in the context and in the theology of Scripture in the book of James. What I want to zoom in on is this jealous yearning, this jealous desire. It's consistent in Scripture that God has a jealous love for his people because his people belong to him. We should have a jealous love for our children. We want our children to be faithful to us, to honor us as parents. And we should have a jealous love for God, for the honor of God, or for the name of God. It's not a fleshly sinful jealousy. It's the unique and piercing desire that you have for the one who belongs to you and for the one to whom you belong. And in special relationships, we have a jealous love, a love that desires commitment, a love that desires reciprocal love, a love that desires faithfulness. And when those things don't come, it stings to the core. It hurts to the core. It's very painful and very hurtful when that's not reciprocated. That's a jealous love. It's one of the most painful emotions you could experience on earth. God has a jealous love for his children because his children belong to him. I have a couple of cross-references. There are more than this, so I'll just read them out for you. You don't have to turn there. Exodus thirty-four, fourteen. You shall worship no other God, because the Lord, whose name is jealous. Is a jealous God. He loves you with a jealous love. He's pledged himself to you. You've pledged yourself to him. So don't worship other gods Deuteronomy 4, 24. The Lord your God is a consuming fire, a jealous God. Deuteronomy 6, 15. For the Lord your God In your midst is a jealous God, lest the anger of the Lord your God be kindled against you, and he destroy you from off the face of the earth. Joshua 24, 19. But Joshua said to the people, You are not able to serve the Lord, for he is a holy God, he is a jealous God. He will not forgive your transgressions or your sins is because the people have not given up their idols yet. Do you remember this is uh A classic Joshua verse comes right before this. Joshua says, Choose this day whom you will serve. And then what do the people say Well, we'll choose the Lord. And it was not so classic as this. They say we'll choose the Lord. We'll serve the Lord. Joshua says, you're not able to serve the Lord. You're not able to serve the Lord. And if you go back and read that context in twenty four nineteen, what he says is until you give up your idols You're still clinging to your idols, still clinging to your false gods, still clinging to your immorality. You can't serve the Lord. There's no true serving the Lord without repentance. Anyway, in that verse, hopefully you called that also. He's a jealous God. He's a jealous God. He has a jealous, yearning love for his people. And why does he say that here? Well, in James 4, he connects it to the fact that some of those to whom he's writing are living for the world. They're living as if the world is ultimate. Rather than God. They're living as they love the world more than they love God. Worldly living instead of godly living. Friendship with the world is hostility against God. And God is yearning. He's yearning jealously over you. He wants you to serve Him. He wants you to love Him. He wants you to treasure Him and cherish Him. That's tough to hear for those who aren't doing that. But again, God wants to bring us to repentance, to show us our need for a savior, and to show us our Savior who meets that need. And then the next section, verses six and seven, number three, it's tough to admit that God gives grace to the humble. But he gives more grace. He gives more grace So, because they were living for the world in hostility against God God didn't stop giving grace. You still come to God for grace. You can always, as you still draw breath, you can always come to God for grace. He's a dispenser of grace. He gives more grace. Therefore it says he opposes the proud and gives grace to the humble. Now James has transitioned. In this paragraph. He's been pinpointing the problem. Now here's what you do about it. First of all, recognize God still gives grace. Praise God, he still gives grace. The way out of this problem is not by human effort. It's to become a recipient of grace. When to become a recipient of grace. So, how do we do that? Well, first of all, realize God opposes the proud but gives grace to the humble. So we've got to humble ourselves. And that's what he's Goes on to say, verse 7, submit yourselves therefore to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you. Submit to God. Resist the devil. That's how you grow spiritually. God gives grace, number one. He gives grace to the humble, number two. Therefore, submit yourself to God, resist the devil, and he will flee from you Um and the next the next section he he fleshes out some details on How we do those. These are two broad categories of Christian living. These are the rather a better metaphor would be Two sides of the coin. These are the two sides of Christian living. Submitting to God, that means uh just submitting ourselves to God's authority. Just coming to God and saying, God, I submit. To you. Teach me, God. Help me. I'm under your authority. I want to learn from you. I need to hear from you. I need help from you. Please get me out of this mess. And resisting the devil. It is similar to when we talk about sanctification, being conformed to the likeness of Christ. What'd you say earlier, Maria, we're working on it, right? It's a gradual process of being made to the likeness of Christ. And the two sides of that is cultivating holiness. Is one side, and the other side is uh killing sin. We're both of those things going on simultaneously in our sanctification. We're killing sin, we're mortifying sin. And we're cultivating holiness. So we want to be decreasing in sin and increasing in holiness. It's kind of a parallel here. Submitting to God would be obedience. Submit to his authority. Seek to obey him. Strive to obey him or resist the devil. Right. Fight temptation. Put sin to death. We have to resist the devil and he will flee. Now how do you resist the devil? You resist the devil by going to God It's not like something we do successfully and then we go to God. No, we resist the devil by going to God and asking for help against the devil. We pray for help. Prayer. It starts. Prayer. This is the way. We go to God. We must go to God. Seeking God's will for us, seeking God's power and work within us. And if God doesn't help us, there's no help But God will help us. You see, that's how we have to come, completely and utterly dependent and completely and utterly expectant Believing, trusting, He is my helper, He is my rock, He is my refuge. So we sit we submit to God's authority We resist the devil. How do we resist the devil? Well, it always goes back to this. Going to God. Now, the last section, the last ten minutes, the last section. Number four. It's tough to admit that God demands repentance or requires repentance. That's tough for unbelievers, of course it is. Till God changes our hearts. We won't repent. But it's tough for believers. This is tough for believers. When God points out different things in our lives that need to change Different habits, different uh ways we speak, priorities. It's tough. And those Instructions from God or those little corrections from God can come directly from the Word in your study It can come from hearing a sermon on Sunday, it can come from a good friend. It can come from just a providence of God where one way or another, in an unexpected way, he teaches You something about a way you need to change. That's the Spirit working, that's God working. There's not like one way God intervenes in our life to correct us and discipline us, us as children. It's tough to admit that he requires repentance. This is eight through ten. Draw near to God, and he'll draw near to you. Hopefully you heard that. I previewed it. Resist the devil. How? Go to God. That's what he says. Draw near to God. You draw near to God for God's help. God will help you. That's what he's saying here. Go to God for help. God will help you. Go to God for wisdom. God will give you wisdom. Go to God for strength, God will give you strength. Go to God for holiness and repentance, God will give you holiness and repentance. Go to God, go to God. God is our helper. So the first thing he says is: draw near to God. How do we draw near to God? How do we come to God? Through Jesus Christ. Through the crucified and risen Savior, through the one who died for our sins because he loved us. And he rose from the grave for our justification. And he ascended on high, where he serves as our great high priest in heaven. Always living to intercede for us, always there to help us, always there to hear our prayers, always there to answer our prayers, always there to encourage us, always there to comfort us, the living Lord Jesus Christ. We draw near to God through Christ And this is why it's so important that we never move on from a gospel mindset. Christians are a gospel-obsessed people. Gospel-obsessed. We draw near to God. It's not a undefined mystical spiritual feeling that we have. It's an actual thing of coming to God through faith in the crucified and risen Savior. Now he says after that, cleanse your hands, you sinners. Obviously that's a metaphor. Well, maybe it's not obvious Cleanse your hands, you sinners. That's uh we're cleansed By faith. By faith. We're cleansed by the work of the Spirit, but in terms of receiving, faith is the receiving instrument. We're cleansed. Cleanse your hands is about repentance. Begins with faith. The next thing he says is , let's see, where is it? Cleanse your hands, you sinners, and purify your hearts. There's overlap with all of these. He's piling it on for the cumulative impact. A sinner cannot purify his or her own heart. The Holy Spirit can purify the heart. Purify your hearts Draw near to God, cleanse your hands, purify your hearts. So come to God through Christ. Come to God through the crucified and risen Savior with faith and repentance. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Let your laughter be turned to mourning. And your joy to gloom, humble yourselves before the Lord, and he will exalt you. Be wretched and mourn and weep. Blessed are those who Mourn. Blessed are the poor in spirit. This is a picture of a godly sorrow that leads to repentance and salvation. I'm going to put the first phrase, although he says many things here. Be wretched. It's what Paul said in Romans 7. And then, etc. This is the brokenness of true repentance. This is the broken heart, the contrite heart. This is the heart that has seen Its own sin and is grieved by it and wants help. That's what that is. A very simple thing. It's a heart that has seen its sin that dwells within it And is utterly destroyed by it and broken by it, and is is ashamed by it, but isn't falling into utter despair, but rather is going to God through faith in Christ Is turning, is turning from sin and embracing Christ and laying hold of Christ. This is the only way. It's the only way To deal with the problem of verses one and two So let's circle back there and end here. All of this is how you deal with indwelling sin. What causes quarrels and fights among you? Is it not this? Your passions at war within you. You desire and you do not have, so you murder, you covet, cannot obtain, so you fight and you quarrel. You do not have because you do not ask So it's an ungodly atmosphere, fighting, division and dissension, because there's ungodliness in the heart that needs to be addressed They need to address it. Well, how do they address that? They must humble themselves before the Lord and seek the Lord's help through faith in Christ. And that's Christian living. Right there. Every day, humbling ourselves before the Lord. And seeking God's help through prayer, through his word , and essentially through faith in Christ Through faith in Christ. Always coming to Christ. Christ lives. He's not an idea, he's a living person. And he has the power to help us. Alright, let's pray. Father, we