Alright, the enemies of Christ. First Corinthians fifteen 23 through 26, this is just our starting block passage. Is that a good metaphor? Does that let you know the method? For tonight, we'll be looking at a lot of different passages. Okay, this is a survey type class. But 1 Corinthians 15, beginning in verse 23, the context is Paul arguing for the fact, the historical fact of the believer's future resurrection. based on the historical fact of Christ's resurrection. And in that context, here's what he says. But each In his own order. So he's talking about the order of things, each in his own order. Christ, the first fruits. He's the first one to be risen in glory. Christ the first fruits Now the first fruits was the first part of the harvest that was taken in, and it is a sign and a pledge and a promise of the coming harvest. Christ the first fruits, then, then, which is a word used specifically to denote a sequence. A sequence of events. Christ the first fruits, then at his coming, those who belong to Christ. So when Christ comes again Those who belong to him will be risen, the completion of the harvest, just as he was risen, the first fruits of the harvest. Christ the first fruits, then at his coming those who belong to Christ. Pretty clear overview. Bookends This of these last days. Then comes the end, the end of these last days When he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power And he has another word for those things that are that's coming up in just a moment. That's a summary way of talking about forces of evil or forces of darkness. Verse 25. Verse 25. For he must reign. And you can circle the word reign. synonymous with rule, he must rule over, he must reign until he has put All his enemies, you can circle the word enemies, because that's what we're talking about tonight, the enemies of Christ, the enemies of the Lord Jesus Christ, until he has put all of his enemies under his feet. Now that's what Christ is doing in between his resurrection, the first fruits, and the resurrection of those who belong to him at his coming. Until then, he must reign. He must reign until he has put all of his enemies under his feet. Enemies is the other way of saying what what he said earlier, every rule and every authority and power. He must reign until he's put all enemies under his feet. And the last enemy to be destroyed is what? If you're looking at the passage Death. It's the last enemy. It's not the first enemy, and then he conquers all of his other enemies. It's the last enemy Death. Death. He's going to reign until he's put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. So, what I want us to see from this passage, and there are many glorious things there, is that right now Christ, the victorious King of redemption, is subduing his enemies. And the last enemy that he will subdue and destroy will be death. Okay. Psalm 1101. Psalm 1101. The most referenced and arguably the most important Old Testament. Passage in the New Testament is Psalm 110. One of those is Psalm 110:1. The Lord says to my Lord, Sit at my right hand. Who's sitting at the Lord's right hand right now? Jesus, in a very specific way, too, in a resurrected body. In a body of glorious resurrection. The Lord says to my Lord, sit at my right hand. Until I make your enemies your footstool. So you picture Christ sitting at God's right hand, where he is right now. And his enemies are being made his footstool, which is a metaphoric way, a metaphorical way of picturing the subduing of his enemies, the defeating of his enemies. So let's understand one of the things it means to be a Christian, one of the things it means to be a biblical church is to be Involved in a clash of kingdoms. The kingdom of light versus the kingdom of darkness God versus Satan and everything that is in line and in league with Satan. Good versus evil. Christ versus his enemies. A clash of kingdoms, some application points. Well, that we should have a number one, a spiritual militance about us. Not a worldly, fleshly militants, a spiritual militance Christ's kingdom is not of this world. We have different kinds of weapons. We just did a mini-series on one of those prime weapons, which is Prayer, the preaching of the word, the fellowship of the Spirit Spiritual militants. Number two. This is connected, but I'm trying to say something very specific here. Maybe this is the Well, I'll just say it. Urgency. We should have an urgency about our spiritual walk and about the work of the church. There should be an urgency about us. Which is the opposite of what? Help me. Urgency is the opposite of complacency, what else? Slothfulness, apathy, yeah. We must dust off the complacency and the apathy and Rise afresh and energized with an urgency for the kingdom of heaven. And we'll do that if we have a spiritual militance taking root in our heart. Number three, we will need to have a confidence. A confidence, a bold confidence. In Christ's victory, in the fact that Christ exists and lives and reigns in heaven, the confidence in the power of the gospel to do what? The power of the gospel to do what? To save sinners and to sanctify the saints and to strengthen the church and to purify the church. We've got to have a bold confidence. Now help me on this one too, it would be the opposite of what? Fear? We're afraid? We're worried? We have anxiety. What else Timidity? Being timid? What else? What's the opposite of a bold confidence in these things Yeah, Dell. Dell. And I think maybe not in a conscious way, but in a subconscious way I think there is an epidemic of doubting the power of the gospel to change the hearts of sinners and save sinners. And so we go to these worldly methods and worldly attractions, even thinking that we ourselves are the attraction, that we can draw people in and then get them to come to Jesus afterwards. No, there must be a spiritual militance about us because we are in the midst of and involved in. God wants us involved in this. He's called us to this. A clash of kingdoms, spiritual militants, an urgency, a passion, a zeal, and a confidence. A confidence that God will do and God can do and God wants to do the things He's promised and purposed in Scripture And finally, number four, we could go on and on and on. If I threw this out there for discussion, we could talk about this. Now we'd have to put our thinking caps on, charge them up a bit. But all the different applications of this spiritual warfare that we're engaged in. But here's the fourth one I have. We must devote ourselves to the body life of the local church. I will Die proclaiming this truth. This is a mountain to die on. The local church is the way God has designed in His infinite wisdom to arrange and organize and grow and advance and strengthen and build up his kingdom in this world. We've made an idol of the self in our culture. And we've let that seep into and shape the way we think about Christianity. in a hyper individualistic way. But we should never think about our individual discipleship apart from the body life of the local church. That's not biblical. And if we want to see Christ's reign coming to bear in this age of darkness and spreading and having an influence being salt and being light. In this present evil age, we will pour ourselves into a biblical local church Trusting God that He's smarter than us, that His plan in arranging it this way will work. And hasn't it worked Just look at the broad strokes of history since the death of Christ and the day of Pentecost and the spread of the kingdom into the nations, into the world, and it's still spreading. In the midst of persecution and hostility and mockery the devil coming out of the face and coming out of the word of God in all kinds of ways. But cannot prevail against what Christ is doing. And so I hope that's an encouragement to you. I hope that's an exhortation to all of us that we need to have a spiritual militance. We need to have an urgency for the kingdom. We need to have a confidence in Christ and his reality and his power and his gospel to change lives. and uh a devotion to the body life of the local church. In other words, we need to seek first the kingdom of God. We need to seek first the kingdom of God. We need to pick up our what? Daily. Pick up our cross daily. We don't live for ourselves like we used to before Christ or like the world around us. We're done with that. We've died to that. Okay, I've got to move on. Enemies of Christ. I have seven. I've tried to summarize them and compress them down to a list of seven. No, not because it's the biblical number for completion. But let's see how many we can get as a group. Alright? So Who or what are the enemies of Christ? Who or what are the enemies of Christ? Go, Tom. Yes, okay, we got one. Satan, yes, two Demons, yes, and in my compression I put that with Satan. So good, yes. Three or two B. Sin. Yes. Very good Judas? Okay, I'll put a a broader category for what that would be Yeah, unb unbelievers, yep. Okay. Uh well I would carry that under sin, right? But yeah, if we go to every single specific sin and issue, we'll we couldn't do it, so we've got to compress them. But yeah, division In the church, some division is good, right? We divide from people who are heretics. But division for the sake of unity is sometimes necessary based on truth. What else? Yes. And that is the th the last one. Very good. I was wondering if anyone would get that. Yes. What else? I'm on the squeaky spot. But see, okay, if you don't know what's going on online, it's uh it's a d it's a tap dance up here. It's tightrope. I don't know what's the right metaphor. But there's squeaky spots here, but then I also have to navigate these spotlights In the wrong space, the spotlight casts a shadow on my notes and on the Bible. And it really, whatever, you don't need to know about that. But I'm right on the squeaky spot. The squeaky spot and the spotlights. Alright, Satan, unbelievers, sin or the sinful nature, uh uh false religion or false teachers, I have that also. One two, three. Three more. Now uh think think kind of specific, but they're big. Yeah, the world. Right, the world. And uh the system. I have that in one of my subpoints there. Systems of the world. And uh two more I heard a grunt. What was that? Hmm. The flesh, yes. I have that with what Sarah said sinned. I've sinned and sinful nature, flesh. I have but I have that compressed. But that's important, the flesh. And that's important specifically for believers because we are at war against the flesh and the Holy Spirit within us Is at war against the flesh, as the flesh is at war against us. Two more. Now think gospel narratives Who was it that hated Jesus and plotted against Jesus and think Book of Acts? Who is it that hated the church and plotted against the church? And we if you think on the what actually happened when Christ came to establish the kingdom, and then the church was beginning the fulfillment of the Great Commission, two enemies warring against the kingdom. Specifically what? Religious leaders of yes, yes, apostate Israel, yes, rebellious Israel And then one more who rebellious Israel worked in cahoots with to try to accomplish what they wanted to accomplish. Huh? Yes, Roman Empire. So ungodly civil authorities. Alright, and you we're not going to get into a study of Revelation, but you have th uh the beast of the sea which would represent Rome and in a in a m more broad Topical way, ungodly, oppressive, persecuting civil authorities But you also have the harlot, rebellious Israel, who's going to come under judgment, and did come under judgment in A. D. 70. According to what Jesus prophesied when he was on earth. Alright, we've got at least all the ones I've listed in broad strokes. Let's take a look at them. First, let's look at Satan, also called the devil, and we don't have time to look at all the different verses on even that, and so then even more so on demonic forces in general. Any anything that reflects rebellion against God and his word and will is of the devil. So that's sin. So you have Satan. And anything that is of Satan and against God, we would call sin. How did Christ have victory over Satan? First of all, at his first coming, Christ scored a decisive victory. Matthew 12, 29. Let's look at that. Now here's we're beginning rapid fire, but not a rush, hopefully, of looking at Different cross references for these various enemies, just to get ourselves into that world a little bit. Matthew twelve 29 Jesus explaining the nature of his powerful ministry. How can someone enter a strong man's house? And plunder his goods. That's a metaphor that Jesus is using for what he's doing over against demonic forces. Entering a strong man's house and plunder his goods, unless he first binds the strong man, which is a picture of Jesus binding Satan, then indeed he may plunder his house. In Jesus' first coming, he established the kingdom of God. John the Baptist preached, the kingdom of God is at hand. Jesus preached, the kingdom of God is at hand. He sent out the disciples. To preach the good news of the cu of the kingdom that had come. And the order of what he says here is important. He binds the strong man first, and then he enters his house. So that would have been his incarnation, and then overcoming temptation in the wilderness, a decisive victory over the evil one, over the tempter. And then being baptized, being anointed with the power of the Spirit for his messianic task on earth Victory over Satan and demons, which we clearly see in the earthly ministry of Christ. He bound Satan, which is a metaphor. It's this it's a metaphor, it's a symbol for restricting Satan's power in a specific way. Doesn't mean he Obliterated Satan so he doesn't exist anymore. Doesn't do anything. It's a metaphor that's not self-interpreting, or we don't interpret it ourselves, but in the context of Scripture it means the limits Satan's power in a specific way. He bound him, then he entered his house, and he's taking back what is rightfully his. His first coming. Again, also his first coming, Luke ten eighteen. Luke ten eighteen This uh verse 17. The seventy-two returned with joy. There were missionaries sent out by Christ. Seventy-two returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are Subject to us in your name. And he said to them, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. We learn from Jesus what's going on behind the scenes, things that are invisible to us, is more victory over Satan. In the ministry of the seventy two, John twelve thirty one. John twelve 31. So we see victory over Satan in Jesus' ministry, victory over Satan in the disciples ministry while Jesus was Alive on earth, John 12, 31. Also a decisive victory through his death. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world Be cast out, be cast out, and I now verse thirty two is the result It's the interpretation of the significance of Satan being cast out. Because obviously Satan is still present and active in this world, if we look at the context of Scripture. That doesn't mean he has the ultimate authority to do whatever he wants. He's limited under the sovereign power and plan of God. I, when I am lifted up from the earth, will draw all people. To myself. That would have been a change, a historical change in the kingdom presence on earth It will no longer be centralized in one nation, Israel, but after the work of Christ, something actually happened. An actual change to the spiritual state of affairs on earth. Now Jesus is going to draw people from all nations to come to come to God through him. That's a massive change. Often we take that for granted: that the kingdom of God is spread all over this earth. That was not always the case. That was not the case before Jesus came. But it is the case now. So cast out again is a metaphor. And the first thing you should think of would be the uh not the only thing, but Cast out is a a form of judgment. If you think of the Garden of Eden, when Adam and Eve were cast out. Cast out. Alright, one more here. And by the way, that's obviously talking about his death. When I'm lifted up from the earth His death, which would lead to his resurrection and ascension, and the fulfilling of the Great Commission, drawing people from all nations to serve God through Christ. Colossians 2 14. Colossians two fourteen. We're still on this topic. The first coming of Christ as a decisive Victory of Satan over Satan, decisive victory of Christ over Satan and demonic forces. It actually did change things on earth in a spiritual sense. Colossians two fourteen By canceling the record of debt That stood against us with its legal demands. This he set aside, nailing it to the cross. He disarmed, disarmed, another metaphor, disarmed the rulers and authorities, demonic forces, and put them to open shame. by triumphing over them in him. In him. And the cross is in view. The death of Christ is in view. The end of chap uh the end of verse fourteen. And then something that happened in Christ's death, he disarmed demonic forces They did not put him to open shame. He put them to open shame. They did not triumph over him on Friday. Crucifixion Friday, Jesus triumphed over them on Good Friday. Because it's through his crosswork, shedding his blood, that he obliterates the power of sin and demonic forces over God 's children And this was uh w one of the subpoints or major points of the sermon I had a few weeks ago, that we have victory over sin 's condemning power. Utter victory over sin 's condemning power. So Christ first coming scores a decisive victory over Satan Plunges the world into these last days in which men and women and children from all nations are coming to God through Christ because of his victory in the first coming. I have one verse on the second coming. We're still on Satan, when Satan will be finally judged. Finally judged. Revelation 2010. Revelation 2010. And then I have some cross-references on what happens in between the first coming and the second coming. Revelation 20 Verse 10. And the devil who had deceived them was thrown into the lake of fire and sulphur Where the beast and false prophet were also thrown. And they will be tormented day and night forever and ever. It's not a happy ending for Satan. He's not a luxurious manager in hell Full of glee, because he's in charge and has more power than everyone. He's in absolute torment, as he should be, for his rebellion, wicked, perverse rebellion against God. You will be finally judged. Genesis three fifteen, the first gospel promise God promised that the seed of the woman would crush and destroy the serpent representing Satan. Romans 1620, wonderful cross-reference. comes to us in the church age, in the age of fulfillment of that promise. Romans 16 Verse twenty, the God of peace will soon crush Satan under Your feet talking to the church. Why? Because the church is the body of Christ and Christ is the one who's crushing Satan. That makes sense, right? Soon crush Satan under your feet. He scored a decisive victory in his first coming, and he will bring that vile serpent to final judgment. When we look at some verses, I have three of them on what happens in between that decisive victory of the first coming and the final judgment of the second coming. You wanna look at him? Sure? Gotta make sure you're still awake. Alright. 1 Peter 6. 8 First Peter six eight No. That's that's not right. There is no chapter six in First Peter. I'm not even there yet, but I know that Let me find this. You guys know my scribbles. I've shown you my scribbles. It's 5'8. It's gotta be 5'8. Let's see Be sober-minded, be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion. Seeking someone to devour. He's not crouching silently like a skilled hunter. He's roaring. You know he's there. He's he's full of rage because he knows his time is short You hear a roaring lion, a quiet lion hiding in the grass Is one you don't hear. But the devil prowls around like a roaring lion. He's out of control. He's full of rage. He just wants to devour and kill. James four, seven. James four seven Submit yourselves, therefore, to God, resist the devil And he will flee from you. Now, brethren, that is a promise of God that you must embrace by faith and believe in the power of the Spirit. The problem is there're some some pet sins that we don't want to resist the devil on. We want to partner with him, so to speak. Receive what he has to offer. But if we would resist the devil. Again, by the Spirit's power, by faith in Christ. This isn't something we do on our own. Unless you want to just rip this verse out of the Bible and. interpret it in in sort of a secular self-help way. Resist the devil, he will flee from you. He will flee from you. Do you believe that? That if you resist the devil, that he will flee from you. Because he knows the power of Christ in you And one more, second Corinthians two eleven. Second Corinthians two eleven. No, see I think I got that wrong too. No We'll see. No, no, no, that's right. Start in verse 10, though. Anyone whom you forgive, I also forgive. Indeed What I have forgiven, if I have forgiven anything, has been for your sake in the presence of Christ, so that we would not be outwitted by Satan. We are not ignorant of his designs. So, that's a truth. As the church, with the scripture, as those filled with the Spirit, we are not ignorant of Satan's designs. What does Satan want to do in the church? Destroy, and then what's another D word? You said it earlier, Vince. Divide, another D word. D-E. Devour, another D word. D E C Deceive, deceive, divide, devour, destroy, another D word, D-I-S. He's done this to every single one of us, I guarantee you. Discourage. Distress. What's with the D 's? Devil? I don't know. We're not unaware of his schemes. We're not unaware of his schemes. Giving diligent and consistent attention to not falling prey to his schemes is a different story. That's a different story. But we do not want to be outwitted by Satan, especially when we know what he's going to do. Alright. That's Satan. We're gonna have to really go quickly for these other ones. But that's that's the main main thing we need to get is that Christ scored a decisive victory. over Satan in his first coming to to plunge the world, to launch the world into this kingdom age where God is covering the earth with image bearers of Himself through Christ, through the power of the gospel, through biblical churches. Don't ever think that nothing happened when Christ came except for he provided a possibility for individual salvation. Well, that's part of a much grander story. All right. Any uh questions or quick insights on that section before we move on to the next Yes, Brian, Christians Yeah, Christians, as we receive the Spirit and are transformed into the image of Christ, that image of God that we've lost because of sin is being renewed and restored in us. Yeah, so that's a great question, a great comment. Um the way I said it the reason I said it that way is because that's what we see in go in the Garden of Eden before the fall. This was God's original purpose. He created man as it in his image. and commanded man to fill the earth and multiply. Be fruitful, fill the earth and multiply. So the idea there is image bearers, man covering the earth for the glory of God. And so that's still God's purpose, but he's doing it through redemption in Christ. And that's the glory of these last days, is the kingdom of God spreading and covering the earth for the glory of God. He still cares about this earth. He's still working out a plan for this earth. He's concerned about heaven and heavenly things and what's going on on earth. Tom participating. I had an experience what kind of work work would I work. We've had really bad thoughts coming, you know, you're bad, you're terrible. that kind of thing. And uh every time you get a sign like that comes in, they gotta describe it to read one of the songs. Eventually And started to thank Satan for inviting him to read the Psalms and then the uh thoughts went away. Yeah. Yeah that's good and that's how Jesus g uh Confronted temptation and overcame his temptation was with the word of God. And it's a great point here. And uh the best way to Flee Satan is to pursue God. Whether it's his word through prayer, through faith in Christ, and Uh this way we're we have an answer. We have a positive. Alright, so next enemy sinners, rebellious sinners. I'll give you some cross-references here, but I'm we're not going to turn to them. But there's two subpoints we need to uh understand here when we talk about How is Christ uh dealing with rebellious sinners? How is he subduing that enemy? Because that was the first Corinthians passage. He's subduing his enemies, one, Satan, two, rebellious sinners. Well, two things, salvation and judgment. Salvation and judgment. Romans 5, 7 through 10. I'll give you that cross-reference. Refers to Christians as ex -enemies of God. He loved us, he saved us while we were enemies. He made us his friends. By mercy And also by grace. So God saves sinners. Shocker, right? That's what Christianity is This is one of the ways he subdues rebellious sinners, is he takes them out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of light, so they may be servants and true worshipers of the living God. He saved rebellious sinners, and those who are not saved will come into a final judgment. John 5, 27 -29 So rebellious sinners, the third point here to be mindful of, we call them the God's enemies. Whether they'll eventually be saved or whether they'll not be saved but come up come into judgment, we are called to love our enemies and pray for those who persecute us. We don't know who's going to be saved. We have no idea whose whose heart God is going to change, when He's going to change it. We pray for people to be saved, and we minister the word of God. And we and We hope they will be saved and we urge all men, all people, to come to Christ. We don't fight against our enemies in a worldly, fleshly way. We must be Innocent and wise, all at the same time. So rebellious sinners. God's dealing with them. He's saving them. If they're not saved, they'll come under judgment, as they should. As we all should, apart from Christ. Verse 3, the sin nature or the flesh. 1 Peter 2. 11. We can look at these ones. 1 Peter 2. 11. The language in this verse is Is is so um it's powerful. First Peter two eleven Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. That's talking about the passions not of your neighbor's flesh. That's talking about the passions Of my flesh waging war against my soul and the passions of your flesh waging war against your soul Abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Why would you abstain from them? Because they're waging war against you. The better question is: why would you feed into and strengthen something that's waging war against you and wants to destroy you? You abstain from that thing. You don't feed the monster that's gnawing at your leg. You abstain. And one more here, Romans eight thirteen. Romans eight thirteen For if you live according to the flesh You will die. But if by the Spirit you put to death the deeds of the body , You will live. Put to death. Put to death the deeds of the body. Verse 14: For all who are led by the Spirit of God are sons of God. So what about those who are not led by the Spirit of God? They're not sons of God. Sons of Satan, sons of the devil, is that what you said? Yeah, they're of the evil one So the flesh, the flesh within us, the sinful nature, and the application point here would be our sanctification. Sanctification is A gift from God by the power of God making us holy, but it's also a command that we pursue. We put effort toward to put to death sin To overcome temptation and to bring to life the fruit of the Spirit and holiness in our lives. Actually, have to think about and make a concerted effort in those things, or they will not happen. The Christian life is not one of coasting along, moseying through life without concern for these things. If we're involved in the spiritual warfare, the spiritual battle, it's not only against the enemies out there, it's against the enemy in here, the sinful flesh. That through the power of the Holy Spirit Christ will sanctify us, putting to death sin, overcoming temptation, cultivating holiness. Alright, so we've talked about Satan. We've talked about rebellious sinners, some who are saved, some will come into judgment, the sin nature, which in Christians We must wage war against because it's already waged war against us and will continue to do so. And the world, the world. We can look at 1 John 2, 15 through 17. 1 John 2, 15 through 17 See, there's there's no no concept of biblical Christianity apart from spiritual warfare 1 John 2 15 through 17. Do not love the world or the things in the world. Now here, world is the word world is used to refer to Different things in scripture. So John 3:16, God loved the world. Well, here it's telling us don't love the world. Here it's referring to the kingdom of darkness. Alright, the lost world. The world, the part of the world that's under the control of Satan. Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, and the desires of the eyes, and the pride of life Giving you a little taxonomy there of indwelling sin, how it manifests, desires of the flesh, desires of the eyes, right? Covetousness, the pride of life. Is not from the Father, but is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires. But whoever does the will of God abides forever. Clearly see a black and white here. Living for the world or living for God. The kingdom of the world, the kingdom of God. The heart given to the world, the heart given over to God. The person pursuing the world, living as if the world is the best thing ever, and the heart pursuing God, knowing in Christ God is the best thing ever. And God is the best thing ever. But the world of systems of unbelieving thought would be a sub point here. I'll give you a cross-reference. 2 Corinthians 10, 5. 2 Corinthians 10 5, the underneath this is a subpoint under the world. You have systems of unbelieving thought, not just false religions and different religions, but different philosophies, whether it's materialism. Right, just believing that that supernatural things or spiritual things don't exist, God doesn't exist, man doesn't have a soul. There is no eternity. You die, you die, that's all there is. So that's materialism or secularism, which is just worldliness and glorying in worldliness. Humanism, which believes that man is the center and standard and high point of all things. humanism. There's all kinds of systems of unbelieving thought. Some are religious, some are secular and worldly. And another subpoint under the world would be a cultural celebration of sin. A cultural celebration of sin. Isaiah 5. 20, woe to those who call evil good and good evil may go in the other order. But you take good things and you celebrate. You uh you scoff at good things as if they're the worst thing ever. You take bad things, vile things, and you celebrate them and call them good as if they're the best thing ever. And we do that in our culture. We ha we celebrate abortion, it's the murder of babies. Uh we celebrate all kinds of sexual sin. Heterosexual sin, homosexual sin, transgenderism. Pornography, adultery, all kinds of sexual sin. You celebrate and glory in shouldn't be the cultural celebration of sin Another subpoint here would be pagan kings and nations. Pagan kings and nations. This is a big deal throughout all of Scripture, Old Testament and New Testament. Revelation 1. 5 refers to Jesus, the the risen Lord Jesus, as ruler of the kings of the earth. And in Acts 4, 26 and Psalm 2 Psalm two, two , so Old Testament, New Testament, you have this picture of the kings of the world conspiring against God and conspiring against God's people and conspiring to stop what God is doing, although they cannot do it. How is God subduing pagan kings and nations? It's so obvious, so don't overthink it. How is God subduing, because that's what we're talking about, Christ subduing his enemies until he subdues the last enemy, which is Death rights, not the first enemy, it's the last enemy to be destroyed. Um, how is he subduing pagan kings and nations? It's very, very simple. Just think of what's happening since the Great Commission in the church age. He's infiltrating these nations, he's establishing a kingdom presence, and then strengthening and spreading that kingdom presence. And then eventually from that nation he'll send out ambassadors and missionaries to infiltrate other nations and establish his kingdom. He's establishing his kingdom within pagan nations in the face of pagan kings. who want nothing to do with him. And they persecute and they scoff and they do all they can to stop Christ and they cannot stop the Lord Jesus Christ. The gates of Hades will not prevail against him. But that's how that's what Jesus is doing. He's infiltrating and establishing his kingdom. And all throughout these last days, kingdoms rise and kingdoms fall. Kings rise, kings fall. King Jesus has not fallen. His kingdom has not fallen. No other kingdom has spread and grown like this. Because no other kingdom has a king like this. We don't always think about it that way. We don't always think about it that way. Some of the messages that we've we've gotten in recent history, just recent theological systems cause us to have a sort of a woe is me attitude about the success of the kingdom. As if we're just hanging on by a thread. And we'll have victory in the future, but not now. That's absolutely not true. Scripture doesn't say that. We'll suffer now, but that's part of how the kingdom grows. Well, I got off on a tangent here. But this is the way Christ is subduing pagan kings and pagan nations. He's infiltrating them, he's establishing his kingdom within theirs. That's an act of war. That's an act of war. If another nation was to come in to Maryland, uh cordon off a county, and say this is now sovereign territory of whatever some other nation, that would be an act of War. You can't do that. It's not your land. But Jesus is taking back what is his, what is rightfully his. Satan did not create this world. It's not his. He's not the sovereign Lord. Jesus is. Oh boy. Four minutes. Okay. So the world. And then the other one was false teachers. False teachers. All throughout the New Testament. Acts 20. Twenty-eight through thirty. Acts twenty, twenty-eight through thirty, where Paul warns the Ephesian elders that We're going to be infiltrators, false teachers, even from within the their own number. It appears to be, he says from within your own number, which could mean from within your own church, but I It appears to mean he's talking to the eldership, and he's saying, from within your own number, these false teachers will arise. Wolves in sheep's clothing. Which means you've got to have discernment and strong leadership to deal with them. Because many people look at them and they do they look like wolves? No, what they look what do they look like? Sheep and they act like sheep and they're sweet. Oh bless his heart, he's so sweet. Bless her heart, she's so sweet. Yeah, you don't see what goes on behind the scenes. You don't see the troublemaking, you don't see the heresy They don't want you to see it because they they want to build a contingent to themselves to strengthen their voice and their own subjective agenda. You've got to have discernment and have a keen eye for these false teachers Satan masquerades as what? An angel of lights. You've got to have a keen eye. And the Antichrist would be a subpoint here, 1 John 2. 18. And the spirit of the Antichrist is already at work. False teachers, false teachers, infiltrators, fakers, devils. Who have the appearance of godliness, but lack the power thereof. 6. Rebellious Israel. Give you a let Romans 11, 28. They actually are called enemies. Enemies, enemies of the gospel. But some of them will repent. You put them in the same category as any other sinner. Some of them will repent and believe and be saved, and some of them will not. But from the moment after the Exodus The chapters af right after the Exodus. The lost people within the nation of Israel rebelled. They've been doing so ever since. They've been coming, they've come under judgment in different ways. Even there in the wilderness. There at Sinai, the golden calf incident, they're in the wilderness in different ways, and then once they're in the promised land in different ways, Northern Kingdom is exiled, Southern Kingdom is exiled, Kingdom of Judah. They were bought brought back under provisional restoration. But God had sent them prophets. They killed the prophets. God sent his son. They killed his son. He brought them to judgment in A. D. 70. And rebellious Israel, like um Rebellious sinners from any other nation in the world can come to God through faith in Jesus Christ. They don't have to pay anything extra. It's not harder for them to be saved. It's not easier for them to be saved. They don't have a special status. Where they don't need to repent as much or believe as much because they have an end with God. No, they're lost sinners. The only way to God is through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. We're all in the same boat. And finally, the last enemy here before the last enemy, which is death, is ungodly civil authorities. Ungodly civil authorities. You that would be a subpoint. Maybe under uh pagan kings and nations. And uh if if I were to do Two more lessons in this last day series, which I'm not going to, I'm going to stick to that. One of them I think would zoom in on that issue of the transition from old covenant to new covenant. And what that means for b believing Israel and unbelieving Israel, although we we did a we did sort of a class on that. But I also would talk about the God -given role of government. Government does not have absolute authority on earth They don't. We're called to submit to the ruling authorities, but not to submit to them as if they have absolute authority over us. They do not. They are put in place by God as servants of God, Scripture says, to punish evildoers. Scripture says. We give to Caesar what is Caesar's We give to what's to finish it. God, what is God's? We don't give to seizure. What is God's We give to Caesar what, according to Scripture, God calls us to give to Caesar. Alright, so we don't we don't isolate those passages Take them in the abstract and throw our hands up and say, Well, we just do whatever the government says, let them do whatever they want. No. Government is one sphere of society that God has established on earth for a specific purpose And we deal with that with the Word of God like any other sphere of society. It's it's um it's a relevant topic right now. Amen? So it's gonna have a tendency today to cordon off government and maybe some other spheres of society and In a practical way, for all intents and purposes, act like just whatever they do is fine. And we don't say anything about it, we just go along with it. Absolutely not. Scripture doesn't say that. Scripture doesn't say that. And we don't lose focus on the body life of the local church as This this is the kingdom of God. This is the headquarters. This is the kingdom outposts. Biblical local churches. That doesn't mean we don't have anything to say about the rest of life and of the world. Heavens know. So anyway, I'm not going to do that class, but if I were to do two more, it'd be those two. Um let me give you those cross-references in case Mark 12, 17 Mark twelve seventeen. First Peter two fourteen. First Peter two fourteen And Romans 13, 3 and 4. Romans 13, 3 and 4, the governing authority is meant to be a servant of the Lord. So if he sets himself up as uh As a hater of the Lord. And we have something to say about that and a way to deal with it. We don't ignore it. All right, I've said enough about that. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Christ. Remind us that we're not just Drifting through life aimlessly, but locked in an epic battle, battle for the ages, that we know the winner. We know our conquering King Christ lives and reigns in heaven. We know that he's building his church and nothing can stop him. But we also know that we are in a fierce, terrible battle with the forces of darkness. Sustain us, strengthen us, use us, give us the victory in Jesus Christ we pray. Amen.