1 Thessalonians 5, 1 through 11, the day of the Lord, and I'll give you my three points before I read it so you can see if they pop out to you. The first point is that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night to those who are lost, to those who are in darkness. The day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. The second point is that this. The day of the Lord will not come like a thief to those who are saved. That's very important. You don't hear that talked about a lot, but that's in the passage. First point is that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night to those who are in darkness. It's the last thing they ever expect. But the second point is that the day of the Lord will not come like a thief. To those who are looking for the appearing of their Lord and Savior, to those who are saved, to those who are of the day. Third point is that this day is the day that brings two things in their full and final revelation or their full and final form. The day of the Lord brings full and final wrath and judgment, and the day of the Lord brings full and final salvation and blessing. Alright, so those are the three points. The day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night to those who are lost. Secondly, the day of the Lord will not come like a thief for those who are saved. And thirdly, the day of the Lord will bring full and final wrath. And also full and final salvation. Here we go. First Thessalonians 5, beginning in verse 1, going through 11. See if those pop out to you. Now, concerning the times and the seasons, brethren. You have no need to have anything written to you. Most likely because Paul had taught them that Paul, Timothy, and Sylvanus had taught them that when they were there in Thessalonica. Remember the context of 1 and 2 Thessalonians. Second missionary journey. Second missionary journey. The church was planted on that missionary journey, and then Paul and Timothy and Sylvanus left. And then uh they sent Timothy back to get a report. Timothy came back with the report and he's writing a letter back. So that's the most um straightforward understanding of why he says you have no need to have anything written to you Because he had most likely taught them that just a year or so earlier. For you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night While people are saying there is peace and security, then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman And they will not escape. No way out. Absolutely terrifying. Remember the illustration from God's revelation of glory at Mount Sinai that we looked at, how terrifying it was for the people there. Well just take that and multiply it to the whole planet. There will be no escape. But you, verse four, but you are not in darkness, brothers. You are not in darkness. For that day to surprise you like a thief. You see? It will come like a thief in the night to those who are in darkness, but you are not in darkness that it should surprise you like a thief. For you are all children of light, children of the day. We are not of the night or of the darkness representative of evil. Representative of God's enemies, representative of the realm of darkness, the realm of lostness. So then Practical application. So then, let us not sleep as others do, but let us keep awake and be sober. For those who sleep sleep at night, and those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, let us be sober. Having put on the breastplate of faith and love. And for a helmet, the hope of salvation. I like that illustration there. Now it's a military, you know, fit for battle illustration, but it's just when I see that think of a helmet. It goes on the head. It's the hope of salvation. This is the way we keep our head right. This is the way we stay sober. This is the way we stay alert. Keep your head right. Keep your mind and your thoughts. Safe and protected from the assaults of the evil one and the lies of the culture and the lies of the prideful flesh within us, the hope of salvation. Verse 9, for God has not destined us for wrath, which he just got done describing in the first part of that paragraph, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. Which he described the entire last paragraph of chapter 4, which we studied last week, who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep, we might live with him. Now that's picking up on the idioms or the uh the figures of speech in the last part of chapter 4 Whether you have died bodily and have gone to be with the Lord, or whether you are still alive bodily when the Lord returns. Either way, you will live with him forever in glory. We might live with him See verse 10? The last phrase, we might live with him. It's looking toward the future. It's this phrase with him. The entire last paragraph of chapter 4 was about that. that Christ will return, gather his church, glorify his church, and we will be with him forever. And this is the centerpiece doctrine, the core doctrine, the gem doctrine of Christ's return, that we will be glorified, we will see him as he is, we'll be like him, we'll be with him forever. Blessing of blessings To be with God in Christ forever. That's the salvation in the context. To obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ, end of verse 9. Whether we are awake or asleep to live with him, end of verse 10, in this context, it's absolutely referring to being gathered and glorified with Christ when he descends from heaven. Therefore, verse 11, therefore, encourage one another and build one another up. Just as you are doing. Continue in that. Don't give up on that. Don't stop in that. In fact, grow in that. Build each other up. Encourage one another. There's not some higher form of Christianity or advanced elite form of spirituality where we move on from a dire concern to encourage each other. And build each other up in the faith. And again, that links back, verse 11 also links back to the end of Chapter 4, because that's pretty much the same exact encouragement he was giving in that section. You know, based on these truths, encourage one another. Build each other up. Alright. So there's the overview of the reading Three points again. He is coming like a thief in the night for those who are lost. Verses 1 through 3. I can put these on the board. The day of the Lord will come. Like a thief in the night, didn't expect it. Last thing you were thinking would happen for those who are lost, for those who are in darkness. But you are not in darkness. That it should come like a thing To you. So for those who are in Christ and know He's going to return, And know what he's going to do when he returns. And look forward to his return. All of our hope is set on his return, whether we're still alive bodily when it happens or not. All of our hope is set on that point. It's not going to be like a thief. And then the day the Lord will come with full and with final Wrath, judgment, destruction of God's enemies, different ways you could say that, and full and final salvation. Full and final blessing. And think of that in concrete terms. The gathering of the church The glorifying of the church, and the church sharing fellowship with Christ forever and praising God forever For God's manifestation of his power, wisdom, and grace and mercy through Jesus Christ. That's our fate. That's our destiny. We've been predestined unto that. Well I put the A and B. Let's go ahead and do this then. One, two , three. There we go, just to give more structure to it. Is that okay? Is that a good outline? Okay. Now, practical application. I did some last week, you know, the specific applications that he wrote about in the end of chapter four. And there are some that are within this paragraph that we'll look at tonight, but I wanted to zoom out and give some general practical application just based on the fact that this is where things are headed. We live in light of this future. And what light does that shed on us? How should it make us think? How should it make us live? So I have five, I mean you could come up with a whole list on your own. Here's um that I came up with. No, if this is true, and it is true, if this is true Number one, we should have complete, complete focus on gospel ministry and on the advance of God's kingdom in this world. Not just being in the kingdom, but our hearts should be fixed on the advance of God's kingdom into the darkness. To advance into the darkness and save lost souls out of the darkness and bring them into the kingdom. God's reign is a saving reign in Christ. The kingdom of God is God's redemptive reign, his saving reign in Christ. And today is the day of salvation. This will be a day of final salvation for those who are in Christ. And our job now is to spread the gospel and advance the kingdom for the salvation of the lost. So that on this day will be their final salvation, not wrath. We should have complete focus on gospel ministry and on the advance of God's Kingdom. Now that challenges me. And that should challenge you. That should challenge us as a church. Number two, we should have hearts overflowing with gratitude and praise because we do not deserve This. We do not deserve it. I do not deserve that. I don't even deserve to know about these things Let alone have the privilege and the grace of teaching and preaching them and talking to you with them and discussing them afterwards. We sinned against our God and Maker. We continue to sin against our God and Maker, even though we've been shown an infinite grace in Christ, because we're still in these bodies of death, as Paul calls them. Romans 7. This is a merciful salvation. This is a gracious love that we do not deserve. Our hearts should not be filled with discontent and bitterness and grumbling and con and complaining And laziness, but gratitude and praise for this great, great salvation that God has bestowed upon us. Where is the awe at what God has done? Where is the wonder at this great work God has done? We should have complete focus on gospel ministry and on the advance of God's kingdom, not just going through the motions and mechanics of religion. And our hearts should be overflowing with gratitude and praise. Number three, we should be constantly putting to death Our idolatrous love for earthly things. We should be constantly looking to put to death our idolatrous love for earthly things. Things , pleasures and treasures, constantly putting to death, constantly praying, constantly crying out to the Spirit We should pray every morning for this. God, by your spirit, slay these idols within my heart. This phrase Left off the phrase to me in reading through Ezekiel, idols in the heart. Idols in the heart. Of course, throughout history, and you see this in the Old Testament , pagans, and Israel would do it too, would make idols. out of stone or wood and they were represented false gods and demons and they would worship them. But that's just an outward manifestation of what was in their heart. Idolatry is in the heart. Sin begins in the heart. We need to be putting to death our idolatrous love for earthly things. Complete focus on gospel ministry and the advance of God's kingdom. If we're for God's glory and we're for the salvation of the lost, that's what we'll be about. Our hearts should be overflowing with gratitude and praise. A ho -hum Christianity is a contradiction in terms. There should be no such thing. We should be constantly putting to death, of course, not in the power of our own life, but going to God. By faith, looking looking to Christ. Crying, depending upon the spirit, crying out for the spirit, constantly putting to death our idolatrous love for earthly things. Number four, constantly putting to death The sinful impulse to live life based on what others think. It's such a common thing. I mean, that's not new to you, right? But we need to be constantly Putting this to death, mortifying this, sinful natural impulse to live based on what other people think over what other people might say. This is such a hindrance for so many people in coming to faith and making a profession of faith. But it's also a hindrance for those who have come to faith and those who have made their profession. It's a hindrance to them in sharing their faith. And living out their faith and prioritizing their faith. But God can help us with this. Amen? God can help us with this. He can make us care less and less what the world will say about us and think about us and do to us, and more and more Just focus on who he says we are, what he thinks of us, what he has called us to. Number five, number five. We should have a true-hearted and ever -deepening. Now I think that is that point is clear in the book of First Thessalonians. So many things, good things, where Paul says, you have this. But you're and you're doing this, but do so more and more. Do so more and more. This idea of spiritual growth That your your Christian life, your walk of faith is not a static or stagnant thing. It's dynamic. It grows True-hearted, ever-deepening devotion to God's work in the local church. The local church is the manifestation of the kingdom of God on earth. It's the centerpiece of God's plan and purpose The body of Christ. Christ is the head. The church is the body. And when it all culminates, what is he doing? He's gathering his church. He's glorifying his church. It's the ultimate manifestation of God's glory in the church, Ephesians 3. True-hearted. Ever-deepening devotion to God's work in the local church. The ministries of the church, the people in the church, there's relationships, building each other up, encouraging each other. It's through the church. It's in the church and by the local churches scattered all over the world that God has organized his kingdom. And it's through these local churches that he's advancing his kingdom. So, some practical application. And that's just some. I tried to do overarching ones for us. All right. Let's look. Ah, I'll use the red marker. Let's look here Will come like a thief. Verses one through three Now concerning the times and seasons, brothers, that's basically a way of saying, and now that links. A cup that lengths right on what he was saying at the end of chapter four. Christ descending. With his church and the resurrection of the whole church, whether they're alive bodily or not, gathering and glorifying his church. I've talked about this a lot. And he She says this now concerning the times and the seasons, the most natural way to take that is now concerning about when that's going to happen Right, it links back to what he was just talking about, Christ's return. Now, concerning the times and seasons, brothers Regarding what he's just said about Christ's return and gathering his church, you have no need to have anything written to you, for you yourselves are fully aware that the day of the Lord will come like a thief in the night. While people are saying there is peace and security, they will think that they are safe. They think that there is no judgment. Sin doesn't exist because God doesn't exist. And since sin and God don't exist, there is no judgment. Just the unbelieving worldview. And there's so many different versions of that worldview, but basically It rejects God. It rejects the idea of His holiness. Therefore it rejects the idea of our accountability, our responsibility, our sin against God, a judgment All this summed up in this phrase, there's peace and security. Everything's just fine. Then sudden destruction will come upon them as labor pains come upon a pregnant woman. And they will not escape. So sudden destruction, the wrath of the Lamb. And they will not escape. I have uh, let's see here, five arguments that what he's describing here is the same, it happens on the same day as what he was describing in chapter four, thirteen through eighteen. I think it's natural. I already gave you one of them, so this would be six, that just a way The passage starts now concerning the times and seasons, brothers. It picks up on what he was just talking about. So the day of the Lord. Covers the end of chapter four and the beginning of chapter five. The end of chapter four is one thing that happens on the day of the Lord, the gathering and glorifying of the church, and then another thing that happens. uh the judgment and destruction of God's enemies. Does he talk about everything that's going to happen on that day here? Does he talk about everything that's going to happen leading up to it? No. But it's When I'm in these passages, I'm not going to worry so much about those. I just want to get the clear, overarching things that Paul is clear about right here. So Number one, I have five of these. Number one, Lord means Jesus. Not everyone believes that when it comes to the day of the Lord. They think that there's going to be the day of the Lord is one day and then the day of Christ and the day of Jesus the other day. We're not going to get into that whole debate and history there. But Lord Day of the Lord means Jesus. Four times in chapter 4, 13 through 18, just a previous paragraph, four times, I think, check me on that, might be five. Lord is used in reference to Jesus. The whole paragraph is about that. Jesus, who is Lord, is coming back, and he's going to gather and glorify his church. Now also , in uh chapter 1, at least three times, verse 1, verse 3, and verse 6 of chapter 1 in 1 Thessalonians. It's Jesus Christ who is Lord. Chapter 2, at least two times. Verse 15 and verse 19. It's Jesus Christ who is Lord. Jesus is Lord. This is the fundamental Christian confession. Jesus Christ is Lord. In chapter 3, at least two times, it's Jesus Christ who is Lord. Verse 11 and verse 13. You don't have to write all these down. I'm just. Trying to make the point and bring it, really bring it home, that it's Jesus who is Lord. So when we get to the day of the Lord, why would that change? That doesn't change. Chapter 4, verses 1 and 2, and then later in that chapter, at least four times in that last paragraph, Christ is Lord. And that's why I made a tell me if you remember this or not, I made a really big deal about this last week. that when Jesus returns, that is God returning. That's God coming. Jesus is God. God's revelation has full ultimate revelation of himself is in and through Jesus Christ, the incarnate Christ, God man. In him the fullness of deity dwells bodily. So there's no distinction, no dichotomy between Jesus on the one hand and then God on the other hand. Yes, there's God the Father, God the Son, God the Holy Spirit. We're not denying that But God's revelation of Himself is through Jesus Christ our Lord. Day of the Lord is the day of Jesus. It's the day of Christ's return. And in the context, in the context, there's Absolutely no way we could take Lord to not mean the exalted Christ Number two, second argument here, that this is the same day. This thief in the night, day of destruction day, is the same day as Christ gathering and glorifying his church in chapter 4. Second argument is 2 Thessalonians 2, 1 through 2. 2 Thessalonians 2 One through two. He brings together three ideas. Christ's coming, number one. The gathering of the church, number two, and the day of the Lord, number three. He brings them all together there. 2 Thessalonians 2, verses 1 and 2 Now concerning the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now in 1 Thessalonians, that was in chapter 4. We talked about that last week. and our being gathered to him also. In 1 Thessalonians, that was chapter 4. We talked about that last week. So coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. In our being gathered to him, we ask you brothers not to be quickly shaken in mind or alarmed, either by a spirit or a spoken word, or letter seeming to brief be from us. to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Alright? So here you have Christ coming, number one, gathering his church to him. Number two, and he refers to it as the day of the Lord. And the point here is don't let someone tell you that that's already come. That hasn't come. You haven't missed out on that. Day of the Lord, where Christ comes and gathers his church. Absolutely crystal clear in 2 Thessalonians 2, 1 and 2. And then, still in 2 Thessalonians 2. Skim down. Now I didn't map out exactly how this uh where this will fall, but once we're done 1 Thessalonians We're going right into 2 Thessalonians, Lord willing. And so eventually we'll get to this passage in full. But skim down to verse 8. And then the lawless one will be revealed, whom the Lord Jesus will kill with the breath of his mouth and bring to nothing by the appearance of his coming. So same thing. Christ's appearance, what appearance? The appearance of his coming, and it's a coming that brings wrath and destruction as enemies here, highlighting the lawless one. Day of the Lord. Christ comes, gathers his church, and he brings wrath and destruction on his enemies. One day, the day of the Lord. No. The third argument, uh let's go back. By the way, when I'm done giving you these arguments and check this box, before I go here, I'm gonna pause for any questions. Now don't make them too difficult because I don't have all the answers. I think I already gave you this argument. Back in 1 Thessalonians 5 , I have here the link between 5, 9, and 11. And chapter 4 is undeniable. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Okay, so we can read those right now. Chapter 5, verse 9. For God has not destined us for wrath, but to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. who died for us so that whether we are awake or asleep we might live with him and therefore encourage one another and build one another up just as you are doing. I already drew out the parallels of that earlier, the link between Those verses, 9 through 11 and chapter 4, is undeniable. And if you zoom out and look at the end of 4, and then this beginning of chapter 5. Basically, there's one day where Christ is going to return. He's going to bring wrath and he's going to bring salvation. You, brethren, have not been destined for wrath, but for salvation. This is where you're headed. And so go back in your mind to how it all began in 4. 13. We don't grieve like those who have no hope when we lose a loved one who's in the Lord. We can grieve their death, we can grieve the loss of that relationship here as we still live under the curse, but it's a different kind of grieving. We grieve as those who have hope, resurrection hope. When Christ gathers his church, they'll be there in a resurrection body, you'll be there in a resurrection body. I already gave you the uh this was number four, I already gave you this one too, that throughout Thessalonians, and if you want those verses again, well you can just read Thessalonians. It's going to say, come to me and I'll give them to you. Don't come to me. Read Thessalonians. See for yourself. Sorry for just spitting on you, brother. Read Thessalonians and just say to yourself, okay, now what does Paul mean when he says Lord? Just that's a good devotional study. Uh and then fifth it says see handout Now you do not have one of these this week, okay? These are just day the day of the Lord cross references. Some different phrases are used for it, and I think this helps the case that I'm making 1 Corinthians 1, 7 and 8. So that you're not lacking in any gift as you wait for the revealing of our Lord Jesus Christ. His being revealed. His revealing is another way of talking about his coming. His revealing, his coming, his appearing, his descending, who will sustain you to the end. Right? Get that word, chisel that word in your brain. E N D N sustain you to the end. Guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. In the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. So in first Corinthians seven or first one 8. He says the whole thing. The day of our Lord Jesus Christ. The end. He also calls it. The end. Guiltless to the end. 1 Corinthians 5, 4 and 5. When you are assembled in the name of the Lord Jesus, when the church is assembled, and my spirit is present. With the power of our Lord Jesus, you are to deliver this man to Satan. This is the church discipline case, an unrepentant sinner. You are to deliver this man to Satan for the destruction of the flesh. Disfellowship him So that his spirit may be saved in the day of the Lord. In the day of the Lord. 2 Corinthians 1, 14. Just as you did partially understand us, that on the day of our Lord Jesus. So there he says it more expansive form also, in the day of our Lord Jesus You will boast of us, and we will boast of you. So it could be called the day of the Lord, day of our Lord Jesus Christ, Day of our Lord Jesus. Philippians 2. 16, holding fast to the word of life, so that in the day of Christ, yet another way of saying it, in the day of Christ I may be proud that I did not run in vain or labor in vain. Same idea of 2 Corinthians 1. 14 that we see in Philippians 2. 16, this idea of all the fruit of gospel ministry being publicly manifest and enjoyed in the day of Christ's return. That's a big deal. It would be the open acquittal of God's saints. Right now we've already uh enjoyed the blessing of justification, justification by faith But that's in invisible. That's a spiritual reality. But on the day of Christ's return will be the public, open acquittal. As Paul says in Romans 8, the revealing of the children of God. The revealing of the sons of God. But anyway, so he says, the day of our Lord. Then he says the day of our Lord Jesus Christ, and then he says the day of our Lord Jesus, and then one time he says day of Christ. So there's different ways of talking about the end. It's a it's the day we look forward to. It's the day where Christ gathers and glorifies his church. And I hope I don't belabor this too much, and I hope it I hope this doesn't come across as trying to minimize the details But I'll say this again that I said last week. You know, whatever else you don't get, whatever else, you know, some of the details might be confusing. You might hear different things. You're gonna forget a lot a lot of this. Whatever else. Just remember this. Christ is going to return one day. He's going to gather and glorify his church, and you'll be with him forever. This is the center. This is the hope, that helmet. Our hope of salvation, reigning with Christ in glory forever. Yeah, we get more excited for our favorite pizza than we do about this stuff, right? I mean this the flesh Is so sinful and so weak. It's amazing that we all just right now just don't fall on our faces and weep it before Almighty God. But it's really gonna happen. It's really gonna happen. He's gonna get into the practical application in just a moment, but let me uh let me take a breath. And I say praise the Lord for that day. Amen. Praise the Lord, sister. Amen. Thank you. Yep. That's our blessed hope. That's right. Yep, and that was one of the that was one of the points last week. It's a blessing. It's spectacular. This is terrific. To become a a sharer, a partaker. Of heavenly glory with Christ. Yeah. So you're calling these arguments and I think you're saying that there's some sort of a an idea that's opposed to this in some way, that there is not a day in the Lord? I don't understand that. Like it seems to me this is the new Yeah, there's some different there's some different interpretations of it and uh and there's different variations of it, but um that Christ will appear one time. Um but but that won't be his full return and but then he'll his full return will come later. So there's some different versions of that and there's no doubt. There's no Yeah. There's no doubt of what I'm calling the centerpiece purpose that he's gonna come back. bodily, you know, gloriously, and um gather his gather and glorify his church. On that, no, Bible believing, you know, Orthodox Christians don't dissent on that. Yeah. It's just the timeline. It's the timeline and mapping out the days and if you know, what happens leading up to them, what happens in between them if there's multiple days. So things like that. Yeah. I was just gonna say that I think that um people because the tendencies did not focus the way you're telling us to focus. There's so much discussion about s so many of these points that really are a kind of debate. And I know for myself, like every year 's being exposed to so much about this constantly. I just have the point of like complacency or advocate about like any kind of stuff at all. And that's also just quite simple as myself, but I'm just saying getting rid of my because he And I'm not I'm not even necessarily talking about the extremes who are like he's coming next to the general approach to the topic. about this all thing and out, instead of focusing on truly important. Yeah. And that we need to be prepared for the company, regardless of whether it's you know, this pre trip, post trip, no trip, I think all that kind of sidetracked trying to get too much detail. You can. And um The New Testament is a revelation. Revelation is a revelation. It's not an obscuring It's not meant to take things that were uh are clear that we can figure out and make them difficult and complex. It's meant to make things clear. And and um the overarching things, the main things, are absolutely crystal clear. And I think if I think that should be our approach. That should be our approach on any doctrine. And that is a principle of Bible interpretation of hermeneutics. That you take the clear the main overarching teachings that are clear and and you get grounded in those and stay on track. But if we go right to the right to the details, And in the case of the end time study , oftentimes there are details where there's no passage on that thing. Right? That's something that's been inferred from an inference. based on this theological system that floats up here. And supposedly it's from these different things, but if I say, okay, I'll do a passage that teaches that, there's no passage. I just want to be exegetical as best as I can and say, let's just take the passage and the text and let's see what comes up out of them and let's deal with the clear and overarching. Let's set our feet there. And I think you can do that in the book of Revelation too. And I think you can even do that in difficult passages like Matthew 24. Not everything is difficult. Not everything is complex. Some of the details are, yes, but the overarching and the main is clear. Um but that's not been the approach to this topic, uh particularly, and you know I think it's a shame. But You know, what can you do? We just stay in the word, stay in prayer, try to stay humble as best we can. We have conviction, but also have an interpretive humility to us. You know, that's difficult. And um Don't need to divide and break fellowship with each other if we differ on some of the details. Right, let's Let's get unified. Well you really got me fired up on that. So I agree with what you're saying. I I I agree with what you're saying. It has made some of us uh you know afraid to even You know, think about going to read the book of Revelation and it's just our personal devotional time. Just thinking, oh, I'm I'm not studied enough for that. I'm not an advanced I'm not advanced enough For that, but it's written for the common man, the common Christian. It's God's word. We shouldn't think like that. God wants it to be clear, and it is applicable. Hang on a second. Give me a grace period here. Oh man. Revelation's the last book of the Bible, but there's like twenty-four articles before it, so I gotta keep flipping and keep flipping. Revelation 1, 1, the revelation of Jesus Christ. So it's a revealing, it's not a concealing, it's a revealing of things. Which God gave him to show his servants the things that must soon take place, soon from John's perspective, but it was to show them what would take place. They would understand it. Understand what? The things that would soon take place. That's how the book opens. It's God who wants to show you something, not hide something from you, not send you off on this uh mystery quest And then in Revelation 1, 3, blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear and who keep what is written, for the time is near. Again, uh primarily near from John's perspective and from the first audience. But for and like any New Testament letter Right? It's applicable to them in one way. It's applicable to us also. In a related but modified way, based on our place in history. But it's important, blessed are those who hear it and who keep what is written. You're able to hear it, you're able to understand it, and you're able to apply it to your life. That's God's purpose in Revelations, is you'd understand it and apply it to your life. Not that uh you'd be afraid of it because you're not smart enough or You don't understand the charts or the system or the the timeline. Anywho. Boy, if anyone can go off on a tangent This this guy. This guy. All right. Can we go back to First Thessalonians? Yeah, and especially when it's, you know , you all don't see this, but the guys asking questions in class who we're all you we're always talking about this stuff, you know. Um Offline, you know, outside of outside of class, just whatever. And so I'm like super free when they're asking questions. I I just Unload just because it's such a a natural a natural thing that we do as part of our relationship is talk about the word and talk about doctrine. What do you think about this? What do you think about that? So uh the second point, where's my red marker? Is Alright, so this is pretty commonly known and said it's gonna come like a thief in the night, right? Not so commonly known as Paul saying that specifically that that's from the perspective of b unbelievers, that's not from the perspective of those who are waiting for him. And every day waking up, thinking this could be the day. Well I'll put an asterisk there for when we get to 2 Thessalonians. Because there are some things that God says are going to happen first. But our expectation, our longing for this day, renders our hearts in this state where we will not be caught off guard when God does the things. that he said he was going to do. Alright. Let's make sure I'm in the right book. I thought this lighting would be good, but I'm s when I look down, it takes me about three and three quarters of seconds to focus on On these letters. For those of you who have not been coming to Wednesday, it's been a running thing now where each each week or so my reading site deteriorates a little bit more. But bifocals are coming. They're coming. Jesus is coming. What's that? Yeah. What time is it? Oh man, seven forty seven. What? He hasn't stayed till nine tonight. If you didn't hear that, someone someone said, Bring food and I'll stay. I shouldn't have mentioned that. I shouldn't have given that pizza illustration earlier. You've been thinking about pizza ever since. See, that's my point. We're living out the very idolatry that I was putting All right, here we go. Uh 1 Thessalonians 5 uh verse 4. But you are not in darkness, brothers, for that day to surprise you like a thief, for you are all children of light. Symbolic of God and his character and his kingdom. This is the message. God is light and in him there's no darkness at all. 1 John 1 Children of the day, we are not of the night or of the darkness. We're not blind to what's going on. So then let us not sleep as others do. I believe that's an idiom for the spiritual deadness Just in the way the unbelievers lived. Completely asleep to the truth of the world around them. Completely asleep to the reality of God. Completely asleep to their own state, to their own condition. completely asleep, dead spiritually. So because they're completely asleep Like it's night. I follow the metaphors here. When the Lord returns with judgment upon them, it will be like a thief in the night. Bringing destruction to one who is what? Asleep. Completely aloof. That's too weak of a word hardened, completely numbed to the fact that God's wrath hovers over them. I remember living like that. More than half my life I lived like that Until God, in a great, great mercy intervened in my life. And He's the one that gave sight. He's the one that woke me up, and He's the one who woke you up if you're in Christ. We did not do that work. We did not have the supernatural ability to give ourselves new hearts that we might awake to the things of God. By the way, when we're in our sins, we wouldn't even want to do that, let alone have the power to do it. But here's this point here. We are not asleep. We do not sleep as others do. But keep awake. And be sober, for those who sleep sleep at night. Those who get drunk are drunk at night. But since we belong to the day, we belong to the day, let us be sober, sober, having put on the breastplate Of faith and love. Be armored up with faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and love for the brethren. If we're going to be consistent with what he's been talking about in 1 Thessalonians. The whole New Testament. The whole Bible. Faith and love. Be armored up, the breastplate, to guard yourself from the lies and the onslaughts and the flaming darts of the evil one to try to kill you spiritually, at least hinder your growth. We know that If we're in Christ, Christ will keep us. But the spiritual battle is real. I mean, don't think that that means the spirit you don't have to go through a spiritual battle. It means you d like it's easy to overcome temptation. It's not what it means. You need to be girded up, gird your loins. Put on the armor of God. Be growing in faith in the Lord Jesus Christ and walking in love for the brethren. As the day draws near, this day will not overtake us like a thief. Who brings trouble because we're asleep. We're waiting for his return. We're waiting for his coming. We're waiting for the day of the Lord. So, faith and love should ground us, verse 8, the beginning. Keep us awake. And keep us urgent. Boy, I tell you, you can put that on the short list of things we need God to give us. Urgency. Urgency for the gospel. Urgency for souls. Urgency for revival in our hearts. That's where revival happens. In the heart. And reform in the church, a reform in our own lives, to biblical health, wherever we need it. We've not arrived Brothers and sisters. Hopefully we're all moving in the right direction with a learning spirit and a growing spirit and a humble spirit. But it's faith and love that will keep us grounded and keep us awake and keep us urgent and make us fruitful. And then he says at the end of verse 8, this helmet, the hope of salvation. Keep your head right. Keep your head fixed on this. The mind is a crucial part of our discipleship. But the heart and the affections are a crucial part of our discipleship and our growing and our learning, growing in our love. I've said this before, but God's greatest commandment is not know things about me. It's to love him. Love the Lord your God. And his greatest commandment is not do lots of things for me. It's to love him from the heart, to have our affections set on him. We do not want full heads with frozen hearts. This is not just a matter of learning more and more information about the Bible. This is about having our hearts sanctified more and more into the likeness of Christ, to love Christ more and more deeply, to serve him more faithfully. you know, as we grow in grace, we'll s we'll see our sin more clearly and more deeply. And also, therefore will look to Christ more earnestly and more desperately. Our view of grace doesn't decrease as we grow. Uh like it is not a curve where like the longer you're a Christian it gets It kind of gets old and boring. It's the opposite. It's the opposite. If we're growing and growing, being sanctified. But so faith and love, breastplate, helmet, this hope of salvation. And then He goes right from that hope of salvation, which he had already described in 4 , chapter 4, the last paragraph. Now he right here summarizes the whole discussion, summarizes the whole thing. For God has not destined us for wrath. What wrath? The wrath he just described. But to obtain salvation through our Lord Jesus Christ. What salvation? The salvation he just described at the end of chapter 4. Who died for us. There you go. We've got to stop on that phrase. I mean Good grief. What's that from? Charlie Brown? Wonder where that came from. Good grief, Charlie Brown. He died for us. Do you understand this is the heart of Christianity? He died for us. How are our sins forgiven? He died for us. What's the any way any of us have a relationship with God right now? He died for us. How can we know for sure, for sure, for certain, and God wants you to be certain, He wants you to have this assurance, how can we know for certain that when Christ returns, He's going to bless us with full salvation instead of full wrath. He died for us. He died for us. And uh then I'll finish this and go into a cross-reference on that point. So that whether we are awake, we are still alive bodily or asleep, or we die bodily when he returns, we might live with him He died for us so that we would live with him. See that? Whole Bible's about this. God's plan of redemption in Christ. He died for us so that we would live with him. Therefore, encourage one another and build one another up. We 're so grounded on the practical application, the nuts to bolts. This is about people and fellowship together. Build each other up, encourage one another. It's hard to stay focused. It's hard to stay on track. It's hard to stay encouraged. But we have each other. And we're bound together by the Holy Spirit. That's an eternal reality. Romans 5. Just on this idea of looking back to Christ's death, his faithful work. His accomplishment of salvation on the cross as grounds, as one of the historical grounds that we know for certain he's going to come back and glorify us with him. Paul s argues something uh uh in a more expanded way. In Romans 5, beginning in verse 6, strips getting a bit scratchy, so let me. For Romans 5, I want it to be fresh, ready to pop, okay? Romans 5 verse 6, for while we were still weak at the right time Christ Died for the Ungodly. Now that'd be a great title for a book. Look it up, maybe it is. Christ Died for the Ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would even dare to die. So what he's saying there is You know, it doesn't happen often that someone would offer their life and sacrifice for a righteous person, but you can understand how that could happen. That would make sense. It's basically what he's saying. It doesn't happen a lot, but it would make sense. We die for someone who deserves it, who's worthy of being, who's worthy of your sacrifice. But God shows his love for us in that while we were still sinners, You've heard that word so much, I guarantee you every single one of us in here, including me, have no clue the death and the atrocity of what that word represents. We have rebelled against God. While we were sinners, Christ died for us. This is his love. This is God's love. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood , Much more shall we be saved by him from the wrath of God. We'll be saved by him from the wrath of God. For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his son, there it is again. Much more, now that we are reconciled, we're already reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? will be saved from wrath, will be saved by his life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. The assurance of faith. The assurance of faith. While we were sinners, while we were rebels, while we were God haters, while we were rejectors of God's law, He loved us. How much more now, since we are his beloved children, how much more certain can we be that we'll be saved from his wrath? It's assurance upon assurance. All right. Let me pray for it. Father, thank you for Jesus. Thank you for your word. I pray you would cultivate within us the love for Him, a love for your word, a love for each other. A love for the lost, a burden to bring the gospel to them in the power of the Spirit. Creating us the love, the love of the Holy Spirit. Father, pour your spirit out into our hearts. It's in Christ we ask. Amen