The word for examine tonight comes from 1 Peter chapter 3, verses 1 through 7. 1 Peter chapter 3. Let's just be reminded of where we're at in this letter. It's been almost a month since we were in 1 Peter. We had Holidays and Jeremiah preached, and uh so we just let's be reminded where we're at, what's happening here. Paul is excuse me, Peter is writing a letter. And he is encouraging this young church. This young church, Christ has ascended into heaven It's pretty early on, and they're coming to Christ. And now, as Christians in this new world under the new covenant, they're trying to understand how then shall we live? What are we to do? And they see the corruption of the world around them, they see a lot of problems around them, and they're they're struggling with this their identity. Yes, we're in Christ and and we're a new creation. But here we see that some of us are still slaves. Here we see that we still have wicked rulers in the political system. Here we still see that sin is rampant in this world. What are we to do? Essentially, I think if we look at 1 Peter chapter 2 , Verses 9 through 12, we see Paul's message to us. This is his purpose. Is but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvellous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Do you hear that imagery? We talked about this before. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A people for his own possession. These are all wonderful titles that we have as Christians. Right? We start to boast in Christ in this moment. We start to be excited about who God is and what he has done. He's poured out his mercies upon us. But then verse 11 it reminds us, beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles, To abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable. So that when they speak against you as evildoers, they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation So we have this these contradictions almost. We have that we are a royal priesthood, a holy nation, God's possession, yet we're living in this world that is filled with filth. It hates God. It hates our identity as Christians. And we're how what are we to do? We're to keep our conduct honorable. That in our our good conduct, in how we conduct ourselves, we glorify God And that even God's enemy sees who God is and his grace and his mercy for us. So then Paul goes through this system. He lays out submission to authorities, and this is focused on the civil realm. Under the governmental system. The church is not to overthrow the government. We talked about that. And then we talked about slaves and slave masters. It's a difficult subject that we talk about, but we see that the slave is to be obedient to their master, and in their obedience, their proclamation of the gospel goes forth, and they are walking in the steps of Christ. We talked about this, however, many weeks ago that was, that Christianity is the starting point of the destruction of slavery across the world. It's the destruction of slavery across the world. The gospel is is preaching that, that while slavery is an institution, it's operating That the gospel message, when it's changing hearts, it really impacts and changes the economy around it. It really changes how can a slave master mistreat his slave if he's a Christian. And so we see that throughout history. We talked about how that radically changed the Americas because of Christianity and abolishing slavery. But now tonight we talk about wives and husbands. Talk about wives and husbands, and that there is an order that God has given, there's a structure God has given, but more importantly, we see that God has ordained marriage. As a good and wonderful gift and blessing. And within this marriage, He has called us to live a certain way. It's God's design. It has meaning. It has purpose. But we're also recognizing, news flash, marriages aren't perfect. Right? Marriages aren't perfect. And especially for this early church. Well remember, many of us probably have have grown up, we've come to faith, and then we sought after a spouse that was also a Christian and got married. So our marriage is a Christian marriage. youngsters, so from this this entire side, youngsters, you're welcome. Well wait, now this is gonna be strange. The youngsters, as you guys are looking for a spouse Though you guys are already married, so no. But as you're looking for a spouse, this must be on your mind. You're seeking after a godly man or woman. Someone that's going to walk with you in the way of the Lord, someone that's going to challenge you to seek and love the Lord first and foremost. But here, this early church, many of them are married and then become Christians. So now they're wrestling well If I'm a Christian and now I'm married to this unbelieving husband, we were already married, and then I became a Christian, what are we going to do? Should I leave my spouse? Thank you. The answer is no. You want to come up and just sit right here? But we see we this is the think about these questions. If we didn't grow up in a Christian society, if we didn't grow up surrounded by Christianity, and all of a sudden we heard the gospel, we came to Christ, we would have a lot of questions about how we should do things. How should we conduct ourselves? How should we deal with these problems? And that's what is being addressed in this letter. This letter essentially is to Christians, first-generation Christians, that are trying to figure out how we should live. in these marriages that we already have. So as we see this laid out, we must be reminded of that. But it's also for the Christian. Christian marriages, you've been married, you're married to a Christian, this letter and this information is for our soul as well. God has structured marriage in a particular way. He's given roles and responsibilities to both parties, and both parties have a responsibility to God that is glorifying and blessing. So let us read 1 Peter 3, verses 1 through 7. Likewise, wives Be subject to your own husbands, so that even as some do not obey the word, they may be one without a word by the conduct of their wives, when they see your respectful and pure conduct Do not let your adorning be eternal, external, excuse me, external, the braiding of hair and the putting on of gold jewelry or the clothing you wear, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart with the imperishable beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. For this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves, by submitting to their own husbands, Asarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, and you are her children, if you do good, and do not fear anything that is frightening. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. Put some bumpers on this bowling alley before we get started. Some warnings Because sometimes we'll just take a passage in a section and we take it to its final conclusion and we have no caveats, we have no gray area, we have nothing to deal with. We just take it at face value and we don't study it. We don't deal with the totality of Scripture. So let's just understand where we're at with marriage. First, marriage is designed by God. It's designed by God, it's ordered by God, not by the world. This is one of the greatest battles of our day. What is marriage? Who can be married? What's the value of marriage? And essentially the world has defined marriages, anyone that has a feeling to anyone else, you should get together and combine your assets and save some taxes. Right? That's that's that's what marriage has become in our nation. It's gotten away from any identity of love and unity. It's gone away from this identity and this idea that it's a it's a union. It's gone away from the identity of Genesis 1, where the command from God is to be fruitful, to multiply, to take dominion. That's all wrapped up in marriage. So let us not take the advice of the world and say they know what marriage is better than God. So that's the first thing. The second Important detail before we dive into the text is that submission is a functional order. Sometimes when we see the word be subject, be submission submissive , We we cringe a little bit. It makes us feel uneasy. It's because we're taking advice from the world, not from God's word. So if you feel that way, understand this that submission is a functional order Right? This is normal in every aspect of society. If you go to work tomorrow and you report to your boss. Now what if you went into work tomorrow and said, hey boss, I don't really like this order we have. I say we all become bosses. We're all equal. We all take the means of production. Sound familiar? It's a destructive philosophy around the world. We don't see that. Students, I encourage you when you go back in August to school, go tell your teachers that you're going to be the teacher with them this year. See how that works out. We have this order in society. Kids Tell your parents you're all parents. You're all equal. Jordan shaking, no. Addie, don't do it. I don't want to get you in trouble. No, this is foolishness, right? We wouldn't do this anywhere else in society. So when we see it within marriage, we shouldn't be shocked. We shouldn't become uneasy by this. It's God's order. He has a functional order for the marriage. And it's a good and beautiful thing, just like Christ submitted to the Father in his earthly ministry. It's a good and beautiful thing. Here's another very important thing. As we talk about submission, let's also go to this side. No one is forced to endure physical and emotional abuse. No one is forced to endure physical and emotional abuse. The word submission has an end. We recognize in chapter 2, verse 17, it says, Honor everyone, love the brotherhood, and right here, fear God. Our primary focus must be the fear of God, the fear of the Lord. So that then when your boss, your leader, your husband is giving commands that are contrary to God. This is now our definition of when we do not submit to those orders, to those instructions, to that way of living. We don't submit to it. We break away from it. And even if it's not a breaking of the law of God, but if we see abuse, if you come to Pastor Matterai, even Pastor John, we've had this conversation, if you come to us and say you are in a marriage with abuse, We're not going to point to 1 Peter 3 and say, you've got to stay there and deal with it. It says submit. We're going to tell you, get out of there. Get out of that situation. Be safe, and now let's deal with the situation. So don't take it to the extreme that there's no option of ever breaking away. And then be reminded that this letter is to the early church to people that are already married and then become Christians. So they're dealing with this situation as it unfolds. Alright, so as I go through this, I want to do I'm going to do it in a unique way. What I want to do is say what the passage is commanding or instructing us to do, and then I want to Caveat that or put a side column so you can draw down your page. One side is what the passage tells us to do, and the other side should be what the passage is not telling us. Alright, so we want to see the commands of Scripture, what it's being told, and then see what it's not saying, how the world twists it. How uh even people within the church have twist scripture to avoid anything that is harmful and misleading. So what's being taught here? The first thing: wives, be subject to your husbands. Be subject to your husbands. It's right there in verse 1. Likewise, wives, be subject to your own husbands. Submit to your husbands. Their guidance, their leadership. They are the head of your family as God has established it. Now, we know that we're not perfect. We know that we will make mistakes. But you are to submit to them, to follow after their leadership. To trust them. Your encouragement, your submission to them, your communication with them will strengthen them as husbands. So the first thing is that wives, you are to submit to your own husbands What is not being commanded here? What's not being commanded is that women are to submit to all men everywhere. It's not the command. We see it very specific to the marriage. Wives to your own husbands. See, that's that's a very important word. Your own husbands, that little word own is very important because it's a protection established within society. It's a protection established within the church. That you are submitting to your husband because God has brought your husband into your life to give leadership and structure to your family and your marriage. Not just any random man can come in. I'm warning you right now, don't man, don't come into my family and my marriage and try to give instruction to my wife. It's not going to go well. That's not how God has designed marriage. It's one man and one woman coming together in unity and becoming one flesh. It's a beautiful imagery here. It's good for us. Now, how should we understand that in the theological terms? Well, likewise, we only have one head to our church. That's Christ. There's only one head to our church. There's one head that we follow. There's one Lord and Savior that we submit to. We don't submit to every other influence or power within our lives. We don't submit to every good idea that the world brings us. We submit to Christ. He's our authority. And Christ in the perfect leadership that he is, the perfect head, is he not kind and gracious to us? Do we not love to submit to him and follow after him? And why as we see this imagery is used within Marriage. So wives submit to your husbands, and you're not being commanded to submit to all men everywhere. Alright, the second thing that's commanded. As wives, you are to evangelize, proclaim the gospel to your unbelieving husband with respect and pure conduct Proclaim slash evangelize your unbelieving husband with respect and pure conduct. Remember the context. It's vital. Remember the context. These are women that have already been married and then become Christians and now they're trying to understand what do I do with my husband? As Christians, you should be seeking after a godly man and a godly woman. Alright, but we see in this situation, maybe you find yourself In your own lives, you're already in this situation, or you have a loved one in your life that has come to Christ, they're in a marriage and they're saying, What do I do now with this unbelieving husband? This is the command. Evangelize, proclaim the gospel to your unbelieving husband with respect. and pure conduct. We see that in verse one, so so that even if some do not obey the word, meaning they don't obey the word of God, they may be one without A word by the conduct of their wives when they see your respectful and pure conduct. They see your respectful and pure conduct. Well How can we have respectful and pure conduct? Let's be honest, if you are a Christian in this relationship, your husband is going to be frustrated. This new identity, this new Christian in our life. There's going to be frustration. There's going to be conflict. Is respectful and grace and kindness the first thing that comes to our mind? Probably not. But we see that our respectful and pure conduct comes from our new identity in Christ. Look in 1 Peter 1, verse 22. It says, having purified your souls. By how so how is our soul purified? By your obedience to the truth for a sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. since you have been born again, not of perishable seeds, but imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. So, your evangelism within your household is you living as a Christian, loving them, respecting them. Conducting yourself in a pure and righteous way, walking in obedience to Christ, even when you fail to do that. This is for all of us. When we fail to live within our marriages in a respectful and pure way, what glorifies God? Confessing our sin. Confessing our sin, repenting of it, admitting to our spouses our wrongdoing. We proclaim the gospel and how we live within our marriages. What's this not telling us to do? Wives, you are not to belittle, nag, force, trick your unbelieving husband into Christ. That's a nagam. Come on, come on, come on. Just go to church with us. If you really love me, you would come to church If you really want to make this make me happy, you're gonna come to church and you're gonna be a Christian. Well, no, we can't force anyone into Christianity. This putting down, this nagging, this is not the conduct of a godly woman with an ungodly husband. They're to conduct themselves in a respectful and pure conduct. This leads us to the third commandment. Third commandment is to be adorned by who you are, not what you look like. Be adorned by who you are, not what you look like. This comes from verse 3: Do not let your adorning be external, the braiding of hair, and the putting on of gold jewelry or the clothing you wear, but let your adorning be the hidden person of the heart. with the imperitial beauty of a gentle and quiet spirit, which in God's sight is very precious. So your adorning is who you are, not what you look like What's adorning? We see the word, we use the word, but often we don't understand what it means. It's the adorning is the enhancement in appearance, so the enhanced appearance, the enhanced identity of who you are. So, if you're trying to enhance your identity, if you're trying to enhance your beauty, your focus should be on who you are in Christ, your inner being, not on your outer being. So you're adorning your beauty, wives, your beauty comes from who you are. Your beauty comes from your spirit. Your beauty comes from being gentle and quiet in spirit. God finds this precious. Your beauty is not, oh, this is the what is not, or no, your beauty is not based on what you wear, how you dress. Your beauty is not based on how you position yourself in society. Your beauty, the enhancement of your appearance, is based on the inner being. This is vitally important for all of us to hear. But for wives to think: how will I get this unbelieving husband to be madly in love with me? How the hell does this happen? And those that have been married for years, you can talk about this. Does your marriage become better and the love for your spouse becomes stronger because you guys are getting better looking in age? Why are we laughing? Of course, John, yes. John, you're right. You got a great head of hair. You know that's what it is No, why does our love for our spouse grow and flourish? It's because we love who they are. It's not about their beauty. Our wrinkles continue. Our hair continues to go further and further away. It's not about the outward that our marriages are based on. There's a spark there, let's be honest. You started dating your spouse because you found them hot. Can I say that out loud? Great, you found them good looking But if it ended there, we would have really messed up marriages. But we know that the beauty, the adornment, is from the inward. Now what's this not what's not being commanded here? What's not being commanded is that the wearing of jewelry, nice clothing, the braiding of hair is sinful. That's not being commanded here. Let me work from the logical of the text, and then we'll go with uh where scripture tells us this. So the logical identity here that Braiding of hair, putting on of gold jewelry and clothing is not sinful. Alright? Why is this, what's the logical here? Well, we could say, women, you can't braid your hair. We could say women, you can't wear jewelry. But can we say women, you can't wear clothes? You see the logical function that breaks down if we say this is saying these things are ungodly. No, what's being said here is that your identity and your beauty is not based off of these things. It's not based off of these things. It's based off of who you are. Braid your hair, wear jewelry, wear nice clothing. But if you're doing these things, if you're doing these things to win the approval of someone else, That's when the sin is sneaking into your life. That's when the sin is there. If if you're if you're doing these things, you're wearing makeup, you're You're braiding your hair, you're wearing nice clothing and uh an abundance of jewelry and and how you're doing your hair, you're trying to win over the approval of someone else. I feel like I'm talking to youngsters here, but I'll keep going. If you're doing that In the attempt to win over someone, notice that you've lost the focus of God. You've lost where true beauty is. It's the gentle and quiet spirit. If you say, no, Anthony, I don't think we can braid our hair, I don't think we can wear jewelry, and I don't think we can wear clothing, I encourage you to read Song of Solomon or Song of Songs. Oh, it's going to talk about adorning. It actually uses this language, adorning his bride with gold jewelry. And then we see this similar imagery in Isaiah 61:10. God adorns his bride with jewelry. Now we can take that in the spiritual sense. Yes and amen. It's absolutely there. But the spiritual connects it to the physical so we can understand it. And then lastly, we saw this a few weeks ago at our Faith and Family Banquet. In Luke 15, the prodigal son. When the prodigal son returns, what does his father do to him? Go get the nice cloak and go get the ring. So we just take the totality of scripture here and say the wearing of these things and doing these things are not sinful, but your beauty does not come from these. Ladies, wives, your beauty does not come from these. It comes from your spirit, who you are, the imperial beauty that will not fade. And we see that God rejoices in this. I think part of this is the fear of God. The fear of God is foremost in your beauty. The fear of God is foremost in your beauty. That when you fear the Lord, you're walking in the way of the Lord, you are more beautiful. Even to the world, then they recognize. The world standard is outward, but when they see, when they truly see someone walking in the fear of the Lord, they will see a beauty that they do not understand. So we see that the the wives, you have the command to uh be subject to your husbands, to evangelize your unbelieving husbands with respect. and pure conduct, and to be aware that your adornment, your beauty, is not on what you wear, but on who you are. Verse 5 and 6 culminate this, that this is what all of history has been teaching us. That for this is how the holy women who hoped in God used to adorn themselves. By submitting to their own husbands, as Sarah obeyed Abraham, calling him Lord, and you are her children, if you do good and do not fear anything that is frightening. Now, to the original reader of this from a Jewish context, or hearing this identity that you are a child of Sarah, you're an offspring of Sarah, you're walking in her likeness, that's an encouragement to them. Maybe modern day we could say you're you're like John Wayne. I don't know if that works, but uh this idea of like you're walking in someone you really respect. You're walking in the the identity and the likeness of someone that is really valuable. So they see that Sarah obeyed Abraham, and that's what her adornment, her beauty came from. And we know she was a beautiful, physically beautiful woman from Scripture. But Scripture is telling us her true beauty was based off of how she respected and submitted to her husband. And he's now encouraging these women in this time that 1 Peter is writing this l is being written To submit just like Sarah did. You want to walk in the footsteps of the saints that came before you? Walk in submission to your husband. And it is a beautiful imagery. It's beautiful to the family. And then this last little point here is do not fear anything that is frightening. That's a hard, hard word to hear. Because I bet we can assume that some of these women were in really difficult situations. They were facing some real big trials within their marriage. And here they're being encouraged. Don't be frightened. Don't be frightened. Don't fear it. Now, how is this possible? How can they not fear something that is frightening? In the strength of the Lord. They know that they are a chosen race, a holy priesthood, a holy nation. a people for his own possession. They must be reminded of who they are in Christ to be able to face the trials of even their marriages. There's the women and the wives that they have their commandments. And now we have the commandments to the husbands Some may complain that their section is shorter. You're correct. This is actually the normal in writing that you deal first with the subordinate. At this time, they would first deal with the subordinate, and then deal with uh the master or the one over the subordinate. And when dealing with the subordinate, often there's a lot more instruction to the subordinate, but then to the master or the head, it's a smaller section. Ephesians does change that slightly. But the reason for this is first is you want to give a lot of guidance to the subordinate because they're in a more difficult situation. They're facing uh some bigger trials. So you give a lot of guidance there and then you give a really high bar of instruction to the head. They're more powerful, they have more authority, and so they're b while their instruction is less, their command is often greater of the weight of what they're being commanded So let's look at what is told to the husbands, and we'll do the same of what is commanded and what's not being commanded. So, husbands, the first thing that is being commanded is to show honor and respect to your wives. Show honor and respect to your wives. Verse 7: Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel. since they are heirs with you of the grace of life, so that your prayers may not be hindered. Show honor and respect to your wives. Husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way. How can you understand something if you do not know that something? Right? We wouldn't say you understand quantum physics if you've never studied quantum physics I don't even know how to spell it, so it's not written in my notes. And likewise, we wouldn't say, uh, husbands, understand your wives But never interact with them, never get to know them, never spend time with them. We see that there's a closeness in this language with the understanding Then the showing of honor, and we'll come back to that, but it's true the woman as the weaker vessel. This language can rough up our feathers and cause us frustration, but it shouldn't. Understand in any structure Any functional structure, there's an authority, someone with more power, more authority, and there's then the subordinates underneath that. In this structure, we see that the husband is the head, and the wives have just been commanded to submit to their husbands So that puts them in a position of vulnerability, right? It puts them in a position that is functionally weaker I'm not saying this isn't based on strength, which I think there's some allusions to that, but I don't think the text is clear on that. I believe we're talking about the situation of how a God has ordained marriage, to have the husband as the head. and the wife as submitting to that, which then puts her in a vulnerable position, and because the husband has a position of authority and power, they need to be very honorable to their wives and not abuse their power. Do not abuse your power. And that's what's not being commanded. What's not being commanded is to use your power to get what you want when you want it. Right? That makes sense. If you are if you're a boss and you control your workforce and you know that whatever you say they're going to do, and if they don't do, you're just going to fire, they're in a position that is weaker. And if you come in there and start throwing out these requirements and these mandates that is oppressive to them, it's going to destroy them, it's going to harm them. Well, likewise, husbands, do not treat your wives this way, honor them. Honor them. Romans 12 10 tells us to love one another with brotherly affection. And here it is: outdo one another in honoring each other. Now Romans is talking to the church. It's talking brother to brother, sister to sister within the church. And I believe the temptation for us often is to honor and respect our friends and the people at church more than we honor and respect our spouses. Temptation's there. But shouldn't we take that type of honor that we have for uh those in the pews next to us into our household? Husbands, men, should you not be a leader that goes into your household and shows the utmost honor and respect to your wife? It's going to change how she submits to you. It's going to change how she loves and interacts with you. It's going to radically change the entire environment, the aroma of your household if you lead. With strength, with clarity, with love, and with honor. Value your wife Well, yes, she submits to you. Yes, she is to be a subject to you. She's quite intelligent because God designed her that way. Right? Fathers dealing with children. We need a mother in that child's life. God has created mothers to care for these children in a unique way, to give guidance. Wives, your husbands need your help and your advice when it comes to making financial decisions, when it comes to making decisions for the family. But regardless of the outcome of that decision, that man will lead that family, that wife will submit to her husband, and good or bad, that man will take the responsibility. But he honors and respects his wife. He loves his wife. It will change the entire atmosphere of the family. The second commandment, the last commandment for the husband, is to recognize your wife's status before God. Recognize your wife's status before God. And we see that it says that, since they are heirs, co-heirs with you of the grace of life. They too are a child of God. They are in God's family. So while you're the head of this household, while you are, while you're the boss of your family, That doesn't mean she is less value in the eyes of God. And if she's not less value in the eyes of God, why then would she be less value in your eyes? She has great value. Galatians 3:28 says, Neither Jew nor Greek, slave nor free, male nor female, for you are all one. How are we all one? In Christ Jesus. We have been washed by the blood of Christ. We have the same status before God. And if we have the same status before God and we start to see our wives, we start to recognize that our wives are image-bearers of God, we start to recognize that our wives in Christ Or co-heirs, we will spend eternity with them, worshiping God, it should change our attitude towards them. It should change how we lead them. Should change how we interact with them. Should change how we love them. Should change how we deal with problems with them. We must recognize your wife's status before God. What's not being commanded here is that you should treat your wife as a lesser value than you. She's going to be subordinate to me. I'm going to treat her as though she's lesser. If she's a weaker vessel, I'm going to treat her as a weaker vessel. I really like this imagery of the weaker vessel because we think of it as a flaw. We think of the weaker vessel as a flaw, but that's not the case. The weaker vessel in our house is often the most cherished. Your crystal vase? If I drop your crystal vase, it's going to shatter. Right? That's hidden in the cabinet. You only bring it out for Thanksgiving. You only bring it out for the special occasions. But that that Dollar Tree mug you drop every day and it never breaks. Right? It's not a weak vessel. It has no value. But that crystal vase. That's special. It has great value, great beauty. We should see our wives the same way, that they have great beauty and value. You should recognize that they are co-heirs, that they have the grace of life, that they have been redeemed by the blood of Christ, and we should lead them as husbands, as men. We should be leading our households with this understanding. As we see the instructions here in Peter and we think about this, it's challenging. We know that marriage is messy at times. It has its ups and downs. You're looking for your future spouse. We must have the understanding of what God has ordained and how God has structured marriage. As our focus. It should be our blueprint of how we conduct ourselves within marriage. And we should see the beauty of the role God has called us to. The beauty of the marriage God has given us, and we should seek to glorify Him throughout every and all aspects of our marriage. In the hope of proclaiming the gospel to the world. That's our desire. And brothers and sisters, I hope you recognize and see that in Peter's instructions That even through the challenges, even through the hardships of marriage, God is glorified when we walk in obedience to Him. Let's go before the Lord in prayer. Holy God, we thank you. We thank you that you have designed marriage. You've ordained it. You have created it. For many of us, you've called us into it. Lord, we ask that you give us the strength and the wisdom to follow you in our marriages, to honor you in our marriages, to give you glory in our marriages Through the trials, the struggles, give us wisdom, give us patience, give us the mind and the grace and the love of Christ As we treat and love our spouse, as we interact with our spouse. And may our marriages glorify you. May the world see our marriages and seek to know you because of how we conduct ourselves. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.