Let me invite you to open with me to the book of Proverbs, chapter 3. We're going to be looking at verses one through twelve this evening. Proverbs chapter three, verses one through twelve. I've titled this sermon, Wisdom for All of Life. As we continue together to consider the nature of biblical wisdom, And how we are called to pursue wisdom and to submit ourselves to wisdom in Christ, we need to be aware of the grave danger of reducing Biblical wisdom to something that we only need sometimes, or something that only applies to certain areas of our life, but not to others Sometimes we can treat wisdom like it's this special category. Like it's almost the heavy artillery of the Christian life that we only hold out for the especially tough circumstances of life, but that we can kind of take or leave in the ordinary course of life. What we must see though, and what this text is going to call us to see Is that pursuing wisdom as God's children is a whole life pursuit? It encompasses every area of your life and calls for you to submit to King Jesus in all of your life. Christian, you need wisdom when you're choosing a college major or a career and when you're in the checkout line at the grocery store. You need wisdom when your family is in crisis. And when you're changing diapers. Wisdom is about how we are called to live well in God's world as those who are his covenant children. It's the application of our gospel identity in Christ to every nook and cranny and crevice of our lives as we learn to rightly reverence our God and gladly submit to his instruction. And importantly, it's not the way that we become God's children. Uh you've heard me say before that we can't reverse engineer the Christian life. That is, we can't put on the behavior of Christ's kingdom in the hopes that it makes us kingdom citizens. Rather, wisdom for us in Christ is the way we live out our identity as God's children. And so, if as his children We confess together that Jesus Christ is the one who possesses all authority in heaven and on earth, then living according to wisdom means that we are called to bring every single domain of our existence under the good and right lordship of King Jesus. And that's ultimately what this text is going to call us to. The main point I want us to see from this text is that wisdom Is a lifelong pursuit for every area of your life. Well, let's look at the text together. Proverbs chapter 3, beginning in verse 1. My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your hearts keep my commandments. For length of days and years of life and peace they will add to you Let not steadfast love and faithfulness forsake you. Bind them around your neck. Write them on the tablet of your hearts. So you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man. Trust in the Lord with all your heart, and do not lean on your own understanding. In all your ways acknowledge Him, and He will make straight your paths. Be not wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and turn away from evil. It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. Honor the Lord with your wealth, and with the firstfruits of all your produce. Then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be bursting with wine. My son, do not despise the Lord's discipline. Or be weary of his reproof. For the Lord reproves him whom he loves, as a Father, the Son, in whom he delights. As we walk through this text this evening, we're going to see four elements, you might say four domains of the all-encompassing wisdom we are called to pursue in Christ. We're going to see first that wisdom begins in the heart. Wisdom calls for trust in God. Wisdom honors God with our material possessions, or you could simply say with our stuff. And then finally, we're going to see that wisdom gladly receives God's discipline. So wisdom begins in the hearts. It calls for humble trust in our God. It honors God with our stuff. And it gladly receives God's discipline. Well, we see first that wisdom for us begins in the hearts. We need to see from the outset in this passage the priority of the heart. as the central stage where wisdom is played out and where wisdom is cultivated in our lives. You can see this right away in verse 1. Solomon says, My son, do not forget my teaching, but let your hearts keep my commandments. And then down in verse three, he calls on his son to put steadfast love and faithfulness on his heart, to write them on the tablet of his heart. In verse 5, a very well-known verse to us, we're called to trust in the Lord with all your heart. The point we need to see is that wisdom is first and foremost a disposition of our hearts before it's ever applied outwardly. the things that we do and say. Mere external adherence to principles of wisdom is not the true wisdom that God calls for. We must see from the outset that God intends to shape our hearts, the most essential inner aspect of who we are, in accordance with his wisdom. Christian, why living in your life is never merely behavior modification? It's heart transformation. And right here from the outset, we're brought once again to the gospel meet that's really at the heart of the book of Proverbs. Because in order for our hearts to keep the commands of God's wisdom internally, they must be made new. Hearts that are dead in sin do not keep God's commands. They don't reflect steadfast love and faithfulness. They don't trust God, and apart from a work of God's grace, they can't. But see also how this text connects to promises that are held out and that are anticipated and that are longed for in all of Scripture. That God would come himself and cleanse his people. That he would remove the dead hearts of his people and give them hearts that are spiritual. Spiritually alive. In fact, hearts that have his very spirit dwelling within them. You see these promises all throughout the Old Testament as they're anticipated anticipated and prophesied and looked forward to. And we recognize that we have received the fulfillment of these promises in the person and work of Jesus Christ. His blood cleanses us of our sin. His Spirit has regenerated us and brought us from having dead hearts, living in sin, dead in sin. to being spiritually alive on the basis of his death and resurrection. We recognize that the very Spirit of God is dwelling within us if we are in Christ and is shaping our hearts to be true. Reflections of Christ Jesus. So, Christian, when you see the centrality of the heart here in Proverbs, but really in all of Scripture. We should see the centrality of the gospel as the only way that we can ever receive and ever grow in true wisdom under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. Wisdom is a heart -centered gospel benefit that we receive in Christ. Well, understanding wisdom as this gospel-centered, heart-oriented pursuit in Christ helps us, I think, when we come to the language of blessing that's held out in places like verse 2. You also see similar language of blessing held out in verse 4, in verse 8, and then down in verse 10. Solomon holds out this vision of blessing here for those whose heart keeps the commandments of wisdom. He says in verse 2, for length of days and years of life. and peace they will add to you. Well this language of physical blessing ultimately anticipates And looks forward to a far greater spiritual fulfillment that we have received in Christ. To be sure, God may choose to bless us with a long physical life. God may choose to bless us with physical peace. with good success in our lives. He may even, looking down at verse ten, choose to bless us with material abundance. But we need to understand, first of all, that the Proverbs do not come to us as these absolute promises of physical blessings. We need to read this text the way the genre that God has inspired calls for us to read it. The Proverbs come to us as these general principles and they're balanced out even by the other wisdom literature within scripture. But even more importantly, we need to recognize that the ultimate blessing of wisdom, the greatest thing that we can receive that is held out to us as a blessing, Of coming under God's wisdom in Christ is the blessing of God Himself. It's the eternal life that we inherit in Christ. It's the unfathomable blessing of being actually truly able to know God and being reconciled to Him. So, Christian, it's not wrong for you to pray that God would give you long, peaceful life. But recognize that there's an even greater blessing. that's held out here and that this passage I think calls us to look forward to, which is that Christ Jesus has secured for us eternal length of days and years of life and peace. Or you could go down to verse 10, you can see this blessing of material abundance. And we should see that ultimately we are spiritual billionaires in Christ and will be for eternity. The spiritual blessings that we enjoy in Christ, both now and going into eternity, are far greater than any sort of temporary earthly blessing that we can ever receive. So certainly we thank God. For the physical blessings of this life. All the while our hearts are being shaped to find that the spiritual riches in Christ are far better, are far more satisfying. Wisdom coming under God's wisdom in Christ teaches our hearts to rightly desire the right things. So wisdom is a matter of the hearts. Wisdom teaches our hearts to long for the right things. Well we we should ask next, what should characterize the heart that's being shaped if it's According to God's wisdom. What does that heart look like? Well, in verse three, we see that steadfast love and faithfulness Are held out as these key traits that shape and characterize the heart of wisdom. Your translation might say mercy and truth or kindness and truth. And Solomon urges his son to hold these things close, to bind them around his neck, and to write them on the tablet of his heart. Well these traits, faithfulness, steadfast love, these are things that are fundamentally defined by God's own character There are attributes which he perfectly possesses, which he is the very essence of. He's the very definition of loyal, faithful, steadfast love. He's the very definition of faithfulness and truth. And here's the point. God 's wisdom and us receiving God's wisdom is a matter of our hearts being shaped and being transformed to reflect the very character of God. This is in fact what God is doing within his people as his spirit sanctifies us and transforms us into the likeness of Christ. We are being shaped into a people who truly reflect and truly have within us steadfast love and faithfulness, traits which are foreign to our sin nature. Traits which we cannot cultivate on our own, traits which we could never possess through any amount of effort on our own. God cultivates these in our hearts. As our hearts are transformed by the Spirit of Christ dwelling within us, and making us more like Him, and causing our hearts to reflect true wisdom. We'll see then in verse four that God delights in those who by his grace are being shaped to be faithful reflections of his own. character. He writes, so you will find favor and good success in the sight of God and man. The one who has these traits written on his heart finds favor and good success in God's sight. As we are clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ through faith, and as our hearts continually are being shaped to reflect his character through the Sanctifying work of the Holy Spirit, God delights in his people. He delights in his people, reflecting his own character and bringing glory to him. Notice in verse 4, though, that it's not just favor with God that's held out here. It's also favor with man. The principle that we should see here is that living faithfully, according to God's wisdom, ought to be a compelling witness that gains the favor of man. man. This is a principle I think we can see all throughout scripture. Consider the lives of Joseph, of David. in King Saul's court of Daniel in Babylonian exile. Consider what is said about the early church in the book of Acts in Acts chapter 2. You can see this even in the life of Jesus, that Jesus grew in wisdom and stature and favor with God and man. We even see this in the qualifications for elders that's held out in 1 Timothy chapter 3. Certainly, there are times when we will be hated by the world that is in darkness because we bear witness to the light. Make no mistake about that. But as we live according to wisdom, our lives of joy ought to be a compelling witness to the world. And I think there's an important point of application here that is especially needed in our day. Because we live in a day when almost every conversation seems to be uh laden with conflict. And it seems at times we're almost taught to think of conflict as a good thing to be pursued. Now, sometimes conflict is right and good, but I think there's an important principle for us to see here in Scripture. Which is that if we are to be hated by the world, it must be because of the substance of the gospel we confess, not because we choose to act like jerks. Christian, we should never rationalize our sinful pride or anger as taking a stand for truth. Rather, we are called to live a compelling life of faithful, joyful obedience, flowing from hearts that are being shaped according to God's own character. Which will mean boldness and clarity as we bear witness to the truth. But the substance of truth must be the offense, not the character of the individual. So wisdom is to begin in our hearts. Practical obedience always flows out of the heart. Secondly, we see in this passage that the heart that is being shaped by wisdom humbly trusts God in all of life. We look to verses 5 and 6, and we see that Solomon calls on his son to trust in the Lord. These are well-known words, but oh how difficult are they to live out. We'll see first that these verses call for an all-encompassing trust. He says, trust in the Lord with all your hearts, not some of it. In all your ways, acknowledge him, not just in the ways you find convenient but that you're already naturally good at. This is a trust, this is a confidence, this is a resting in God that involves the whole person and that extends to every area of our lives. We ought to ask the question, why should I trust in God? I hope you know that's not fundamentally a wrong question to ask. We should be able to give a compelling answer. answer for why we should trust in God. Why is he worthy of this kind of all-encompassing trust? Well, I think what the text calls us to see is that the answer really lies in the question itself. Ultimately, we should trust in God because he is God. It's because of who he is and what he has done. Because of his character and his works. This is reflected in the text by the use of the covenant name of God, capital L-O-R -D. This name would call to mind the fact that he is the one who is self-existence. He is the one who is perfect, who is unchanging. The creator, the redeemer, the deliverer, the sustainer of his people. The whole history of God's saving acts toward his people would have been just encapsulated in this one term. God is worthy of our trust, of all our trusts, because of who he is in himself, and because of what he has done to redeem his people. So consider this, Christian. If God has delivered you from the eternal consequences of your sin against him Should you not trust him in the daily stuff of life? If he has eternally provided for us in Christ, can we not learn to trust in his daily care? And his daily provision for us. We trust in God because of who he is and because of what he has done for us fundamentally in the gospel. We see also here a point of application for how we grow in learning to trust in God. If trust in the Lord is founded on the basis of who He is and what he has done, we grow in our capacity to trust him by looking to him and by knowing him as he has revealed himself in his word. The call to trust our God is a call to look to our God in his word. It's a call to be fervent in prayer. It's a call to rely on the body of believers that will faithfully point us back to Christ. The call to trust in our God is a call to look to are God. That's how we grow in trusting other people just naturally in our lives. You don't learn to trust people by never spending time with them. You learn to trust people through sustained time spent. That's how we learn to trust in the God who has saved us. We'll see that next in these verses a contrast established. We're called to trust in God, but we're also told where not to put our trust, namely, ourselves. Verse 5, the second half says, do not lean on your own understanding. Down in verse 7, he says, be not wise in your own eyes. We need to recognize that we are weak. We are frail. We are fallible. We often think we know best and then find out on the other side of things that we actually didn't know anything about. We don't have exhaustive knowledge of the universe. So to trust in ourselves or in anything that's not God would be to place our feet on a shaky foundation. Just think in your own life of the things you are tempted to put too much trust in. Maybe it's your own abilities, maybe it's your experience, maybe it's your money or your your family's stability. These are all things that aren't wrong in and of themselves. But they cannot hold the weight that we so often try to assign to them. They cannot be our ultimate hope. But when we begin to see God rightly, we see ourselves and we see all these other competing hopes in light of who God is. And we see that all of these other things cannot hold the kind of weight that we want them to hold, but that God can. The call of wisdom, then, is a call for our hearts to humbly rely on our God, not on other things. It's really a call to joyfully look away from ourselves as the source of stability. In life. Doesn't that sound like a welcome invitation? Well, how then do we cultivate humble trust in our God? We've touched on this already. We must look to our God as He has revealed Himself. But see in verse 7 that the way Solomon prescribes cultivating humble trust in God and not himself is through the fear. Fear of the Lord. Look at the flow of logic in verse 7. He says, First, be not wise in your own eyes. That's the command. That's what we were pursuing. How do I do that? Fear the Lord and turn away from evil. If we want to have a humble dependence on God, we must pursue a right reverence for God. We must be continually looking to Him. And reverencing him as the God who is worthy of all honor and glory. And this is instructive, I think, for thinking about not just growing and trusting God, but for growing in all areas of the Christian life. We don't cultivate humility. We don't cultivate trust in God by trying really, really, really hard to be humble, or by trying really, really, really hard to trust in God more. Rather, these things are cultivated in our hearts as we look to our God, as we turn our eyes to God in Christ, and we learn to see ourselves and all of life rightly in light of who He is. Humility is the posture of our heart that the gospel cultivates in us. We learn to see just how utterly helpless we are apart from Him, and we see the magnitude of Of what God has done for us in Christ. And flowing from that, we learn to trust in the God who has delivered us. But our growth It's not about just trying really, really hard to cultivate these certain virtues. Our growth is a matter of looking to God in Christ and His Spirit working in us as we look to Him by faith. Finally, see from this section the results of trust in God. Which is that God will guide us and God will renew us. In verse 6, we see that as we acknowledge him in all our ways, as we look to him in all things, our Lord, excuse me, our Lord makes our paths straight. Now this is not a promise of ease, but it's a certainty of his guidance. It's a certainty of his care. It's a certainty of his sovereign hand over his children To be sure, we will not always have absolute clarity in every decision that we are called to make. But we can trust in the sovereign We can trust that He directs our path, both in the big picture of our eternal destiny in Christ But also in the minutiae of daily life, in the mundane decisions we have to make every single day, we can trust in the certainty of God's care for his children. We also see in verse 8 the promise of renewal and refreshment that's held out to us as we walk in the fear of the Lord. Look at verse 8. See the connection in verse 7? We're called to fear the Lord and turn away from evil. And what effects does that have in the life of the believer? It will be healing to your flesh and refreshment to your bones. This is this is rich imagery for us to meditate on. Walking in the fear of the Lord, learning to rightly reverence our God and submit ourselves to his authority is not a burdensome obligation. It's a source of life. It's a source of nourishment for God's people. It's us learning to live as we were designed to live. Wisdom, under the Lordship of Christ, blesses. It builds up. It revives. It refreshes the soul. We should see here that there's this vision of joy and flourishing held out for those who walk according to God's wisdom Trusting in God is not some wearisome obligation. It's a path of delight and renewal for those who are in Christ. We turn then next to see that the heart that trusts in and is satisfied in the Lord is then set free to honor Him with all that we have. including our material possessions. This brings us to point number three, which is that wisdom honors God with our material wealth. See the connection here between verses 5 through 8 and verses 9 through 10. As we learn to trust in the Lord with all our hearts in every area of life. As we learn to trust in his guidance and his care over our lives, we are set free to honor him With our possessions, because we no longer have to hope in our possessions as our sure and steadfast foundation. If the Lord is the one who holds us and who guides us and who cares for us. If we see that he is trustworthy, then we no longer have to trust in our stuff. But we can joyfully deploy our resources for the purposes of the kingdom. And that's what verse 9 is ultimately calling for, when it calls on us to honor the Lord with our wealth and with the first fruits. of our produce. It's it's this call to use our stuff in ways that align with King Jesus and with his kingdom purposes It's part of our whole lives, our desires, our priorities, and the physical stuff of our life being brought under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. And we should see also from this text that honoring the Lord with our material wealth, with our stuff, is grounded in the gospel. And notice the word firstfruits in verse 9. This is a rich word in the Old Testament. Under the Old Covenant, the people of Israel were commanded to bring the firstfruits of their grain. and their livestock as an offering to the Lord. In Exodus chapter thirteen, verses twelve through sixteen, the offering of the firstborn out of all the livestock was specifically given as this act of solemn remembrance to commemorate how God had delivered his people up out of slavery in Egypt. We're no longer bound by this law in the same way. We're no longer bound by the law of the tithe in the same way the people of Israel were, but our stewardship of our material resources, our money and our stuff is to be an act of worship that commemorates what Christ Jesus has done for us. Listen to 2 Corinthians 8, verse 9. Paul writes there, for you know the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ, that though he was rich, yet for your sake he became poor. So that you by his poverty might become rich. Our relationship to our stuff, to our possessions, is defined ultimately by the fact that Christ Jesus Has redeemed us. And Christ Jesus claims ownership over our whole lives. And therefore we are called to give with gospel gratitude and joyful generosity. Consider the fact that what we dedicate our time and our money and our energy and our resources to in the normal course of life Reflects what we believe to be valuable. It reflects what we think is important. So let me ask you, Christian, what do these things in your life reflect about what you value most? What does where you spend your money or your time or your resources or the uh the priorities of your family, what does that indicate about what you believe to be most important? And this principle extends beyond just money. It encompasses ultimately all that we have that God has given us as good gifts. So consider how might you be able to open up your home to extend hospitality to others? How might you be able to leverage the resource of time that all of us have to one degree or another to encourage and to build up your brothers in Christ? What about the skills you have, the things that you're able to make with your hands? If we look long enough at the things that God has given us, we'll see very, very quickly that we have much to give. And the heart that is being shaped by wisdom desires to give to the work of the Lord And as we do this, as we leverage our resources for kingdom purposes, not out of a sense of legalism, but out of gospel gratitude. We see from verse 10 that we can have confidence in God's abundant provision. Verse 10 he says, Then your barns will be filled with plenty, and your vats will be thirsting. with new wine. Uh no, the point here is not that giving to the work of the Lord is some kind of get rich quick scheme. That's not the point here. Rather, the point that there is that there is nothing that we give up that's ultimately a loss to us if we're in Christ. We can trust that God knows our needs, that God will supply our needs, and therefore we are set free to seek first his kingdom. kingdom. And in this, again, we find spiritual riches that are far better than any material possessions we could ever have. Material wealth will fade away. Proverbs itself testifies to this. In Proverbs 23, verse 4, we read, Do not toil to acquire wealth. Be discerning enough to desist. When your eyes light on it, it's gone, for suddenly it sprouts wings, flying like an eagle toward heaven. So as those, under the Lordship of Jesus Christ, we honor the Lord with our wealth. Because we know that we have an eternal inheritance in Christ Jesus that is far better. Wisdom in Christ teaches us to long for the real riches in Christ, more than the monopoly money of this world. Yet as we think about this, certainly we can recognize, and we know so often that our hearts are prone to hope in the wrong thing, aren't they? So often we seek satisfaction in things that we know cannot satisfy. And so often we find the Word of God confronting us, bringing us under conviction and correcting us. And that can be discouraging, can't it? Especially when it's the same things over and over again. Our hearts go to the same things and are convicted about the same things over and over again. Well, the final element of wisdom in this passage calls us not to be ultimately downcast by being confronted with the reality of our sin, but rather to see it. As the kind discipline of a father who loves us. This brings us to point number four, which is that wisdom gladly receives God's discipline. As we seek to, by God's grace, be transformed into people who walk according to God's wisdom, we should expect to receive discipline and correction from God. And this text calls us to see that as a good thing from the hand of a loving father. Look at verse eleven. Solomon writes, My son, do not despise the Lord's despair Well, first of all, we should ask what is the Lord's discipline? God 's discipline is his loving correction of his children, as we strive toward holiness, yet often find ourselves veering into sin. It can come to us in many forms. It can come to us by being brought under the conviction of sin as we are sitting under the preaching of the word. It can be brought about, it can uh come in the form of enduring hardship. as a result of our sin? Facing challenges in life as a result of living in a sin-cursed world? Realizing the ways that our sin has affected and has harmed other people God's discipline is like the cold water on our hearts that jolts us awake and that causes us to see the reality of our sin for what it is and that graciously corrects us. And steers us toward pursuing holiness in Christ. Discipline is God's training ground for holiness in the Christian life. Well, we recognize that most of us don't naturally like receiving correction. We don't really like being told that we're doing something wrong, do we? As a college student, I was always super nervous to get back papers from my professors because I didn't want to see all of my flaws just laid bare before me in my writing. Wiz uh discipline is is naturally discomforting. So why should we see it as a good thing? Well, verse 12 tells us that God's discipline is evidence of his love and his care for us as children. as his children. The Lord reproves him whom he loves, as the fa as a father, the Son, in whom he delights. God's discipline of his children is not his angry, wrathful punishment. Because Christ has already taken that at the cross. Rather, God's discipline of us is his loving correction that comes from the hand of a good Father. We should see, Church, that God cares about our holiness. God knows that the mire of sin will not satisfy our souls So when his children seek fulfillment in things that will not satisfy and that do not bring him glory, he disciplines us. in order that we might be delivered to pursue real and true and abiding joy in him, where we can actually find it. Think about a good coach. A good coach will correct his players so that they can learn to play the game properly. Well, in the same way, our God corrects his children so that they will learn to find their true purpose and their true joy in communion with him. And so the point for us Christian is do not be disheartened when you're confronted with the reality of God's discipline. Whether it comes from in the form of your time in his word, the conviction of sin, seeing the consequences of your sin, or maybe the kind rebuke of a brother or sister in Christ. You should see that as a guarantee that God intends to sanctify you into the likeness of Jesus Christ. It is evidence of the promise held out in Philippians chapter 1, verse 6. Pastor Matt read this this morning. And I am sure of this that he who began a good work in you will bring it to completion at the day of Jesus Christ. Christian, when you are confronted by the reality of your sin, the very fact that you can see and be convicted of your sin, and by God's grace truly repent and turn from your sin, that is evidence of God's love for you. If you're in Christ, your sin no longer condemns you before God. But God gives you grace to repent and to turn and to look to Christ. So we need to see that God disciplines us to mold us into the likeness of Christ. And He does not intend to stop that process. As we conclude, turn with me briefly to Hebrews chapter 12. Hebrews chapter 12, we're going to look at verses 7 through 8. The author of Hebrews picks up on this language that we see here in Proverbs. He quotes directly from this passage And then in verses 7 through 8 he says this, it is for discipline that you have to endure. God is treating you as sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? If you were left without discipline, in which all have participated, then you are illegitimate children, and not sons. God's discipline, his confrontation , his correction of our sin is evidence that we are his children. If we did not have God's discipline, the author of Hebrews says, you're illegitimate children. Ultimately, I think the point is to say that you are legitimate children in Christ. You are members of God's household. And God's loving discipline of us is evidence of that. And evidence that he intends to mold us into the likeness of Jesus Christ. It's evidence that he intends to continue to sanctify us. Wisdom teaches us not to fear discipline as a sign that we're going to be removed from the family. No, God's discipline of us is evidence of our status as children in God's household. And it's that status of children that we rejoice in. That we only have through faith in Jesus Christ, who is our true wisdom. Let's pray together. Well, Father, we thank you That through faith in Christ you have brought us under your wisdom, and that you, by your word and by your spirit, instruct us to walk in wisdom. God, I pray that you would do that in our hearts. Continually, God. God, I pray that our hearts would be molded to reflect you your wisdom. That you would teach us as a body and as individuals to trust in you and not to trust in lesser things. God, that we would be a people who freely and joyfully give of ourselves and our resources for the purposes of your kingdom. And that God, when you confront us in our sin and when you correct us, that we would see this as evidence of your grace and your goodness. And your kindness to mold us and to shape us into the likeness of Christ. Pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.