Take our Bibles and turn to Revelation chapter 4. Today, looking at Revelation chapter 4 and Revelation chapter 5. Calling this message your biggest need. Should have called it our biggest need, because it's not just your biggest need, it's my biggest need, which is a sight of God that transforms our hearts. God has given us everything we need to be able to see him the way we ought to see him He's given us his word. He's given us the Holy Spirit. We do not see God with the eyes of our body. We don't have that power to enter into the invisible realm and see God in that way. But we can see God with the eyes of our heart. Through the word of God and by the power of the Spirit of God, to see God and upon a sight of God to be reoriented in our lives. That's my biggest need, and that is your biggest need. And brothers and sisters, that's why we come to church for all of the subordinate reasons why we come. The reason of reasons, the ultimate reason of coming to and joining in the congregational worship is to see God in Christ. By faith, and to be transformed upon seeing him. That's our biggest need. We've talked about in the past few messages. Among other things, we've talked about sanctification and we've talked about discipleship. We've talked about sanctification, that inner work of the Holy Spirit. To conform us to the likeness of Christ. And we all need that. We need the inner work of the Holy Spirit to conform us to the likeness of Christ in our hearts, minds, and our words. And then we talked about discipleship. Learning to live for Christ in every area of life. It's really the practical application of the sanctification. Learning to honor and represent Christ at home. Learning to honor and represent Christ at church. Right? We don't come here for our for our own desires and our own subjective concerns, but we come to honor and represent Christ. And at work, learning to honor and represent Christ at work. As a citizen, Learning to honor and represent Christ. That's discipleship. There's sanctification and there's discipleship. But it really does us no good To learn about what those things are if we don't understand the power behind those things. What is the power of sanctification? What is the power of discipleship? God is the power. God is the source. We must learn to live in the presence of God by faith, to be transformed by Him. Just to begin. I'm not going to read the entire passage since it's two chapters But to begin, we will look at chapter four, verses one through six. After this I looked and behold a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice Which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here and I will show you what must take place after this. And at once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne. And he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian. And around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders clothed in white garments with golden crowns on their heads. From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven Torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. And before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass, like crystal. And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind. Let's pray. Well, Father, hopefully you've already impressed upon each one of us this key word, throne. Hopefully we're thinking about your rule over all things. Your authority over all things, your authority over us. And Father, we pray as we do the best we can to look at chapter four and chapter five. I pray that you would press upon our hearts Your authority as creator and your mercy as a redeemer. Show us who you are. Show us your power, your dominion over all things, your glory, your beauty that shines forth and emanates forth. Father, show us your mercy, your grace in Christ, your salvation in Christ, who shed his blood for us. Father, we love you. We need you. We ask that you help us in our time of need as we come to your word, that your word and your spirit would minister to us this morning as we so desperately need. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. What we need most is a vision of God that reorients the heart. Where does the heart go naturally speaking away from God? Where does the heart focus, naturally speaking, on temporal things? Our hearts need to be reoriented toward God and the things of God, and we need a vision of God's glory that reorients our hearts. And that's what we get an example of in Revelation chapter 4 and Revelation chapter 5. Revelation chapter 4 is a vision that symbolizes and depicts God's glory as creator in Revelation chapter 5 is a vision that symbolizes and depicts God's glory as redeemer in Christ. He's an almighty creator. He's a merciful redeemer. This is what we need to see. Now before we get into chapter four and working our way through, I want to give you some preliminary cross-references. Just to try and hammer, hammer, hammer away at this point that it's by seeing Christ that spiritual growth comes. Seeing Christ that spiritual growth comes. Colossians 3, 1 and 2. If then you've been raised with Christ, seek the things that are above where Christ is. Seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on the things that are above, not on the things that are on earth That's how spiritual growth happens. We fix our minds on things above. We fix our minds on Christ above. We set our hearts on the invisible Christ who reigns in heaven. Hebrews twelve, one and two. Therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us lay aside every weight And sin, which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us, looking to Jesus Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross Despite the shame, and is now seated at the right hand of the throne of God. How will we be further sanctified? Fix our eyes on Christ above. Fix your eyes on Christ. Set your heart on Christ. 2 Corinthians 5, 6 and 7. So we're always of good courage. We know that while we are at home in the body, we are away from the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight. We walk by faith, not by sight. Faith in Christ means ever Looking to Christ. Faith is not merely something we do when we come to Christ. Faith is how we live as those united to Christ. Always looking to Him. If you're discouraged this morning, what will be your source of encouragement? Look to Christ. If you're caught in a snare of sin this morning, what will be your source of repentance? Look to Christ If you've been chronically distracted by things in the world, what will be the remedy for you to get back on track this morning? Look to Christ. It's Christ that transforms us to the likeness of Christ. So we must always be seeking to live in the presence of God, seeking a vision of God's glory that reorients the heart. Number one. We need to see God's supreme authority. This comes from verses 1 to 3. Seeing God's supreme authority After this I looked, and behold, a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, by the way, that's from chapter one. That's the voice of the risen Christ. The voice of the risen Christ. Speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here and I will show you what must take place after this So this is a bona fide supernatural revelation to John the Apostle. John will spiritually, in some sense, supernaturally Transported to see this throne room vision of God. Now that's not going to happen to us this morning, but we can look in on the visions that John experiences. Verse 2, at once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven. Now that's the center of the whole story. The center of this whole story story of Revelation, actually of everything, is God's throne. God reigning as king over all things. Now you may think to yourself, if you know anything about Revelation, I thought the Lamb was the center of the story. The risen Lamb, I thought he was the center of the story. Yes, absolutely. Because the Lamb is seated on the throne. The Lamb is at the right hand of the one who's on the throne. It's the the one who's seated on the throne and the Lamb and their purpose and their redemption and their victory for the people of God. The throne is everything. Throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne. He who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian, and around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance Of an emerald. of This is God on his throne, the ancient of days. He rules as king over all things Sometimes we forget that doctrine. Let us never, ever weary of preaching God as a merciful and gracious Savior. Never, ever. But I think we're much more likely to forget that God is a supreme king who rules over everything and has absolute authority over everything and everybody ever. He is a great king over everything. Psalm 95, 3, for the Lord is a great God, and he is a great king above all gods. Lowercase G on that last God. It's representing all these other things we live for. All these other things we submit ourselves to, as if they are God. But there is a great king, a great God above all gods, above all things, God in heaven. Now, if you were a king on earth and you had a throne and a crown that was adored with jasper and carnelian, then you had wealth. And that would have been a representation of your wealth, that the beauty of those created things. Well here you have not the throne and not a crown adored with Jasper and Carnelian. But the one who sits on the throne is himself as radiant and beautiful as Jasper and Carnelian. Most scholars thinking Jasper was some sort of shining crystal, maybe like a polished quartz. If you've seen artifacts or things with a polished quartz, it's quite a sight to see And the cornelian, most scholars think that this is some sort of radiant ruby, some sort sort of glimmering red, semi-precious jewel also that could have been polished. The one who sits on this throne is himself worthy of all glory and honor, and he has resources like rulers of the world know nothing of. And he has a beauty that rulers of the world could never have. He himself He is the one who invented Jasper. He's the one who made Carnelian and diamonds and stars, the one who sits on this throne. And then you see further verse verse uh three, a rainbow That had the appearance of an emerald is emanating forth from and around the throne. It's a beauty that radiates outward. This is not just light reflecting off as if it were coming from somewhere else. He, the one on the throne, is the source of lights, and the light shines out of and from and through the one seated on the throne and is a glimmering, shining rainbow emerald. So it is not just the power of this being And not just the rule and the authority of this being, it's not just the unlimited resources and wealth of this being, it's the beauty of this being. The most beautiful being ever, the most precious thing, being anything ever, God Himself. The very definition of what is beautiful and what is not beautiful is the character of the one who sits on the throne. Silly are we to chase after things in this world as if they could satisfy us, as if they could improve our lot in life, as if they can do us any good after our souls depart from our bodies This is what we need. This is the one we need. The one seated on this throne, brothers and sisters, is our only hope and our only only possible source of true and lasting Treasure and pleasure and beauty. God on his throne It's funny how we prioritize our lives and our schedules and our finances and we get so excited about so many things. And I'm not even talking about sinful things. I'm just talking about things. Regular things. Often good things. But you see, if our hearts Are seeking satisfaction in anything other than God to that degree were idolaters He is the only one who can satisfy our deepest longings. He's the source of joy. He's the source of pleasure. And he is the source of eternal rest. He's the source of gladness now, and he's the source of rest in all eternity. What a sight to behold. God's supreme authority, God reigning on his throne. I pray that God's supreme authority would turn our hearts away from fear toward faith. That we would not see things going on in the world and be afraid. That we would not see things going on in our own lives and doubt God's power. That we would see things in our church or in just in Christianity in general and be discouraged or be afraid. We need to have faith. There is nothing in the world that's more powerful than this being seated on this throne. If he wants to do something, he will do it. Nothing can stop him. We can't stop him as if like if we didn't do a good enough job, God somehow won't be able to do what he's purposed to do. Don't be afraid. Don't be afraid. Take courage in God. Take heart in God. Plant your feet of faith and believe in God. He has unlimited resources, unlimited power. He's the supreme authority over all things. That's not really the general message of Christianity in our culture, I understand. God's more like a genie. He'll give you a few things that you want. That's not God at all. We're talking about a being of infinite power, supreme authority, unmatched dominion to do whatever he wants, whenever he wants. however he wants, on the timeline that he wants, not that I want, not that you want. God's supreme authority should turn our hearts away from fear, away from discouragement, away from doubt, away from skepticism Away from nitpicking, to have faith in God. Isn't that who we are, church? Aren't we a people of faith? Isn't this how God has set us apart in the world to simply believe in him? To trust in God, to rely upon God, not ourselves, to depend upon God, to measure things by God's word, not by worldly appearances. I've got to stop her. I'll be on God's authority to the whole message. Don't forget about God's authority He is in control. And history is playing out exactly how he's planned it and on the exact timeline that he's mapped out. Supreme authority. God's supreme authority should not only turn us from fear to faith, it should also turn us from pride to humility. And this the spirit of the age, the spirit of the age of natural man. We put ourselves on the pedestal and we imagine this itty -bitty God. But the reality is complete opposite. We're the itty bitty ones. Our life is just a vapor, scripture says. It's just a vapor, like a mist, gone. But God lives forever. One more on God's supreme authority, turning us away from fear to faith, turning us away from pride to humility. It also should turn us away from being independent rebels to dependent children. We are dependent creatures. We are absolutely dependent on the God for everything, for the breaths. that we're breathing right now, for the blood that is pumping right now, for the food that's home in the refrigerator right now. for the clean water that's coursing through these pipes in our homes right now, for whatever measure of health we have, for whatever measure of love and friendship in the world that we have We're dependent on God for everything. He could take it away like that. The Lord giveth and the Lord taketh away. Brothers and sisters, are you awake? We're dependent on God for everything. Don't believe the lie of the culture where you don't need God. You depend on God for everything, as do I. God's supreme authority. Secondly, we need to see God's unmatched power. This really overlaps, but it's the it's what's happening in the vision. It's just piling on and piling on. God's unmatched power. Verses four through the first part of verse six. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones, and seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed in white garments, with golden crowns on their heads. From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. Before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass, like crystal. The sevenfold spirit in verse five is symbolic of the Holy Spirit, the power of God going forth by his spirit. You see here the angelic court. The angelic court. There is a view out here that says this is Maybe twelve patriarchs of Israel and twelve apostles of the church were at least symbolic of Israel in the church, twelve plus twelve is twenty-four That's one view. I take another view, another view, that this has got the angelic court for a few reasons, these 24 elders. First of all, this is a scene of heaven before the ascension of Christ. And before the ascension of Christ, human beings did not have access to the throne room of God. Christ is the forerunner. Christ goes before us in the ascension to be seated at the right hand of God, which is depicted in the vision in chapter 5. Another reason is that in Revelation, in chapter 5, most clearly, but also the rest of Revelation, the 24 elders here are differentiated from the redeemed. You'll just have to study that out and see where you fall on it. But they have white because their king is white. He is he is pure and they are pure. Whites. Robes symbolizing the purity, and they have gold crowns because of the authority that they've been given. They have a subordinate rule The point here, the overall point, however you take these elders, is that the one seated on his throne has shared his power with lesser beings. This is his heavenly courtroom, his heavenly throne room with 24 attendants that he's delegated some sort of authority to, and he's made them pure as he is pure. He's shared his power with lesser beings. In fact, he's created angels to be vehicles of his power within creation. That's why angels exist To be vehicles of God's power within creation. He tells them what to do, they do it. They're faithful servants. Verse 5a should remind you of Mount Sinai. From the throne, like from Mount Sinai, came flashes of lightning, rumblings, peals of thunder. It's not safe to set yourself against this being. His power shakes the shakes the ground and is terrifying. And you remember the scene at Mount Sinai? The Israelites were terrified, and they pleaded with Moses to go and be their intercessor. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands. Of the living God. That's why we need Christ. That's why we need Christ. Because this God is powerful and The worst thing we could ever do is set ourselves against him. We don't come into his presence lightly. In verse 5B, you see the symbolized Holy Spirit Before the throne burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God, or you could translate the sevenfold spirit of God. The Holy Spirit, God does more than just delegate things for angels to do, and He does more than just delegate things to us, His servants on earth to do. He himself is present on earth through his Holy Spirit doing what he wants to do. Anything we could ever do on God's behalf is only because of God's Spirit working within us. It's his Spirit coming forth From the throne that empowers and enables any of his servants to do what his servants have been called to do We can't even pray the right way before bedtime apart from the Holy Spirit. Did you ever think about that? When you say grace before dinner with your family, you can't even say grace the right way without the power of the Holy Spirit. We can't do anything apart from God. His Spirit working in us. Then you have this crystal sea, sixth Verse 6, before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass, like crystal You look if you track this out through the visions in Revelation, the the Crystal Sea is essentially the floor of heaven. It's the floor of God's throne room. And it pretty much So that at the end of the story, Revelation twenty-one When God, not just God, but God and all of his angels and all of his redeemed, come down from heaven onto earth, and the earth is renewed by the full presence of God. There is no longer any sea. That floor of heaven, that dividing element between the heavenly realm and the earthly realm, is done away with. 20 Revelation 21, 1 through 4, is where I'm getting that from. God 's unmatched power should turn us from prayerlessness to prayerfulness. Probably if if we were all to be honest, we all would wish that we'd be more prayerful. It's an understanding of God's power that will drive us into prayer. We understand his ability and his authority and his power to answer our prayers, his desire to hear our prayers, his heart's delights to hear our prayer. So we cry out to God. God's happy about that. And he delights to do good to his children. His unmatched power will turn us from prayerlessness to prayerfulness. It will turn us from negativity to have faith in the promises of God, God's unmatched power. Number three, God's transcendent holiness. God's transcendent holiness. Verse six. B all the way through eight. And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures. Full of eyes in front and behind, is because their insight is so great. The first living creature like a lion The second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight, not just an eagle, but an eagle in flight A diving eagle. And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, full of eyes, all around and within. And day and night they never cease to say, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and who is and who is to come. The transcendent holiness of God. Holy, holy, holy. So we've seen the one seated on the throne, and we've seen the Holy Spirit flaming forth torches. And we've seen twenty-four elders on thrones, the heavenly court. Now another set of characters is introduced. The four living creatures. His attendance, royal attendance, the highest order of angels Their appearance most likely, won't be dogmatic about this, but their appearance most likely symbolizing God's universal dominion The appearance of each one is a different creature, but they're all creatures of strength. They're all creatures of dominion and authority within a particular realm. The lion, strength and dominion in the wild. The ox, strength and dominion and superiority among domesticated animals. Man, dominion and strength on the earth as a whole. And then the eagle in flight, the strength and dominion in the realm of the air. Most likely This highest level of angel angels and this vision here, the visionary depiction, symbolize that God is authoritative Over everything on earth, every realm. He's the Lord of it all, which is a major theme of the Bible and of course of this very vision. Verse 8a Or verse 8b rather. No, we'll look at the whole thing. Look at the whole thing. Mod as well. The four living creatures, each of them with Six wings. So now they look like you know lion, ox, man, eagle in flight, but now things they have in common. Six wings, full of eyes all around and within, the great insight, the great wisdom, the great knowledge And day and night they never cease to say holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come He was in charge, he is in charge, he'll always be in charge. He's always existed, he'll always exist, and he doesn't change in between. He he was, he is, he is to come. A good cross-reference here is Isaiah 6. You don't have to turn there, but if you'd like to turn to Isaiah chapter 6, you see another Isaiah saw a vision also of these beings. In the throne room of God, Isaiah 6, 1 through 3. In the year that King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne. High and lifted up, and the train of his robe filled the temple. Above him stood the seraphim. So in Isaiah's vision, the seraphim are levitating. They're flying with their wings. In Revelation 4, John sees the wings. But they're not flying at that point, at least. Above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings. With two he covered his face. With two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. So with four of their wings they humble themselves. They cover their face because they're in the presence of the Holy One. They cover their feet because they're standing on the holiest of holy grounds, and with the other two they fly. And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory, singing of the Lord's holiness, praising the Lord for his holiness, but singing to each other, one said to another, It's congregational singing in heaven. Singing of the holiness of the Lord. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. We do not live the lives we live as a show of our own glory. God did not create us to live out that story. He did not create the earth for that purpose. He did not fill the earth with mankind for that purpose. Our existence has been given to us not to pursue our own glory, but to pursue God's glory. His glory is why the world exists. His glory is why mankind exists. His glory is why the church exists His glory is why heaven exists. His glory is why angels exist. His glory is why this great song in heaven, that God is holy, holy, holy. The whole earth is full of his glory. God's glory is why things exist. His glory is just the shining forth of who he is. Others are to behold God's shining forth of who he is and praise him for what they see. Everything is about this. Everything is about God's glory. And that story is going on in heaven. Let his will be done on earth as it is in heaven, brothers and sisters, that we live for God's glory. And live in light of his transcendent holiness. His transcendent holiness, if nothing else, will reorient our hearts It'll reorient our hearts from not caring about sin to caring about sin. I can look back on the the season of my life, it's more than a season, just a whole era of my life of Not caring about God's holiness, not knowing about God's transcendent holiness, and therefore not caring about my sin. Well, thankfully, God is compassionate with sinners Thankfully, God has a grace for sinners. Thankfully, God changed my heart. And He's given me the Holy Spirit. He's given you the Holy Spirit so that we would care about our sin and be grieved over our sin and in the spirit repent of our sin. It's the sight of God's holiness that will help us to care about sin and therefore repent by the Spirit of Christ. God's transcendent holiness will also reorient us away from that root of bitterness that so easily can spring up in our hearts. That root of bitterness that's almost like a cool thing in our culture right now, and if we're not careful, we let it seep into our own hearts. Always being uh bitter and angry and divisive. God's holiness will uproot that root of bitterness in the heart. God's holiness, a sight of God's holiness, can also raise your hand if you're awake this morning. The root of bitterness can be uprooted by a sight of God's holiness, but also a sight of God's holiness can tame the loose tongue. Can tame the wild tongue. I like you, I'm sure all of us are way too loose with our words. And they need our words need to be tamed. Only God can do this. But a sight of His holiness will cause us, hopefully, to cry out for God to help us. A sight of God's holiness, a sight of God's holiness will reorient your heart To repent of a secret sin. That you're okay with it being secret sin in terms of people. But you understand it's not secret to God. So we learn to live in the presence of God, we learn to live that all that we do is public in terms of God saying it. And we start to see our secret sins and little pet vices. We see them in light of God's holiness, and God will give us a heart to repent, a humble repentance God's supreme authority, God's unmatched power, God's transcendent holiness. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. Number four, God's eternal nature. And this one I'll be quicker on this. This is such a huge topic God's eternal nature. Uh verse uh let's see where this is. We'll go from verse eight to eleven. The end of verse eight where it says, Who was and is and is to come And then verse 9: whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, then it says something about him. It says this who lives forever and ever. Which is pretty much another way of saying who was and is and is to come. He lives forever and ever. And then verse ten, the twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne, and worship him who lives forever and ever. Again. You see the progression of the worship leaders, these four living creatures, and the 24 elders join in and follow suit. Worshiping him who lives forever and ever. Going on, they cast their crowns before the throne, recognizing that any power that they have is delegated power. Anything good that they have has been received from this one who s sits on the throne, so they're giving credit where credit is due Verse eleven, worthy are you, our Lord our God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things, and by your will they existed and were created. And that's what I told you. This is a vision of God's Glory as creator. He is an eternal being. Before the world existed, before time existed, the only thing that existed was God. It was not God and matter. It was not God and energy. It was not God and light. It was only God. And by a 100% free choice, God created the heavens and the earth. The only two kinds of things that exist is God and everything else. Eternal God and created things Infinite God and finite things. The one who lives forever and ever, who was and is and is to come, completely independent, needs nothing outside himself. And everything else is completely dependent. And we have existence only because of our Creator, God, God's eternal nature So far transcends our comprehension. It should drive us right to our faces. Just trying to think about a an an infinite, eternal being who brought everything else into existence. What should this turn us to see? How should this reorient our hearts? Oh man, this yeah, this is everything. This should reorient our hearts in every way. Seeing God's eternal nature and his inherent value of being the eternal one should reorient us to see that created things, that temporal things are not worthy of our deepest affections. Sports and games are not worthy of our deepest affections. Toys and books are not worthy of our deepest affections. Collectibles, cars, anything, people, nothing in the created realm is worthy of our deepest affections. In fact The only reason we have affections is because God invented affections and gave us affections so that we would have an affection for him, to see him as the source. That will satisfy all of our longings, all of our desires, all of our hopes, all of our dreams, created things, temporal things are not worthy of our deepest affections. But friends, I would even say to you this. Hypothetical, okay? So please don't misquote me on this and misrepresent what I'm saying. Even even if things were worthy of our deepest affections, even if they were, they're not, but even if people or things or hobbies or activities, pleasures in the temporal realm, even if they were worthy of our deepest affections, who cares? You can't hold on to them forever. You can't have forever the things that you gain temporally, physically in this life. You can't this is life is temporary, you understand that your soul will depart from your body when your body breathes your last breath, and your soul will go to stand before the presence of the one seated on this throne. And immediately, immediately after we breathe our last breath, we are eternally separated from all of the things and stuff and money and yard and trinkets and everything. Everything. We lose it forever. So even if, even if, somehow in some universe, temporal things and temporal relationships and pleasures Could ever be seen as satisfying a you can't keep them forever. You keep them forever. Snap of the finger, and then it's all gone. It's all gonna be gone one day And we'll stand before God. And what will we have? Yeah, before we move to chapter 5. Really, the only thing I want us to see in this throne room worship scene of heaven is that we are not worthy to join that song. That we are not worthy, based on what we've seen there, we don't deserve to enter that space and join the twenty-four elders and join the four living creatures and to worship that God. We can't do it. We have no right in and of ourselves to enter this as the best place you could ever be. The place we would want to be in the presence of God in his favor. We can't. We cannot be there. And that comes out really, really quickly in chapter 5. Let's read through chapter 5. Then I saw on the right hand of him who was seated on the throne a scroll. Written within and on the back, sealed with seven seals. This scroll is a prophetic scroll Of judgment and of salvation. Judgment and victory over God's enemies, and salvation and victory for God's people. And if you know anything about Revelation, you know that what's going to happen after this scene is those seals will be broken. And then after those seals are broken, The scroll is unrolled, and God's purpose of redemption and his purpose of judgment and victory over his enemies is fulfilled. Right now it's just the scroll. That represents God's purpose and redemption and judgment over his enemies. And I saw a mighty angel proclaiming with a loud voice. Who is worthy to open the scroll and to break its seals? And no one in heaven or on earth or under the earth was able to open the scroll or to look into it. And I began to weep loudly because no one was found worthy to open the scroll or to look into it. No one's worthy to even peek inside of it. Because no one's worthy to approach the throne. You see, that's the issue. No one's worthy to approach that throne and receive this scroll from the eternal, infinite, holy creator. And he's John weeps. I believe he really did in the vision. He weeps. That's what he said. I began to weep in the midst of this vision, loudly wailing. Have you ever heard wailing? Have you ever wailed? John is weeping loudly because there's no one to open the scroll. That's how we know chapter 4 is the depiction of heaven before the ascension of Christ. John knows that if that scroll doesn't get opened, there is no salvation. John knows that if that scroll doesn't get opened, there's no victory over God's enemies. He knows if that scroll doesn't get opened, there's no entrance into heaven for lost sinners. He's weeping One of the elders said to me, Weep no more. Behold the Lion of the tribe of Judah. The root of David has conquered, so that he can open the scroll and its seven seals. One of the greatest phrases in the book of Revelation, he can open the scroll. He could open the scroll. And now we know, we know this is a man, not an angel. Because he's the lion of the tribe of Judah. That is the man the Redeemer was promised to come from the tribe of Judah He's the root of David. The Christ was promised to come from the lineage of David. This is a man. This is a human being who's able to approach God Himself. And receive the scroll. And he can open it. Verse 6. And between the throne and the four living creatures. Now the four living creatures were the closest thing to the throne. Remember? You have the twenty-four elders on their thrones, but then you have the royal attendants, the four living creatures, the throne attendants themselves. So closer, closer. Between the throne and the four living creatures, and among the elders I saw a lamb standing as though it had been slain. With seven horns and with seven eyes, which are the seven spirits of God sent out into all the earth. He has seven horns because he has infinite power, and he has seven eyes because he has infinite sight and uh vision into all things. And he went and took the scroll from the right hand of him who was seated on the throne. And when he had taken the scroll, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Each holding a harp and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. I'm afraid you've heard the story too much I 'm afraid that you've heard the story too much that it's become so familiar that it's completely lost its impact. That now you have angels in heaven. Who all they've ever known is worship God. The only proper being to war ever worship is to worship God. Now they turn their attention and they worship a man. I fear we've hurt it so much that it's lost its impact, that it doesn't melt our hearts The power, the authority of the lamb who was slain, who you know represents Jesus, the sacrificial lamb, who gave his life as a sin offering for us. This is the heavenly throne room that the eternal Son of God left to come and save us. And now he's returning. But he's returning as a man. He's returning as a man who gave his life as a sin offering for you and I. And he approaches the ancient of days, his father, who sent him to do the work of redemption. He approaches the Ancient of Days, and he, based on his completed work, based on his blood sacrifice, he receives The scroll and brothers and sisters, angels turn to worship him This is the best activity that we could ever engage ourselves in is worshiping the Lamb of God. There's no higher thing you could ever pursue. There's nothing greater than this to join angels in worshiping the Lamb of God Who, though died, yet lives and stands and reigns, and he takes the scroll. And verse nine, they sang a new song. Now before we get to that song It's the fact that it's new is really, really, really important. It's the song of redemption. It's a song that enables us to enter this throne room of God and join the song. Is that a riddle? The fact that it's a new song enables us to join the song. Does that make sense? Because it's the song of redemption. We have no right to enter heaven, but because of this new song, they sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals. For you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God. From every tribe and language and people and nation, you've made them a kingdom and priest to our God, and they shall reign on earth Then I looked around the throne and the living creatures and the elders, the voice of many angels, numbering myriads of myriads and thousands of thousands. Saying with a loud voice, You see now all of heaven is brought into this. Worthy is the Lamb who was slain to receive power and wealth and wisdom and might and glory and honor and glory and blessing. And when it when it says that to receive it's not as if the angels are giving him something that he doesn't have. It's ascribing those things to him for based on what he's accomplished. And then I heard every creature You see this worship song keeps getting bigger and bigger and bigger. And I heard every creature in heaven and on earth and under the earth and in the sea and all that is in them saying to him who sits on the throne And to the Lamb, be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever. The four living creatures said, Amen. And the elders fell down and worshipped. You were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God. We receive this great salvation through faith in Christ. And if you have not received that great salvation yet, you can receive it today through faith in Christ. There's no prerequisite work that anyone needs to do to go out and become worthy of being saved. This salvation is for the weak. This salvation is for sinners. This salvation is for the unworthy. And Jesus died on a cross and shed his blood. So that weak, pith pitiful, pathetic, unworthy sinners could enter heaven and come shoulder to shoulder with angels and worship God and worship Jesus forever. This is the salvation we're talking about. Let me give you about ninety seconds of application. I think the whole thing is application. Because this is this should shape the way we live and think about everything. But a little bit of Application. Let me give you the I rolled them all together, but if you have the outline, for the sake of those who have the outline, number five, God's redemptive purpose. Number six, seeing God's one and only Redeemer. Number seven, seeing God's spiritual kingdom. Number eight, seeing the praise of God's glorious grace, which we know from Ephesians 1, 5, and 6, that's God's purpose for everything. God's whole purpose for everything is the praise of his glorious grace, Ephesians 1, 5, and 6. Now, about 90 seconds of just focused practical application. Number one, remember before anything, you are you are a worshiper first. You're a worshiper first. Before we do jobs at church, before we make any changes in our lifestyle, anything external. morally or external, religiously. Behind it all, internally, we are a worshiper first. You are a worshiper first. You've been given the Holy Spirit of God to equip you to see God and praise God for who he is In Christ, you're a worshiper first. Secondly, zooming in on congregational worship, remember that congregational worship is a real spiritual event. We come here so that God Would administer his power and his grace to our hearts. That's why we come. To see God, to receive God, together, congregationally. By his word, by his spirit, through the songs, through the prayers, through the fellowship, through the preaching, that God would administer his grace and his power to our hearts, which is what we need. Third, congregational worship is transformative. You're not just watching. This is not like a movie. This is not like a play. This is not like a concert. This is a real spiritual event. It's one of the things, not the only thing, one of the things God will use to transform us to the likeness of Christ. And number four, therefore Congregational worship is one of those things that meets our greatest practical need, which is to see God, to see him as almighty creator, to see him as merciful redeemer in Christ. Hebrews 1 6 In Hebrews 1:6, God the Father says this, let all God's angels worship him. Let all God's angels worship him. One very simple way to think about what Christianity is and what our lives are now that God has saved us is we're joining angels in the worship of God and the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Thank you for your patience with us. Thank you for your Holy Spirit, for your word. Thank you for the hope we have stored up in heaven. It's in light of this hope and in light of your son and his grace and mercy toward us that we lift this prayer. Amen.