First Thessalonians five, twelve through twenty two. Ethics in The kingdom of God. And the kingdom of God is spiritual in nature. Its essential character is invisible, it's heavenly, it's spiritual, but it has outward manifestation first and foremost in the lives of those who've been transferred into the kingdom of God through faith in Christ. New hearts, it impacts the way we think, the way we feel, the way we speak, the way we live, the way we interact with others. The ethics of the kingdom in the kingdom of God. I'll begin by reading this. And see if you can figure out why I'm calling the lesson that And then I'll pray for us. 1 Thessalonians 5, beginning in verse 12, we ask you, brethren, to respect those who labor among you. And are over you in the Lord and admonish you. Esteem them very highly in love because of their work. I love how he gives the reason there. Be at peace among yourselves. And we urge you, brothers, admonish the idol. Encourage the faint-hearted. Help the weak. Be patient with all. See that no one repays evil for evil, but always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Give thanks in all circumstances. This is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Do not quench the spirit. Do not despise prophecies. But test everything. Hold fast to what is good. Abstain from every form of evil. Ethics. In the kingdom of God, how we live as citizens of God's eternal kingdom that He's established in Christ and will one day consummate in glory when Christ returns. Let's pray. Lord, we come to you this evening humbly And desperate. We are sinners in need of your grace. We thank you for your grace toward us in Christ. Our faith is in Him, our trust is in Him, our hope is in Him. Father, we pray that you would do a work in our minds through your word this evening. Transform us according to your purpose, according to the work of your Holy Spirit. Make us like Christ, we pray Break the power of sin that still lingers within us, we pray. Help us as we study your word. In Jesus we ask. Amen. So in this passage there are fourteen keys to living a Christian life. I say that tongue in cheek, but that's the kind of passage it is. He gives Depending on how you break it up, you could you could break it up to probably be twelve or maybe sixteen, but I broke it down to fourteen commands. Some of them negative commands, which don't do this. Most of them positive commands. Do this. I thought of an illustration of a door with 14 different locks on it And each one would be a key to get through that door. Just an illustration to g some passages could be two paragraphs on one topic, one doctrine to learn. It could be very detailed or maybe look at different aspects of one doctrine. But many practical application passages go through a list of different admonitions and commands. And that's what we have here. Ethics in the kingdom of God. And the reason I'm calling it ethics in the kingdom of God and not just ethics is because we're Christians. We're not just moralists. And the first one links us to the reality of the kingdom of God on earth and as citizens in the kingdom this is how we live. So we'll see that now. So 14 Different commands that I've broken this up to. First, respect ministers of the word. Respect ministers of the word. This comes from verses 12 And the first part of thirteen. We ask you, brethren, to respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you, and to esteem them very highly. In love. And he gives the reason. Because of their work. It's because of the work they do. Not because of who they are. It's not for their sake I mean, one aspect of it is so they can focus on the work. It's kingdom work. It's for the sake of the kingdom. It's for the sake of the gospel. It's for the sake of The church, it's for God's glory, it's for the spread of the word of God and the power of the Spirit, it's for the sake of the kingdom work because of their work and what's at stake. The gospel work is the greatest work that's going on on planet Earth. In all of us, in different ways, based on our calling and the grace God has apportioned to us Have a part in that kingdom work, the work of the gospel. So respect ministers of the word, but respect them for their for the right reason. It's because of the work. There's work to do, brother and sisters. There's work to be done. There's a lot of work to be done. And we've got to work together and support each other and respect each other. for the sake of Christ's kingdom. Flip to uh Colossians 4 3 Colossians 4:3. The church, the local churches scattered all over the world, are the outward manifestation. I've heard one pastor call the focal manifestation of the kingdom of God on earth, churches. Church work is kingdom work. Colossians 4. 3. At the same time, pray also for us that God may open to us a door for the Word. To declare the mystery of Christ on account of which I am in prison. You know, of all the things you can say about Paul He was not confused about what God had called him to. And he was not confused about who he was trusting in. To make him effective in that work and to guide him in that work, he says, pray for us that God would open a door for the word to declare the mystery of Christ. And then later down in Colossians 4, look at verse 11. References the ministry of the Word. Pray for me. Pray for the ministry of the Word. Down in verse 11, picking it up in the middle of a uh of a sentence here, he's talking about some of his fellow workers and Jesus, who is called justice. He's the last one in that list. These are the only men of the circumcision among my fellow workers For the kingdom of God. There were gospel workers, they were church workers, they were workers for the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God manifest on earth today is Centrally in local churches through gospel ministry. We respect ministers of the word. b because of their work. We respect each other. We respect everyone. in the Spirit of Christ. But he highlights this back in 1 Thessalonians 4, 12 Respect those who labor among you and are over you in the Lord, and admonish you, and esteem them very highly in love because of their work. Kingdom work You know what? Go back to Colossians. There's some more verses on the kingdom I'd like to highlight. Colossians 1. 13 You know, I highlight these because I have heard it said, not often, but I have heard it said and taught and preached, and I've read it The kingdom of God has not yet been established. Only the church has been established, but the kingdom of God is future. That's not the biblical view. That's not the biblical teaching. And we just saw a few verses on that. The one in Colossians 4, 11. that Paul was working for the kingdom of God. Colossians 1, 13 and 14. He, Christ, He, actually no, that's the Father there, I believe. Yeah, that's God the Father. Verse 12, giving thanks to God the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints and light, he, the Father, has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son. When we were born again, that's a past reality. We've already been transferred into the kingdom of God's beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Look down at verse 27 through the end of the chapter, just to connect this kingdom and the kingdom work with the preaching of Christ. To them God chose to make known how great among the Gentiles are the riches of the glory of this mystery, which is Christ in you, the hope of glory. Him we proclaim, and Christ we proclaim, warning everyone and teaching everyone with all wisdom that we may present everyone mature in Christ. For this I toil, struggling with all his energy, that he powerfully works in me. So the preaching of Christ. For the building of the church is kingdom work. This is the kingdom of God on earth. I'm not going to spend this much time on the rest of these points back in 1 Thessalonians 5. But this one I wanted to ground us. With the work, the kingdom work, the work of the gospel, the work of the church. We all are involved in that. In one way or another. And if we do get through these fourteen keys that he gives to living a cr a Christian life, the life of a disciple. I do have a handout and some passages on the kingdom of God to help us bolster our understanding of the kingdom of God. Back in 1 Thessalonians 5. The first admonition is respect ministers of the word. And the second is at the end of verse 13b, be at peace. among yourselves. Be at peace among yourselves. Let there not be infighting. Is there anyone that you need to forgive? Forgive them. Not just theoretically, but in real life. Is there anyone you need to ask their forgiveness and apologize? Well, go ahead. Ask their forgiveness and apologize. Not on paper But in real life. Is there a relationship that needs to be reconciled? Take the initiative. Trust the Lord. Give it to the Lord in prayer. And go and be reconciled. Go and be reconciled. The power of peace is the blood of Christ. The blood of Christ is powerful enough to reconcile vile, wicked sinners to holy God. It's powerful enough to reconcile sinner to sinner as well. If we would be humbled under the power of the gospel, look to Christ, to trust in Christ, Understand the grace that's been shown to us, we could be at peace one to another, and that's part of our witness to the watching world. It's an outward evidence, an outward manifestation of the kingdom of God. The peace the Christians have one with another. But that's the second one he says. Respect the ministers of the word, number one. Number two, be at peace. Among yourselves. Don't always be fighting. Shouldn't church life should not be characterized by drama and disagreement And then in verse 14, the next one, I'm sure you could pick it pick it out now. They get pretty pretty quick hitting here We urge you, brothers, admonish the idol. So who's the one that's lazy? Admonish them. And by the way, he's this is to the church. Not just to the pastor of the church. As you already said, we ask you, brethren, and be at peace among yourselves. We urge you, brethren. This is to the Christians. Admonish the idol, the one who's lazy, the one who has fallen away. The one who's not in the Word, the one who's not prioritizing the body life of the church, the one who uh likes the stuff that that makes them feel good, but all the other ministries doesn't really care that much about, if at all. Admonish the idol. Let's not be complicit. In the apathy of others or of each other. But let's admonish each other. And we all need that, don't we? Don't we all tend toward Maybe doing the bare minimum or what we can do to just to get by. But we need to admonish The idol. And some at in Thessalonica had even stopped working. They had a an incorrect eschatology where they thought they were supposed to stop working. And that's an un unbiblical attitude And then he says right after that, this will be the fourth one. You know, respect ministers of the word, be at peace among yourselves, admonish the idol, and then number four. Encourage the faint-hearted. And number five, right on the heels of that, help the weak. So those two are definitely related, but encourage the faint-hearted. Lift them up. Build them up. Seek them out. Encourage them. And help the weak. The idol needs to be admonished. Some people need to be admonished. Some people need a very tender, compassionate support, and care in lifting them up. The faint-hearted, the weak. Help them. And then it says, be patient with them all. Be patient with people. Don't let 's not put each other on the timeline of spiritual growth that I want for you, or that you want for me, or that we want from others. We are not the Holy Spirit. There are lots of different people in the church at different places in their spiritual walk. And we need to be gracious and patient with each other. If God has been gracious and patient with us , we can be graduated. We should be and we will be by his grace and Holy Spirit, gracious and patient with each other and with others. As we come more and more to reflect the spirit of Christ, the character of Christ, we'll be gracious and patient. And we all stumble in many ways. We all have sins. None of us are where we need to be But thank God we're not who we used to be. And thank God that He's growing us. And so, yes, admonish the idol, but the faint-hearted encourage them. The weak, help them. Everyone, be patient with them. Well, that's six. We're almost halfway, aren't we? How about this one? What's the next one? Verse 15, number seven. Don't be vengeful. Don't be vengeful. See that no one repays evil. For evil. And then he gives the opposite the uh the opposite side of that coin of you know what what we should be doing. I put that in the separate ones. Here just don't repay evil for evil. Don't have a vengeful attitude. I don't don't be giving people the silent treatment. Yeah. Maybe for decades. We just don't talk to them anymore We had something happen way back here. There's a disagreement. We agree to disagree. We haven't talked in ten years. That's not the way of Christ. That's a that's a socially acceptable form of vengeance that we take out on each other. We're not able to have relationships with each other, really? We're filled with the Holy Spirit of an infinite God who has an infinite grace for us as sinners, and we can't talk. Something's off there. We're not to repay evil with evil. Maybe someone really has sinned against you, all sins ultimately against God. But we do say things against each other, sometimes willfully, sometimes accidentally. But we don't repay evil with evil. That's something we need to grow in, all of us. We don't punish people for the way they wrong us What a great opportunity to grow in our faith and to trust in the Lord when we're wronged and we're able to forgive. You must receive grace to be able to give grace. And those who have received grace and have been transformed by grace will be able to show grace by the power of the Spirit. But always looking to Christ. You know, none of these, don't isolate any of these or abstract any of these from faith in Christ. As I said at the beginning, we're not moralists. We're not just trying to be good people. Trying to walk by faith in Jesus Christ. And as we look to Christ, we'll grow in these areas as we strive and make an effort toward godliness. But never separate it from the gospel, never separate it from the living Lord in heaven who helps us in these things. But number one, respect ministers of the word because of their work, kingdom work. It's not about us. It's about the gospel and the church. Number two, be at peace among yourselves Number three, admonish the idle. Number four, encourage the faint-hearted. Which means don't ignore them. Just because they're a drain on you They still need help and they need to be encouraged. Help the weak, number five. Be patient with all. Did I skip that one? Be patient with all. No, no, no. I I l I looped that in, I think, with encourage the faint-hearted and help the weak. Be patient with all. And number seven, don't be vengeful. And then right after that, number eight, the opposite side is what? Seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Good works, good deeds, good words All right? Seek to do good to everyone and to one another. We're not saved by our good works. But those who are saved will pursue good works and have good works. And love good works, and delight in good works, but not rest in them, not trust in them. They are the fruit of a saving faith, always, of a true biblical saving faith, always bears the fruit of good works. Out of love for God and care for people. Am I making that up? Or is that biblical? It's biblical, right? We need we need to know that. We're not anti-good works. We're anti-salvation by or based on good works. But we're not anti-good works. We don't nullify the law, but we up rather we uphold the law because we're justified by faith. And those who are justified by faith are the only ones who can render true obedience to God. Because it's obedience out of love. And through faith in Christ. Do good to one another and to everyone. Which is the opposite of repaying evil for evil. But always seek to do good to one another and to everyone. Always. Always. I didn't add that word. That word is in there in the Bible in that verse. So this applies in all situations. All situations. Number nine, rejoice always Number 10, right at that's the beginning that's verse 16. Rejoice always. Good memory verse. 1 Thessalonians 5:16. Rejoice always. And verse 17, pray always, pray without ceasing. And next number 11 would be verse 18, the beginning. Give thanks always. Give thanks in all circumstances. Do good to all. And then he gives us these three: rejoice always, pray always, give thanks always. Rejoice always, no matter what's going on, because we have the gift of gift. We have everything in Christ, everything and more we could ever possibly need or want or imagine we have in Christ. It's always an occasion for rejoicing. Always in Christ. If you've been united to Jesus by faith, it's always an occasion for rejoicing. That doesn't minimize the sufferings and the trials and the tears that we shed here on earth. But keeping in that keeping the perspective of eternity and what we have in Christ, we can rejoice always. Won't always be outward and on the surface of our feelings and emotions, but that's just because we're still here in this sin-cursed world. We can rejoice always. And then he says, pray always. We pray always because we always need God's help. We always need God's help. We live in a culture and a society and we we have the we have so much, so many comforts, so much safety, so many freedoms, so much independence. We can get this false sense of security. We forget to pray. We forget the value of prayer. We don't sense in our hearts a desperate need for God's power. And so we don't pray. And we know we need to intellectually And then I wonder if we really believe and trust the power of prayer. Rejoice always, pray always. We always need God's help. We always need God's guidance. We always need God's power. We always need God's word. So rejoice always. Pray always. And then on the heels of that, he says, give thanks always. Give thanks always. And if you have if you have not received any good gifts from God, then you have no reason to give thanks. But if you've received good gifts from God, and we have, we can always give thanks. That's our Arguably, that's our best weapon. That's our grenade launcher bazooka. I mean that's probably too small of a weapon. This is our our our our laser beam from space powerful weapon against discontentment. It's giving thanks. And being spoiled. Give thanks for what we have. Chronicle in our in our hearts what God has given us, what God has done for us. Thank you, God. Thank you, God. And all these gifts are gifts of mercy and grace. We didn't deserve them And they're all a manifestation of God's goodness and kindness, so that we would love Him more, but we give thanks. Rejoice always, number nine. Number ten, pray always. Number 11, give thanks always. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus. for you. This is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. This is what God wants from his children is basically what they say. This is what God requires of his children. Ethics. Ethics. Spiritual life. All right. Verse 19, another short verse, good memory verse, 1 Thessalonians 5:19. Do not quench. The spirit. You can just picture putting out a fire. A little. I've ar I've I have arguably the smallest fire pit of all fire pits in my front yard. Just a little aluminum thing. It'd be very, very easy to come with a little bucket and put out the fire. That's what it means to quench the spear. When you think about what that is in real life, you've got to connect it with the ministry and the work and the power of the Word of God. Throughout all the Bible, hone in in your mind, hone in on what you know of the New Testament Jesus ministry the book of Acts, the Apostles' Ministry, and then all throughout the New Testament. It's the ministry of the Word through which the power of the Spirit works to save sinners, build the church, spread the kingdom. It's through the Word of God, the Word of God and the power of the Spirit. And he mentioned something about the Word of God in the very next phrase. We'll get there, the very next verse. We'll get to that one. But here's don't quench the Holy Spirit. Don't minimize The ministries of the Word of God. Don't forget the power of the Word of God A failure to prioritize the word is quenching the spirit. That's putting out the fire of the spirit in your own life. And if we do that at the church level, we're putting out the fire of the Spirit at the church level. Things must be centered on God's Word. It's how He makes Himself known. It's how he brings sinners into a relationship with him. It's how he builds up the church. It's how he encourages the weak. It's how he helps the faint-hearted. Or you're supposed to encourage the faint-hearted and help the weak. Did I get that backwards? But it's God through his word and through his spirit. So don't quench the spirit Don't quench the Spirit. Don't put out the fire of the Spirit by minimizing the Word of God in your own life or in the body life of the church. Does that make sense? Word , spirit? Take up the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God. All right. That's why Jesus has in the visions, symbolic visions , Revelation has a sword coming out of his mouth. And it's the only weapon needed in the kingdom of God for the kingdom to be successful on earth is the Word of God, the sword of the Spirit. It's the only weapon we need. Don't quench the spirit. And number 13, that was 12. Number 13, we're getting toward the end. of this section of the class. Remember I told you I had a handout? That 's working out pretty nicely. It's 7. 31. Right on the heels of do not quench the spirit, he says, do not despise prophecies, but test everything. And hold fast to what is good. Be discerning. The church in the age of the apostles, the apostolic era, a foundational era for the church. There was the giving of new revelation. It was the transition time between from old covenant to new covenant. Very important time, unique time in world history. There were prophets and apostles. And tongues. Gifts of tongues were given, and gifts of interpretation. All of these gifts had to do with the giving of new revelation, the giving of God's Word, his inspired word. And all that was taught and said and even written did not make it into the New Testament. But those gifts that are not active, and the office of prophet that's not active anymore in the church, they were during the Apostolic Age, we don't need them anymore because the the written revelation of the New Testament has been completed. And that is sufficient. Don't doubt that it's sufficient. It is a sufficient word, a covenant document for the new covenant people of God. It is sufficient for life and godliness. He says, do not despise prophecies. So welcome prophecies. But don't welcome them Without any qualification or examination. Test everything. Everything must be measured by the Word of God, by the truth of God. Don't despise prophecies, but test everything. Hold fast what is good. Now why would he say that? Well, because lots of people claim to hear from God. And they're just saying what they think or what they believe. Lots of people would say they're a prophet, but aren't really a prophet. People still say that today. I hear it all the time, and not not everybody means the same thing when they say this. But we should be careful with our language. God told me this. God spoke to me last night, and God said this to me. Be careful when you say that. Most people, I'm convinced, I hope, when they say that, what they're meaning is they're just finding trying to find a way of expressing uh that God is giving them guidance through prayer, through the study of the word, through other people speaking into their lives And through their own dis discernment and wisdom, God is leading me to make this decision rather than this decision, and express that in terms of God told me. But technically, if God speaks and gives special revelation. It's the word of God. And we need to be careful in this because God will tell you something that the church needs to do. And now you come to the church and say, God told me we need to do this. Are the rest of us accountable and under the authority of your word, the word of God to you? No, we're not. So, anyway Don't despise prophecies, but test everything, hold fast to what is good. Be discerning. Be discerning is the general point. And we should think about these two points together, not quenching the spirit. And being discerning. We want to welcome truth and receive truth. And receive and welcome the preaching and teaching of truth. But we must be discerning. There's lots of very, very popular , persuasive, and rich So-called preachers and teachers who don't teach and preach biblical truth. And often the most successful ones And the most persuasive ones, often 90% of what they say, you can get on board with. And it's biblical on the surface. But if you keep listening and you keep listening, and it's very strategic too, by the way, that's how you grow an audience. If you keep listening, you hear something that's a little bit off, and if you listen a little bit more and look a little bit closer, you find out it's complete and utter heresy. You must be discerning, and the only way you can be discerning is if you're in the Word, learning the Word, and the Spirit is at work within you, and you're not quenching the Spirit. Don't quench the Spirit Be discerning. Number fourteen, verse twenty-two Abstain from every form of evil. That to me is a shocking verse Abstain from every form of evil. It covers every other commandment. Right? It covers everything. Don't do anything that's against God's will. Basically is what that's saying. Don't do anything that God would frown upon. Don't delight in anything that God wouldn't delight in. Don't say anything that God wouldn't say. Abstain from it all. Abstain from every form of evil. Things you do, things you think, things you feel, things you say, the way you say them, places you go. Everything. Did I say things you look at? I forget, I was going so quickly. Every form. Every form that evil takes. And manifesting itself in this world. Abstain from it. Jesus said, pluck your eye out. If it'll keep you from sin. Abstain. We understand that's hi hyperbole, right? A metaphor to stress the importance of Abstaining from sin and things that would lead you to sin, temptation. Oh boy, the way we play around with sin, we act like it's this a cute little bunny rabbit. It is a venomous beast that wants to destroy us. But we have authority over Satan. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. Resist the devil, and he will flee. If you take your stand by faith in Jesus Christ, in the power of the Spirit, resist the devil, he will flee The devil is still active, but he does not have more power than the Holy Spirit or dominion over the saints of God. Greater is he that is in you than he that is in the world. You've got to believe it if you're going to uh conquer sin. He breaks the power of canceled sin. It's from a song. Google it. Google it. Alright. Let's review these. Stop for questions on this paragraph. And then Handout on the kingdom of God because of our first point, which was uh respect ministers of the word because of their work, which is kingdom work. This is what's at stake. This is what we're involved in. The kingdom of heaven manifest on earth. This is what we're involved in. And then secondly, be at peace among yourselves. Third, admonish the idol. Idleness is a big deal. It's a sin. It doesn't help anybody. It doesn't help the person to be idle. So don't think you're doing them a favor. Then encourage the faint-hearted and don't be harsh with them. Don't kick people while they're down. Some people just need a helping hand. Help the weak. Help the weak. Don't look down on the weak. Don't gossip on the week. Can you believe? They don't know what I'm going through. Can you believe them? Little crybaby. No, help the weak. Help the weak. Be patient with all. Don't be vengeful. Do good to all. Among yourselves and then everyone. Rejoice always. Pray always. Give thanks always. Don't quench the Holy Spirit. Every morning we should be praying for the Holy Spirit. Every morning, pray for the Holy Spirit. The power to put to sin, put death, put sin to death, and to cultivate holiness. And to give us a love for Christ and a love for his word, a love for his kingdom, a passion for his church, a devotion to his church, a greater devotion to our families A greater and clearer witness in the world. We can't do any of this on our own. Pray for the Holy Spirit. Don't quench the Spirit. Cry out for the Holy Spirit. Be discerning. Welcome and receive the truth and preaching and teaching of the truth. We know God's word is true in every aspect, and that will never change. But the way God has instituted ministry on earth is through preaching and teaching. So you'll read things, you'll listen to things on the radio, listen to friends, listen to Christian friends at work, you'll hear all we hear all kinds of things at church. Be like the Bereans, go home, bury yourself in the Word of God and see what's true, what has God said. Be discerning , and finally abstain from all evil, abstain from every form of evil. There's so many forms of evil that we think are not that big of a deal and do not hurt anyone. Well, we want to abstain from every form of evil. And one day in the new heavens and the new earth, evil will not exist. It will not exist within us It will not exist around us in the new heavens and the new earth. All right. Before I hand out the handout on the kingdom of God, do you believe that last thing that I said? One day evil will no longer exist. In your heart, can we grasp the glory of that? Oh, just to live one day without sin. This is why the Son of God appeared to destroy the works of the devil. And one day they will be utterly destroyed and done away with. Alright, can we uh pass these out? Sure. Now, really, this is primarily to save you time. What this is is a series of verses. I wanted to save us time so you don't have to flip through all of them. But as I go through them like a fire hydrant of Bible verses in your face and brain, I thought it would be helpful if you could at least look at them and skim your eyes and see some of the key phrases And I don't think we'll get through all of them, although we may, we have about eighteen minutes. We started the first the first point on this lesson from 1 Thessalonians 5 was about respecting ministers of the word because of their work. And then we looked at some cross-references about Church work is kingdom work. And it centers on the preaching and teaching of Christ and his life, death, resurrection, and ascension, enthroned in heaven. And he the giver of salvation and eternal life. I want us to understand the kingdom of God. Of course, the whole Bible is about the kingdom of God. God's uh un unified but gradually unfolding plan throughout history to establish his kingdom and bring it to Consummate glory. Kingdom of God, here's the outline of this handout. Our experience of it. The timing of it, the character of it, and the significance. The significance of it. Number one, the experience of the kingdom of God. The kingdom of God is both a present possession and a future inheritance. It's not one or the other. It's both. If you are in Christ, for you, God's saving reign, God's kingdom is the present possession and a future inheritance. It's something you experience truly now in your life. And you'll experience in its fullest manifestation in the age to come, your future inheritance. On the present possession, Colossians 1, 13 and 14. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. Praise his name. He's delivered us from the domain of darkness, and he's transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. In Colossians 4. 11, again, picking it up in the middle of the list, the verse of his workers, and Jesus, who is called justice, these are the only men of the circumcision among my fellow Workers for the kingdom of God. Paul, what is your work about? It's about the kingdom of God. What kind of work are you involved in in the church, in gospel ministry? Work for the kingdom of God. It's kingdom work. Now So that others may be transferred and delivered from the domain of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. Isn't that what we want? Matthew 16, 18 through 19. Wonderful and a wonderfully clear picture. I tell you, you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. Underline it. Church. And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. It's a victorious church. Verse 19, I will give you the keys of the church Kingdom of heaven. Oh now this is interesting. It's heating up. And whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. It's the authority to grant access into the kingdom of heaven. Which is the church. Verse 18. The foundation, the building of the church. It's people coming into the kingdom of God through the preaching of the gospel. It's a present possession. It's a present possession. Don't ever forget it. Philippians 3. 20. Our citizenship is in heaven. From we await a savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Really nice summary. Present possession. You are a citizen of heaven now You possess citizenship in heaven. You are possessed by Christ who reigns as King in heaven, high king of heaven. That's why we come here and sing about him on Sundays. And future inheritance. From it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Now future inheritance, Acts 14, 22. By the way, on every single point on this paper, it could be an endless , not endless, that's hyperbole. extensive list of cross-references because the whole Bible is about this. It's anticipated in the Old Testament in gradually unfolding ways. And it's realized in the New Testament. It's promised, it's fulfilled, the kingdom of God. Acts 14, 22, strengthening the souls of the disciples. Encouraging them to continue in the faith, and saying that through many tribulations we must enter the kingdom of God. There's an entrance to the kingdom of God we've not yet experienced. The eternal full manifestation of kingdom glory. 2 Peter 1. 11 For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance, again, enter entrance, into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. Yes, the kingdom is a present possession, but it is also a future inheritance. An example, you don't have a resurrection body yet. Central example. Now, how can it be that the kingdom is both present possession and also future inheritance? It's the same kingdom. You just possess it and experience it in a different form. So now the timing. Here's the answer to that question. Because Jesus brought the kingdom to earth in his first coming. And he will consummate the kingdom on earth at his last coming. He established the kingdom. He'll one day consummate the kingdom, complete the kingdom, and bring it to its Full form, heavenly glory, the new heavens and the new earth. But he did bring the kingdom. And a parallel set of cross-references for this would be numerous verses that speak to Christ's real victory over Satan in his first coming. He defeated Satan. He defeated death. He defeated sin Satan is a conquered foe, not Christ. Christ is a reigning king, not Satan. So that would be a parallel set of cross-references. Here I've highlighted one from Daniel. Or two from Daniel from the same chapter, and then a bunch just from Matthew, which is an interesting devotional exercise. If you want to go through Matthew and just study the kingdom of heaven, the kingdom of God. But first from Daniel. Daniel 2, 34 uh and 44. I'll r uh well let me give some background first. So Nebuchadnezzar had a dream of a massive statue of different sections that represented different kingdoms down through uh world history. The fourth kingdom would have been the Roman Empire, and in the days of the Roman Empire God would establish his kingdom. Uh that's just I have to be that concise to start giving going into the detail of this, it'll take the whole rest of the of the night. But that's the general context. Daniel two, thirty-four, Daniel uh interprets the dream for Nebuchadnezzar. As you looked A stone was cut out by no human hand, because it's something God is doing, and it struck the image of the statue on its feet of iron and clay. And broke them in pieces. And now here's the interpretation verse of that of this aspect of the dream, verse forty-four. And in the days of those kings, in the days of those kings, that's very important, in the days of the Roman Empire. In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed. Very, very important for understanding prophecy or prophetic timeline or or the the the uh the history of salvation and what jesus did in his first coming, which the whole New Testament is about that, what Jesus did in his first coming and the theological significance of it. But it's in the days of that fourth kingdom, in the days of the Roman Empire, that God sets up his eternal kingdom. It's now break into pieces All these kingdoms and bring them to an end, and it shall stand forever. God's kingdom established. Now, Matthew 1:1, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, and the son of Abraham. Which means he's the anointed king and messiah over God's people. And he's the son of Abraham. He's the Savior that will bring salvation to the nations. What did God say to Abraham? In you Some nations of the world will be blessed. In you, the nation of Israel will be blessed. In you, Abraham, in you, through your seed, all nations will be blessed. Matthew 2. 2. So of the wise men saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. The beginning of Matthew 3, John the Baptist. It's here. Matthew 4, Jesus Matthew ten, Jesus sends out disciples to priest. The kingdom of God is here. Matthew But that was a kingdom advancing Matthew twelve, twenty-eight -nine. He bombed the prince of demons And enters his house and then plunders his goods. It's a definitive Limiting, binding of the dominion of Satan on earth. Victory. Spiritual victory. Anyway, that's an important cross-reference. Matthew 16, 28. Truly I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. And we can't understand what that means until we understand what coming in his kingdom means. It comes from Daniel 7, and it is a reference to Jesus. ascending on high and to be enthroned as king of heaven. That's Jesus establishing his kingdom. That's not a reference To Jesus consummating his kingdom at the end of the age. That's not what Daniel 7 is about. That's not what this phrase is about. He will come in glory. He will come and consummate the kingdom. That's not what this phrase is, and that's why he says. Here to these people, some of them will still be alive when he is coming in his kingdom, when he's reigning as king of heaven, Lord of salvation. And Matthew 26, 64, Jesus said to him, You have said so, but I tell you from now on, you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. You will still be alive. When Jesus is reigning in heaven at the right hand of the Father, having established his kingdom, and now spreading his kingdom like a rock that's going to be a mountain that covers the whole earth, that shattered the kingdoms of the world. This is the kingdom of God. This is the kingdom of Christ. And I hope that you know he cannot be stopped. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. And he will disciple the nations through the power of the gospel. But the point here is they will see. From now on they will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of the power and reigning in heaven, coming on the clouds of heaven, having received the kingdom from the Father. That's what Daniel seven is about. It's about the Son coming on the clouds of heaven. When he's coming, he's coming to the ancient of days, coming to God the Father to receive the kingdom. That's his first coming. And his ascension, the day of Pentecost, establishing and now building the church. That's not the first thing they would have seen. They would have first saw his humiliation and his suffering and his death. Jesus, first coming, he brought the kingdom of God. He established the kingdom of God that is prophesied. In the old Old Testament. I'll give you just one example. I mean just one example in Daniel 2. His last coming 1 Corinthians 15, 23 through 26. We stu this was the last class, was this passage. Talking about the resurrection, each in his own order, Christ the first fruits, and then at his coming, which there is his final coming. At his coming, those who belong to Christ will be raised. Verse 24. And then comes the end. Christ is going to come His people will be raised, and then comes the end when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and every power, which is a way of summarizing Forces in the spiritual realm. So then comes the end is a key word. And then after destroying every rule and every authority and power. is a key word. Because there's no more enemies for him to destroy or subdue. Every rule, every authority, every power He must reign, which he's doing now, he must reign until he has put all enemies under his feet. And the last enemy to be destroyed is death. He's not going to return, destroy death, and then start reigning and putting enemies under his feet He must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. He's going to return. He's going to destroy death. And then he's going to deliver the consummated complete kingdom over to the Father. It's very, very simple. Order of events that Paul gives us here. Clear outline. And there are some other cross-reference to this , but this is the clearest one. Then comes the end of verse 24, when he delivers the kingdom to God the Father after destroying every rule and every authority and power. Yeah. Please remember that the last enemy to be destroyed is death. Terrific cross-reference. 1 Corinthians 15, 26. The last enemy to be destroyed is death. Now Vince, you answered this last w last class when I asked, so what enemy will be destroyed after death is destroyed? And you said None. That's the answer. Don't overthink it. Don't get confused. If the last enemy to be destroyed is death, there can be no more enemies after death that are destroyed. How can the outward appearance of the same kingdom there the difference between its present and future appearances how can the outward appearance be so different? I'm not I see the time. I'm not going to go through these. Well, they're different because the character of the kingdom never changes. It's continuous. It's unified. God's kingdom is spiritual in character. It's heavenly in character. It's a different manifestation. First the stalk, or first the the the grain, then the stalk, then the ear. The kingdom grows. The kingdom gradually grows and then there's a definitive a definitive change when the kingdom is consummated at the end So this is not evolutionary theory when we talk about the kingdom growing through the power of the gospel. And then at the at the end Christ will return. There will be a definitive consummation, change in the outward appearance of the kingdom as it's brought to its fullest expression in the new heavens and the new earth. But its essence will still be the same. It's a spiritual kingdom. Paul defines the resurrection body in 1 Corinthians 15 as a spiritual body. Wrap your mind around that. It will be a spiritual body in a spiritual creation. Fully sanctified and glorified in the presence of Christ. This has a boy, please read those cross references and there's so many of them. I mean all that this almost sums up the whole um narrative of the four gospels that his kingdom was not a geopolitical kingdom. He did not come to uh re-established the geopolitical kingdom of Israel. That was a typological kingdom that foreshadowed the true nature, the substance of God's eternal kingdom. which is which comes in Christ. It's a spiritual kingdom. But they didn't like that. And they killed him. And the significance of of that, this is so important too. And I'll tell you s uh a study through Acts Specifically, I mean the whole New Testament, but specifically study Acts and see what the Apostles say about what Christ is doing in the church is the fulfillment of what the prophets foretold. The church is not a timeout plan B parentheses in God's plan. It was prophesied. This is what was prophesied. Is now being fulfilled in the church That 's the significance of God's kingdom in the church. And boy, I gave you just a few, a few there. Matthew 21, 43, I will read this. Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you. Apostate Israel. The apostate Jews. The kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits. And then in 1 Peter 2, 9 and 10, you get a summary of that. Talking to Christians, talking to the church, you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous Light. And I've got to read the last one. I promise this will be the last one, okay? Acts 3, 18. Through twenty-four. Or eighteen and twenty-four. I mean, just plucking these from a sermon. But what God foretold by the mouth, singular, the Greek is singular there. Foretold by the mouth. of all the prophets, so the singular mouth of all the prophets taken as a whole, the prophetic word as a whole, that his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled And scooping down to verse 24, all the prophets who have spoken from Samuel, which is before the writing prophets, right? That's early prophets. From Samuel and those who came after him. Also proclaimed these days, the days of the church, the days of Christ's first coming, establishing the kingdom Building his church through the preaching of the gospel and the power of the Spirit, planting churches all over the globe. These days, all the prophets, all the prophets prophesied about these days. not the re-establishing of a geopolitical nation shadow kingdom or typological kingdom. These days were foretold by the prophets. So don't ever hear that Jesus didn't establish the kingdom that was promised and prophesied in the Old Testament. Read through the book of Acts. Look closely. Look carefully. Pray that God would show it to you. This is the age of fulfillment. We are citizens in the kingdom of God. I'm sorry, I get so excited about it. None of us deserve it. None of us deserve his goodness or his kindness or his grace or his mercy. I certainly don't deserve To be able to talk about it and know what it is. Isn't it true that you must be born again to see the kingdom of God? You must be born again to the end to enter the kingdom of God. And so let us rejoice always. And pray without ceasing and give thanks in all circumstances. Because we've received an inheritance that cannot be taken away from us. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. We bless your name. We bless the name of Jesus Christ, your only Son. Who suffered, died, and was buried, but rose again in fulfillment of the scriptures, ascended on high, and gave us his Holy Spirit from where he reigns in heaven at your right hand. Father, we thank you for the Holy Spirit. Thank you for the Scripture. Thank you for your church. Father, we pray that you'd continue to work a work in our hearts and minds and lives. Bring our lives in the nooks and crannies and hidden secrets. Bring it all under submission to Christ, we pray. In his name, amen.