Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to 1 John chapter 2. This morning looking at verses 18 through 23, calling this message Fellowship with Christ from 1 John chapter 2, verses 18 through 23. Fellowship with Christ. We're talking about walking in daily communion with Christ. Fellowship with Christ. We're talking about a life that's given over to knowing Christ and to growing in the grace of Christ. Fellowship with Christ We're talking about being passionate, about seeking Christ and cherishing Christ rather than seeking the things, the fleeting things of this world. And cherishing the things of this world. Fellowship with Christ. Before we read the passage, just a couple things on I guess where to file this message and its purpose for my heart and for your heart. The first place you can file this message is under Personal examination where we are to hear biblical truth about fellowship with Christ and examine our hearts. 2 Corinthians 13 5, Paul writes, examine yourselves to see whether you are in the faith. Test yourselves. And you also, in addition to filing this message under self-examination, could file it under exhortation. And exhortation is just a strong encouragement that's meant to stir you up. And that's what an exhortation is. It's supposed to be an encouragement that's powerful, that's strong, that pierces into the heart and stirs us to action. So Examination, but also exhortation in the spirit of Hebrews 3, 12 and 13. Take care, brethren, lest there be in any of you an evil and unbelieving heart that would lead you to fall away from the living God. But exhort one another daily, as long as it is called today. So that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. It is possible to be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. As we Examine our hearts as we're thinking about fellowship with Christ. Also, let's each one of us, by faith, be receiving this exhortation from the Spirit to take care. And not fall away. On to the passage, 1 John 2, verses 18 through 23. John writes, let what you heard from the beginning abide in you. If what you heard from the beginning abides in you Then you too will abide in the Son and in the Father. And this is the promise that He made to us, eternal life. I write these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you. But the anointing that you received from him abides in you, and you have no need that anyone should teach you But as his anointing teaches you about everything, and is true, and is no lie, just as it has taught you, abide in him. And now, little children, abide in him. So that when he appears We may have confidence and not shrink from him in shame at his coming. If you know that he is righteous, You may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness has been born of him. Many things we'll talk about. Quickly before we pray, look at the end of verse 28. As we abide in him , When he appears, we have confidence and not shrink from him in shame at his coming, which is what Adam and Eve did after they sinned. After they rebelled against God and God came in judgment, what did they do? They went and hid. They shrank from him at his coming. Well, for those of us in Christ, if you're in Christ, your guilt has been erased. You've been reconciled with God. There's no need to shrink back in fear, in shame at the coming of Christ. This is the great gift of assurance that we've been talking about week after week in 1 John. The assurance, the confidence that we have in Christ. Let's pray together. Father, once again we come to your word and we confess that we need your word, but we also confess that we do not sense our need for your word the way we ought. We know that we need the grace of Christ and the power of the Spirit in our lives, but we also confess that we don't sense that deep and desperate need the way we ought. But I pray you would prove to us once again this morning that you are faithful, that your word is powerful. That the Holy Spirit is real, that you have not left us, that you are with us, and that you are good. Father, we Pray for the preaching of the word, we pray for the hearing of the word, and we fully confess, but also fully expect All the spiritual fruit that would come as a result of the preaching and of the hearing is because of your grace and your goodness and your power that we have one more thing to praise you for. Dear God, help us. As we come to your word. In Jesus' name. Amen. Fellowship with Christ. First order of business. Where does the passage talk about that? Where does the passage talk about fellowship with Christ? First of all, right in the middle of verse 24. Right in the middle of verse 24, here's what you'll see If what you heard from the beginning abides in you, then you too will abide in the Son. That's fellowship with Christ. Abiding In the sun, remaining in the sun. Abide in the sun, and then what does it say? And in The Father. That's right. Because walking in fellowship with Jesus Christ, the Son of God, is also walking in fellowship with God the Father, and also is walking in fellowship with the Holy Spirit. Middle of verse twenty-four, abide in the Son and in the Father. Where else do we see fellowship with Christ in the passage? The very last phrase of verse 27. Did you bring a highlighter this morning? You run out and get you some highlighters. The very end of verse 27 Very simple phrase, but it's everything for the Christian life. Abide in Him Walk in him. Remain in him. Live your life in fellowship with Christ. Where else does fellowship with Christ appear in our passage? The very first part of verse twenty-eight. And thou, little children, abide in Him. Remain in him. Stay in daily fellowship with him. Fellowship with Christ. Christian living is living in fellowship with Christ and with God the Father and with God the Holy Spirit. That makes sense because that's what salvation is. It's a revelation of God's grace and it's a revelation of God It's the full and climactic revelation of God as Father, Son, Holy Spirit. His revelation of himself as Father, Son, and Spirit is His redemption of sinners. Saving us from our sin. This is one revelation with two aspects. It shows us God and saves us from our sin. Simple definition. There's many different ways you could summarize fellowship with Christ. Here's one simple definition A fellowship with Christ. It is remaining faithful to Christ in all spheres of life. Remaining faithful to Christ in all spheres of life. So if I'm faithful to Christ in the church But unfaithful to Christ in my home doing whatever I want to do, living however I want to live, and in as a citizen in the civil sphere, in my hobbies, doing whatever I want to do, believing whatever I want to believe. That's not fellowship with Christ. That's not remaining faithful to Christ. You could flip it around. You could you could you could have this idea that you'll be a faithful Christian at home. And a faithful Christian at work or a faithful Christian at school would forget about the church. That's not remaining faithful to Christ in all spheres of life. Discipleship is learning to live for Christ in all areas of life. Fellowship with Christ. Brothers and sisters, let's not just call ourselves Christians. Let's live and seek this out and pursue it by God's grace, not by our own wisdom or power. But pursue by God's grace, living for Christ in all spheres of life. That's what you want. Amen, church. I know you want this. And it's a battle against sin. It's a constant battle against sin that we'll never win, in fact, we'll never advance an inch on the battlefield apart from the power of the Holy Spirit. which we experience by looking to Christ as our great and merciful Savior. You probably had people in your life as you look back that were supposed to be your friends or had the label of friend attached to them. But maybe would tell lies about you. Or maybe when you needed it most, they weren't there for you. Maybe they would Spread falsehood about you, slander you, gossip on you. Who knows? Maybe they just were unfaithful. They ended up not being friends. The label doesn't mean anything. It's what's lived out that gives proof. Many politicians will say they have our best interests in mind. But their leadership would say otherwise. It's one thing to wear a label. It's another thing to walk in fellowship with Christ. As we remain faithful to Christ in all spheres of life, which is the definition of, well, my summary definition of discipleship, we must continue to look to Him as our Savior. This is the fountain, stream, the spring underneath all discipleship in any area of life, in any sphere of life. Underneath it is this life-giving spring of looking to Christ in faith as a great and mighty and merciful Savior. And we continue to confess Him as Lord. True Christianity always starts with the inward. It always starts with the heart. It always starts with the invisible. But it always works itself out in our words and our behaviors and our choices and our lives. We look to Him as Savior, confess Him as Lord. Otherwise we w we again we won't advance A millimeter in discipleship. As we strive to remain faithful to Christ in all spheres of life We must continually, self-consciously submit ourselves to his word as our source and standard of truth. Are you awake? For f for beliefs and for practice. For beliefs and for practice. God didn't tell his church or tell his people, here, now believe this list of things and go off and do church however you want to do it. This is not the revelation we get from God. His word is our source and standard for what we believe and what we teach and for how we're organized and how we operate. the sufficiency of Scripture. We won't move or advance a millimeter in discipleship if we forfeit this self-conscious submission to the Word as our source and standard for faith and practice. Continue to strive in the spirit to grow in grace and grow in godliness, which is it another way of saying repentance. Growing repentance, growing Christ-likeness. Continue to worship with the church faithfully. Continue to serve with the church. Faithfully, continue as a body to strive to reach for the lost faithfully. You know, we do the best we can to be faithful under God's grace. Trusting God's power, trusting God's wisdom, not our own, and we leave this fruit to Him. We leave the results to Him. Our focus is a spirit-born, Bible-based Obedience and the fruit is in God's hands. Amen? The results are in God's hands. We're not to be pragmatic. We're to be submissive to the word. Now, one critical point on this is we talk about fellowship with Christ. Supremely critical point is actually the last phrase Of this passage. Look at the end of verse 29. Has been born of him. What we're talking about, fellowship with Christ, comes after salvation, not before. Fellowship with Christ, living a life in fellowship with Christ, trying to submit to Him and serve Him in all areas of life, is a result of being born again. It's a result of being declared righteous in the eyes of God. You cannot flip this around and strive to honor and serve Christ first in hopes. That I'll become a spiritual and be born again. First turn to Christ for salvation, and as a result You'll live in fellowship with Christ. Otherwise, it's just works, salvation. Otherwise, we're just sending you out there, sending each other out there to try to be good people in hopes of earning God's favor. No, no, no. It's the complete opposite. Living in fellowship with Christ is a gift from God that grows as a fruit on the tree of salvation You must be born again. You must turn from your sin and place your faith in Christ as a great Savior based on his blood shed on the cross. I will not do it physically, but in my heart I'm begging you. Begging you Do not try to go out and live life in obedience to God apart from being saved by Christ through faith. You must be saved. Brothers and sisters, we're not trying to get people just to be more religious. We're not trying to get people just to be churchgoers. We want Hearts to be changed for Christ. We want souls to be saved for all eternity. You must be born again, and as a result. Now we live in fellowship with Christ, striving to honor him in every sphere of life. Abide in him, abide in him, abide in him. Now The question will be: what does life look like in fellowship with Christ? I have three of these for this morning. What does life look like in fellowship with Christ? Number one Life and fellowship with Christ, your heart is guided by gospel truth. That's number one. Your heart is guided by gospel truth. When we live life in the flesh, which is just life and service to ourselves. Our heart is guided by our own fallen passions and opinions when we live life in the flesh. But when we live life in fellowship with Christ, our heart is to be guided by the gospel truth. Guided is probably too weak. But you'll see as I go through the points, I needed a G-word. Ruled. Your heart our hearts are to be ruled. By the gospel truth. But guided is not bad. If I thought it were bad, I wouldn't put it on there. Uh you can think of a rudder that guides the ship. The rudder turns here, now the ship goes there. Or you think of the tires on your car. Tires turn here, the car goes there. Our heart is to be guided by the gospel truth. And you can see two times in verse Twenty four this phrase what you heard. Verse twenty-four. Let What you heard from the beginning abide in you. You see that? What you heard. Let what you heard So, whatever else he's going to say in this passage, the way forward, the way of practical application will be taking something that we've heard. Let what you've heard abide in you. But then again, next phrase, if what you heard from the beginning, twice, what you heard. He's talking about truth, a message of truth that you heard. And you see the nature of this, what they heard in verse 25. This is the promise That he made to us eternal life. What is it that they heard? They heard a promise. On the basis of the promise that they heard, they could have eternal life. Friends, that's the gospel. The gospel truth that they heard at the beginning. The gospel of Jesus Christ That he came to earth, the eternal Son of God, came as a man. He's God, He's man. He's the only one qualified to be the mediator between holy God and sinful man. And the only one who's able, by who he is, and by what he is, to God man, to reconcile sinful men to a holy God. He's God and man. He's God and man. Secondly, Jesus lived a righteous life. Now for any sinner To be justified before the throne of God and welcomed into eternal glory, you need something called righteousness. This is a requirement of God's holiness and purity. You must have a righteous standing before him in order to have a right relationship with him and be welcomed into his glory. Well you and I know if we know anything about ourselves that we cannot attain righteousness on our own. If we're going to have a righteousness On our account, as we stand before the throne of God, it must be given to us from the outside. It must be given to us as a gift. This is where the righteous life of Christ comes in, the righteousness of Christ. He's God and He's man, the mediator between God and man. He lived a righteous life that He'll then give to us as a gift. Just rehearsing simple gospel truths, what they heard from the beginning. He died a sacrificial death on a cross. This is the heart of our message. The gospel is the heart of Christianity, and the cross of Christ is the heart of the gospel. that he died in the place of sinners. For my sin, for your sin, took on my guilt, took on your guilt, bore the penalty that I deserved, bore the penalty that you deserved by shedding his blood. Dying as a substitute on a Roman cross, this is how our sins are forgiven. That's not the end of the gospel proclamation He rose to incorruptible, imperishable, heavenly life on the third day. So he is our living Savior. This is so important. Don't think this is an extraneous or through or throwaway point of the gospel. It's the living Christ who saves us. If Christ isn't alive, where's the one who would save us? When you heard the gospel , And your heart was changed, it was the living Christ by the power of his Spirit who mercifully changed your heart. Jesus is the living Savior. We preach the resurrection, its historical reality, but its spiritual significance is so important The word of promise, the promise of eternal life that can come to any and all sinners who turn to Christ in faith Paying no money, not earning it by good deeds, not proving it by good moral, upstanding character, but by receiving it as a free gift. The word they heard from the beginning. But what about this promise that they heard? What does John want for us regarding what we heard? Why does he bring this up? Two times. What you heard, what you heard. And then the promise that he made. Look at the phrase that he uses in 20, verse 24. Twice. First he says, let what you heard from the beginning, here's the key phrase, abide in you. And then if what you heard from the beginning, same phrase, abides in you. He once A message to live in us. Isn't that incredible? Isn't that powerful? That a message Could live inside of us? What in the world does that mean? The message is information. Messages about truth. What does it mean that it abides in us? It's a way of talking about how the story of the cross Has so changed us. The story of Jesus dying on a cross so defines our life that it's spoken of as something that lives inside of us. It's parallel with saying you're filled with the Spirit. Or do you walk in the Spirit? Let the gospel live in you, is what he's saying. Let the gospel of Jesus Christ. Live in you. In other words, let the gospel be your heart. Let the gospel be your driving force and motivation in life. Let what you heard from the beginning, the promise of eternal life, abide in you. Let it live right here. The gospel has so transformed us and defined who we are. What we desire, what we're about, that it's to be said that this message is not a dead message outside of us, but it's a living message inside of us. Let the word abide in you, brethren. Let the word of eternal life abide within you. Colossians 3. 16, Paul writes, Let the Word of God dwell in you richly. It's not talking about what's done with the word of God outside of us. Outside of us, the word should be proclaimed boldly and shared Unashamedly, but inside of us, let the word of God dwell in you richly. This is the only path of discipleship. John 17, 17, Jesus says in a prayer to the Father, Sanctify them in the truth, your word is truth. Powerful verse. Set them apart by your truth. Use your truth to set them apart, sanctify them in your truth. And then earlier in John, John 15, 3 Jesus said this to the disciples, already you are clean because of the word I have spoken to you. It's the word of Christ that purifies the sinner. It's not the good works of the sinner. It's not the good intentions of the sinner. It's not the good decisions of the sinner. It's the word of Christ that supernaturally cleanses the sinner and sets him apart for God's purposes on earth. Aren't you happy about it, church? The word of Christ that brings life. Ephesians 5, 26, in the middle of one of Paul's prayers for the church. He prays that he might sanctify her, having cleansed her by the washing of water. With the Word. A water symbolizes the presence and the life of the Holy Spirit within the believer. But that comes to us and that's experienced through the Word of God. This is why the church has had a consistent practice of public preaching and teaching and Bible studies since its inception. Around 2,000 years ago. The gospel abiding in us means that the gospel continues to guide our hearts in all things, like a rudder on a ship guiding that ship, or like the the wheels. On your car, guiding your car. Now, we get to the why. Why is John concerned about this? And why would any of us be concerned about this? Well, I want you to notice the if -then structure. In verse 24, the if -then structure signals a conditional sentence or a conditional situation. If you turn the burner on, the pan will get hot. If you leave the burner off, Then the pan will not get hot. It's a conditional situation, a conditional sentence. If then. Picking up in the middle of verse 24, if what you heard from the beginning abides in you, the gospel living in your heart. Then you too will abide in the Son and in the Father. Which implies that the opposite is also true. I think it implies it's too weak. I still struggle with the fear of man. So you pray for me on that. It explicitly entails that the opposite is true. If what we heard from the beginning does not abide in us, then we will not abide in the Son and in the Father. We will not live in fellowship with Christ. We'll not remain with him. Now I want you to look up at the context of this because this is so very very serious. The context is dealing with the Antichrist and the lies of the Antichrist infiltrating the church, splitting away, starting their own movements, teaching their own things. John is writing to protect believers from the lies of the Antichrist. And if the gospel does not continue to guide their hearts, if if what they heard does not Dwell in them or abide in them, they'll fall away. They'll they're leaving themselves susceptible to the teachings and the movements of the Antichrist. You can glance Write up verse 21. I write to you not because you do not know the truth, but because you know it, and because no lie is of the truth. Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? That would be a denial of the gospel. That's the one who doesn't let what they heard from the beginning abide in them. That's the one. This is the Antichrist, he writes, he who denies the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also. So what up what if we give up our confession of the Son? What if we give up our belief that Jesus is the Christ? What if we follow the Antichrist with their own teachings and their own movement outside the true biblical spirit-filled church? What if we do not let What we heard from the beginning, abide in us. We won't abide in fellowship with Christ. But this is what he says in a conditional Statement, a conditional sentence. If what we heard from the beginning abides in you, then you too will abide in the Son and in the Father. Now you just tell me, Church, is that important or is that unimportant? This is everything. Life and fellowship with Christ is everything. Our eternal destiny is determined by one simple single fact. Are we united to Christ by faith? Well, that's a question. The answer is determinative of our future. But where you are today, it's not the end of the story. So if I ask the question, are you united to Christ by faith? And your answer is no. Well that could change this morning. And your answer could be yes. Because in your heart you can turn to Christ in faith. In your heart you can come to Christ as Savior, and then your answer would change. Because if you did that, then when I asked the question, are you united to Christ by faith? You would say yes and amen. And your eternal destiny is secured by that, by faith in Christ. But when we talk about moving forward and advancing in discipleship, learning to live for Christ in all of life, if the gospel is not guiding our hearts. We will go astray, or at the very least, we'll leave ourselves susceptible to go astray and just be stagnated in immaturity and shallow doctrine. That's not honoring to God. That's not what God wants from us. The first test, the first test of true Christianity or being a true church is Do you as an individual or does the the church, if we're talking about a church, hold to What the Bible says about the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's not the only test, but this is the litmus test of litmus tests. Do you hold to gospel truth? Does that church hold to gospel truth? You know as well as I do there's lots of buildings that have a sign outside that says church. Lots of people who label themselves Christians. But do you hold to biblical gospel truth? This is litness test. When you live in fellowship with Christ, your heart is guided by the gospel truth. And by the way, you're not ashamed of it. You don't you're actually very happy about that. You don't feel like you lost out in the deal by coming to Christ, and now your heart is guided by him rather than your old self. Your heart is guided by the gospel truth when you live in fellowship with Christ. Secondly, when you live in fellowship with Christ, your mind is guarded by the Holy Spirit. Your mind is guarded by the Spirit's power. Our hearts are guided By the gospel truth, and our minds are to be guarded by the Spirit's power. You can think of the Holy Spirit, one of the ministries of the Holy Spirit is to function as a mighty fortress around your heart. Peter writes about our battle against sin. And he says, the passions of the flesh wage war against your soul. And it's that Holy Spirit that internally is our mighty fortress. Fighting the battle. Holding off the assaults of the sinful flesh. Again, if we know anything about ourselves. We know that without the help of the Holy Spirit, we'd go further and further and further into the abyss of selfish, sinful living, completely forgetting about God, in fact making it our purpose to rid the world of any trace of God That's what sin does. And the Holy Spirit, the Spirit of the Exalted Christ, there's no greater power. The Spirit of the Exalted Christ living within us guards us. And this is why we need to be wholly dependent. But this comes from verses 26 and 27. You also see why I needed that G word on point number one. So I could get the guided and now the guarded. Verse 26 and 27. I write these things to you about those who are trying to deceive you. protect us against lies of the deceivers. Verse 27, but the anointing that you received from him abides in you. Praise God for that You have no need that anyone should teach you. We'll come back to that. Don't take it out of context. But as his anointing teaches you about everything, so obviously we need someone to teach us. His name is God. As his anointing teaches you about everything and is true and is no lie, just as it has taught you, abide in him. Key word anointing. The anointing you received from him abides in you. That's the anointing of the Holy Spirit that's changed our hearts and now continues to transform our hearts to the likeness of Christ. Then he says, But as his anointing teaches you you about everything. You have no need that anyone should teach you. Obviously in the context, that's talking to a people who've received the apostolic gospel, which is revelation from God. And they've received the Holy Spirit, which has enabled them to understand the apostolic gospel. We don't need teachers Outside of that teaching to come in and correct or fine-tune what the apostles have taught about Jesus Christ and his great salvation. We don't need worldly philosophies. This kind of is parallel to when Paul in the book of First Corinthians contrasts the simple gospel message of Christ with worldly philosophies. You want something more, want something a little more exciting. Or something that's less offensive. We don't need these worldly principles to supplement the message of Christ to make it more tasteful to natural man This is what he means. We don't need anything except for Scripture and God's Spirit to teach us true doctrine. We don't need a democratic vote of the church to supplement or to improve upon what the Word and the Spirit have taught us. The Spirit is sufficient to use the word which is sufficient to guide and shape the church according to the wisdom and will of God. Anointing you've received, His anointing. You can back you can um scan down a little bit or up rather up rather to verse twenty. Look back up to verse twenty You have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge. You see the parallel truth being taught. It's God who anointed us. It's God is the reason we have knowledge. If you read through the book of Daniel this week, you'll see this was a really, really big deal to Daniel as God reveals divine truths through Daniel to others, he always makes it a point to to make it emphatically clear that the wisdom and the knowledge and the revelation and the truth does not come from him but comes to God who reveals mysteries. God is the source of truth. Also flip over to chapter four, verse thirteen And you'll see something of that Trinitarian structure of salvation here as well, Father, Son, Spirit. Chapter 4, verse 13 By this we know that we abide in him and he in us, because he has given us of his spirit And we have seen and testified that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. There you go. That's redemption, and that's the doctrine of the Trinity, of the triune God. He's revealed himself as a father who sends the Son, and then the Son pours out the Spirit. This is our salvation church. This is our salvation. God's revelation of himself. Bringing us into the story. Your mind is guarded by the Spirit's power. We must be wholly dependent on the Spirit. For any true spiritual fruit in our lives, internally or externally. A hundred percent dependent on the Holy Spirit. Like a parachute. You jump out of a plane, you are wholly dependent on the parachute. Your feelings mean nothing. Your opinions mean nothing. Either the chute will open and deliver you safely to the ground, or you will die. A hundred percent dependent Any engine in any car is wholly dependent. I guess you could take out different components. It's dependent on a lot of things, but let's just use the fuel. Is there fuel in it? Is there not fuel in it? You try to start it up as as har as sincerely as you want it to start. And you can push on the gas pedal with all the sincerity of all your heart. If there's no fuel, you're going nowhere. Well this is what spiritual growth is like. wholly dependent on the Spirit for sanctification, for knowledge, understanding of the truth, for having spiritual gifts, and for using our spiritual gifts in a fruitful way. So we should be humble. Because of this, that we're because we're wholly dependent on the Spirit. We should be grateful. Christians should be the most grateful people on earth. With all that we've received and by God's grace, all that we understand about what we've received, Christians should be given over. We should be Addicted to prayer. And there's I I I know just just from a fact, because of what the Bible teaches about people. That were there are all kinds of addictions for other things in the room. But if we sense our need, our complete dependency on the Holy Spirit. To produce the things in our lives that we know God wants in our lives, it will drive us to our face in prayer. Drive us to our knees in prayer. Living in fellowship with Christ. Our heart is guided by gospel truth, like a rudder guiding a ship. Our mind is guarded by the Spirit's power, by this anointing that we we've received from him, so that we're always looking up to Christ, not looking inward. Growing in Christ isn't some psychological gymnastics thing we play. It is about looking to Christ in faith, and by his spirit he transforms us. And third, your salvation is guaranteed. By the coming of Christ. Our heart is guided by the gospel. Our mind is guarded by the Spirit. Our salvation is guaranteed by Christ's coming. Verse 28 and 29 Now, little children, abide in him, so that when he appears, we may have confidence and not shrink from him in shame at his coming. That's what this whole series is about. Confidence in Christ. And verse 29, if you know that He is righteous, you may be sure that everyone who practices righteousness Has been born of him. Well, there you come full circle with practices righteousness. Yes, it's another way of saying what it looks like to live in fellowship with Christ. If we're abiding in Christ, we'll be walking in obedience. That's what practicing righteousness means. Well, I want to close the sermon with an invitation. To those who know Christ but have not been walking faithfully in fellowship with him, to repent and get back on track. Not thinking that your good works will get you back in God's favor, but by looking to Christ in faith for his grace and for his work to get back on track, that you may Truly let what you heard from the beginning abide in you, so that you will abide in him and in the Father. And I give an invitation to anyone here who has not been united to Christ by faith. To look to Christ, drop everything that you think is good about yourself, and trust in Christ as a mighty Savior for sinners lost, because that's exactly what he is. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness. Thank you for sending your son. Thank you for helping us in our weakness. God, we thank you for your patience with us. What an incomprehensible thing. How patient and long-suffering you are with us. We confess that we're fully dependent on your goodness and your word and your spirit. And I pray that you continue to work in us for your own name and for your own glory. Amen.