All right. Let's take our Bibles and turn to Romans chapter 8. This morning we're looking at Romans 8. 16 to 25 on the doctrine of glorification. The doctrine of glorification. We've been in a summer series about the various blessings. That are found in Christ. And this is one of those blessings. Beloved, this is the culminating blessing, the culminative blessing. This is the supreme. The blessing of glorification. Are you ready for the definition of glorification? All right. Glorification is fully witnessing and reflecting. And sharing the heavenly glory of the exalted Christ. I'll give it to you again. Some of you are trying to write all that down. But even just for us to process it in our hearts fully, that means 100% Fully witnessing, reflecting, and sharing in the heavenly glory of the exalted Christ. You will be risen as he was risen. You will see God 's heavenly throne as he sees God's heavenly throne. throne you will be free from sin as he is free from sin. Is any of this sounding good to you You will no longer live under the curse of sin and death, just as Jesus no longer lives under the curse of sin and death. Fully witnessing, fully reflecting, fully sharing the heavenly glory of the exalted Christ. That's what glorification is. Glory summarizes what Christ has attained Glorification summarizes when you attain it too. Does that make sense? Glory summarizes what Christ has attained. Glorification summarizes when you attain it too. He attained it by dying for our sins. We attain it by faith in Him who died for our sins. Let's read this passage, Romans 8, 16 to 25. And then after reading the passage, we will pray for our time together in the Word. So hear now from God's Word, beginning in Romans 8, verse 16. The Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, that errors Heirs of God, fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. For the creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. For the creation was subjected to futility Not willingly, but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the Glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now And not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit grown inwardly as we eagerly As we wait eagerly for our adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. For in this hope we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees But we hope for what we do not see, and we wait for it with patience. Let's pray together. Father, we pray That you would open up our minds and hearts to the wonder of glorification. We pray that you would administer your grace Your powerful and beautiful grace, and minister your grace to our hearts this morning. Use your word Through your Holy Spirit, be gracious to us. Show us Christ. Show us His love. Show us His mercy. Show us His holiness. Show us His heavenly glory. Show us the truth that we'll one day share in that glory. Show us, convince us, convince us of the fact. The predetermined and unalterable fact that the children of God will one day come to fully witness Fully reflect and fully share in the glory of our exalted Savior. For those who are lost, I pray, we pray that you turn their hearts To childlike, humble faith in Christ, trusting in Him for salvation, for every single person in here Correct us by your word. Encourage us and comfort us by your word. Redirect our lives by your word. Give us a sight of Christ that changes us. Drive us into a deeper love and deeper affection and cherishing the Lord Jesus Christ. Drive us to a deeper dependency and daily crying out for the Holy Spirit. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Our great hope and our great destiny, our certain destiny as God's children Is glorification. That's our great hope. That's our certain future. Because God has promised it. And brothers and sisters, the promises of God are true. He will never fail. He is always faithful to his word. And if you are a believer in Christ, God promises you glorification. In the same way, he promises you justification. So that you know that you've been declared righteous through union with Christ, you also know for certainty that you will one day come to fully witness, fully reflect, and fully share in his glory. This is Is glorification. When you're going through trials, when you're suffering, when you're working so hard to endure, and all of us have that experience in our lives, yes The thing that keeps you going is knowing the end. It's knowing that goal. It's knowing that destiny. This applies in so many ways in life. Think about w for when we were younger, looking forward to the last day of school. Everybody already knew what I was going to say. And you're just, you're looking forward. You cannot wait for the last day of school. No more homework, no more quizzes, no more tests, no more papers, no more studying. I just go outside and Play with play with my friends. At least we used to do that back in the 80s. I don't know what, you know, stay inside and scroll on your device, I guess, is the new thing. But it's better than homework. You're looking forward and it's helping you endure. Or think of the most, I mean the easiest illustration is a finish line Why do you why am I running so hard? That's one of the things I think when I find myself running. Why am I running again? Why am I out of breath? I'm sweating, I'm aching, cramping up. Why am I doing this? The finish line. You've set to this goal. You've set to this destiny. And so you endure through difficulty, you endure through trial with the end in mind. There is no end in mind. If there was no goal, there'd be no meaning There'd be no real motivation or hope during the trials and sufferings that you're going. And another illustration and one that this passage uses, and it's also used other places in scripture, is giving birth. You go through the birth pains, the difficulty, the suffering, the hardship for the end goal, for that life, for that birth, for that baby. As children of God, what is our goal? What is our end? What is our destiny that keeps us going? That enables us to not give up. To not give up, to not lose heart. It's glorification. It's glorification. It's knowing on the basis of God's Word, on the foundation of God's faithfulness. We will one day be with the risen Christ in glory. We'll fully witness, fully reflect, and fully share in his heavenly glory, free from sin It's a wonderful thing to think about, and it keeps us going through all the temptations, all the trials, all the difficult things, maybe persecution for some of you. Maybe being ostracized because of your faith. Maybe being made fun of because of your faith. All the difficulties of life, all the trials and sufferings of sin and temptation in this world under the curse, the thing that keeps us going is being with Jesus. Being with Jesus. Being with Jesus in heavenly glory. Now let's show the exegesis. Now I tried to emphasize this as I read through the passage because it's a long passage. But let's do the exegesis on glorification. So look again at verse 17, the very end, we may also be what? Glorified with him. That's where this title and topic comes from. Glorified with him. And then in verse 18 In the middle, not worth comparing with the glory that is to be revealed to us. Glory revealed to us. That's a future glory. Now, some of your translations might say glory revealed in us. Grammatically, both would work, and theologically, both would work. Because when you're in the presence of God, there's a glory that for the first time is revealed to you and you're fully witnessing it. And also it's a glory that you come to share in in a way that you've never shared in it before. Perfection, spiritual perfection, the fullness of sanctification, so it's a glory revealed to you, and it's a glory revealed in you. And then, still on the exegesis. Verse 21, the creation itself will obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God The glory of the children of God. That's glorification. There's a glory that the children of God will attain to. And then the creation itself will also come to share in that glory. So it's a glorification of believers, and it's a glorification of Creation. The creation too is waiting for this so it too might be set free from sin. That it will be glorified, that it will come to share, to obtain the glory of the children of God. And then verse 23, which doesn't use the word glory, but it puts a specific and central detail on what this glory looks like. Look at the very end, the redemption of our bodies. The redemption of our bodies. Now, brothers and sisters, if you are in Christ, your soul has already been redeemed. Are you with me? You don't need to do anything else to achieve or to receive the salvation of your soul. If you have believed in Jesus Jesus Christ from the heart, your soul is saved. You are redeemed. You are a child of God, which is where this passage begins. You've been reconciled to God. The Holy Spirit lives within you. That's the only way you know that this future inheritance of the redemption of your body is yours, is because your soul has been redeemed. And since your soul has been redeemed, You know 100%, 1000 %, you know your body will be redeemed. Your body will be risen like Christ was risen. It was in our reading earlier in this worship service. Our lowly bodies will be transformed to be like his what body? Glorious body. Glorious body. One more on the exegesis. Not cheating, but borrowing from further down in the chapter, verse 8, or verse 30, rather, chapter 8, verse 30. Those whom he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. And it's written in the past tense because it's already settled. And he moves from before history, predestined, to in history and in our lifetimes, not just in history, but in your life experience. called and justified, and then he moves into future eternity, glorified. This great love of God manifest in salvation. So there's your basic exegesis for glorification from the passage. Verse 17, 18, 21, 23, the redemption of our bodies And verse 30, borrowing, showing how this is a part of all these blessings that we have in Christ. And if you came in here this morning not believing in Jesus Christ as Savior, You can put your faith in him and receive all these blessings in Christ. And you can be as certain, you can be just as certain as your future glorification as someone who's been walking with the Lord for 70 years. The second you come to faith in Jesus Christ from the heart, you can be a thousand percent certain that you will be glorified, that you are justified. Declared righteous in his eyes, that you are adopted, you are children of God. You are forgiven, the record of your debt is erased, and you will be glorified Which means you'll you will if on the basis of Christ's sacrifice on the cross, if you put your faith in him, you will be glorified. This glorification is your glorification. And that's really, really what's going to help us endure in a meaningful way sufferings, trials, temptations, and persecutions. of this life. Our great hope, our great hope, our certain destiny as God's children is glorification. Now, just a few cross-references before I get into that body of your outline. Now, over the years, my introductions are getting longer and longer, aren't they? Can I tell you why that is? Actually, I mean I do this on purpose, just in case you didn't know. Because every sermon should have a main topic or a main point. Well, my job as a pastor is and the preacher is to make sure that that main point or main topic comes from the text. And what I want to do is not just preach that topic I want to show you. I want God to show us how that topic and how that point arises from the text of Scripture. Because that's what preaching is. Preaching is preaching the Word of God. So I want to give a thorough foundation. A thorough foundation of how the topic and how the point comes from the passage itself. And now once we do that, now we can go and look at some details. Don't want us to get lost in the weeds and lost in the details without understanding. The simple and basic point of the passage, which is certain glorification that we have as children of God. Alright. That's the end of my advertisement for my long interest. Introductions. My apologetic. Really, this is apologetics, right? Giving a defense of my long introductions. A few cross-references really to drive this deeper and deeper home into our hearts. 1 John 3:2 Beloved, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared. But We know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. It's the same movement of the Romans passage. We are God's children now. We are God's children now, but we are not yet what we ultimately will be. What we will be has not yet appeared, but we know that when he appears We'll be like him because we shall see him as he is. And you see all those different aspects. It's this um The seeing, this witnessing of the glory of Christ. But as we see and witness the glory of Christ, we come to share in the glory of Christ. We will be like him when we see him. We will witness, we will reflect. We will come to share in. In his glory. Why do we labor in outreach and evangelism and prayer? It's very simple because we want people to have this Why do we labor in encouraging each other and building up each other and praying for each other? Because we want each other to attain to this inheritance. Hebrews 3:13, exhort one another every day, as long as it is called today, so that none of you may be hardened by the deceitfulness of sin. We need each other's encouragement. We need each other's exhortations. We need each other's prayers. We need each other's comforting words and encouraging words. We need to minister to each other. That's part of what it means to be the church. Hebrews 4:1. Therefore, while the promise of entering his rest still stands, let us fear lest any of you should seem to have failed to reach it. Let us stand firm. Let us walk in the fear of the Lord. Let us exhort one another today. As long as it is called today. So that it's not exposed and shown to be true that some of us have not really attained to this There should be something different about the church. When people visit the church, the biblical church, they experience something different. We're not materialists, but we're living for the spiritual. We're not temporalists, which is just living for the here and now, but we're we're thinking about eternity and living for eternity. We're not just living for earthly pleasures and earthly applause and earthly things, but our hearts are fixed on the heavenly. On God Himself and His authority, walking in the fear of the Lord, on Christ Himself reigning in heaven with infinite love and infinite mercy for sinners. Our helper in time of need. This is something different about the church, about children of God, because our hearts are fixed on different things. We have to encourage and exhort one another in those things. The great hope, certain destiny, children of God, is glorification. Now we can get into your outline, which will move Straight through the passage looking at four R's of glorification. You may have another R for glorification, but I'm taking the four R's in this passage. Alright. I'll give them to you up front and then we'll cycle back and look at the verses. Number one, glorification removes suffering. Glorification removes suffering. Raise your hand if you want that. All the suffering in your life one day to be removed from you. Not just physical suffering, emotional suffering, anguish of heart, anguish of soul, depression. It's all suffering will be removed. Number two, glorification renews creation. Renews creation. And that's connected to the removal of suffering. What I'm about to say is a hypothetical, a theoretical. Theoretically, let's say that we individually personally are glorified in that We're no longer sinful creatures. Let's just say that we're no longer sinful creatures. We are perfectly sanctified. This is theoretical, okay? But we still live in a world under the curse of sin and death, there's still going to be suffering. There's still going to be suffering. So it's more than just the removal of sin. It's more than just the redemption of our bodies. It's the renewal of creation to remove the curse of sin and death and judgment from this earth. It will be gone. And that's part of our glorification. That's part of our glorification. This is not just about the individual. This is not just about the church. This is about the earth. This is about planet earth, the world that's populated with people. Glorification renews creation. Third glorification redeems our bodies. And the fourth R is glorification. That was the third one. The third one is glorification redeems our bodies. And for glorification requires waiting patiently. It requires waiting patiently Now, let's work through them as best we can. Number one, glorification removes suffering. Think of a pool filter. All the water goes through and the what does the filter do? That just removes the stuff. Harmful bacteria, algae, gunk, whatever, sludge. The filter, and I guess the chemicals do this too removes what is harmful. It removes what you don't want there. I can think of a refining fire which you where you heat up the gold and the impurities come to the top so you can get rid of the impurities. It removes what you don't want. That's the way we're thinking about suffering in the world to come. In glorification, everything that is harmful to people will be removed. And this comes from verses 16 to 18. Verse 16, the Spirit Himself bears witness with our Spirit that we are children of God. Pause right there and just plant this stake in your mind's eye that it begins with being a child of God. This begins with our identity as children of God. Based on our identity as children of God, we know Whatever he's about to say. We know whatever he's about to say applies to you if you are a child of God through faith in Christ. Verse 17: And if children, then heirs Heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, provided we suffer with Him, in order that we may also be glorified with Him We're 17. If we're children, then we're heirs. We're heirs of God, fellow heirs with Christ. Well now the key word from that is easy to pick out. Well, heirs. And that means something. We all know what that means. That means you're set to receive an inheritance. Parents will leave their children an inheritance. The children receive What the parents left them. The children are the heirs. Heirs receive the inheritance that's allotted to them. And the picture here is of God, your father, leaving you an inheritance. God has allotted an inheritance for you. And even though you suffer now, even though we suffer greatly now in all kinds of ways, we know that one day we'll Be glorified, and that suffering will remove. And that's the contrast that he gives. We suffer with him in order that we may also be glorified with him. It really, I mean, our path follows the path of Christ. And what was the path of Christ? The path of Christ was suffering Unto glory. He suffered and he died, a shameful, public, excruciatingly painful death under the wrath of God. He suffered greatly But then he was risen in glory and ascended into heaven. He suffered unto glory. And this verse says we suffer in him Which means we suffer in union with Christ. We suffer in relationship with Christ. So our sufferings are not in vain. And we're not suffering alone. Christ is with us. The Spirit is in us. And that's what it says. We suffer with Him. We suffer with Him in order that we may also be glorified with Him. Our path is his path. His path is now our path. He suffered unto glory. We suffer unto glory, all for the praise of God, all for the glory of God, and all by the grace of God. Amen. We wouldn't care about this in the flesh. The sinful flesh doesn't want this stuff. It just wants more money and more fame and more pleasure and more freedom and more autonomy. Get me away from God You must be born again to want this stuff. Glorification removes suffering. Verse 18, he says, sufferings of this present time. Well, you know about those. Most of our prayer requests and most of our time in prayer is addressing the sufferings of this present time. And there are different ways we suffer I'm going to give you four broad categories. All suffering is going to fall under one of these categories or multiple ones at the same time. Number one, all suffering Is a result of sin in the world. Just generally speaking. That's general, but that's the truth. It's exactly precisely the truth. All suffering Is the result of sin, the effects of sin in the world. Number two, even more a specific one, is suffering comes from God's judgment against sin In a particular culture or a particular nation. It could be God's suffering. And one of the ways God executes historical judgment, not final judgment Historical judgment. One of the ways God executes historical judgment on a particular culture or particular nation is He gives that culture or nation over and over more and more to its sinful lusts and passions. Now you tell me is that happening in our culture and nation right now or not? That's God's judgment. That's a revelation of God's judgment. And one of the practical applications How God's people should respond to that is revival. That we would have a revival in our own hearts for the things of God, a revival of worship, a revival of prayer, a revival of biblical evangelism. Not trying to draw the culture with the things that the culture already wants. Not to try to be the hip church or the cool church or the attractive church, but to be the biblical church that preaches the life Saving message of the biblical gospel. We need a revival of that because what you see in our culture has not always been the case in America. For most of American history, the church has thrived And spread and flourished. But we haven't seen that in the current age that we're in. And so this is one of the things that brings suffering The effects of sin in the world generally, God's judgment against sin in a particular culture at a particular time. Number three, specifically sins committed against you Sins committed against you, someone slanders you, someone steals from you, someone assaults you, someone commits adultery against you, a friend Betrays you. Sins committed against you bring suffering. Number four, this is the last one Sin living within you. See, you're not off the hook. And I'm not off the hook. Sin lives in us. That's why it will be so great to get those bodies of redemption You won't have the sinful flesh in that new body. You'll be fully animated by the Holy Spirit. Right now we have two natures We have the indwelling Holy Spirit, and we are animated by the Holy Spirit, but not 100%. We still have sinful flesh. We still have that sin nature. Sin living inside of us. We're fighting that battle, the spirit versus the flesh. Sin In our hearts, sin in our minds is a cause of suffering in our lives. Yes, people sin against you. And violate God's commandments in a way that directly brings suffering into your life. But you violate God's commandments as well. And that's why, as Christians, we need to lead the charge in admitting our sins. And confessing them. And we need to lead the charge in crying out to God for forgiveness and restoration. And we need to lead the charge in having a humble spirit. Not a self-righteous spirit, because each one of us recognizes that we are sinners who need God's help. Now picture a world With the removal of all four of those causes of suffering. Picture a world with the removal of all the effects and consequences of sin. Picture a world with the removal of God's historical judgment against sin in a culture or nation. Picture a world with the removal, this is going to be your favorite your favorite one. Picture a world with the removal of people sinning against you and doing you harm. And also picture a world where there's no sin living within you. This is great. This is glorification. Glorification removes suffering. The second R is glorification renews creation. It renews creation Think of having to rebuild an engine. I've had to get that one uh done one time in an an older car that I had. The engine was shot and I had to get the engine rebuilt. It's completely I I don't know how you do it, I'm not a mechanic, but just in theory, you're taking it apart, you're gonna replace a lot of things. You're gonna to refurbish a lot of things, get it put together so that it functions the way it's supposed to function. That's why you rebuild an engine. And this creation needs to be Rebuilt or renewed, and it will function the way God has always intended it to function, which is filled with people who love Him and worship Him and serve Him and love each other and put others before themselves And the whole earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of God and filled with people who perfectly reflect his character. That's God's intention for mankind and for this earth. Renewed creation. Verses 19. Through 22. The creation waits with eager longing for the revealing of the sons of God. Now, why is the creation waiting for that? Well, let's keep reading. Verse 20 The creation was subjected to futility, not willingly, but because of him who subjected it. Now, what that's talking about is the curse of sin and death that has fallen upon this world. God's Judgment against sin and sinners in this world. The curse of sin and death in this world. The wages of sin is right. Death and everything connected to death. Is the re is the result, is the consequences of sin. It 's God's judgment against sin. That 's what verse 20 is talking about. At the end of verse 20 into 21, in hope, that means with this goal in mind, with this goal in mind, in hope, that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God. The creation cannot liberate itself. God has to come back and do this. Christ has to come back and do this. This will be supernatural. Removal of the curse of sin and death from this world. Removal of God's judgment against sin and God's judgment against sinners. Sinful nations, sinful kings, sinful judges, sinful people, a removal of God's judgment against sin. A removal of God's displeasure against sin. And all there will be in this new world is God's unhindered favor and love and kindness. It's a wonderful thing to think about. Renewed creation. So creation is in bondage to the curse of sin and death, and Christ will one day return from heaven and take it away for the new world. Old things will be gone and new things will come There are things that you have loads of now that will be completely gone in the new world. Temptation. You're always facing temptation You're always battling the sinful flesh. Sin in our own lives, in our homes, in our nation, in the world, all the sufferings. Natural disasters and all the general sufferings in this world is part of the curse of sin and death, broken bones Cancer, colds, stomach virus, all of this, all of this, aging, weakening, decaying Funerals won't exist in the New World. Like all of these things that are part of the curse of sin and death will all be gone. Things we have loads of now will be completely gone. And the other side of it is things that we have only taste of now you'll have fully. Things we have only glimpses, faint glimpses of now, you'll have fully. Like the Holy Spirit's power in our heart. Now you have a taste of that and a glimpse of that. The true experience of that very small. But in the world to come you'll have that fully Every thought, every desire, every motive, every word will be perfectly in line with the Holy Spirit. That'd be nice. Amen? Love for God. You have a genuine love for God, but you do not have a perfected love for God. Trusting in Christ, no matter what. I have a genuine trusting in Christ, but I absolutely know that is not perfected within me. That is not perfected within me. Love for other people. We have that genuinely because of the Holy Spirit, but we do not have that perfectly. So there's things, bad things we have loads of now that will be completely gone, and there's good things we have faint glimpses of and tastes of now that we'll have in their fullness. And that's going to be in the renewed creation, like a rebuilt engine finally functioning the way it ought to. And bring this back to the core doctrine, which is the doctrine of God, that renewed creation with the removal of the Suffering, the removal of the curse, that would be the greatest uh manifestation, the greatest personal experience of God's goodness, of God's goodness. And of God's faithfulness, because everything he's going to do in that new world is the fulfillment of his promises. The third R is redeems. Glorification redeems our bodies. And this comes pretty much word for word from the end of verse 23. Verse 23: not only the creation , Not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. Verse 22 wraps up that section on the renewed co uh the renewed creation. Verse 22 says, the whole creation has been groaning. As in the page of childbirth, in verse 23 says, Not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, we groan inwardly. But it's a good groaning. It's the groaning of endurance. It 's the groaning of you know the birth is coming. That's the illustration. You know the end goal. You know it's coming. You know what's certain. We too groan You know it's a good groaning because it says we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit groan. Groan inwardly as we wait for our adoption of sons, the redemption of our bodies. It's a spirit wrought groaning, as we long for, as we eagerly expect To be risen like Christ was risen. Glorification redeems our bodies. What is one of the distinguishing marks of Christianity? Christians. One of the distinguishing marks of Christians is that we are not living strictly and ultimately for the here and there. Now. Our hope is not found in anything down below. Our ultimate hope, our hope, is not located in Washington, D. C. Our ultimate hope is not located in our bank accounts. Our hope is not located in how much people like us. Our hope is not located, our ultimate hope, our ultimate meeting is not located in leisure and hobbies, or anything down below. Our ultimate hope Is heavenly glory. And in a culture that's swimming this way, a materialistic culture swimming this way Living for strictly ultimately for things, earthly things, earthly pleasures for the here and now. Christians have been sanctified, set apart by God, and we're swimming this way. Living for the Spirit, living for heaven, living for the future. It's completely different. The children of God should shine as lights in a culture of darkness, swimming the other direction Not getting sucked into this culture of distraction and earthly pleasure and earthly treasure and earthly fame and earthly acclaim. We want Christ. That's why we're living And that's our ultimate hope. Glorification, fourth and final, requires waiting patiently. That's the fourth R, the requirement It requires waiting patiently because I can't get up tomorrow, flip a switch, and find myself in a state of glory. And you can't wake up tomorrow, flip a switch, and find yourself in a state of glory. We wait patiently. We know our days are numbered by the Lord. And we also know history is numbered and controlled by the Lord. So we don't know when we'll die. I don't know when this body will die, my soul will go to heaven. I know it will happen. I don't know when Christ will return and renew all things and redeem my body and give me a new body, but I know it will happen. So we wait patiently. And verses 24 and 25 tell us this. In this hope we were saved. That means in regard to this future hope, we were saved. Pointing to this hope, we were saved. Now, hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees. But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience It's maybe a complex or maybe a longer way of saying we don't have it yet, so we hope for it and we wait for it. That's all that's saying. We you don't have this yet. You are an heir. You will receive an inheritance. We don't see it yet We will witness the glory of Christ in perfection, but not yet. We will reflect the glory of Christ to perfection, but not yet. We will share in the glory of Christ to perfection and in an unending manner, I might say, for eternity, but not yet. It's our hope. We hope for it. We don't have it We don't have it, so we wait for it patiently. Now, let's end on nuts to bolts, rubber meets the road. How do I do that? What does that look like? Waiting patiently. How? Well, the simplest and shortest way, this is the most important thing to say about that: the way you wait patiently is by the grace of God. By God's grace. You don't wait patiently with the mentality that I'm going to go out and I'm going to do this. I'm going to do this for God. I'm going to do this for my inheritance. Not Christianity. We wait patiently by looking to Christ and relying upon His grace to sustain us. And so, if that's the case, what we want to do is give ourselves more and more to the means of grace. Give ourselves more and more to the things that God has given to us. To administer his grace to our hearts. Give ourselves more and more to prayer, more and more to worship, more and more to reading the Bible, because all these things are a means of grace and we will endure and inherit by grace. Give ourselves more to more to sitting under sound preaching, whether it's here or in your car using sermon audio or YouTube. There's a lot of good sermons that you'll find on YouTube or Facebook if you're following the right people. Give ourselves to repenting from sin, being faithful in church membership. Striving to walk in the fear of the Lord, all these different means of grace. The Word, the Spirit, the worship, the Lord's Supper. The church fellowship. Give ourselves to the things that minister God's grace to our heart. It's good for the heart to be strengthened by grace. And the way we wait patiently is by the grace of God, through faith, not works, by the Spirit, not the flesh, by the word, not tradition, and not human opinion Let's give ourselves to the things of God. Brothers and sisters, let's lead the charge in giving ourselves to the things of God and living for Christ and not ourselves. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the gift of glorification, and we pray that you will give our hearts endurance for the race ahead More and more, let our minds and hearts, and desires, and words, and actions be shaped by and determined by our future glorification. With Jesus Christ. Help us to not live strictly for the here and now, but for heaven and for future glory, for the honor and fame of Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.