Well, for our time in the Word, let's go back to the book of Jude. We have a few more weeks to round out our series in the book of Jude. Jude verses 22 and 22. This morning. Jude verses 22 to 23. Mercy toward others. Mercy toward others. Some of my fondest memories. In life. And the most impactful moments of my life have been times when people have shown me mercy. If I said something wrong or I did something wrong, but rather than coming at me with anger and vengeance, They came at me with gentleness and kindness and forgiveness. That makes an impact. And it could have been parents, siblings, teacher, coach. Spouse, children, friends, whoever. But moments where mercy is showed Can change the heart and can minister to the soul. And that's what we're on this morning. Mercy toward others And of course that fondest memory is that day, that moment when God showed me his saving mercy In my heart, where God preached the gospel of Jesus Christ into my heart and birthed faith within my heart. To show me within my sinful heart, to show me within my corrupted mind the great mercy of God. That's the best memory. God's saving mercy. But as those who are servants of God to reflect the character of God to others, we must be a people of mercy. So let's read the text and then we'll we'll uh actually pray for the body of the message before we get into it. But let's begin with a reading of Jude 22, 20, and 23. 22 and 23. Jude writes Have mercy on those who doubt. Save others by snatching them out of the fire. To others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained by the flesh. What in the world does that mean? Well we'll get there. All right. You just you let it simmer. We'll get there when we get there and make sense of some of the metaphor that's being used there and how it relates to us. But let's go ahead and give our time. to the Lord in prayer. Father, we pray that you would take this time in the Word and that you would use it to minister unto us your truth in a world of lies. In a world of distractions, would you make your truth clear to our hearts? Father, we pray by your word and by your spirit you would help the preaching to be Preaching that's done in humility and faith. And would you let the hearing be hearing that's done in humility and faith? That in all things you would be glorified through Christ. Help us with your Holy Spirit. And however specific ways each individual needs this word applied, I pray that you would do that. Only you can do that. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Have mercy on those who doubt. That's the first command. And then save others by snatching them out of the fire. That's the second command. And then to others show mercy with fear. That's the third command. So it's real easy to outline a message like this. Three commands And that'll when we get into the full you know breaking open of the passage and the message, that's going to be the outline. Three commands for the church. But I want to say a bunch of things by way of introduction just on the topic of mercy, looking at this idea of mercy in general You know, mercy that you would show to other people is a beautiful thing. Church, let's not ever forget how much that others need mercy. And one easy way to remember that is just remember how much you need mercy. We all make mistakes. Uh none of us do anything perfectly. Even we c you get real advanced and do something really, really well, we still make mistakes. And so we have to be a people whose hearts are aligned to show mercy, who are not just always ready to pounce on somebody, not just always ready to have a critical eye. And get someone. Let's not become known as the people who you don't want to be on their bad side. Let's be a people of mercy. Showing compassion for the hurting, especially those who've offended us or are indebted to us. Um the way we can the way we can be consistently fueled in showing mercy to others. is by consistently remembering that God shows mercy to us. And in fact, this is in the flow of the book of Jude. That's not an alien idea I'm bringing into this. Because you can look just right up above verse 22 at verse 21, the last thing that Jude said before our passage, uh keep yourselves in the love of God. Waiting for the mercy of our Lord Jesus Christ that leads to eternal life. As you have your hopes set on the mercy that's coming You have your goal set as this final expression of mercy. And when the final judgment comes, on that day will not be wrath for you, but it will be the mercy of Jesus Christ. You're waiting for the mercy. of our Lord Jesus Christ. That doesn't mean you haven't received any mercy from God at all. That's not what this means. But this final expression of mercy could be causal He says, you're waiting for this. You're waiting for this mercy. And then from that thought, he goes right into, now you show mercy to those who are doubting. So keeping our our eyes Laser focused on God's mercy for us will teach us and discipline us to show mercy to others. But also, you can just look at how Jude began the book in verse 2 After introducing himself and then mentioning who he's writing to in verse 2, he speaks a blessing upon those who would receive his letter. May mercy and peace and love be multiplied to you. And the first one he says is mercy, which is pretty cool when the passage you can use that in the passage where your main Theme is mercy. This is a good passage for you. He's speaking a word of blessing. He's speaking a word of prayer that God would multiply his mercies to the church. And we all need that. Yes, we need food. And yes, we need water. And yes, we need health care and other things. But primarily, what we need, brothers and sisters, daily is God's mercy. And God is merciful. So, in the flow of Jude, Jude has already put the church's eyes on God's mercy, which is the foundation of now he gets to the commands. Now you go show mercy. Compassion for others, compassion for the hurting, especially those, with a particular focus on those who've offended you or are indebted to you. Has anyone ever offended you? Has anyone ever been indebted to you, wronged to you in one way or another? Right? Mercy is what should be in the heart in response to that. You know what mercy really is? The opposite of revenge. Are you awake? Are you with me? It's the opposite of coming at someone with wrath. It's the opposite of revenge. That's what mercy is. Instead of bringing judgment down upon them, I'm going to come to them as a humbled servant of Christ, full of mercy, and leave the results in God's hands. I guess you should leave the leave the results of any interaction in God's hands. Now, since we are called to imitate God, it should be obvious by now that we must be merciful. To each other and to others. And we are called to imitate God. Ephesians five, verse one. Therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. God's people must be a merciful people. Give you a few I mean there's so many examples and illustrations and practical applications that you could draw out of this. Give you a fru a few general ones just to maybe help get the wheels spinning a little bit. A little bit in terms of practical application. When someone uh commits a sin in the church, a brother, sister in Christ commits a sin or even falls into a sin falls into a habitual sin, we don't come at them with wrath and the judgment of God. God has not delegated that to anyone God has delegated to us to come with mercy. God has delegated to his church in response to sin to come with Humility and gentleness and compassion and patience, all just different details of what? Of mercy coming to each other in mercy. God came to us in mercy when we were sinners. Therefore, when someone is caught in a sin, even a habitual sin We come with mercy. , You know, mercy is the only thing that can change the heart and get them out of that sin. Amen. So why would you want to come in something else? So in the church, but also in in the home. In the home, when someone wrongs you in the home. I mean, in our homes and our families, we're with each other so much. Of course. It's going to happen that we say things that hurt each other or do things that hurt each other, even if it's always unintentional, which there's always an underlying motive and And sin is always there in some degree. But even consciously, if it's unintentional, we we wrong each other. We hurt those we love. But you don't turn yourself against someone just because they've wronged you. That's vengeance. That's wrath. That's judgment. You come not turning ourselves against those who've wronged us, but coming in mercy with grace and forgiveness for those who've wronged us. It could be the church, it could be the home, it could be at work or at school to come with mercy You know that will shine the light of Christ in the world because that's not the way of the world, is it? That's not the way of the culture. That's not the way of the flesh. That's not the natural way of mankind. That only comes from the spirit. That's a supernatural gift. In a world of vengeance In a world of getting back, where revenge and even murderous revenge is like glory to be the people who come with a meek and humble spirit of Christ with mercy for those who've wronged us. Micah 6, verse 8, He has told you, O man, what is good. And what does the Lord require of you, but to do justice? And to love kindness and to walk humbly with your God. And part of that is showing compassion for the hurting, especially those who have offended us. Who are indebted to us. And going back to this one verse we read earlier in the service, Luke 6, 36, Jesus says, Be merciful even as your Father is merciful. Now, the introduction is officially done, and every single one of you should know what this sermon is about. It's about mercy. So if someone asks you later in the day, what was he preaching about today? There's no excuse for the sitting there and looking off into nowhere for eight seconds. Hmm. Now let me think. It's about showing mercy to others. Alright. Now we'll get into these three commands. Three commands for the church. Command number one, show mercy to those who doubt. That's verse 22. Have mercy on those who doubt. Now the word behind this phrase, those who doubt, carries the idea of hesitating. Uh it's really on the fence, is a good metaphor that we would use today. There's someone who's on the fence, someone who's hesitating, they're working to distinguish between A and B. They're in this process of working to discern. between what's over here on the left and what's over here on the right. There's almost wavering, I mean not quite wavering, but definitely on the fence doubting. And we need to have mercy to those who are doubting. And just some examples of this, there many believers go through seasons of doubting the goodness of God because of what's going on in their life. And we we need to come with the mercy and encouragement, not wrath and anger upon them, but a comforting presence, a consoling presence. When they're doubting, you come with mercy. There are many believers who struggle with assurance and even go through long seasons, even decades, of struggling with am I really saved? Will God really accept me? We need to be ministers of mercy. Ministers who very gently, very humbly, very lovingly remind them of if you believe in Christ, you are saved. You know, we're weak. Every single one of us in the flesh is a weak and and we're s we're sinful in the flesh. Every single one of us And we all need to be reminded of the promises of the gospel. Amen? We all need to have the gospel Administered to our hearts and administered to our minds so that we would grow up in our assurance and grow up in our remembering that God is good. So when someone's doubting Fight the temptation to get angry at them. Fight the temptation to come at them or even think about them with wrath and judgment. Any assurance, any measure of assurance that I might have or that you might have is a gift of God's grace. Any faith we have is according to the measure of grace given to us. And so we need to remember that and we need to show mercy to those who doubt. Let's do the first Thing he says, mercy, have mercy on those who doubt. Don't look down on other believers because they're not as far down the road as you are. Don't look down with a critical eye at believers who don't have the measure of assurance that you have. You know, they may be further along uh further down the road in some areas, but you're really lagging behind. And you don't want them looking down on you because you're lagging behind where God has really blessed them. And so mercy to those who doubt. Now, in the context though, what is Jude referring to with those who doubt? Most likely believers who are beginning to doubt the true gospel. Um because of this influence of the false teachers. The whole book has been about that, these infiltrating false teachers who are bringing in a false gospel. to sin. Their lives are full of immorality. They're leading others into immorality. They're leading others into um error? Doctrinal error? Heresy? They're trying this the false teachers try to do first they infiltrate, then they try to build a a little uh contingency for themselves, a little group, winning others to their to their lies, to their errors. But then ultimately what they want to do is take their group split away from the true church and start something for themselves. Because that's what false teachers are about. Their own teaching, their own glory, their own kingdom, their own name. But you see, first they've got to infiltrate the real thing. And then they try to win the others away. So you in that context, those doubting are probably those who are s very close, very close. to falling for the lies of the false teachers, which all of Jude has been about. And Jude says And I believe the idea here is if you want to win them, if you want to keep them, Jude says, show mercy. You show mercy. You all the more show the love of God. You all the more reflect the grace of God. You all the more Engage with them in the mercy of Jesus Christ. That's how you'll win them. That's how you'll convince them. And if God doesn't change the heart, you can't win anybody. But this is what Jude says from our vantage point. You show mercy to those who are doubting, those who are hesitating. Those who are on the fence, those who are working out to distinguish truth from error, those who are maybe troubled in their spirit about the false teachers and what they're teaching. And what about some practical ways? Practical ways. And I've got seven of these. How do you how, in a practical way, can you show mercy with those who are doubting? Well, number one, most of you could probably guess this. Pray for them Pray for them. Put them on your prayer list. It doesn't have to be a physical list. It could be a list in your mind. But pray for those who are doubting, those who are wavering, those who are hesitating, those who are reading books. And or watching shows or even tuning in to some kind of live stream service where you know there's heresy. You know there's false teachers. Pray for them. Pray for them. Number two, remind them of the authority and sufficiency of God's Word. For anyone who's flirting with error, anyone who's like almost on the fence of accepting a false gospel. The foundational reminder has got to be a reminder of the authority of God's Word and the sufficiency of God's Word for knowing the truth. And we bring each other back to our foundations. Church. That's where we get truth from. Absolute truth comes from God's word. So pray for them. Remind them of the authority of God's word, of the sufficiency of God's word, because that's your if they're on the fence. Think about it, and if someone's working to distinguish truth from error, well they have to measure it in some way. And we don't measure by opinions. Hopefully. We're not supposed to measure by opinions. We're not supposed to measure by feelings. We're not supposed to measure by church tradition. What are we supposed to me Pressure by the Word of God. Amen. And yes And so reminders of the role of the Word of God in Christianity are always a good thing. Number three, remind them that God is faithful. Remind them that God is faithful. It really does the heart well to be reminded that God is faithful. And that means he'll keep all his promises He'll keep all his promises. God has promised for those who put their faith in Christ. He forgives all of our sins. And we'll inherit eternal life and will inherit a glorious resurrection body. And we'll inherit a lot about inheritance, right? Inherit the new heavens and the new earth where there's no sin. And no temptation, and no demons, and no Satan, and no persecution, and no false teachers. You'll inherit all of these good things. But that all comes back to God's faithfulness. It all comes back to God made you these promises in Christ. And if you are in Christ, these promises hold true. Brother and sister, these promises hold true. And nothing can take away from you what God has promised you in Christ. Do you believe that this morning? So pray. Remind them of the authority and sufficiency of God's word. Remind them that God is faithful. Number four, remind them that Jesus paid it all. Remind them that Jesus paid it all. You know, usually false teachers, there's In one way or another, is a works-based religion where in to one degree or another you earn God's favor by what you do. You work your way into heaven by what you do. So remind this, I mean this is just reminding of the gospel. Remind each other In mercy, let's remind each other that when Jesus died on the cross, he paid 100% the penalty for our sins. There is no more judgment left that could be poured out on us for our sin. Jesus paid it all. Isn't there a song about this? Jesus paid it all. So if you believe in Jesus for If you put your faith in Jesus, all of your sins are forgiven. There's no more condemnation for you, and eternal life is yours. So let's minister the gospel to each other. Number five, remind them of the great treasures that they have in Christ. Remind them of the blessings that are found in Christ. So one, the the previous point was just remind them of what happened on the cross. Jesus paid it all. This one is more so like this. Now that you're in a relationship with Jesus, Jesus, what are all the spiritual blessings that you've received? Now I've got to be real disciplined here, brother, because now we can go off on a whole sermon right here just on the blessings of Christ. One of them is justification. You're declared righteous in the eyes of God. One of them is sanctification that the Holy Spirit is working in you to make you holy. One of them is adoption, that although we used to be rebels, now we're children of God. And we could go on and on and on with the blessings of Christ. With all that we have going on in the world, with all that we have going on in our own lives, all the distractions, all the temptations, the weakness of the flesh, the sinfulness of the flesh, it's easy to forget the blessings That we have in Christ. And we have rich, rich blessings in Christ. But we need to be reminded of them. Number six, remind them that God's grace is not a license to sin. Now, if you look at verse 4 in Jude, one of the things these false teachers were doing is using grace as a license to sin. The very end of verse 4, who pervert the grace of God, uh they pervert the grace of our God into sensuality. That's basically saying that since we're saved by grace, it doesn't matter how we live. Since we're saved by grace, not by our own holiness. Which is true. We are saved by grace. And we're and we're not saved by our unholiness. Holiness is a result of being saved. But since we're sav this is the perversion, since we're saved by grace And not by personal holiness, therefore personal unholiness is acceptable. And there's perverting grace into a license to sin. And that's the context of what's happening in the book of Jude. So reminding each other that God's grace is not a license to sin. And that's really another way of saying reminding each other of the nature of new life in Christ. We've died to the old, and we're alive in Christ. We're a new people, and we have new hearts, and we have new minds, and we have new desires, we have a new purpose We have new loves, and we can go on and on and knew this and new that. It's all because of the new life in Christ that we have A lot of times, not always, but a lot of times the way it works is someone will fall into sin first. And then from that fall into the doctrinal error second. Not always, but for professing believers within the church. The flesh, because of the corruption of the flesh, will give itself over to sin first. And then from there you're weak. You're either you're even more in a more weakened And so, like Paul said to Timothy, guard your life and your doctrine. And every believer must do that. Guard our lives and our doctrines. And number seven, number seven, practical way of showing mercy. Set a good example. Set a good example. Be a simple biblical Christian who's hungering for God's word, who's faithful in worship, who's gracious with their words. and is merciful to others. Set a good example. Um that's the first command. Show mercy to those who doubt. But you know, let's just to be on the safe side. Can we just show mercy to everybody? There you go. That'll check every box. But here, in a particular way, when you see someone wavering or doubting, maybe flirting with heresy, or maybe beginning to fall into sin, come don't come in vengeance, don't come in wrath. Come in mercy. Now, number two, save others from the fire. This is verse 23, the very beginning. Save others by snatching them out of the fire. Obviously, that's a metaphor. Well, maybe not obviously. That's a metaphor. Um snatching them out of the fire is referring to that final judgment that's coming. And now God is commanding the church to be ministers to help people to avoid that. That's what God wants. He wants sinners to avoid that final judgment. He has a free gift. Of salvation, a free gift of eternal life. All that Jesus did was to help you avoid that final judgment and to enjoy eternal life in the presence of Of God. He says, save others from the fire. So it appears that this group is further along than just doubting. This group is further along than just on the fence. And they're this they move beyond being susceptible to false teaching. These now their salvation is in question. Probably in question. So save others from the fire. It looks like they've moved beyond doubt and pretty much fallen for the lies of the false teachers. You know, there's this word in verse 4 that's one of the most powerful and shocking words in the book of Jude. Look at verse 4 with me. Certain people have crept in unnoticed. That's The word unnoticed. Because you then you read about what they're teaching and you read about their character. Later in Jude, their teaching, their character, the impact that they're having on the church, it's so negative. It's Not even close. And they're unnoticed. Yeah, and in other passages in the Bible as well, and in history and even today, it's obvious that false teachers have a great influence. They're very good by their charisma and their personality and by their teachings that appeal to to natural man. They're very good at winning a large crowd and taking people away. From biblical Christianity. And so this group that need to be saved from the fire, they need to be snatched from the fire, they've moved beyond doubts. And um they need to be s we need to start thinking about saving them from the wrath of God. That's the fire. So it's basically this one is Basically, evangelism, but a particular kind of evangelism, you would just use the R-word. Restoration. This is about the restoration of brothers and sisters, the restoring of professing believers. It's the same as if a believer falls into a habitual and unrepentant life of sin. You want them to be restored. That's basically evangelism, which is bringing the gospel so that they might be saved, but it's a particular kind of evangelism. And um I'll have to do this quickly, but uh at least you'll hear the verses and you you can you can glance at them if you have the passage open. Um you look at the end of verse 6. And you'll see this phrase, the judgment of the great day. And you'll look at the end of verse 7, and you'll see this phrase. Punishment of eternal fire? You know, it's really out of style to talk about these things in church. A lot of churches today is just about providing an entertaining or emotionally stirring experience. But it's not you know understand it's not always been like that. that. Church is where we come to fix our eyes on God and on eternity and on the human soul. Spiritual things, things of eternal significance. And so we have the judgment of the great day, a punishment of eternal fire. You get into the end of verse 14, and then um into verse 15. And it talks about that the Lord is going to come, and I quote, to execute judgment on all and to convict all the ungodly. End to quote. But then again, as we mentioned earlier, verse 21, waiting for a future mercy, that mercy of being spared of that judgment. And it's a good time just to take a few moments and summarize the gospel for anyone in here who's not put their faith in Christ for salvation. Anyone in here who's not turned to Christ for the gift of forgiveness? Um preaching the the gospel, which the word simply means, you know, you all know it. Say it with me. The gospel means good news. The good news of salvation through faith in Christ. That's what the gospel is. The good news of salvation through faith in Christ. And there's really three points that could be made to summarize this. I mean put I really want to I know I see the time I've got to put this in a nutshell. But I want to do this Three components of understanding this message of salvation through faith in Christ: who Jesus is, what Jesus did, and how you benefit. from that. Who Jesus is, what Jesus did, and how you benefit from that. And who Jesus is, I mean there's mountains we could say about that, but you also could do it in one word. Mediator. Mediator with a capital M. That's who Jesus is. He's the mediator between the holy God and sinful man. He's the go-between. He's the bridge. He's the only road to heaven. He's the only way back to God. Jesus is the mediator. And so you already see in his identity the significance of Jesus. In our sin, we're going our own way. In our sin, we're alienated from God. What do we need? We need a bridge. We need a way back over. We need a mediator. Now what did he do? He lived, he died, and he rose again. He lived, he died, and he rose again. And Jesus lived an obedient life. He lived an obedient life Life. And when we put our faith in him, that obedient life gets counted to our account. Can you imagine if someone who's a billionaire Made a transfer, a wire transfer, and all of a sudden it was credited to your account. $100 million Credit it to your account. It's really there. He didn't just have the idea of doing it, but literally credited over into your account. Millions, hundreds of millions, it's now yours. Well the obedient life of Christ is worth a whole lot more than any obedient amount of money. life. And friend, that's literally credited to your account before God. So he lived an obedient life that could then become your obedient life if you believe in him. He died a sacrificial death Jesus died as a substitute. He died as a substitute, receiving the penalty, receiving the judgment that we deserve. So that on that great day of judgment, there's no more penalty to dish out. There's no more judgment to dish out. God in love sent Jesus So that we could be spared of that final judgment. That's God's great act of love. So Jesus is the mediator. He lived an obedient life. He died a sacrificial death, and he rose to eternal life. He rose to eternal life, receiving the Holy Spirit, and as the living and exalted Lord in heaven, it is Jesus personally that will give you the Holy Spirit if you believe. Jesus died, but Jesus is not dead. Jesus is alive. Jesus is living. Jesus is reigning in heaven with authority over all things, all realms, the invisible, the visible And Jesus personally, personally will give you the gift of the Holy Spirit and wipe away the record of your sins if you would believe in him from your hearts. I guess I got ahead of the game on how do you benefit. That was supposed to be the third component. How do you benefit from who he is and what he did? Through faith, from the heart, trusting in Jesus, based on his life, based on his death, based on his resurrection, that Jesus is the source of salvation. And you can believe it today. You can believe it right this moment. In your heart, put your faith in Jesus Christ, and you are saved for all eternity. Um now for the practical, how do you how do you show mercy to this group of snatching them out of the fire? Basically the same practical applications we did for the previous group. Although maybe a a little bit more uh intense and a little bit more patience we'll have to have I don't know if you've noticed this about others. Uh hopefully you've noticed it about yourself, but growing in the truth of God's word takes time. It takes learning. So if there's someone who's fallen for an error, don't expect just to sit down in the fifty I had to hear the gospel thousands of times before I was saved, but guess what? Today, you know what? I'm saved and I'm happy about it So be patient with others. Use the word of God. Make sure that we're confronting error, but we're confronting error in a loving and gentle spirit And um number three, well it looks like I'll have to just put this on another message. This number three, but at least let's look at it. Let's look at it. The third command. is uh to others show mercy with fear, hating even the garment stained By the flesh. Now, grammatically, and this has been interpreted uh both ways, grammatically, this is either just saying something more about that second group, or this is the third group. That Jude is alluding to, possibly even the false teachers themselves. That's calling for a greater wisdom and a greater, like, be really careful when you deal with this. is what he's saying. That's why it says with fear. But we'll hold off on that because I do want to give due attention to this. Closing exhortation, let's see to our own lives and our own doctrine and our own growth and sanctification, making sure that we're hungry for the word. Making sure that we're growing in prayer. Let's commit our hearts to showing compassion. To each other. And let's come commit our hearts to showing compassion and mercy to others in the home, at work, at school, not the only way, but certainly Beloved, one of the ways we shine the light of Christ in this dark and dying world is by showing mercy Luke 6 36. Be merciful, even as your Father is merciful. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for all that you've given us. And we pray that you would humble us, pray that you would help us to be about true spiritual things, help us to be spiritually minded people, um, help us to grow, help us to mature, help us to show patience and compassion and mercy. Mercy and grace and love toward others in your name. And we confess our shortcomings in these things. We confess our weakness and inability to do these things by ourselves. So we are pleading with you by your spirit to make it so. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.