James four eleven through seventeen Do not speak evil against one another, brothers The one who speaks against a brother or judges a brother speaks evil against the law and judges the law. Interesting, isn't it? You don't see that uh in other places, but we'll talk about what that means. You speak if you speak against a brother or judge your brother, you speak evil against the law and judge the law But if you judge the law, then you're not a doer of the law, but a judge. There's only one lawgiver and judge. Who's that? That's right. Yes, we accept both Jesus and God because Jesus is ruling at the right hand of God. He's God's representative king. That's Son of God means. So good answers, yes. There is only one lawgiver and judge, he who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? Come now. You who say today or tomorrow will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit, specifically addressing merchants. here merchants. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist that appears. For a little time and then vanishes. If you have a translation that says it is a mist, that's wrong. It literally says you are a mist. You are a vapor. Verse 15 Instead you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. As it is, you boast in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. So sin of omission Now, before I pray for us and go through the study, I want to connect a couple verses. So, verse 17. This phrase, whoever knows the right thing to do. So there's a knowledge of the right thing to do. And obviously that would be a knowledge Of God's will. So connect that with the beginning of verse 15, where it says, Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills. We'll do A or B or C or D. That's not talking that's not parallel to someone who would say, well, we just leave it to fate and whatever happens, happens. It's the will of God. It's talking Uh yes, about dependence on God for the future, but it's talking about living according to God's revealed will. God has revealed to us how we ought to live. He has revealed to us the principles we ought to have that should guide our behavior and guide our mindset and guide uh our activities and our pursuits. If the Lord wills Is not just saying, well, whatever happens, happens. But it's knowing the Lord's will. It's knowing the way God wants us to live. And whoever knows the right thing to do And refuses to do it, well, that's sin. Obviously, that's the very definition of sin. Knowing God's will but violating it. That's The second story in the Bible. Okay? The first is the creation and putting man in paradise, and then you have man rebelling against God All right, let's go ahead and pray. Father, we thank you for the lives that you've given us. We thank you for our families. for our church, this church, and the forgiveness of sins. We thank you for the hope that you've given us in Christ, the hope that transcends material things, a hope that transcends this life that is a vapor, that is passing away. But we have a hope stored up for us in heaven. Father, we're thankful that you give us meaning and give us purpose and give us life in Christ. We pray that you would bless us and encourage us and teach us and humble us by your word and by your spirit this evening. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Did everybody get well we'll do it this way. If you didn't get the handouts on your way in, uh they're out on the lectern right outside the door. What I want to do to start is give you the blanks. For session nine, important don'ts for the children of God. Important don'ts for the children of God. Basically, what we have here are just uh corrections. Warnings. I call them don'ts. Number one, don't speak evil against each other. That comes from the first part of verse 11, the very first thing he says. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. The context is local church. And then he said, and then number two, don't pronounce judgment over each other. That comes from the second part of verse 11 and then verse 12. Don't speak evil against each other, which would be called slander. Don't pronounce judgment over each other as if we are the supreme judge over each other. We're not. We're co-servants. We're brothers and sisters under the Lordship of Christ. Number three, don't take tomorrow for granted. That comes from verses thirteen and fourteen. And in the illustration, you have a merchant that's just preoccupied in planning things out for the next year. It's not bad to plan things out. It's bad to plan things out without giving regard to what God wants. So don't take too much and then so he's planning out the year And James says you don't know what tomorrow will bring. So don't take tomorrow for granted. And number four, don't presume on what God will do. Verse 14 or verses 15 through 17. We don't want to be presumptuous on what God will do. We don't want to be presumptuous about the future. We don't want to be we don't want to make assumptions about the future and what will happen, apart from considering carefully What God wants and God's will for us. There's your outline. Now you can use that to take notes, but uh the outline I have for our study Is pretty much independent of that. I mean the same ideas, the same thoughts, but just for the sake of the flow of the discussion, I have uh something else I want to go through. But you have lots of white space on there to take notes. Alright, number one, the first section, James issues an explicit rebuke. Against slander in the church. 11a. Do not speak evil against one another, brothers. So we'll just put. He's against Slander. Now we should not be speaking evil and slandering anybody, anywhere. We shouldn't be doing that at work. We shouldn't be doing that at home. We shouldn't be doing that at school. But what he's talking about here is uh slandering each other in the church. He's been addressing local church fellowship and local church interpersonal relationships all throughout this book. the book of James. And he continues to do that here. Don't speak evil against one another. I have some cross-references. You don't have to turn to these. You can write them down if you want or I can just give them to you, give you the list later. Uh 2 Corinthians 12 20, Paul writes, I fear that perhaps when I come and visit you, that I may I may not find you as I wish, but rather Uh may f there may be quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander. Wow, what a list. This is I mean he's writing this to the church. Church of Corinth had Interpersonal issues. Quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and disorder. He puts disorder last. All of those other things just create disorder and enhance disorder. And that disorder, what's what's the real tragedy, the ultimate tragedy of all of those things, uh quarreling, jealousy, anger, hostility, slander, gossip, conceit, and the disorder that it creates. The real tragedy is that hinders gospel ministry. It hinders gospel ministry to each other. It hinders the witness and example of the church. to the surrounding community. Everybody's so distracted and caught up by all the issues that it actually hinders the ministry and the advance of the gospel. And it's the advance of the gospel that we're here for, for the salvation of souls, for the glory of God. 1 Peter 2. 1 also. Peter says, put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all Slander. I love that metaphor, put it away. Makes me think of something I tell my children all the time. See these toys, put them away. Get 'em away. Get them out of here. This is what Peter says. Malice, put it away. Deceit Put it away. Hypocrisy, envy, slander, put it away, put it away. James 5:9, later in the book of James, he says, Do not grumble against one another, brothers. So that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. You see this a lot in the book of James. The God is the judge, not me. God is the judge, not you. God is the judge. We should not act as if we are supreme judge over each other, and sometimes we do that without recognizing it, without noticing it. So don't grumble, you won't be judged. One more from the book of Proverbs, Proverbs 11, 12 through 13. Whoever belittles his neighbor lacks sense. Isn't that interesting? Belittling Your neighbor, you lack sense, but a man of understanding remains silent Whoever goes about slandering reveals secrets, but he who is trustworthy in spirit keeps a thing covered He's revealing other people's secrets, not his own, right? He's going around slandering, he's revealing secrets that should not be shared. But who is tr he who is trustworthy in spirit keeps the thing covered. Going back to this verse 11 in James 4, don't speak evil against one another, brothers. That's just something we've got the purpose in our hearts. It's hard to control the tongue And so we've got to start in the heart, to purpose in our hearts, and pray for this that God would help me in this, that God would help us in this, that our lips would would speak uh kind things, Christ-like things, not slanderous things. We'll circle back to Well, John McDonald, I'm going to put you in charge of reminding me to circle back to this. I want to come back to this and talk about the nature of how God's commands work. in our spiritual growth. This is a command. Don't speak evil against one another. That's a command of God. I hope that we have time to circle back and talk about the nature of God's commands. and how they function in our spiritual growth. They are rich and they can be uh very helpful and they set the pattern for how we ought to live, but there's a way that they work. Now quickly, quickly, get this handout out. I had a one-another handout that I made up several years ago And I lost it. So this one I copied and pasted, made a few adjustments, but I didn't have time to check out to make sure everyone was correct. So if you find a mistake on here, if one of the verses Please let me know. Hopefully I'll find the one I made. Although, you know, I like this one too. I'm just not sure I didn't have time to go through all of it But I've always tried to keep a list on one page of the one another verses in either my date book or folded up in my Bible. I don't know what happened to it. Maybe that's not a good sign, but it's somewhere Um and I've highlighted on here ones that have to do with ones that relate to this rebuke against slander. So number one, under unity, be at peace with one another. Of course, that involves our speech. Number two, don't grumble among one another. Number six, don't bite, devour, and consume one another. Number ten, don't complain against one another. That comes from our this verse that we're in. Go down to charity and care. Number one, do not judge one another or put a stumbling block in a brother's way. Number five, speak truth to one another. We've got to speak truth to one another in a loving manner, in a kind manner. Number six, don't lie to one another And of course, don't lie about one another , which would be the ninth commandment And uh number eight, encourage and build up one another. That's our worst. Yeah, the I wasn't pointing to you, Meg. I was pointing The embodiment of that commandment. The commandments are over there. Well, that will call for prayer. And this this will call for repentance. And God will help us. And remember the spiritual growth is gradual and it's a process. And we need to always Always be humbling ourselves and always be seeking God to purify our hearts and minds and words and actions and And the way we um act in relation to one another, whether it's a church, home, work, school, play, whatever, it's a It's a lifelong gradual process of God conforming us to his likeness. So, what's your assignment? Remind me to circle back to this. Circle, circle back. Alright, number two, what is the underlying problem with slandering each other? As he describes it here, the underlying problem is We're acting as if we're a greater authority than the law of God. It's not the argument that you would expect, but we act as if we're a greater authority than the law of God. And the only authority greater than the law of God is God Himself. I mean God's law is just a reflection of His character. It's just expressed in commandments. But look at verses 11b through 12. 11b says, the one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother. Now he broadens here what he said at the beginning of verse 11. Don't speak evil against. He continues the same point, broadening it a little bit. You're speaking against your brother or judging your brother. He who does that speaks evil against the law and judges the law But if you judge the law, you are not a doer of the law, but a judge. In other words, we're supposed to be those who live under the authority of God's holy law And our and our goal and our focus is by faith, by faith, to obey God. That's Christian living. To obey God as we walk by faith. To strive to obey God as we walk by faith We're under God's holy law. That makes us peers with one another under a supreme authority. But we should not act as if we're higher than the law of God. You speak evil against the law. And judge the law. You're not a doer of the law, but a judge. Verse 12. There's only one lawgiver and judge He who is able to save and to destroy. But who are you to judge your neighbor? So we don't get the details of what's going on with the people James is writing to. But obviously there's a problem with judgmentalism. You still see this in the letters to the Corinthians. On matters of conscience, there is different views and different positions on debatable matters, and they were being judgmental and critical toward each other. You see that also in the book of Romans. similar issues with a matter of conscience. People were taking different views and different positions on what was allowable and what was not allowable. But the they weren't treating each other in love and charity. They were being judgmental and critical. As those in Christ, we are saved by God's grace. We are people under God's grace. And so if you are under grace, but I treat you as one who's under the law and not under grace. I now am acting as if I'm a higher authority to God. Because if you're in Christ by faith, you are acceptable to God. And I don't have the authority to bind your conscience You have no obligation to obey me and my word. And maybe God has convicted me in my conscience of one thing. I have no authority to bind your conscience by my personal conviction. The word of God is the only thing that has the authority to bind our conscience before God. So obviously something was going on here where there they have a critical spirit, maybe toward one group, maybe that we don't get the details of exactly what it was. It actually looks like it's the rich over against the poor some sort of elitism if you read through James, maybe tomorrow read through James, it's very short, it won't take you long. There's something going on here where the poor are where the rich are looking down on the poor and treating them as lesser. So maybe it has something to do with that. But they are not treating each other with grace. There's a judgmental spirit, a slanderous spirit not just the judgmental spirit and slanderous spirit, but the actual behavior of judgmentalism and slandering And we're making ourselves God when we're we're acting as if we're in the place of God and his law when we do that. Love what he says. Um let me see if I can find this. No, I I'm not going to search around. But uh we stand, we're all servants. in the house of God and we have one master and we stand before our master and it's not the job of servants to judge each other Now that does not mean, see here we here 's the devil wants to play these little mind tricks, that doesn't mean that we don't care about sin in each other's lives. No, sin is a real thing. Disobedience is a real thing. It doesn't mean that we don't deal with problems. It doesn't mean that we don't deal with sin. But You know, trying to help each other and minister to each other and encourage each other to repent from sin and give correction and things like that, much like we do with our children, like with discipline and correction and teaching and all that. That's different than having a harsh and critical spirit and slandering against one another. Don't slander. You have an issue. Go to the person and help them. In a gentle way, those who are gentle can help restore someone who's caught in the snare of sin. So when we act as if we're a greater authority than the law of God, There's a problem. We uh we end up slandering and judging each other. Verse eleven b again, the one who speaks against a brother or judges his brother. Speaks evil against the law and judges the law. Number three. Yes. I'm sorry, I blew it. That's okay. Don't pronounce what judgment. Is that right? Okay. Oh yeah. Don't pronounce judgment over each other. Thanks. Now number number three is going to be a big passage thirteen through seventeen. James issues a stinging rebuke. So it's tempting for me to try and water this down, but I'm not going to do it. He issues a stinging rebuke. Against presumptuously and arrogantly living without regard for God's will It's a har it's a harsh, it's a strong rebuke. Not quite to the level, but almost to the level of when Jesus issues the woes against the Pharisees. You see this kind of language you said you were reading, Jeremiah, and it's the prophetic warnings that are strong stinging rebukes. What that's supposed to do is wake our hearts up to the problem so that we can see it and go to God to help us turn from it and repent. It's meant to help us. Verses 13 through 17. Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow we'll go into such and such a town. Uh it's just a way of saying this town or that town, whatever town. Today or tomorrow we're going to go. Such and such a town, spend a year there, trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? For you are a mist, or you are a vapor. That appears for a little time and then vanishes. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we'll live and do this or that. As it is, you boast in your arrogance, all such boasting is evil. That's the sting. Boasting in your arrogance and presumption, and it's evil. So whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. A presumptuous means overstepping bounds. It means taking liberties that you should not take. It means making assumptions. That you should not make. And the example here, which is a representative example, but I don't think it's just a metaphor. I think there's actual people, actual merchants. In uh the context, yeah. Maybe it's related to that rich and poor issues that ha that are going on throughout the book of James. We're not sure. But they are being presumptuous and they're making their plans as if the future depends on them, and as if their lives revolve around them and the profits they make. That's not the way businessmen should operate. That's not how anyone should operate. That's not how merchants merchants should operate Making assumptions about the future, making assumptions about what they should do and what will happen. He also says arrogance. You boast in your arrogance. Arrogance means, what does it mean? It means having an exaggerated sense of your own importance Right, isn't that what arrogance is? It's the opposite of humility. Having a really heightened sense of my own worth, a sense of self superiority, uh usually it's accompanied by a sense of entitlement in life because of my high view of self. He says you're boasting in your arrogance. All such boasting is evil. It's not making a profit that's evil. It's not trade that's evil, verse 13. It's not traveling to a city that's evil. It's none of those things are evil. It's this arrogance and the presumption to go about life with complete disregard for God's will and for what God wants me to do. What's the remedy? Well he gives, you know, you can see the remedy. Verse 14, first of all, we have to admit our ignorance of the future. Verse 14, the very first phrase, yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. So that's the first pill to swallow. We don't know the future. We're ignorant of the future. We can't see into the future. I'm not telling you anything you don't know, but that truth doesn't always shape the way we think about the future. We should make plans. We should be responsible and make plans and we should pray about the future and it's fine to want things For the future, of course, under God's will and defined and driven by God's will. That's the whole point of this whole paragraph. Don't just be going to doing all this stuff without thinking about what God wants and how God wants you to live. The first step, the first pill to swallow is to admit that we have no control. Forget about the next year. We have no control over what's going to happen tomorrow. We're not guaranteed tomorrow. We're not guaranteed Thursday. So that's the first pill. Admit our ignorance and admit our lack of control in the future. Now what that should do is drive us to God. God knows the future, and no matter what happens to us, tomorrow, next week, next year, we want to make sure that we're right with God and living for God, despite what the future holds. Worrying about tomorrow won't add one hour to our lives. So the second part of this remedy is the next phrase. It's the next pill to swallow. This May's pill is a little more jagged. You know, the first one can be kind of philosophical, right? Admit our ignorance of the future. Now we have to admit that we are small and like a fleeting breath or like a fleeting vapor that we are small. Verse 14. The second phrase. What is your life? And let's just pause. This is a great question. Because the person he's talking to in verse 13 Is acting like their life is everything. Is acting like their life is the most important thing to them. What is your life? You're a mist or you're a vapor. It appears for a little time and then vanishes. That word also could be translated breath. Hearing gone Fleeting. We are small and we are fleeting like a breath. Turn to Psalm 90. Did it work? And this is not a throwaway point. This is not a side issue. Blessed are the poor in spirit. This is one of the keys to true joy and happiness is humbling ourselves before God. Humbling ourselves before God. We're not big. He's big Things don't revolve around us. Things revolve around Him. I wasn't created to live for myself as Supreme Being. I was created to live for God as Supreme Being Psalm ninety. Shh sh I forgot to write the verse number down. We can't read the whole thing. Hang on one give me one second, make sure I type this out. See this is why I don't do typed out notes. I don't know if you've ever seen my notes when I teach in Preached. It's all handwritten. Some days, once every two months, I type them out. And when I type them out, I often make errors. Yeah, type O 's Uh four through six maybe some ninety. Yeah, this is the right one. This is this is the right one I wanted to go to verse 9 initially. Let's first look at verse 9. All our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end like a sigh. So we're just passing away. This, the context of this, as you read, as you just skim through there, is when we're under God's for those who are under God's judgment, what's the way out? The way is to turn to the Lord. But it the whole thing contrasts The nature of God and his life, which is from everlasting to everlasting. He had no beginning, he'll have no end, contrasting God's life in existence with our life in existence. We're here for a short time and we're passing away. And we're swept away like a flood. We're here, we're gone, but God lives forever. So it c it contrasts the nature of God and who he is and the nature of his life and existence. When you think about who he is, he obviously should be central in our lives, central in our hearts. He should be our chief pursuit. Not ourselves. We should have ourselves in proper perspective and be humble before Him. Let me see if there's anything else in here I want to point out. Verse two before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting You are God. He's before mountains, he's before the earth, from everlasting to everlasting, you are God. That's verse two. Now verse three, you return man to dust, and say, Return, O children of men For a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night. So this is God before all things, before creation. And time is he's outside of time. There's no duration in the being of God. He is who he is. He'll always be who he is. But for man we return to dust. Return, O children of man. Alright, let's go back to James The whole world around us And let's not let ourselves off the hook. All of our pride within us Is prone, in other words, it leans toward living as if we are the center of all things. And it's prone toward or leans toward um The idea that if I pursue my my own subjective values and happiness and pleasures, that I'll have a fulfill a fulfilled life and find meaning in life that's completely opposite. No, God is the source. God is our hope. So the first remedy, the first pill for this living life without regard for God's will is to admit our ignorance of the future and to admit we don't have control over the future. So we must stop acting as if we do. It doesn't mean stop caring about the future. So if you're hearing that, if anyone's hearing that, please see me afterwards. It doesn't mean stop making plans, but we care about the future and we make plans about the future in light of God's will and God's purpose The second pill is to admit that we are small and that our life is a vapor. We are a vapor, like a breath, here and gone. We should be humbled in the presence of God. And therefore, it's God who will guide us. The third pill, and the thing that really will bring this home to us in our hearts, if we could just Get here in our minds. If we get here in our hearts, we'll be on the right road, the right path. Verse 15, this final part of the remedy is to self-consciously live. based on God's will, which comes to us in the Bible. Right to self-consciously make this decision and make this commitment that God I'm going to live according to your will, not my own. That's just start that's the starting block. This is the fear of the Lord, it's the beginning of wisdom. To live in light of God as our Maker and as our King and as our Father, as our judge, as our redeemer, to self-consciously live based on God's revealed will. Verse 15, instead, you ought to say Here's the contrast. Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we will live and do this or that. Obviously, that's the summary of a mindset That's the summary of a mindset. What does God want? What principles should inform my decisions? God 's revealed will. Also verse 17, so whoever knows the right thing to do and fails to do it, for him it is sin. Rest of the time, unless we have time to circle back, we're going to talk about just living living for God's will, living based on God's will. But I want to just s I don't want to just say that and move on and act like that's theory. I want to give specific practical applications on how we can do this. And I have seven of them. So we're moving beyond The summary. If you want to make plans about the future and you want to make decisions based on God's will, first of all, it begins in the heart. There's got to be, number one, dependency on Him. And trusting in him. Dependency on him and trust in him. If we believe God's a liar, or if we believe that God won't provide for us , Then that's the first thing we need to repent of. We need to believe that He tells the truth. We need to believe that He cares for us. We need to believe that He'll provide for us. So getting that heart right first. w is the way to live for God's will. Depending on Him, not depending on ourselves, how smart we are, how good we are, how hard worker we are, depending on God and trusting in Him. And linking together with this, number two, second step, is prayer. Prayer begins in the heart and then prayer. And honestly, as anyone who's anyone who has tried to live based on God's will knows that you never move on from those first two steps. They're always there as the foundation stone. Trusting in God, learning to trust in Him. Failing and getting back up on our feet. Slipping and trying to catch up by faith. Forgetting, by God's grace, remembering. And all this, God's teaching us more and more to trust in Him and to depend on Him, not ourselves, but always with this prayer. Prayer. Matthew 6, 9 through 13, Jesus says, Pray then like this, our Father in heaven. Hallowed be your name. Your kingdom come. And then what does he say next? Your will be done. We're not going to be able to do God's will apart from prayer, apart from God enabling us to do God's will. God, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven How is God's will done in heaven? The angels obey him perfectly. He tells an angel gives an angel a job. The angel says, Yes, Lord, the angel does that job. He's obeyed perfectly. He's always worshiped. There's a perfect love for God in heaven, perfect obedience for God in heaven. He's worshiped the way he should be worshipped. On earth as it is in heaven, your will be done. Help me obey. Help me worship. Help me love you. But then in verse 11 in the Lord's Prayer, give it's prayers of trust and asking for help. Give us this day our daily bread. Which is what saying God provide for us, provide for me, that whatever I need God provide. And forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors. So going to God for forgiveness, right? And going to God to ask me to be forgiving toward others. And lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. So depending on God for victory in spiritual warfare. Lead me not into temptation. Don't let me fall prey to temptation. Give me the courage. Give me the fortitude to leave. To go the other direction, to be like Joseph and just run, fleeing the devil. Draw near to God and he'll draw near to you. Resist the devil and he will flee from you. That's just a few verses up. Lead us not to temptation, but deliver us from evil. So to live for God's will, to not be arrogant, to not be presumptuous. First, in our hearts, we've got to depend on Him and trust in Him, and then we've got to commit ourselves to prayer. And I just want to encourage all of you the way that I would encourage myself, don't give up in prayer. Don't give up. Keep striving. Keep going forward. Number three, living for God's will. Seeking And growing in discernment. Discernment. Discernment is being able in a general sense, right? Being able to tell what is what Tell this from that, tell right from wrong, being able to identify, okay, yes, this is something God wants, this isn't. This is something I should say, this isn't. This is a place I should go, this isn't. Discernment Seeking it and growing in it. Discernment is going to be wisdom that comes from experience and practice. You guys know, there's no shortcuts in this. There's no shortcuts in growing in discernment. Some uh three verses for us Hebrews 5. 14. Solid food is for the mature. Solid food is a metaphor there for uh mature doctrine and mature Um to spiritual maturity and and a a a more mature and deepened grasp of truth. Solid food is for the mature. Now this is interesting. Listen to the next the rest of the verse. Defines mature. Does that make sense? The rest of the verse defines mature. Solid food is for the mature. Those who have their powers of discernment Trained by constant practice to distinguish evil from good. Training. Through experience, through practice, learning how to distinguish good from evil, growing in discernment It does not come overnight. It does not come in one year. It does not come in five years. Of course, incrementally it will. But what I'm saying is keep striving, keep growing Romans 12, 2, do not be conformed to this world. It always reminds me of God's call upon the nation of Israel in the Old Testament. Basically, he You know, summing it up, told Israel and you gave them a law to teach them how to do this, don't live like the pagan nations. Be wholly set apart for me. Live according to the law I'm giving you. Don't be conformed to the pagan nations. Here, New Testament, same principle, do not be conformed to this world, but rather be transformed, which is a process, be transformed by the renewal of your mind. That by testing , that means by going through trials and testings. You see that all throughout Scripture, this is a way God grows and teaches his children that by testing you may discern what is the will of God, what is good and is acceptable and what is perfect. Or what is what is mature and proper in the spiritual sense? That's Romans twelve two. Boy, it's jam-packed with this. If you transform by the renewal of your mind, how's that going to happen? As you go through testing, you'll learn discernment on what is the will of God. This is the will of God. This isn't What is good, we'll learn how to discern that. What is acceptable to God, we'll learn how to discern that. And what is perfect or what is mature and holy in God's eyes, we'll learn how to discern that through testing. Through practice and experience, discernment will come. So what how did I summarize the point? Seeking and growing in discernment. True discernment doesn't come from here. It comes from God through his word and through his spirit. And it will be rooted in here and it will grow in here. But the so what I'm just saying is the source is God. God is the source. Don't be conformed to the world. Don't go to the world. Heaven help us. Don't go to the world for values and principles and morals and virtues and ethics. If one more on this, seeking and growing in discernment, Ephesians 5:8 through 10. For at one time you were darkness, but now you are light in the Lord. Light or darkness representing wickedness, light representing holiness. Now you are light in the Lord. Ephesians 5, 8 through 10. And then he says, This walk as children of light, for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true, and try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. Try to discern. Think about it. Grow. Seek discernment. Grow in discernment. Isn't this I mean I feel like I'm talking about parenting, right? The way we want to teach our kids right from wrong. Trying to teach our kids. Grabbing from your sibling is wrong. You can't just grab something just because you want it. You have to teach them. They have to grow in that. They have to learn how to share. They have to learn not how to talk back. They have to learn. You will not speak to your mother that way in this house. It won't happen. They have to learn But as adults, we have to learn too. It's not just for children and children issues, it's for adult adults and spiritual issues, all issues of life. We have to learn and grow and seek discernment. Wisdom, practical wisdom that comes from experience, and as we go through testing, we'll learn to discern what is the will of God. If we're going to live for God's will, you can't do it without that You cannot do it without seeking and growing in discernment. So, first of all, in the heart, depending on God and trusting in God. Secondly, commit ourselves to prayer. Thirdly, seeking and growing in discernment And now numbers four and five I'm going to take together. And we're not going to be able to circle back, but maybe maybe I can just allude. This section right here is related to the circle back. Number four and five will take together. We're getting into more and more detail as we go through this. Number four is Growing in Christ-likeness. Now that's the broad category for growing in discernment. Growing in discernment is part of growing in Christ's likeness. As we grow more and more in the likeness of Christ in our hearts and minds, we'll come to see things as Christ sees things. So what he sees as good, we'll start to see as good. Even though maybe five years ago we thought it was it was bad, and it's the last thing I want. And what Christ sees as wicked, what Christ sees as bad, we'll start to see that as bad. So growing in Christ likeness is the broad category And God is doing that. He's transforming us to the likeness of Christ. And so as that happens, we're growing in discernment. That's number four, growing in Christ-likeness. And number five, right connected to this, is growing in the Word of God. Growing in the Word of God. It can't happen apart from the Word. The Bible is not just a record of God's revelation throughout history. It is a record of God's revelation throughout history. But the Bible itself is God's revelation. It is objectively true. It is the Word of God. And it has the power to change us and to help us grow in these things. Growing in Christ's likeness, that's another way of saying sanctification. Sanctification, being made holy. And remember there's two sides of that coin of sanctification. There's a killing. And there's a cultivating. There's a killing of what? There's a killing of sin. And there's a cultivating of holiness Those are the two sides. If sanctification and growing in Christ's likeness is a coin, bless you, there's two sides of it Putting to death sin, which takes effort and prayer and the power of the Spirit, and cultivating holiness, which takes effort and prayer and the power of the Spirit Growing in Christ's likeness, those two sides of it. Number five, connected to it, growing in the Word. Two broad categories there will be understanding. So growing in the word, and then understanding God's law and how it functions And understanding the gospel and how it functions. God's law and wisdom literature Uh most of it can be taken as law. It reveals to us our sin. It reveals to us our weakness. It reveals to us our foolishness It reveals to us our selfishness, our pride, our corruption, and on and on. God's law, which is a reflection of His character, shows us our sin and our need for God's grace. So that it would take us to the gospel, so that we would see our need for God's grace, so that we would see our need for Jesus, so that we would humble ourselves before God and ask for help. This is Christianity. We're people who have seen our need and we go to God for help. We have seen our sin and we go to God for forgiveness. and we go to God for grace. We've seen our weakness and we go to God for strength. We've seen our foolishness and we go to God for wisdom. We have seen that we are small and we need God. We need help. We need a savior. The law shows us our need. And the gospel provides the remedy that meets that need, and that remedy is Christ. It's Christ and his salvation and his grace for us. So, understanding of the word But how it specifically how it functions in these two different ways to help us grow in discernment. God's law also will give us the pattern of sanctification. It shows us what holiness looks like in practical behavior. The law does not have the power to make us holy. Only the gospel, only Jesus has the power to make us holy. Through his death and resurrection, the gospel has the power to sanctify us, but the law shows us what sanctification looks like. So these two things go together. All right, 2 Timothy 3 16 and 17. You can just you can just listen to this. I don't think you have time to turn here. 2 Timothy 3, 16 through 17 on the uh The practical importance of the word of God's Word. All scripture is breathed out by God or inspired of God. Well that's the foundation. Now here's what he says after that. All scripture is inspired of God and is profitable for teaching. For reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete and equipped for every good work. How is he going to be complete or mature? How is he going to be equipped for every good work? How can he train in righteousness? How is he going to be corrected? How is he going to be reproved? How is he going to be taught God's word? Why? Because it's inspired of God. This is God's word to us. Can you imagine if we had kids who ignored everything we said to them? Well, God doesn't like that either. He's spoken to us. He's given us his word. Not to harm us, to help us, yeah, to wound us, because we need to see our sin. You don't want a doctor who hides the truth of the disease you have, or hides the truth of the surgery that you need. You want a doctor who's honest, who speaks of the sickness, who speaks of the problem And then he's able to provide the remedy. Something on the God's law here from Romans 7. 7 This just gets to the function of the law to show us our sin and therefore show us our need for a savior. And if there's anything we want to make sure we do in this life, is see our need for a savior. Romans 7 7. What shall we say then? Shall we say that the law is sin? Heavens know. Yet, if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, you shall not covet. So the law is a teacher. The law is a schoolmaster, it's a guardian who speaks to us about what's right and what's wrong and what God requires and what God forbids. It teaches us, it shows us that we're lawbreakers Is that to uh leave us in a pit of self-pity and despair? No, it's meant to drive us to Jesus Christ as Savior. Everything's about getting us to Jesus so that we would be saved And then a verse on the gospel and how it functions. I'll give you a chance to turn here. Romans 6, 8 through 11. As you're turning there, I'll read my final one on this. Psalm one nineteen one oh five Your word is a lamp unto my anybody know feet and a light to my path. That's a great verse. Psalm 119-105. The word is our guide. The word helps us travel. This path helps us to see our feet and get our footing and know where we're going and see the path. It's God's word. Alright, Romans 6, 8 through 11 So we saw how the law functions. Now we see a little bit how the gospel functions. Now, if we have died with Christ. That's talking about believers. We've died with Christ. The old me is dead. The me that loved sin and was a slave to sin is dead And same with you. If you've died with Christ, we believe that we also will live with him. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him. For the death he died. He died to sin. And we don't have time to flesh out the details of everything, but what he's saying is Christ is no longer under the dominion of sin and death. He's no longer under the reign, the realm of sin and death And for those united to him, we are no longer under the dominion of sin and death. We do not have to be afraid of death. We do not we do not have to feel guilty in a l in a literal sense before God for our Sin, because we are forgiven people. The death he died, he died to sin once for all. But the life he lives, he lives to God. So you, verse eleven So you also must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. That's the gospel way. By faith We consider ourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. This is the way of grace. This is the way of forgiveness. This is the way of faith. Only by faith will we believe that because we still have sin in us. We still commit sin. Every day, sin lingers. Maybe that's too weak. That's definitely too weak of a word. Sin is at war in our members, Scripture says. So the way of spiritual growth and the power of spiritual growth is seeing Jesus by faith. And by faith, seeing that in him we've died to sin, we are now alive in Christ. Number one, quickly reviewing in our heart depending on God and trusting in Him. Number two, committing ourselves to prayer. Number three, seeking and praying for and growing in discernment. Or that was number three, rather. Number four, growing in Christ's likeness. Number five, growing in the word. Number six and seven will take together. Number six, receive godly counsel from godly people. Never a bad idea to do that You mean even people who disagree with me? Yeah, maybe most of the time or sometimes, especially those people. You know, there are actually are other people out there Who are smart and spiritual and who can see things that we don't see, can see things from a different perspective that Matt sees, can have an insight. That Matt doesn't have. Receive godly counsel from godly people. That's number six. Number seven, be faithfully active in the worship and fellowship of a biblical church Which will be your main that's that's the center for discipleship. That's the center for equipping. If the local gym is the center for exercise, the local church is the center for growing. In godliness and getting good counsel. And I I'm going to rattle these off. I know it's 8 o'clock, but I'm going to rattle these off. I've been waiting all day to read these verses, alright? Proverbs 12, 15, the way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice. It's a good little window into humanity. Proverbs 3:7. Don't be wise in your own eyes. Fear the Lord and turn away from evil. When it's our own wisdom and our own personal preferences and desires that set the course for our lives, evil, that leads to evil. Proverbs 16, too. All the ways of a man are right in his own eyes, but the Lord weighs the Spirit. The Lord's going to judge that. Proverbs 26, 12. Do you see a man who is wise in his own eyes? Have you ever met someone like that? Do you see a man who's wise in his own eyes? There's more hope for a fool than for him. Proverbs 19, 20 and 21. Listen to advice, accept instruction, in order that you would gain wisdom in the future. And many are the plans in the mind of a man, but it's the purpose of the Lord that will stand. And the final one, the final one, Proverbs 15, 31 through 33 The ear that listens, this is a powerful verse, Proverbs 15, verse 31 to 33. The ear that listens to life-giving reproof will dwell among the wise. Whoever ignores instruction, in fact, despises himself. But the one who listens to reproof gains intelligence. The fear of the Lord is instruction in wisdom, and humility comes before honor, specifically the honor of being counted among the wise. The way of a fool is right in his own eyes, but a wise man listens to advice. So receive godly counsel from godly people. Seek that out, by the way, and faithfully worship and fellowship. in the church, which is the center for discipleship. I've been saying it more and more as the weeks progress, uh just a new is you know just a new way I'm saying it. It's nothing new. Okay. Church is not designed to take up our whole lives. Church is meant to equip us for our whole lives so that we could live for God in all of life.