Well, our last narrative and the words which we'll examine tonight come out of 2 Samuel 18, verses 9 through 18. 2 Samuel 18. We're actually going to start in verse 8 through 18. The fall of the prideful We've already heard through this narrative, and as we'll hear in this last narrative of Absalom's life, that we see his pride rising up His pride lifting him up, trying to set himself as king, as judge, as ruler, as even God himself, and uh may he have the most reign in his mind. And this is the exact downfall. of his reign. It's the exact downfall of who he is. The very thing that has lifted him up is the thing that will bring him down Friends, I believe and I argue that pride is a piece of every one of our sins. At some level there's pride involved. There's pride that is that has drawn us to the sin that we're committing. It may be pride that is the exact motivator of the sin we are committing. But in some way it is pride setting ourselves up above God, setting ourselves up as the central of worship that is part of our sin. Look at Ezekiel 28, verse 2. It's on your hand out there. It says, Because your heart is proud, and you have said, I am a God. I sit in the seat of the gods, in the heart of the seas. Yet you are but a man and no God, though you make your heart like the heart of a God Notice that the connection there is your heart that is proud is causing you is the reason that you're setting yourself up as a God. Lowercase G. Proverbs 8:13 makes it very clear, God hates pride. Proverbs 8:13, God hates pride. There should be no confusion in God 's disposition towards pride. He hates it. Why does he hate it? It's because pride causes man to set himself up as God. Essentially, this is how I think we can define pride tonight, is that pride is the misplacement of your worship. The prideful worships themselves rather than God. You say again, the pride is the misplacement of your worship. The prideful worships themselves rather than God. But here's the the tricky part about pride. Here's how Satan has used pride as one of the best weapons to destroy man. Is that it's not as obvious as we may think it is when we read this statement. Okay, if they're setting themselves up to worship, then you know the prideful, they're building a church for themselves. They're gathering people in to worship them. Uh there's some kind of shrine built for them. No, I th I I believe that pride is very subtle. We don't actually recognize that it's happening often. We don't recognize that we have set ourselves up in the position We don't recognize that we have set ourselves in the place that we desire and want to be worshipped, either by ourselves or by the world. Think about some of the pride issues we see throughout Scripture. We can start in the very beginning, Adam and Eve. Their pride was that they wanted to have the the same knowledge. They thought God was withholding something from them. Satan had deceived them that if they just ate of the fruit then they would have the same knowledge and God wouldn't hold anything back from them anymore. So they wanted to set themselves like God. There was a form of worship happening there This one's maybe a bit more obvious. We have Pharaoh. He really did believe he was a god. He really had the nation of Egypt worshiping him And essentially what Pharaoh was doing was he was setting himself uh up against God, saying he's more powerful than God and we see God takes ten plagues to punish and discipline Pharaoh, and at times you think Pharaoh's getting it, he understands, and then the next scene we see that Pharaoh once again his pride has put him as an enemy against God. He really thought he was king. David. Just last week we we read and we studied and heard the preaching of how David slept with that Sheba, he then murdered Uriah, and in this moment David's pride set him up that he could have whatever he wanted. regardless of what God had given him. You're right, uh David's pride had set him up and said that he is sovereign over individual men's lives David's pride had set him up that he believed that he was untouchable and his sin would go unnoticed. And we saw what happened there. And the last instance that I think we see pride, and there's many more throughout Scripture, but the one that we'll see quite a bit tonight is Judas, the one that betrayed Jesus. His pride had set him up that he could betray Jesus, he could sell Jesus and become rich. That's all he needed. He was going to be a rich man. All thirty shekels of silver were going to make him rich. This was all he needed. He was the one that could hand over the Messiah to the rulers. His pride had driven him to such a position. And as we read throughout tonight, all the different narratives, Absalom's pride has driven him to the point where he will die because of So let's look at Second Samuel eighteen, starting in verse eight. The battle spread over the face of all the country, and the force devoured more people that day than the sword. And Absalom happened to meet the servants of David. Absalon was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick branches of a great oak, and his head caught fast in the oak. And he was suspended between heaven and earth. Well the mule that was under him went on, and a certain man saw it and told Joab, Behold, I saw Absalon hanging in the in an oak Joab said to the man, Who told him? What ye saw what ye saw him? Why then did you not strike him there to the ground? I would have been glad to give you ten pieces of silver and a belt But the man said to Joab, even if I felt in my hand the weight of a thousand pieces of silver, I would not reach out my hand again. against the king's son. For in our hearing the king commanded you and Abshai and Etai, for my sake protect the young man Absalom. On the other hand, if I had dw dealt treacherously against his life, and there is nothing hidden from the king, then you yourself would have stood aloof. Joab said, I will not waste time like this with you. And he took three javelins in his hand and thrust them into the heart of Absalom while he was still alive in the oak. And ten young men, Joab's armor bearers, surrounded Absalon and struck him and killed him. Then Joab blew the trumpet, and the troops came back from pursuing Israel, for Joab restrained them And they took Absalom and threw him into a great pit in the forest and raised over him a very great heap of stones. And all Israel fled, every one to his own home. Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and set up for himself the pillar that is in the king's valley. For he said, I have no son to keep my name in remembrance. He called the pillar after his own name, and it is called Absalom's Monument to this day. We recognize the sadness of the story. This is a very sad event. This is the son of David, so we saw David last week. uh that he slept with Bathsheba. They had a son, that son was taken from them because of his sin and God's discipline upon him. But then immediately following we see that Solomon is born, and now we see that he has many more children, and Absalom is one of them. But remember that one of God's punishments to David is that there will always be the sword within his kingdom, within his family. And this is a piece of that promise. Absalom, his very son, is rebelling against David. His pride is dwelling up. His pride is trying to take over, and Absalom wants to set himself over David and against him. God. So what is some of Absalom's pride? May we see it here and may we understand what his pride is. And what I want us to do is I want us to draw out of there and recognize that we too have similar circ uh uh circumstances. And our pride resembles this at times. So the first piece of Absalon Absalom's pride is that Absalom takes justice into his own hands. He doubts that God is just. We saw that in the first narrative, that's in chapter 15, 22 through 33. He's taking justice into his own hands. Abnon has sinned against God, yes. He's raped his sister Tamar. And uh so Absalom sees something that is wrong. He sees something is wrong. Instead of trusting God, trusting the the civil authorities and trusting the system that God has put over the kingdom. Absalom takes it into his own hands. He says God's not really just. Notice that he doubts that God's actually just and that God's going to actually atone and make things right with this this mistreatment of Tamar, so then Absalon's going to take it into his own hands. And we see that Absalom goes and murders Abnon. Takes he waits for two years. Alright, so this this wasn't just a a rage of passion in the moment he reacted. He waited for two years Planning this murder out. He waited till Abnan was at a very weak state. He was merry, his heart was merry with wine. Right? His mind wasn't all there, he wasn't fully strong. And then Absalom called in his his servants, his goons, to murder Abnon. We see that he has to take justice into his own hands because he doubts what God is going to do. Brothers and sisters, we are often challenged by this very thought. We want to make the world just. We want to redeem things. We want to solve the problems we see around us. When war breaks out, aren't we all passionate? We all get fired up and we want to go fight the enemies We want to be the ones to take the final strike and the final blow to the wicked leaders of other nations. When we see mistreatment of children, we want to be the ones to rush in and rescue them. We want to be the ones to put the child molester and the perverted ones to their death. We have this passion within us because we recognize what is unjust. And then we pervert it and we say we're the ones that are going to solve and make things right. We say we are the only ones that can make things right. We are the only ones that can find justice in this time. We are the only ones to atone for the death and the mistreatment. We place ourselves in the seat of the judges. We doubt God is in control. Now this is a very tough thing for us to deal with. Because is there injustice in the world? Yes and amen. No doubt. There is injustice. And at times God has called individuals, has called the church, has called the civil government to deal with the injustice. Right? God has placed the sword into the civil, the hands of the civil authority. We see that in Romans and Titus. The government has the role to punish the wicked. Well what we often want to do is say, well, the government's too slow, the government's too corrupt, uh the government's going to miss the situation, and then we take it into our own hands. Friends, may we trust the system God has given us. And if something goes unpunished here in this lifetime. This is very hard for us to to accept. If something goes unpunished, someone gets away with murder, someone gets away with stealing, someone gets away with mistreating you at work and never receives the punishment here on this earth. We must trust and know that God will make all things right in the end. Either that person will be punished for their sins rightly, or Christ has bared their sins on the cross. Justice rests in the hands of God. He has agents, he has his servants here on this earth to dish out and pour out justice upon the wicked through the civil governments. Through the church system, within the church, through the family, within the parents. But ultimately we cannot take justice into our own hands. When we do that, we're doubting that God is in control, that God is just. The second moment of pride we see with Absalom is that Absalom makes himself ruler. He makes himself a ruler ruler. We see that in chapter 15, verses 1 through 12, that narrative where he conspires and he sits himself outside of the walls, and whenever someone comes to the the king with a complaint Absalom grabs them before they can get to the king, and he starts to say, Oh, that I were judge in the land. And he tries to start to turn the hearts of man, saying, Uh, see, your claims are good and right But there is no man designated by the king to hear you. That's in verse three. Notice he's trying to set himself up as king and ruler. He doubts that God establishes kings and rulers. So he makes himself ruler, and this is showing that he doubts and doesn't trust the kings that God has already established. He's trying to catch the the men before with their complaints coming in and he's trying to be their hero. He's trying to be the one that saves them. He's trying to be the one that solves all their problems He's trying to be the one that provides all the solutions to them. Husbands, does this ring a bell? We want to be problem solvers, right? It's a good thing. But often this is our temptation, is that we just want to get the problem. We want to solve the problem and move on from it. Or how many times have you said this at work or within the church or when you're looking outside in the world? This statement right here. If I were in control Everything would have got done at work perfectly. Right? If I were in control, all the chicken would have got fried and there would have been no pro no backups at in the line at Chick-fil-A. Amen Even when you're there. If I were in control, there would be so many more people coming to the church. There would be a revival happening if I was in control of the church. If I were in control, there would be no wars, there would be no one hungry, there would be no one homeless, there would be no drugs, there would be no sinners. If only I were in control. John, I just need five minutes to be in control of this nation. I'd fix it, right? I'm president, you're vice president, five minutes, we'll solve all the problems and then right? Isn't that how we think sometimes? Let's do it. We have probably twenty votes. Not everyone's gonna vote for us, but we'll get twenty. But we get in that mindset often. If only I were in control If only the power rested in me alone, I would fix and solve all the problems. Friends, that's your pride. That's your pride. You're doubting that God has established the rulers and the bosses and the pastors in the right positions at the right times. Are they sinners? Absolutely. Do they make mistakes in their leadership and instruction of the nations and of the church and of the families and in the civil world? Absolutely. But they still have been established by God. They should be challenged. We talked about that last week. When they sin, they should be called of their sin. There's instructions of who is qualified for all those roles and positions. But may we never say that if we were the problem solver, if we were in the s positions of rulership, if we were the king, if we were in charge, everything would be fixed. That's you showing that your pride doubts. That God establishes kings and rulers. Friends, I'm so guilty of this prideful moment right here. I'm so guilty of this So much of my life was all about that. If only I was the team captain. If only I was the one that had the last opportunity to make the saving play and score. If only I was the one in charge of whatever team and uh company I was in in the army. If only I was the one making the decisions for the church, I would have solved all the problems. If only, if only, if only Well maybe God has established us right where we need to be at the right time. Maybe for training. Maybe He's building us up that someday we will be those leaders in those positions. Or maybe it's because God has a plan, and this is exactly where he wants us in time, in history. It's exactly where he wants us with the appropriate authority that he has given to us, and the leaders above us and below us have the right authority. according to his perfect will and plan. And we actually believe that. That he is that much in control that he has established even the wicked leaders in the positions they hold. Our pride of us designed to be leaders and rulers shows that we doubt that God establishes kings. The last moment of Absalom's pride that we see, and that comes out of the the last text we read in chapter eighteen, is that Absalom goes to battle against God's people. Absalom goes to battle against God's people, and why does he do this? Is he doubts God is power. Uh we don't read the full narrative of what I read tonight, but you could read uh really from chapter fifteen all the way up to where we're at, and you'll see this story and this narrative and And essentially Absalom builds uh an army behind him, and then they start to battle and fight with David's men. That's why I picked up at verse eight. We saw that there was a battle happening um in the country. And then we get to the story. But essentially, Absalom goes to battle against God's people. He doubts God is powerful. How often do we go to battle against God's people? Your pride has set you up against your brother and sister sitting in the pew next to you. You get frustrated, you get angry, and once again that whole idea of like if I was just in charge, that fool wouldn't have made that foolish decision Hopefully you're just looking in the mirror when you say such things, but that often happens. We go to battle against the very people God has given us as brothers and sisters. We fight amongst one another, we battle against one another. Maybe you don't even need to think about the church. What about within your marriages? How often do you go to battle with your spouse? You're fighting against the very person God has given you. to love and to to respect and to care for. And that's the very person we fight against. We doubt that God's in control, we doubt that God's powerful. And really these prides that we see Absalom committing, and we can reflect in in ourselves, are all connected in some way Notice that each and every one of these has an aspect where we doubt God. And that's the problem with pride. Pride rises up within us when we doubt God in some way. When we doubt that God's in control, when we doubt that God has established the men in position Of power, when we doubt that God is powerful and can do whatever He wills and wishes. Our pride reflects our doubt in God. Remember, pride is the misplacement of your worship. They're prideful worships themselves rather than God. As you doubt God, you start to rise yourself up. in the position of power and authority. As you start to doubt God, you start to put yourself above God and how you worship. And friends, we must detest and hate pride. We must see it. The very sparkle of it in our lives. As soon as it starts to pop up, we must see it, recognize it, and get rid of it as fast as we can. May we never allow pride to lift us up so high that we come crashing down in humiliation. And that's what we're going to see this last section, the fall. You know, we talk about the title of the sermon is The Fall of the Prideful. We've talked about what pride is. We see examples of Absalom's pride, and now we're going to see the terrible fall of Absalom. The pride of Absalom is his downfall. Hear that. The pride of Absalom. How he has lifted himself up to be the j judge and the ruler. How he has lifted himself up to be the king. very downfall of who he is. Look with me. We're in 2 Samuel 18, verse 9. And Absalom happened to meet the servants of David. He happened to meet them. Why did he happen to meet them? Is because he went to war against them. It's not just, oh, he was just being a jolly man Him and his men were just riding through the wilderness, not bothering anyone. No, he happened to meet them because he called them out in battle and they've been in they've been fighting. Now the language here is used because they happen to meet because most likely Absalom was trying to avoid the main battle. He was trying to skirt around. He was trying to hide from it. And here God sets his servants up against him. Absalom was riding on his mule, and the mule went under the thick branches of a great oak, and his head caught fast in the oak. And he was suspended between heaven and earth, while the mule that was under him went on. The pride of Absalom is his very downfall. I believe the author of the stories and and God's this narrative of telling, his great story of history, makes it very clear that Absalom's pride lifted his head up to the point that it was not supposed to be, and the branch catches his neck. Now this is what actually happened, but I think we can see a lot of symbolism here. The pride have very long necks. Right? The pride have very long necks. Now, not physically. Alright, I don't want you to go looking around whoever's got a long neck. You mark them down for the prideful person. There's plenty of no-neck people that have pride in their lives. But the symbolism here, right? When you're prideful, when you're boastful, you stand a little taller. Your your chin's up a little bit. Marines often walk with their chin up a little bit until they meet a sli shoot a problem. I never even thought about that. We have a huge issue with Marines here But right, this this imagery that the pride of man lifts us up and makes us boastful. And here Absalom, he's riding high up on his horse, his mule, and that's what catches his neck. I I believe this is very intentional. God is a very humorous author of history. That the oak tree catches his neck and suspends him. Listen how this is worded. And he was suspended Between heaven and earth. Oh, Absalon, you thought you were a god. So you can't dwell on the earth. You're not, you're you're mightier than just mere men. But notice that he's he's not mighty enough to be a god that ascends into the heavens. His very downfall is that he's suspended between heaven and earth And this is what pride does to us, friends. Our pride makes us think that we're better than what we really are, but we're our pride is never strong enough to get us all the way into heaven. We're suspended between heaven and earth. Friends, that's not a place to be. I hope you never want the oak tree to be wrapped around your neck, you flailing, no way to get any higher, and no way to get down off of the the very branch that's suspending you. The pride of man is the very downfall of man. Look in verse 14. Joab said, I will not waste time like this with you. And he took three javelins in his hand and thrust them into the heart of Absalom. while he was still alive in the oak. Verse 15, and ten young men, Joab's armor bearers, surrounded Absalom and struck him and killed him. Now we we didn't catch all this story because we didn't read all the narrative. But Joab was instructed not to kill Absalom. And he sinned. He rebelled against the king, and he mur he kills uh Absalom as he is suspended in the church. Why? Well guess what? Joab's guilty of pride as well. He wants to take justice in his own hand. There's a whole story here that we we didn't get to read, but Joab essentially uh lost his friends and his family. In battle, and his whole world was turned upside down because of Absalom's rebellion. So his pride has now dwelled up , and now he is taking justice into his own hands and killing Absalom. Interesting. Joab 's pride is the very pride that puts Absalom to death. Friends, you will never outpride the world You will never just raise yourself higher than the world. There's always someone that's going to supersede you, always try to set your themselves above you. And for the rest of your life, if you say, I'm going to be the ruler of all things, there's always going to be someone above you. And most likely will be your downfall. The pride of Absalom is his downfall. Point number two in the fall is that pride brought isolation. Notice in verse 15 that Absalom is surrounded by the enemies, his enemies. He's surrounded by his enemies. They pierce him, they put him to death. But also notice that from the point that he gets suspended in the tree, someone sees it, runs and tells Joab. Joab's upset that he didn't kill him. He gathers his men and goes back to Absalom. Absalon's still hanging out. Now if he had friends with him, if he had his team with him, it would have just got a mule, got him down, and rode off, and we would have never heard this story But we must recognize that pride brought isolation to Joab. Or excuse me, to Absalom. We don't know why. Maybe maybe his pride has just pushed all of his servants away from him. They didn't want to deal with him anymore. Maybe his pride was so strong that he said, I'm gonna sneak around the enemy and I'll be the one to strike the final blow in this battle. So he snuck off on his own. We don't know the reason here, but ultimately we see that he is isolated. We should recognize that symbolism. Your pride is only pushing people away from you. At first it may appear that they're they're they're joining you. You know, a real prideful person, someone that sounds good and can take some leadership, they'll draw a crowd. But what happens when things get hard? What happens when life faces challenges? What happens when the enemies start to come? Those followers, those devoted to that prideful person, start to just disappear, start to run off. Pride isolates us. Your pride is isolating your friends and your family from around you. Your pride is isolating you from God. Why? It's because you're taking your focus away from God and you're putting it all onto yourself. So your focus is on yourself And probably the people you surrounded yourself with are prideful and focused in on themselves. And ultimately you're all just a a bunch of individual bubbles that will one day pop because your eyes aren't on God. Pride brings isolation We should hate that. We should reject that. We should recognize that the church cannot be built on a bunch of individuals that want to be the king and ruler of their own lives and their church. We will see that pride, if it's going to drive away people, we should despise it. We should think about if pride's gonna separate us from God, we should hate it and rip it out of our lives. We should detest it and get rid of it any moment we see it. We should not seek isolation in the Christian life. We should seek close and sweet fellowship with our Father, and we should seek fellowship with our brothers and sisters in Christ And the last piece of the fall of pride, the prideful are building up their rewards on earth rather than heaven. Oh, oh, the pride gets the reward. I I don't want to lie to you and say there's no reward in being prideful. You'll have your reward It's just a meaningless reward. It's just a reward that's here on earth and essentially will be completely destroyed. It has no eternal value. It has no eternal wealth. Look with me in verse 18. And it says, Now Absalom in his lifetime had taken and set up for himself the pillar that is in the King's Valley. For he said, I have no son to keep my name in remembrance. He called the pillar after his own name, and it is called Absalon's monument to this day. Good job, Absalom. You did it. You got your monument. And for the rest of the time that those stones stand there, people will ride by and remember Epsilon. Good job. Right? Is that what he wanted? He wanted to be a king? He wanted to be a ruler? He wanted the men to love and like him. He got it. Enjoyed that pillar. How great is that! Friends, may we see that if our pride is building up these things on earth that have no value, sure you may become president. Sure, you may become the boss and CEO of your company. But if that's all it is, if you reach your goal when you die, that too will die. That too will perish. That will go away. Rather, instead of being prideful in building up things on this earth, rather may we be humbled and recognizing that there are great stones that we get to cherish as we walk on them. In the presence of our God. Rather than building up treasures and rewards here on this earth, may we recognize that we have an eternal treasure, an eternal reward in heaven. May we see the glory of an eternity with our God. Then we value and look for that treasure and that reward rather than building ourselves up here on this earth for something that will cher will be destroyed and everyone will forget. I know in today's error and how we've We've lived in and technology, many of us can trace our lineage and maybe you can go back to your great great grandfather. Um but just a f A few decades ago that really wasn't easily done. It was rare that people traced their lineage and knew all the the the uh ins and outs of their their relatives and And the family trees. And if you have that, you should cherish that. That is a great reminder of God and His work throughout history. But really, does anyone remember? Does anyone remember the person that laid the first brick at the Jarrett's Fire Hall? Maybe some of you were probably alive for that. What about who who laid the first brick and the first stone of the the Methodist Church? in church so that's a little bit older. Or r I really like the the Presbyterian church going out that way, whatever way that is, West. Yeah, white hole everyone has a different name for every town in this State. But but who laid that first stone? Who who knows? That man has has perished and gone away. There's a memory there. What I'm trying to get at is what we do here on this earth has some longevity, but it should not be our main purpose. Our cherish and our pride should not be in what we're building up here on this earth. It should be what we're doing in the kingdom of God. Will that have physical realities to it? Absolutely. We're sitting in a physical reality of the work of God's kingdom in this church But this isn't what we're cherishing. I don't believe the men that built this church are sitting back in heaven and being so excited that they built a building. I believe they're sitting back and worshiping the triune God, recognizing that they have a savior that has paid for their sins and now they get to dwell with him into eternity. Oh yeah, and God bless them for a moment in history that they were able to build a physical building. to gather the saints together and worship. Praise him for that. But may we not be building up earthly treasures and thinking that's better than what we'll have in heaven. And friends, that's what the pride does in us, is that we build up our power, our strength, our rule, our kingdom here on this earth that will be completely destroyed. Just like like Absalon's was. Anyone know where Absalon's monument is today? Has anyone ever seen it? There's some there's some old withered out weathered out stones that some people think is Absalon's monument, but there's no definite place where it's definitely Today. It is forgotten. That is what pride does. The pride is our downfall. May we be reminded from Proverbs 8:13: God hates pride. He hates it. He's not uh not sure about it. He's not neutral about it, he hates it. So if we see pride in our lives, may we hate it too May we never try to raise ourselves up to the position of God. May we never place ourselves in the position of worship. And friends, I warn, I warn, I warn that this is so common in our lives. Oh, for the pastors and the preachers, when we get the the compliments and oh that sermon was so good. Praise God for that. But there's a temptation that pride dwells steps in and that we build ourselves up. Oh, and oh, you guys went on such a great missions trip and you did such great things. Yes and amen. But be be warned that pride is going to try to slip in there and try to take over control. Instead of you recognizing what God has done on that mission trip, recognizing what God is doing in that area, we try to put ourselves to be worshipped and praised for it. And there's so many examples. In our evangelism, in how we run programs here, how we proclaim the gospel to the world, may we never, never, never allow ourselves to take a position. Position of worship in those things. Because we will fall just like Absalom.