Take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter three, fourteen to fifteen. fifteen Genesis chapter three fourteen to fifteen talking this morning about the gospel of Jesus Jesus Christ. What we have in our passage this morning is the first preaching of the gospel. It's in seed form. It is in Embryonic form. But you have, for the first time, in Scripture and in history, God promising A Savior. God promising victory over sin and over Satan. God promising deliverance. Brothers and sisters, that's the gospel This traditionally is called, Genesis 3. 15, is called the first preaching of the gospel. And so that's what I'm titling the message, the gospel of Jesus Christ. In Genesis chapter one and chapter two, there was no sin in the world. And there was no temptation in the world. But in Genesis chapter 3, temptation entered the world. And then sin entered the world, and death entered the world through sin. But from this point forward , What you have is sin and death in the world, and that's why it's critical, absolutely critical, that we grasp that you also have the gospel in the world, because that's our salvation from sin. I want us each to hear this message both personally and historically. Alright, I want us each to hear the message personally, which means our hearts are not only thinking about Adam and Eve. And the significance of the gospel for them, but our hearts are thinking about ourselves and the significance of the gospel for our lives, the significance of the gospel for our destinies The significance of the gospel for our hearts and for the rest of our soul. And I've never had to do this during a sermon before. If you're sitting close, you can see this giant spider hanging Right here. It w it really was distracting me. Trying to talk about the most important thing ever, and I have this spider dangling right in front of my eyes. Alright Alright, let's start over. Let's take our Bibles. No. Just kidding. So we hear this message personally. It's not only for Adam and Eve, but for our hearts, for our souls, for our destinies. And whenever children of God sit under the gospel, which should be a delight for us to do, The gospel is always filling our hearts with joy, always filling our hearts with gratitude, always filling our hearts with love as we see the this gospel this great grace and this wonderful glory of salvation in Christ. And those things in the heart would produce obedience and discipleship in our lives. So we've got to be a people who are passionate about hearing the gospel, contemplating the gospel, so that it can put into our hearts and cultivate within our hearts the thing that will enable us to live for God. And not ourselves. And that's joy, faith, love, gratitude, all of those things. So we hear the message not only personally, but also historically, and by that I simply mean that the rest of history, the rest of the Bible, is going to be God fulfilling this gospel promise. The rest of the story will be the way that God, over the ages, over the span of history, the way that God makes good on his promise of a Savior, and that will be Jesus Christ. Let's go to the Lord in prayer before we go any deeper into this. God, I pray that you would open our hearts to your word, that by your spirit you would stir us up, stir up our minds, stimulate our hearts. To spiritual things, to eternal things, to heavenly things, to things of forgiveness, to things of the gospel, to things of our moral accountability before you, that we might. Hear, with ears to hear, and see with eyes to see, with hearts that understand and embrace what you have to teach us Help each one of us to turn and believe in Jesus and find rest in him. We ask this in his name. Amen. If you have one of the sheets, you'll see clearly the outline of the message, Satan cursed, salvation promised. And sinners forgiven by the power of this gospel. The gospel that is revealed in seed form or in embryonic form. And when a seed grows, yes, there's change But a a seed of one kind of plant, as it's growing, it doesn't turn into a different kind of plant. It just gets more and more mature. It gets bigger and bigger and more and more developed. An embryo of a person doesn't become a different person as it grows and develops. It's the same person, the same DNA, just more and more mature, more and more developed. And that's what happens with the gospel throughout history as God reveals more and more of his plan of redemption in Christ If Satan cursed, salvation promised, and sinners forgiven by the power of this gospel, the gospel that's promised right here in Genesis 3:14 and 15. Let's read uh the text. The Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock, and above all beasts of the field. On your belly you shall go. And dust you shall eat all the days of your life. I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. Now, the beginning of verse 15 we won't get to till later in the message, but I have to say something about that word enmity. I know personally I never use that word ever unless I'm in this passage. It's an intense hatred. That's what enmity is. And so just if you you want to know ahead of time W what's being said there, at least generally, I will put enmity between you and the woman. That's uh it means hatred. Satan cursed, salvation promised, and sinners forgiven by the power of this gospel. A few words just on the gospel in general Before we go step by step through verses 14 and 15, kind of a bird's eye view of the gospel. The gospel is God's promise to save sinners and to defeat Satan through the person and work of Christ. It's God's promise. That's what the gospel is. It means Good news. The good news of a free salvation that's found in Christ on the basis of his life, death, and resurrection And if you have not come to faith in Christ yet and received that salvation, you can do that this morning by seeing Jesus Christ Seeing in the eyes of your heart, not physically, literally, but spiritually at the eyes of your heart, seeing Christ, seeing his salvation. Seeing that he died on the cross in your place for your sins and believing upon him, then you have the gift or you have the grace of salvation. And the gift of eternal life. So that's what the gospel is. It's a promise that brings God's love into our hearts. It's a promise that brings genuine hope into our lives. So that we don't just have to live for the counterfeit hopes in the world that will not last. And it's a promise that brings change into our lives for the glory of God, because how would we beg uh be living If we had not been transformed by the power and the grace of the gospel. Well, it's easy. We'd be living for the world. We'd be living for ourselves. We'd be living, and it would be our only option would be to live for temporal things. But not to live for God, but praise God. Praise God that He brought the gospel into our lives to change the direction of our lives And to enable us to live for his glory and not for our own glory, which is the proper way to live, is to live for God's glory. And he's filled our hearts with love and he's filled our minds with hope. This is the gospel. You don't have to pay anything for it And you don't have to work for it. And you don't have to earn it. Isaiah 55, 1 in symbolic language, symbolic prophetic language is an invitation To come to God for salvation, Isaiah 55, verse 1, come, everyone who thirsts, come to the waters. And he who has no money, come buy and eat. Come buy wine and buy milk without money and without price. It's a crazy illustration when you think about it. Come to the marketplace and buy these things without any money, but that's the illustration for how we receive the gospel. Come to the fountain of salvation. Come, come to God and receive this gift of eternal life. But don't come thinking you need to pay for it. Don't come thinking you need to barter for it. You do not earn salvation, but receive it as a free gift. And you can do that this very morning if you put your faith in Jesus Christ. This is what the gospel is in a bird's eye view. The overview is God's promise to save sinners and defeat Satan through the person and work of Christ, through his life, death, and resurrection that we receive by faith. And the seed form, the embryonic form of this gospel revealed in Genesis 3, 14, and 15. So, number one, Satan curse. Alright, Satan cursed. So this is verse 14. This is the first thing that happens after Adam and Eve fell into sin. Verse 14: the Lord God said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock, and above all beasts of the field, on your belly you shall go, and dust ye shall eat all the days of your life. First of all, notice the speaker. Who is the speaker? The Lord God. This is special revelation. This is supernatural revelation. This is the audible voice of God spoken in creation. The Lord God said. That's how it begins. And this is a combination of Elohim, which means God, is interpreted God. It means Supreme Ruler or Supreme Majesty. Means the most powerful being, the highest role in the universe? God, Elohim. But it's not just God, it's the Lord God Yahweh, I am, which is God's covenant name. God's covenant name Demonstrating his covenant relationship with his people. This is the Lord God said. In Genesis chapter 1 you see uh Elohim. In Genesis chapters 2 and 3 you see Yahweh Elohim, you see, the Lord God. Now, why is this important? Well, it's it's so important because Moses, the author of Genesis, who's writing this For the nation of Israel after the Exodus, Moses is writing this. He sees this story as part of Israel's story. Because you have Yahweh Elohim, the covenant God, interacting in this situation What's happening here is the foundation of Israel's story, which makes it the foundation of our story as the people of God. That's the speaker, the Lord God said. Now what's the audience or the primary recipient? Primary is Satan because it says The Lord God said to the serpent. The serpent represents Satan. And when I preached on this, I said, We don't know exactly all of the details of what's going on here, but we do know that there's some kind of supernatural intrusion. some kind of demonic possession where the Satan is using this serpent, this was a created being as a vehicle, as a means of the temptation. So when the curse comes to the serpent as the audience, it's coming to what the serpent represents, or who is the one who is using this serpent, and that is Satan or the devil, this angel that rebelled against God and led the rebellion against God. We don't know exactly what animal, in case you're wondering, this whatever serpent, whatever reptilian created animal this was. We don't know for sure. But in cursing the animal, he's really it really cursing Satan In cursing the animal, it makes the curse and it makes the results of sin visible and understandable to Adam and Eve. If you can just zoom out with me for a second and thinking about this story At this point, you have something that did not exist previously in the world. Something that did not exist previously in the Bible. What you have is a curse. Before this, you have blessing. Which is the outpouring of God's favor, the outpouring of God's kindness. Now you have a new element. You have a curse, which is the outpouring of God's wrath, the outpouring of God's righteous judgment. And those two things will persist in human history side by side. God blessing, and God bringing the curse of wrath and judgment. Until the last day, when he brings the final wrath and the final judgment. You have this curse, which is the rest of 14 Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock and above all beasts of the field, on your belly you shall go, and the dust you shall eat all the days. of your life. A curse had come into the world centered on, centered on the devil, centered on Satan. Satan cursed, but also salvation promised. Salvation promised. And this comes from verse 15. The Lord God says to the serpent, the Lord God says to Satan, I will put enmity between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. And he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. I have this as an A, B, and C just to try and summarize the three components of this gospel promise. A is The promise to save Eve personally. The promise to save Eve personally That's really uh quite cool. That's intriguing to me. The first thing God promises is to save Eve. Verse 15a. I will put enmity between you and the woman. I'll put this intense hatred between you, Satan, and the woman. I'll put this deep-seated contempt between you, Satan, and the woman. I will put enmity between you And the woman. How is that a promise to save Eve? I am glad that you asked, because that's a very important question. Well, because what's Eve's spiritual condition? Presently, before this, she had abandoned God. She had rebelled against God, and she entered into obedience and allegiance to Satan She's made herself an enemy against God and a friend to Satan. She's put herself at enmity against God, but a friend to Satan, and the promise is from God that he'll reverse that. He will break her free from the grip of Satan. He'll break her free from slavery to sin. And she will no longer hate God and love sin, but she'll hate sin and love God. Brothers and sisters, that's salvation. That is repentance. And that is what God did in our lives. Before God's grace came into our lives, we lived for ourselves and we were blind to sin. And we loved sin sin. And we were unwittingly in allegiance to Satan and not God. But God changed our hearts by the power of the gospel. God enabled us to repent. He enabled us to do a 180 and no longer hate God but love sin, but rather to love God and flee from sin. This is not a small promise to promise that Eve will be saved. You see in this passage, two things are happening at once. Two things are happening as a part of the same reality, two sides of one coin, I guess you could say. Two things are being accomplished simultaneously. Curse against Satan, victory over Satan is being pronounced, but at the same time salvation for man is being announced and promised. You have both of those things. Because a promise to defeat Satan, to destroy his works, to bring him to judgment is a promise to save sinners from his grip. From slavery to sin. The thing that you want in your heart is enmity against Satan The thing that we want in our hearts is enmity against sin. And we want love for God, not rebellion against God. We want to run to God, not flee from God, which Adam and Eve had just done in the previous passage. They tried to evade God, thinking they could avoid judgment if they could just hide from God. So enity between you, serpent, representing Satan, and the woman, the promise to save Eve personally. And Eve was saved. By that promise, the same way we're saved by the promise of the gospel as it comes to us in our age, and that is by grace through faith Through faith. When you believe the promise of a Savior, you are saved. When you believe the promise of salvation, you're reconciled to God. All your sins are forgiven. You're given the gift of eternal life. When you believe the promise of the gospel, whether the seed form as revealed or in our age, the fully revealed form in the person and work of Christ Letter B, the promise to save a people historically. You have the promise to save Eve personally. Then you have the promise to save a people historically. Um fifteen B and between your offspring and her offspring Now that's picking up on the beginning of the sentence because it's stringing things together. So you can you have I will put enmity first between you and the woman, but then also I will put enmity between your offspring and her offspring Now remember God is talking to Satan. So between Satan, between your offspring, that will be all unbelievers. All unbelievers, the kingdom of Satan, the kingdom of darkness, and her offspring, which will be believers. Now, we don't get all the details of what that looks like until the story develops. But it's previewing something here that there's going to be the people of God in, they're people of God that are located in a world in rebellion against God. The kingdom of darkness, the kingdom of Satan. But then within that you have the kingdom of God. You have believers. The word offspring. Maybe translated seed is an interesting word in scripture. It's an important word in scripture because it's a collective noun and sometimes it has the idea of a It's plural, and sometimes it has the idea of it's singular. And sometimes it's both. You have a singular figure, the seed, who represents the larger group, the seed. And so you have representative figures. Adam was a representative figure. Christ is a representative figure. That's why one of the ways we talk about being saved is being in Christ. Being in Christ, being united to Christ. And when we're in Christ, we come to share in all the blessings of salvation that He's attained to. Do you have Not just a promise to save Eve, and then salvation will disappear, but you have a promise to save a people historically, the people of God. That exists in all ages and throughout history in different ways, in different sizes, different places, different dispensations, different covenants. There's lots of diversity as the story moves forward, but you have believers from Adam and Eve forward. God is not going to save Adam and Eve and then disappear from the picture and no longer save people. He's going to preserve for himself a people, create for himself a people. Now, in history, that started small, but you begin to see the fruit of this immediately. And I'll rip through these quickly. If the Lord allows, in coming weeks and months, we'll be preaching on these very things. But the very next story you see Abel, who was a believer. He was a believing offspring of Eve. And he offered acceptable worship to God, who was a man of faith. And then also in the next chapter, toward the at the end of the chapter, 426. You have people who formally begin to call upon the name of the Lord. 426. Which is the people of God gathering for prayer and worship to call upon his name, which is what we're doing here right now. We're people calling upon the name of the Lord. And then in chapter 5, you have Enoch, who has said multiple times that he walked with God. That means he lived as a believer. He lived by faith, not by sight. Enoch walked with God. And then Enoch also was miraculously taken into heaven. Enoch was ascended into heaven. Chapter six in a world a hundred percent covered in corruption, violence, sexual immorality, and and um In idolatry, Noah found favor in God's eyes, and Noah was a righteous man. He was saved. He was a believer. He was a worshiper. He was a preacher of righteousness Noah. So you see the fruit of the gospel immediately, even though you definitely don't see it at the extent in the world that you see. Today, but that's part of the progression of God's plan as it age to age, dispensation to dispensation, God expands Salvation to where Jesus comes, and that's why he gets the title Savior of the World. He's the Savior of the Wor And so things today look a whole lot different and a whole lot better than the days of Noah, when the whole earth earth, all the thoughts of every person was only evil all the time. And in that context of the whole earth filled with corruption, at least the populated w populated world at that time, in that time you had Noah alone who found favor. And then his family, eight souls in all, were saved in the ark. It's a lot different situation today, right? You have a whole lot more than one person saved by grace through faith. All that to say All that to say, God does promise to save a people historically and in history and through history to represent him on earth. And finally, let her see. The promise to send a human savior. The promise to send a human savior. 15, the very end, 15C, the letter N, the very end of that verse. He shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. It's very subtle. If you start to think about this, you'll see that there's a tension, there's a difficulty here Because in the middle of the verse, you have offspring in terms of a plurality of offspring. A plurality of offspring of Satan set against the plurality of offspring of the woman And now you have a singular, you have a he. You have a he. So you have the offspring of the woman, but eventually it gets down to this one man, this one person, this one he. The Savior. And he shall bruise or he shall crush the head of the Satan. That's a symbolic way of saying destroy Satan Will have victory over Satan. Well, when you crush the head of a serpent, you kill that serpent immediately. And he shall bruise His heel, or you shall bruise his heel. You, Satan, shall bruise his the Savior's heel. Um say one more thing about that, but first is let's read it again. He, the seat of the woman, shall bruise your Satan head. And you, Satan, shall bruise his, the seat of the woman. Heal. You have the Savior, who will be the seed of the woman, and you have Satan, whom he will destroy. But, but In the process, he will suffer. In the process, he will be wounded, but it will be on his heel. He's trying to get the visual there of the Savior Bringing a victory stomp on Satan. And in that imagery that's representing a victory over Satan and bringing about salvation for mankind, within that imagery, the Savior is wounded But it's not a fatal wound, because a wi a wound on the heel is nothing compared to uh something that crushes your head. Not to be flippant about it, but that's the imagery that we're supposed to get absolute destruction and victory over Satan and over sin in such a way that brings salvation. But in order to do that, this seed of the woman is going to suffer We can see in that the seed form, an embryonic form, prophecy of the cross of Jesus Christ, that he suffered in order to save us. He suffered greatly bodily and in his soul receiving the just penalty of our sin in order that we may be Delivered from Satan's grip in our lives. The promise to send a human Savior. I would note too that this is the first hint Of a very important Christian doctrine that we preach about every December, for basically the whole month of December, we preach about what The incarnation. And this is the first hint of the incarnation. Just a hint. It's not spelled out clearly. What is spelled out clearly is this, though: the Savior will be a human. The Savior will be a human. But isn't it true that all throughout Scripture, the entire Scripture, isn't it true that one of the clearest teachings of the whole Bible is that only God saves? Only God saves. It's one of the first things we learned in when we were four years old, five years old in Sunday school class. Only God saves. Well, how is it then that the Savior promised, when the first time it's ever promised, is a human? And so you see this develops throughout Scripture To where the coming Savior is going to be a man, and the coming Savior is going to be God, God in the flesh, Emmanuel, Jesus Christ. The rest of Scripture traces out where this promised Savior will come from. And I've got four main points on this. Not four main, they're not main points that I'm going to spread out, but just four main elements of how Scripture traces out. Where this Savior will come from. Number one, that on the other side of the flood, you have Noah saved And his sons, Shem, Ham, and Japheth, and it's promised that the Savior will come from the line of Shem Secondly, from within that line, Abraham is called. His name is Abram when he's called, and his name is changed to Abraham. Abraham and his son Isaac, and Isaac and his son Jacob, you have Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. The Savior will come from Abraham's line. Abraham Isaac and Jacob, and Jacob's name was changed to, everybody say it, Israel. Sabia will come from Israel. So in the in the line of Shem, in the line of Abraham , Abraham, Isaac and Jacob, who became Israel, that's where the Savior will come from. And then within Israel, twelve tribes in Israel, the Savior will come from the tribe of, say it out loud. Judah, and not just from the tribe of Judah, but from the tribe of Judah, the Savior will come from the house of, say it out loud, David. So you know all this. But this is what scripture does. Trace this out How the Savior is going to come and where the Savior is going to come from. From the line of Shem, the line of Abraham. From the nation of Israel, from the tribe of Judah, in the house of David, born to a virgin in the town of Bethlehem in the days of the Roman Empire, and that takes you to the New Testament where all that was fulfilled in Christ. John 1. 14, the Word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. And the Word became flesh. Flesh. The word is another title, another name for the eternal Son of God. The Logos, the Son, the eternal Son of God who became flesh, and that's the fulfillment of this promise. The seed of the woman does come. The seed of the woman does crush, Satan said. The seed of the woman does create enmity between us and Satan, breaking the friendship that we have with him, and delivering us from sin. Satan cursed, salvation promised, and now sinners forgiven. Sinners forgiven We've gone through the passage, but I wanted to close where we just step back and think of the wonder of forgiveness. The importance of the gospel. If you take this gospel purpose of God out of the narrative, if you take this gospel promise , Out of the story, all that you will have is full judgment, immediate death, and no hope for Adam and Eve, and nobody else ever exists. That's what you have if you don't have the entrance of mercy and grace and the love of God to save sinners like Adam and Eve and like you and I. This is so important. If you don't have the gospel of salvation here, it all ends. It all ends. The importance of the gospel. Think about what had just happened to Adam and Eve. What had just happened in their lives, the tragedy and the sadness of this? They had sinned against God. They had broken God's law. They turned against their creator. And now they're guilty and they deserve judgment. So now they have this great need. Their greatest need. When you're guilty and deserving of judgment, what's your greatest need? Forgiveness and salvation from that judgment. And that's what God brings into their lives. Not only are they guilty, deserving of judgment, but they're defiled. And they've defiled themselves and they have corrupted hearts. So what's their greatest need? Their greatest need is of a spiritual cleansing in their hearts. Salvation from judgment, but also cleansing spiritually. Salvation, deliverance from the ruling power of sin in their hearts. That's what they needed. That's what we needed. That's what we continue to need as we're progressively being sanctified into the likeness of Christ. And that is what God brought into their lives They're alienated. They've been alienated from God. So what's their greatest need? Their greatest need of being reconciled to Him, to be made friends again, and to be made allies again with God rather than Satan. And that's what God brought into their lives. That's what God did in their lives. And that's what He's done in our lives. Romans 5. 10 If while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of his son. How much more, much more, now that we are reconciled, shall we be saved by his life? Did you catch that? Reconciled to God by the death of his son That's the death stomp on the head of Satan. That's the victory over sin. That's our salvation. That's our deliverance. Jesus being wounded himself. suffering and dying in our place, but accomplishing a victory over Satan, so that we might live for God and not ourselves. Colossians 1, 13 to 14. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. And transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. The forgiveness of sins is not a small thing. It's the biggest thing. It's why Jesus died to blot out all the guilt of all of our sins. Do we not need that, brothers and sisters Are we not delighted in our heart? Overjoyed in our heart that Jesus has forgiven us, presented us before God, holy and blameless. transferred, transferred into the kingdom of his beloved son. Do you not love that imagery? Do you not love that imagery of being plucked up and brought over here and dropped into, transferred into the kingdom of Christ? The kingdom of redemption, the kingdom of forgiveness, the kingdom of the Holy Spirit, the kingdom of heaven, the eternal kingdom. Because what was over here? The domain of darkness and guilt and corruption and judgment and death and no hope. God has saved us. And He saved us through the gospel. The gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the importance of the gospel. The power of the gospel, the power of the gospel, is that it not only reveals salvation. But it is the power of salvation. Not only reveals salvation, which means if the gospel says, here's what salvation is, and that's important, we need to know what salvation is. But the gospel is more than that. The gospel is a living word. The gospel, as it comes into our hearts, and we receive it by faith, is the power of salvation. The word of the gospel births salvation in our hearts. This is not a dead letter. It's a living message, a living promise, a promise that is endowed with the power of God to change the human heart. The power of the gospel, this is not intellectualism. This is not mere bullet point facts to memorize. This is a life-giving, life-changing, destiny-changing. Heart cleansing, mind renewing, power of God, promise of Jesus Christ. That's how you need to think about the gospel. It's not just something that We memorize, but it stays outside of us. It's something that we internalize and sanctifies us for the glory of God Romans 10, 17, faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ. Through the word of Christ. Now, from our vantage point, We live on the other side of the incarnation, life, death, resurrection, ascension, pouring out of the Spirit of Christ. So we look back to Christ. When we hear the message of Christ, we are looking to Him in faith. Historically, we're looking back, and we're saved by that faith. Faith comes from hearing, and hearing through the word of Christ Now, from Adam and Eve, they're on the other side. They're on the other side. They're looking forward to the coming Christ. They're looking forward to the promised salvation. But still the principle holds Still, the principle holds because the promise of salvation to them is the promise of Christ. And for them, the principle holds that faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of Christ. Hearing the word of Christ who will come, or hearing the word of Christ who did come, it's still the word of Christ. Salvation in Christ. This is the sum and substance of all of redemptive history. All that the Bible 's about at every page the yes of diversity of different eras, different epochs As you go from stage to stage and age to age, but all the way through is the core, the sum, the substance of salvation in Jesus Christ. If someone has to come up to you. comes up to you on the street or at work and tells you they started reading the Bible, but it's confusing. The Bible is confusing to most of us when we just start out fresh reading it. At least for me it was. But they have they they want to know it's confusion, there's so much going on. What is it about? It's about salvation of Jesus Christ. Christ. Now there's different ways you can say that, right? It's about God's gracious salvation. It's about the promise of the gospel. There's different ways that we can say it because there's different aspects of it. But we should all know this frontward and backward that the whole story of all of Scripture is about the Lord Jesus Christ, from promise to fulfillment. The power of the gospel does not just communicate information, but it imparts salvation to the lost sinner. My final point is still under Sinners Forgiven, is that an open call of the gospel still stands today And this open call of the gospel will stand until the day Christ returns, until the day of final judgment, until the day of this final resurrection, the open call of the gospel stands. Gospel is not just about then, but about now. It's not just about those people, but it's about us people. 2 Corinthians 6:2 Behold, now is the favorable time of the Lord. Behold, now is the day of salvation Would you make it the day of salvation for yourself? Would you put your faith in Jesus Christ? That's something that's invisible. There's nothing I can tell you to do and say, ha, that's faith. Walk forward, that's faith. Faith is invisible. Faith happens in the heart. And if you put in your heart, if you put your faith in Jesus Christ on the basis of his life, death, and resurrection, you have the forgiveness of sin. And you've been transferred from the domain of darkness into the kingdom of Christ. And you, you, by the grace of God, have been saved by the power of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Satan cursed, salvation promised, and sinners forgiven by the power of this gospel. Now, obviously it's Genesis chapter 3. A whole lot more is going to happen in this story. Right, brother A whole lot more. But this structure will not change. Of God bringing sinners into a relationship with Himself, a saving, gracious covenant with Himself through the promise of the gospel. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus. Thank you for his blood shed on the cross that blots out all of our sin. That separates our sins from us and casts them into the deepest sea, and that reconciles us to you. Father, we're so thankful. I pray that you encourage us, strengthen us. Sanctify us for your name and glory, we pray. In Jesus' name, amen.