Well the words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Galatians chapter 5, verses 1 through 15. Galatians 5, verses 1 through 15. The call to freedom. We've been going through this letter to the Church in Galatia, and we've heard the very similar and same arguments chapter after chapter. Calling the Galatians to reject the Judaizers, reject those calling them to be saved in Christ, but still you must hold to the law of Moses. And s Paul is calling them to stand in their freedom. To recognize that in Christ they are free. To recognize that in Christ they are not obligated or being held to the law of Moses. There's beauty in this. There's freedom in this. And this is most likely the last time we will address this argument in this letter. Because Paul makes a transition after this. And then how to live. If you're not enslaved to the law anymore and you're free in Christ, now this is how you are to live. And that's what Paul will conclude this letter with. But tonight we must wrestle with this theological topic one more time. What does it mean to be free? How do we achieve or get this freedom? How do we live within this freedom? How can we keep this freedom? These are all the types of questions we must ask ourselves when examining this topic. We are fortunate. God has blessed us in this country to live in a nation that is genuine free compared to the rest of the world. And we know that that freedom has come at a great price. And we're also aware that that freedom is always on the verge of being taken away from us. And we have this anxiety about it as we gotta keep fighting. We gotta keep making sure our constitution is upheld and putting the right political leaders in place and making sure we have the best and the brightest or at least the strongest in the military. They're not all brightness just Okay , okay. And this is our fear. We hold on to this understanding of American freedom as this thing that could be just ripped out of our hands. Well, brothers and sisters, may we rest assured tonight and tomorrow, and every day that the Lord gives us breath, that the true freedom that is found in Christ. cannot be taken away from us. It was given to us by Christ and it is kept to us and for us by Christ. This is the uniqueness of the freedom we find in Christ. It's not like the patriotic American freedom that we think about. It's better. It's grander. Your freedom you have in Christ is better than the Constitution. Even the Second Amendment. It's a good one, right? But it's better. Your freedom in Christ is better than any freedom, earthly freedom, we have an understanding of today. And we must look to him, but we must also recognize what it costs for this freedom. And we must also see how we Walk in this freedom. So tonight let us look at Galatians 5, verses 1 through 15, and see the true call to everlasting freedom. Galatians 5, verse 1. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Stand firm, therefore, and do not submit again to a yoke of slavery. Look, I, Paul, say to you that if you accept circumcision, Christ will be of no advantage to you. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ, you who would be justified by the law. You have fallen away from grace, for through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision counts for anything, but only faith working through love. You were running well. Who hindered you from obeying the truth? This persuasion is not from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. Have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty, whoever he is But if I, brothers, still preach in circumcision, why am I still being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves. For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh. But through love serve one another, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. And the Lord bless the reading of his word. It 's freedom. These are possibly some of the strongest words and language Paul has used throughout this entire letter. And he's used very strong language at other times. But here he's driving home, as he has verse after verse, he's driving home the seriousness of this issue. The seriousness that some believe that they are going to be saved, they are going to be justified, they 're going to be made righteous through their works. And I don't know if Paul can use any more gruesome and serious language to make it clear that that is of no value to you. If you believe that you are saved by your works, that you will find freedom by the obedience to the law, you will find freedom by the outworking of your hands. Paul is giving you some serious and intense language that you must notice tonight. But let's first understand the cost of freedom. To be free, it comes with a cost. If it didn't cost anything, then it there really wouldn't be a need to be free. You would just be in that state. But we see that we are enslaved to sin. We are enslaved to sin, right? We see this throughout Scripture that we are enslaved to sin. That's we are bound to sin. We are bound to our flesh and And this is who we are, Ephesians 2. This is what Ephesians 2 is laying out. That you are dead in your transgressions. This is who you are outside of Christ. And then we see in Romans 6. 23, it says this, for the wages of sin is death. Friends, do you hear that? That there's a cost for your freedom? The wages of sin is death. So how do we become free From this world of sin that we live in, well, it's from it's it's by death. But what happens if we die still in our sin and not forgiven in Christ? What happens to us? We spend an eternity separated from God the Father. We spend an eternity in hell and the fire in the lake of fire receiving the just punishment for our sins. So how are we going to solve this problem? How are we going to pay off? How are we begun how are we going to become free tonight? How are we going to live in this world as free citizens of a great kingdom. Well we know that's only through the blood of Christ. The cost of freedom is through blood. And that blood is the blood of Christ. Ephesians 6. 23, it doesn't just end there with the wages of sin is death, but it says, for the wages of sin is death, but The free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. The wages of sin is death. Brothers and sisters, if you don't know that tonight, let me just Make this as clear. This is the gospel presentation as clear as it can be. For each and every one of us has been created by a great creator, our God. And we have rebelled against our creator. And God has promised that there is a penalty for sin, and that penalty is death and separation from him into eternity. It's an eternal punishment. That you deserve for your sin. It doesn't matter how hard you work, doesn't matter how perfect your church attendance is, how much you tithe, how much you love your neighbor and you do kind things, ultimately The only way that we can resolve this sin issue is to recognize that Christ Jesus, the Son of God, came down on a rescue mission to this earth. He lived a perfect life, fulfilling the law perfectly. He went to the cross, dying on the cross, bearing your sins, taking this punishment, the weight of sin, which is death, he bore for you, dying on the cross. His blood was poured out for us. He died on that cross. He was buried in the grave. And on the third day, he defeated the grave. He defeated sin. He defeated death and rose from the dead. Proclaiming the victory that we have in him now. He now sits in heaven at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth. You getting excited? Do you recognize who your great and victorious Savior is? It's Christ Jesus. How are you saved? How do you find true and everlasting freedom? It's not by wearing a flag. It's not by fighting a physical war. It's by placing faith in Jesus Christ. alone. Look with me in Hebrews chapter 9. Hebrews chapter 9, starting in verse 13. May we recognize the beauty of the blood of Christ that has bought our freedom for us. Verse 13 says, For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of the defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer, sanctify for the purification of the flesh, how much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purifying our conscience from dead works to serve the living God. Do you recognize the death that has to happen? Do you see the blood of Christ that has washed us, purified us, made us new, and bought us the freedom we are seeking? Look with me in Colossians chapter 1. Just trying to build up our confidence and the recognition of what Christ has done, how he has bought us our freedom. Colossians chapter one verse thirteen. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Sins. It's all through the work of Jesus Christ. And that's why Paul, back in Galatians chapter 5, says, for freedom, Christ has set us free. For freedom, Christ has set us free. Brothers and sisters, this is the purpose of Paul's letter. This is what he is driving home. That your salvation, your identity as a Christian, your freedom is found in Christ alone. Not by works of the law, not by obedience of the law, not by circumcision. If you have not seen this, this has not been clear to you throughout the study of Galatians, I encourage you tonight to go back and read it again. That it is by faith alone in Jesus Christ that we are saved. It's by faith alone in Jesus. His blood is the is the purchase of our freedom. It was a great cost. You and I could not pay for that freedom. We cannot attain our freedom on our own, but it's through the blood of Christ alone. This is why I put that little quote on your handout there from Charles Simeon. This is what he says. The more unworthy you feel yourselves to be, the more will God's grace be exalted and magnified. There's a righteousness already worked out for you and ready to be imparted to you. It is appointed to be received simply and solely by faith. It is the hope laid up for you in heaven. We must recognize our unworthiness of our freedom. We must recognize how great our sin is. We must recognize how disgusting we are in our natural flesh. Because what that does is it magnifies the glory. of our God. It magnifies his grace. It magnifies the work of Christ on the cross. It magnifies how much his blood costs to be poured out for us. The price he has paid is magnified when we understand. That we cannot fix this freedom. We cannot buy our freedom for ourselves. May you rejoice And enjoy the freedom you have purchased by the blood of Christ. Now let's understand what the joys of this freedom are. We understand that it was bought at a great and high cost, but what is the freedom? The joys of it? How can we enjoy it? What should make us happy as Christians today? This is a question we should probably be asking ourselves a lot more often. How can I be happy today because of my identity as a Christian? How can I be happy in January is tomorrow Tomorrow the 13th, 14th, 15th, whatever day you want it to be. How can you be happy when you wake up tomorrow because you're a Christian? What should we recognize? We see this, we hear this as Christians, we should be the most joyful people. Well, what are we happy about? The joys of freedom, there's two of them, is justification and righteousness. Now, let's be very honest. We could go through a much longer list of the joys of freedom. Right? I mean, these are just two of them that are coming out of the text and we should rejoice in. But I bet if if I called any one of you up here, you could just say, this is a joy of being a Christian, and then sit down. And we could keep going around the room and doing that. But tonight let's look at justification and righteousness. Now we understand that these overlap in a lot of ways. We can't separate them and say justification is one thing and righteousness is another, but we actually see That there is similarities and overlapping of them, but there's an importance of difference that I want us to look at. The first one is justification Justification is a legal standing. So if we were in a courtroom, God is the great judge, he's sitting on his Seats ruling over us, and we've come with all of our crimes, with all of our sins laid out before him. We can plead our case, well, you didn't understand. She made me get angry. He made me do that. She shouldn't have dressed up like we can go through this list of of sins and try to have excuses, but ultimately God looks at our sins and he sees that we are guilty of our sins and the punishment for that is death. But through Christ, through the blood of Christ, through his work on the cross, bearing our sins, Taking that punishment that we deserve, when God looks at us in the heavenly uh courtroom and we have been washed in the blood of Christ, we have come to Christ in faith. He does not look at Anthony and say, Anthony, you are a guilty sinner before me. He looks at me. He says, Anthony, you have been made just. You are justified through the blood of Christ. This is a glorious truth that we stand before God justified without guilt. He cannot bring a crime against us. He cannot bring a punishment against us because Christ has taken our punishment. This is a legal standing. Jump back into Romans, but this time chapter 3. May we just see the understanding that we have been made justified before a holy God. Romans three, starting in verse twenty three, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as As a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness because in the divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. Through the blood of Christ, we are now made justified. We have a legal standing before God that we are justified, not guilty. We are his through the blood of Christ. May that be a joy of our freedom. May we recognize that that is a part of our freedom, that we are justified. It's a legal standing. But here's this other side of it as well. The other piece of joy of our freedom is the righteousness. Righteousness. This is more focused on the character of who we are, the right relationship with God. It's the way we act and we live and the obedience we have to God. We are made righteous as well. And we seek righteousness. Why is the joy of righteousness found within freedom? is because outside of the freedom we have in Christ, we are bound and enslaved to the law. But here we have freedom in Christ, and now with joy we follow after Christ in obedience. We follow after God in obedience. With joy Joy. Not because we're bound to the law and we're trying to fulfill the law and find righteousness, but because of Christ, He has made us righteous, we now are living this out in our lives. This is a joy of freedom. It's not perfected here on this earth. We see that it will be perfected in the eternal. But a piece of our living today is that we get to live in obedience. to our Lord. Now you may be arguing saying, Anthony, where are you getting this from? Let's get back into Galatians chapter 5 and we'll see See right here in verse 3. I testify again to every man who accepts circumcision that he is obligated to keep the whole law. You are severed from Christ. So first we see that those seeking circumcision Are trying to find their justification, their legal standing before God, they're trying to find it by working and obeying the law perfectly. And Paul's saying, in very harsh language, you are severed from Christ. You think you're going to make yourself innocent by obeying the law? Good luck. Good luck. You're not going to do it. It's impossible. And if you think that you can have Christ and be made justified by the law, he's actually saying, no, you're actually severed from Christ because you're denying what Christ has done. You're denying that Christ is your Savior. You're denying that you are justified because of Christ and not because of yourselves. Paul's very serious here. That if you're trying to be justified by the law, you're severed from Christ. But notice the reverse of that. In Christ, you are justified Justified. You should have joy in this truth. Look in verse five as we see the righteousness, for through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. By through the spirit, excuse me, for through the spirit, by what? By works? By circumcision? Who said it? Miss Lorna? By faith. That's why you sit up front, because you have all the right answers. It has the right answers right here for you. By faith we ourselves eagerly wait for the hope of righteousness. This is the perfected righteousness. This is our perfect holiness as we enter into the presence of God. Yes, we are Christians, yet sin we still sin. But we are righteous before God. We are justified before God. And he is sanctifying us and we will be pure the moment we enter into His presence. Not by the works of the law, but by the blood of Christ Jesus. Alright. Everyone happy with the cost of freedom? and the joy we have in freedom laid out. I think we've done it for a few weeks now. But now let's deal with the issue that Paul lays before us in the text. The keeping of freedom. Freedom. The keeping of freedom. If faith was sufficient to set you free, Paul's argument tonight, my argument, and the Lord's argument, is that faith is sufficient to keep you free You don't earn your freedom by one cost and then keep your freedom by another cost. This is the American mindset, just remind you. This is how we think in worldly sense. We've earned our freedom in seventeen seventy-six, and now we have to keep fighting for our freedom until the end of America. It's a very very common way of thinking because that is true here on this earth. Uh when when I was in the army I I had uh the opportunity to work for uh the British Royal Army, the Royal Irish. And they happen to have my unit and we were attached to them during the Fourth of July. So here's you have all these barrel chested freedom fighter Americans bleeding red, white, and blue, who are working for the British on the Fourth of July. Yeah, you're understanding the jokes and the songs we were singing and and really just mocking the British as a whole. And afterwards the British they were getting quite tired of us as they should should. And they they said, you know we don't want you back. Like they're we're we're not trying to get you back. We're really happy that you have that you have gone away from us. You are a problem and you know they were just trying to cover up their pain. and they really wanted us. But there's a sense that we were still fighting for something. The British were like, you don't we don't want it. Well, in Christ, there's this idea of like, and this is what the Judaizers were preaching and teaching. Okay, you're saved in Christ, but now to keep your faith Freedom, to actually be a true free uh citizen, to really be the extra holy and spiritual Christian, to actually be justified, you must be circumcised and you must follow the law. And here, Paul wants to drive this home that if you think circumcision is keeping your freedom, you must recognize that, or you are failing to recognize the beauty of Christ. And notice in verse 12. Let's work in verse 6. He says, For in Christ Jesus neither circumcision nor uncircumcision accounts for any So we see that circumcision has no value. And then down in verse twelve, he's going to drive this home that these people that want to argue for circumcision The Judaizers. The Judaizers that are coming in and saying you must be circumcised and you must follow the law perfectly to be a Christian. What's he going to say? Oh, it's okay. They're not really that bad. Or they're bad, but we just we don't need to worry about them. What do we see in verse 12? I wish those who unsettle you, meaning the Judaizers, would masculate themselves Alright, let me just tell you all something. My mother is sitting in this room tonight. I now have to talk about circumcision. And emasculating themselves. And that's not the weirdest conversation I've ever had with my mom. She raised three boys, so this is not that strange. But here's the the seriousness of what Paul's saying. What Paul is trying to do here, and his great and wise logic, which I love, is he's taking the argument and saying, okay, if circumcision is so great, if circumcision circumcision is going to save you, well why don't you just take that knife a little bit farther down the member? Why don't you if if just cutting off a little bit is so good, why don't you cut off a whole lot? And we're all wincing right now and going, all right, Paul, that was a little gruesome. Yeah. Because he wants you to realize how foolish it is. To think that a little bit of working of the law would be sufficient to justify you. It would be sufficient to earn you freedom. Now today this may not click with us the same. When we hear this we may think, okay, circumcision, you know, we're not holding to that. But let me put in maybe some more Baptist language or or modern Christian All right. In this church, Baptist Faith and Message 2000 and what we preach here and the The true gospel is that you are saved through faith alone. In Christ alone. Amen. Now there's some people that will preach that you are saved by Christ But your salvation is actually accomplished and happens at your baptism. Alright, so here's here's the fear maybe we should have. And maybe let's drive this home. If your baptism, your dunking down into the water and coming back up, saves you, if it's so powerful to justify you, next time I do a baptism, I'm going to hold you down a little bit longer. I'm going to start holding you down until I start seeing the bubbles coming up. If it's so powerful, if it is the mechanism that's going to justify you, then shouldn't you desire to die within those waters? Well that's what Paul's same argument here. Or maybe you think that your justification, your freedom, your identity as a child of God comes from how much uh tithe you give. what you give, you you make sure it's known. You only give in dollar coins so that they can hear everyone can hear the coins hitting the the the what is that called the plate as it goes around. Well, if you think that giving your money is going to save you, brothers and sisters, you come talk to me. I have a great bank account that you can give every cent and every penny you have to it if you think that's what's going to save you. Now you're all going, no, you're not going to take my money. I'm not giving up all my money. But at times we start to think that this is going to save us. Let me use one other example that may hit home for some of us. We recognize that salvation is in faith alone, in Christ alone, right? But then we say for you to truly be saved, you gotta walk down the aisle. with a pastor. Well friends, if you think walking down this aisle is going to save you, we might as well knock down this wall so you can just keep walking. Just keep going. Go to Antarctica. That would take you all the way north and then back down to the other end of the world. Because if you think the the mechanism of you walking down an aisle is sufficient for your salvation, you might as well keep walking because that's not what saves you. It's the blood of Christ alone that saves you. That's why Paul's using such strong and gruesome language. So that when the reader hears this, when we hear this language, if you think circumcision is going to save you, just go ahead and cut it all off. He go, yuck, gross, ouch, and that's how it's supposed to be. If you think any piece of your work is sufficient to save you, would Just take that to the full end. Let's go into the Old Testament. Let's unpack the Levitical laws. Let's unpack Exodus and Deuteronomy. And let's start structuring your life around it so that you fulfill every single piece of that law given by God. And if you fail to keep any piece of it, you're done for, you're damned to hell. May we see and recognize the seriousness of this, but may we rejoice that it is in faith alone, in Christ alone, that we are saved and we are kept free. Free. We find our freedom in Christ. Turn with me to Ephesians chapter one. You all thought I was gonna go to two, didn't you? My Bible does naturally open there. Let's start in verse 11, chapter 1, verse 11. In him we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to the purpose of him who works all things according to the counsel of his will. So that we Who were the first to hope in Christ might be to the praise of his glory. In him, you also, when you heard the word of truth, the gospel of your salvation, and believed in him. We're sealed with the promised Holy Spirit, who is the guarantee of our inheritance until we acquire possession of it to the praise of his glory. Here there's two key words there. You were sealed with the promised Holy Spirit. You were sealed, meaning you were locked up. You were kept. And then in 14, the Spirit is the guaranteeer. He's the guarantee of our inheritance. He's the one that preserves it and keeps it. Notice at no point in this argument does Paul say that you are the one that will get yourself into heaven, that you are the one that keeps your salvation, that you are the one that keeps your freedom. freedom that you are the one that keeps your identity as a child of God. No, he roots it all in the triune God. The Father sent the Son, the Son paid for our freedom, and the Spirit keeps us, guarantees us into freedom. His holy presence into his glory. Brothers and sisters, this is the joy of freedom, and this is the peace of keeping the freedom is that we just go back to Christ. We keep going back to Christ. We keep our eyes on Christ. We don't stop looking towards Christ. We don't get saved by Christ and then start working and looking inward. We look to Christ every waking and sleeping moment of our lives. If you don't know that, that means every moment of your life. You look to Christ. He's your only hope. He's the only reason you are free, and he is the only one to keep you And this is why Paul throughout this section just rips it open that if you're looking anywhere else, you are looking outside of Christ. He says in verse back in Galatians 5, verse 7, you were running well, who hindered you from obeying the truth? The persecution is not from him who calls you. A little leaven leavens the whole lump. I have confidence in the Lord that you will take no other view, and the one who is troubling you will bear the penalty whoever he is. So tonight, if you find yourself being gripped by the temptation to do some kind of works or to somehow earn and keep your salvation, to somehow earn and keep your freedom in Christ. If tonight you you recognize that you have been tempted by that, and maybe you have fallen for some of those false teachings, rest assured that you can fall in the grace and forgiveness of Christ. Christ. Return to Him. It's not too late. It's not too late. If you thought that you were saved by your works, turn to Christ and have faith in Him tonight. Do not tarry. Do not wait. Do not hold back. But find the sweet, sweet forgiveness in Christ alone. Find the sweet, sweet rest that is found in Christ alone, not by the works of the law. The keeping of freedom is by faith in Christ alone. Now, Paul is going to address an argument that is very important to be addressed, and we will start it tonight, and Lord willing, we will complete this argument next week. But if we're saying we are not enslaved to the law and we have freedom in Christ, then this means that we can do whatever we want as Christians, right? Uh some people are uh if we're gonna load up and go rob banks tonight because we're free in Christ. You with me, John Okay. It'd be the worst place. The police would only have to show up to one location. We'd be arrested and our driveways connected. So what are we to do with this? Because the argument's gonna come. Because this is what the Judaizers are doing. The Judaizers are accusing Paul of being a false teacher. The Judaizers are accusing Paul of preaching a free grace that you can be and do whatever you want. You know, it's cheap. Just come to Christ and then go live a crazy life. Go do whatever you want. You're not enslaved to the law anymore. And Paul wants to destroy that argument. He wants to show that we are free in Christ, but we never use our liberty or our freedom in Christ as a weapon. Let me say that again. We are free in Christ, but we never use our freedom as Christians as a weapon. Now that weapon can be yielded in a few different directions. One of those weapons could be yielded and wielded against our Lord and Savior. You're freeing Christ, so now you start to go worship other gods. By no means, right? This would be foolishness to do that And we'll see some of that. Or sometimes we can use our freedom. I'm free in Christ. I get to do whatever I want, and it doesn't matter how much it hurts my brother John. It doesn't matter how much it hurts my spouse. I get to do whatever I want. And Paul's saying no, no, no. We actually see that the free Christian, those that are living in Christ, recognize their freedom. Do not just go do whatever they want, but in their newness, in the new birth, new indwelling of the Holy Spirit, you start to live lives that look very, very different. It's not a freedom to go do whatever you want, it's a freedom to live in Christ in the very design that we have from the beginning. It's what Pastor Matt preached this morning: that we were created with a purpose from God. And in that purpose, we are living in harmony and unity with God. We are the image bearers of God. And we know at the fall that has corrupted and messed up everything But ultimately in our newness in Christ, we are now returning to our original design within the image of God. So look with me in Galatians 5, verse 13. Actually, let me back up to verse eleven. But I, brothers, still preach circumcision. Why am I still being persecuted? In that case, the offense of the cross has been removed. I wish those who unsettle you would emasculate themselves. Now verse 13. For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity for the flesh, but through love serve one another. For the whole law is fulfilled in one word. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. But if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed. So the life of freedom is living free, but loving God and loving one another. There's some argument here of what that one word is. Because what happens is we say, for the whole law in verse 14, for the whole law is fulfilled in one word. And then he gives a whole bunch of words, right, in that statement. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. So the the two arguments that I think you can take either one and be pretty correct. The one would be that the one word is it could be translated as the the one word that you live by. Like You know, it's it's a statement, it's a phrase that you live by. And that that statement that they're living by is you shall love your neighbor as yourself. The other one word that I I think I take this position is uh I can argue it maybe more consistently, is that one word is actually just one word, and that word is love. Yeah, it's love. What's the true greatest commandment? Or what's the first greatest commandment? I feel like I ask this question a lot. Yeah, love God. Right? And it goes through this list. And then Jesus says, the second one is to love your neighbor. Notice that love is attached to both of those. Loving God. This is the upward approach. We are seeking God's guidance. We actually are still going back to the law of God to understand what it means to live a righteous and holy life. We're not obeying the law to achieve anything. We're not obeying the law to be justified, but we're seeing it and we're saying God has given instruction on how we are to live. We could take the Ten Commandments and walk through the Ten Commandments and say, these are instructions of how we are to live. And some of the commandments give us instructions of how to worship and love God. And then the other part of the commandments are instructing us of how to love our neighbors. And here we recognize that in our freedom, in the freedom we have in Christ, the freedom that Christ has bought for us on the cross does not mean that we just Get to go live however we want, go follow after the passions of the flesh. But it actually roots us and gives us the ability, the true ability, to live lives of love. It's so important. How we love one another, though the world should actually see that and be drawn to us. That we as a church love one another in a very unique and special way that the world cannot comprehend, cannot understand. And they're seeking after us. They want to see us. How are we to love one another? The love of God and how we love Him should drive us to look to Him in all aspects of our lives. How we are loving our families, how we are working and dealing with the world around us, how we are doing business, how we are worshiping Him. The love of God should dictate how we live our lives every moment. When we recognize that the the freedom we have in Christ allows us to love in a genuine and true way because of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, we'll start to recognize and start to live lives that reflect the true image of God that we are designed in. We start to live in harmony with one another. We start to actually see the world around us transformed and changed Right? Have you been around a family that does not show love for one another? And has it really encouraged you to come into their house and have dinner with them? No, it drives you away, doesn't it? It makes you want to flee from them. And often what we see in those types of families is they collapse in on one another. Often that that lack of love is led by the father of the household, and then uh it reflects onto the mother and then the children, and it just consumes them. And Paul's saying it's a very similar thing in verse 15, but if you bite and devour one another, watch out that you are not consumed by one another. Your failure to love someone will one day come back to bite you. He's using that language the same way we would. The lack of love within the church and within the fellowship of Christians will cause destruction. It will devour us. But on the flip side, on the reverse, when we recognize that we love one another, we love the Lord, we are free in Christ. Can you only imagine the wonders of this world? Can we imagine what it would look like of a church, of a family that's loving one another, how those children are raised? How they then go and raise families. And those families raise families. And this multitude that happens through the love of Christ within the family. Could you imagine what would happen within the church when we start to love one another? When we start to serve and care for one another. We start to value each other. We start to deal with the problems we have with one another in a Christlike way. Looking to s and seeking after forgiveness rather than seeking after disowning and shunning one another. Could you imagine how the world would change with a church that loves one another, recognizes the freedom they have in Christ, and now takes that love and that freedom into the world? Preaching the gospel, preaching forgiveness in Christ, calling the sinner to repent of their sin and find true and everlasting forgiveness in Christ. Friends, this doesn't just stop here. It doesn't just stop in these walls. May you understand the hope of the gospel The hope of the work of the church is that it goes into the world and day by day, moment by moment, preaching by preaching, we see sinners coming to Christ We see sinners becoming saints. We see sinners and rebels against God becoming children of God. And then they go and they have families and they raise their families in the love of the Lord. and the truth of the gospel. And that starts to multiply. And then we start to see that spread out. They then start to go work in businesses and run run companies and be school teachers. And then we start to see the love of Christ and the gospel being proclaimed in the schools and in the workplaces. And then they start to have more and more Christians and families. They then go into the government and the politics and the military, and we just start to see that the preaching of the gospel can and will infect every aspect of this world and proclaim that it belongs to Christ. the one who has purchased our freedom. I I believe that when we recognize that our freedom is purchased by Christ's blood and we live in that freedom. We start to live lives that look different, and we start to see the world around us changing because of that same freedom in Christ. The gospel is powerful. The gospel goes forth. The gospel destroys the darkness. And may we not fall for any lies that we're gonna work it out. We're gonna solve the problems in this world. We're the ones that will accomplish it. We just gotta fight harder. We just gotta make better decisions. We just gotta elect better politicians. No, we need to start preaching the gospel. Preach the gospel. Get Christians into every aspect of society. Get Christian politicians. All of you just held your breath because you're like, where is that going to be? This can happen. Do you believe that Christ is powerful? Do you believe that the gospel changes lives? Even can the gospel even change the life of President Biden and President Donald Trump? Yes, I hope you say absolutely, but it takes people preaching the gospel. It takes people praying for those leaders It takes people trusting and believing that the Spirit will work in these lives. And how is this functioning? How is this done? Is how we love one another. We fulfill the law Brothers and sisters, find and rest in your freedom in Christ. Enjoy the freedom you have in Christ. Seek to live in that freedom And recognize that you have no function, you have no way of earning or keeping that freedom is all through faith in Christ and Him alone. Praise be to him for this truth. Let's go before our Father once again in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your love. We thank you for your truth. We thank you that you have purchased us through the blood of your Son. Purchased our freedom. You've made us new. Lord, give us the understanding of how to live in this freedom. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.