We'll be in 2 Samuel chapter 22. We'll be looking at verses 1 through 20 this evening. 2 Samuel 22. twenty two verses one through twenty. How do we commemorate the lives of heroes? Think about the different ways that in our culture we recognize and we honor people who have achieved great things We have various awards that we give out, Medals of Freedom, Purple Hearts, Lifetime Achievement Awards. If you do something especially significant, or if you win a Super Bowl, you might get a statue made in your honor. We we issue plaques, we we name buildings after people. If your life is really, really interesting, you might get a movie made. made about you. We have these different ways that we honor and that we remember and that we celebrate our heroes in a cult Historically though, one of the great ways that civilization has remembered their heroes, uh both real heroes but also mythic heroes is uh by singing about them. Uh no doubt you were forced at some point in your life by someone who loved you very much to read epic poetry. Think Homer's Odyssey, Beowulf, if if you're like me Sometimes you even still do those things secretly and shamefully, obviously. But but you have these long poems where the extraordinary adventures and accomplishments of These larger than life heroes are set forth and are celebrated in verse. embodies the the ideals of a society or of a culture. And this literary style singing about our heroes has fallen a bit out of fashion. in our day. But for centuries this was the way that cultures celebrated and remembered their heroes. They sang about them. They composed poetry in their honor. If there was ever a figure in the Old Testament that we could rightly call a hero, it would be David, the son of Jesse. In this series, as we've walked through the life of David, we've seen his story unfold from humble beginnings, tending sheep, all the way to being anointed and selected by God to be the future king of Israel. We've seen him charging boldly into battle, fighting against the enemies of God. We've also seen him on the run from false kings, even at times on the run from his own son. We've witnessed the restoration of worship that took place under his reign as he brought the Ark of the Covenants into Jerusalem, made This central reality of worship for the people of God. And we've also seen God make these remarkable promises to him that he would establish his line and his throne and his kingdom forever. So so David, the man after God's own heart, in the pages of Scripture, and especially as the narrative of Scripture moves forward Is this larger-than-life central heroic figure that that looms large over the story of Scripture? And tonight, as the book of Samuel comes to a close, the life of David begins to continue Conclude, uh, we're going to appropriately come to a song that looks back on his life. The book of Samuel as a whole is actually book-ended by songs. In 1 Samuel chapter 2, you have Hannah's song, which kind of announces the themes of the book. And then we have David's song here in 2 Samuel chapter 22, which kind of looks back on the narrative. So we have this song that's kind of like an epilogue reflecting on the life of David. But what we're going to notice. As we read this song, we're gonna see that David isn't the hero that's being celebrated here. He isn't the main character whose mighty deeds are going to be celebrated. No, this is David's song of deliverance. That is, it's his song of being delivered by the mighty hand of God from This is David's song of salvation accomplished by God. Throughout all the twists and turns The main message of David's life is that God is the one who saves his People. And those who humbly cry out to God in faith will be delivered from death itself. 2 Samuel 22 , you probably have a note in your Bible that the words here are almost verbatim, the words of Psalm chapter 18. David's song here it was it was taken and it was adapted To be used for Israel in their public worship of the Lord. And it's as though David is teaching the people of Israel as this song is being used for the public worship of God's people. Israel, this is not only how God is related to me. But this is how God relates to you. The God who has delivered your king is the God who will deliver all his people. So, people of God in Israel, this is your song. of deliverance. And if you're in Christ Jesus this evening, saints, this is your song as well. The the main theme of your life is that God saves. And this truth defines not only how your life as a Christian began, however long ago that was, it defines how you relate to God. It defines where you look for rest and for comfort in the midst of life in a fallen world. As we reflect tonight on these words that commemorate David's wife, we're being called to remember and to rest in the God who is our stronghold, the God who is our deliverer. The God who has saved us through the Son of David, working a mighty deliverance for us. That's really the main point we're going to see. From this text. If you have an outline, you have it there. God is a refuge of salvation for those who call upon Him. That's foundational to who we are as people. Let's look now at the text of 2 Samuel chapter 22. We'll read down to verse 20. And David spoke to the Lord the words of this song on the day when the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of all Saul. He said, The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield and the horn of my salvation. My stronghold and my refuge, my Savior, you save me from violence. I call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised. And I am saved from my enemies. For the waves of death encompassed me, the torrents of destruction assailed me. The cords of Sheol entangled me The snares of death confronted me. In my distress I called upon the Lord. To my God I called. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry came to his ears. Then the earth reeled and rocked, the foundations of the heavens trembled and quaked, because he was angry. Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire devouring fire from his mouth. Glowing coals flamed forth from him. He bowed the heavens and came down. Thick darkness was under his feet. He rode on a cherub and flew. He was seen on the wings of the wind. He made darkness around him his canopy, thick clouds a gathering of water. Out of the brightness before him coals of fire flamed forth. The Lord thundered from heaven, and the Most High uttered his voice, and he sent out arrows and scattered them, lightning and routed them. Then the channels of The foundations of the world were laid bare at the rebuke of the Lord, at the blast of the breath of his nostrils. He sent from on high. He took me. He drew me out of many waters. He rescued me from my strong enemy, from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me. They confronted me in the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my support. He brought me out into a broad place. He rescued me because he delighted in me. We'll walk through these first twenty verses together in three movements that kind of just follow the story of what God does to accomplish salvation. for his servant David. We're going to see first that God stands as a refuge for his anointed. Secondly, God hears the cries of the distressed. And then finally we'll see that God rises and rescues His servant. First, we see from verses one through four that God stands as a refuge for his anointing. In verse 1, we're given the the setting for this song. We're told David spoke to the Lord the words of this song on the day when the Lord delivered him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of all his enemies So David is looking back on his life. He's remembering all that he's seen, all that he's done, and he's recognizing that the main theme of his life has been the deliverance of his God. We've seen David assailed by many enemies. him in conflict with Goliath, on the run from Saul, on the run from Absalom. He's looking back at all these events in kind of the rear view mirror, and he interpreted interprets them not just as lucky breaks, not as him being smarter or stronger than those he was going up against, not as anything that he had done, but no, he sees them as monuments of God's power to save. You've heard me mention before in this series more than once that one of the main things the author is doing in the book of Samuel kind of as a whole is Presenting this contrast, this contrast between David the rightful king and Saul the rejected king. And it's interesting to note how these two kings, in contrast, how these two kings commemorate and interpret their victory. If you remember back in 1 Samuel chapter 15, when Saul defeated the Amalekites, though remember not as God had commanded him to. When Samuel comes on the scene in verse 12, we're told that Saul had set up a monument to himself. Then in verse 13, Saul sees Samuel coming and he says to him, Blessed be you to the Lord. I have fulfilled the commandment of the Lord. Very ironic words of self-condemnation. But but what's he highlighting there in this victory? He's highlighting himself. He's teaching the people, look at how great Saul is, look at how wonderful the victory is that Saul accomplishes for you. But what is What does the true king teach the people of God? Look at verse 2. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer. The true king highlights God as the savior of his people. The kind of king that the people of Israel Israel needed was not some rugged, self-sufficient warrior who could fight battles on behalf of the people. That's what Israel wanted, right? That's not what they needed though. They needed one who knew God as the true deliverer, and one who taught the people of God to place their hope in him. Israel needed a king who would rightly recognize God's the true king, God's the true Savior. And that's what David does here as he sings this song of deliverance. The first four verses here act as sort of a prologue or a summary of the entire song. Everything that happens is basically outlined in this opening. section. You have David kind of say, this is who God is. God's servant cries out to him. And God Servant is saved. And that's the trajectory of the song moving forward. Uh consider with me some of the imagery that we see here that David describes to that David uses to to describe who God is. God is my rock, fortress , stronghold, refuge. These are words that that paint a picture For us of stability and comfort and peace in the midst of surrounding chaos. David is saying that God is this place of sure refuge. Uh sometimes we're helped by thinking of perhaps images of medieval castles or strongholds. The kind of places that if you go to Scotland you get to see. Or or Kentucky. We have a castle in Kentucky. It's pretty As a Marylander, I'm of course le legally obligated to mention Fort McHenry at this point. But when the enemy forces are surrounding You want to be in the fortress that can withstand their attacks, right? You want to be in the strongest building you can find. Even in even this imagery though of kind of medieval castles and strongholds, I don't think it quite lands on us in the same way. 'Cause I don't know about you, but when I think about you know when we visit these kinds of places, they're always such peaceful, serene places, right? They they're so far removed from when they were used as actual strongholds. It's kind of hard for me to imagine them actually being under attack. But consider these verses in light of some images that we have seen recently. The destruction Think of the the pounding, relentless rain. path. The walls of flood water that just cover entire towns. Imagine the fear of being caught out in the storm. The the fear of your home not holding up. It's been a real thing for many people. In such a storm, the difference between life and death is whether or not you have a stronghold that can withstand the power of God. And David is saying here that God and God alone is such a stronghold. He's the solid reality that we cling to in a world of chaos, in a world of uncertainty, and in a world, we'll see, of death. God is the one in whom we take refuge. Notice that right alongside this imagery of God as a stronghold is also imagery of God as savior and as deliverer. He 's depicted here as the deliverer, the the horn of my salvation, he says. The one who saves from violence. And I just love how this imagery works together. Because we not only have God as a refuge that we have to get to. No, he is the savior who comes to us. We tend to not think about fortresses as things that do a lot of movement, right? The fortress is what you have to get to in order to be saved. But God's not only a fortress who's kind of out there and let's hope that we can get to him in time. No, he's the savior who pursues. He's the savior who comes to us in our distress. He's the Savior who moves. God is a fortress who moves and who works in power to deliver his people and bring us Under the safety of his care. David reflects on his life, and he tells the people of Israel, and he tells us, this is who your God is. Your God is the fortress who stands, and your God is the Savior who delivers. Again, we have here in verse 4 kind of a basic summary of what's going to happen in the rest of the song. It says, I call upon the Lord, who is worthy to be praised. And I am saved from my enemies. If this is true, if God is the refuge and the deliverer, That his word claims that he is, then those who cry out to him in faith will be saved, will be delivered. And saints, these are truths that I hope you know. Truths that I hope are precious to you. If you're a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ, you know that these truths find their ultimate expression. We'll consider that under the third point. We assemble each week in the name of the Lord Jesus because we recognize that He is the refuge and the deliverance. So these are are central and precious confessions to us as Christians. And yet these are truths that are so often tested in our lives. lives, aren't they? They're tested by trials. They're tested by difficulties. They're tested by pain. And what we're going to see in the next section is that these can Confessions are tested in the life of David as he's surrounded by his enemies, just as it's tested in our own lives. This brings us to point number two. We see that God hears the cries of the distressed. God hears the cries of the distressed. So we go from this confession of God as the Savior of His people to a description of despair. and fear and what feels like imminent death. In verses five and six, David describes being surrounded by his enemies As though it's like being under the waves of death, he says. He's being assailed, he says, by torrents of destruction. Th this imagery it it hits home for me because I am a nervous parent. And as the nervous parent in our family, when we go to the beach, I find, you know, dozens of things to be terrified of, but one of the things I am terrified of are riptides. You know, these these strong currents that you don't see them and they just pull you out. Underneath the water and pull you out to sea. And the more you try to fight against them, the more they just pull you out. Well David is saying that it's like he's being surrounded by waves that threaten to pull him under, pull him out to sea, and pull him into death itself. In verse 6, he says, the cords of Sheol entangled me. Imagine being bound up in a tangle of ropes. Knotted tightly around you. And the more you try to twist and rise to break free, the stronger and the tighter they get. Also fear. Claustrophobic situations. So that one works on me as well. He says in the end of verse 6, the snares of death confronted me. What will a snare is a hidden trap. Notice this, it's not only what he can see that causes him to be fearful. It's what he can't see. And Saints, isn't that often what terrifies us more? Not the threats we know are there, but the ones we think might be there or could be there. I want us to see just the vividness of this language. As David describes his situation as he's surrounded by his enemies, He's saying that to be surrounded by his enemies is to feel like death itself is closing in. And we need to remember, saints, that death is Agony. It's interesting. I hadn't been to a funeral in quite some time before my grandmother passed away this summer. I th I found it interesting though that at funerals we go to such great lengths to make death. Seem like this peaceful, serene thing, don't we? We have with suits and ties, flowers, nice music, a body that's just covered in makeup. And for Christians, we we do have reason to recognize that there is peace that comes in death. There is freedom from trial that comes in death. But let us never forget that death itself is agony. Death itself is this ultimate and gruesome reminder that the world is not as it should be. That we live in a world under the curse of sin. To understand the despair and the ruin and the strength of the language that David is using here, we need to reckon with the tragedy and with the misery of death. And it's only when we reckon with that clearly and honestly that the deliverance that we have and that David has from death itself It's only then that we'll see just how wonderful and miraculous and glorious it is. Because you can't select much stronger language than what David uses here to describe hi his fear and his plight. Terror that he's undergoing. And we can identify many points in David's life where this language really fits, doesn't it? Think about Saul's attempts on his life, where all of Israel's military might is being leveraged against him. He's got people outside his house ready to kill him. Can think about when he his own son is staging a coup against him and and succeeding and driving him out. In all of 1st and 2nd Samuel we It's interesting. We only have about six chapters of David reigning in peace. Six chapters. Two very long books. Uh the rest is hardship. The rest is difficulty, the rest is trial, the rest is exile, the rest is the fear of death looming on every side. So as we see this language in verses five and six, we need to recognize and imagine the the fear, the isolation , the emptiness and the despair that David is experiencing here. David knew what it felt like to be entangled by the cords and seal. Have you ever been there, Saints? Have you ever experienced that kind of fear? That kind of anxiety? That kind of anguish? And And here's the thing, you don't have to be literally on the brink of death to know this kind of despair. Life in a fallen world is full of it. And it finds us in all areas of life. Maybe you're grieving the loss of a loved one. Maybe you fear for your children or for your grandchildren the kind of world that they're going to have to live in. Maybe you're under a wave of of depression or anxiety that you're just terrified of what might happen, not only if it continues, but what if it gets worse? Or maybe you just feel aimless in life. Like every day you you know, you just do the same thing and you get a little bit closer to death every single day. We're gonna see in just a moment how David responds to his situation, how he responds to being under the wave of death. But before we get there, we need to see. That God's word knows and names our deepest struggles. God's word gives us language to express the deepest despair that we can experience. Your experience of fear or pain or isolation or struggle is not alien to the pages of scripture God 's not surprised. You are not some sort of too far gone case. Because here, the man after God's own heart knows what it's like to be under the waves of death. And Christian, your great high priest was a man of sorrows, acquainted with grief. We need to see, saints, that God's word gives comfort and And gives hope to miserable, weak people like you and me. God's word gives us language to express our deepest despair. And God's word tells us where to turn when we're under the waves ourselves. It doesn't pull punches in describing the agony of life in a fallen world. And neither should we. And we can feel sometimes like it's complaining, right? Like if we express how bad things feel at times, like we're complaining. That's not what we see in Scripture. What we see is that this is the language of faith, not the language of unbelief. Because this gives way to crying out to the Lord. Imagine if David is in this situation under the wave of death, experiencing agony, and someone were to come up to him and just say Say, oh cheer up, David. It's not as bad as you think. Things will just get better. You'll get through it. Just believe in yourself. What a foolish hope offer of Hope that would be. Saints, minimizing the darkness does not magnify the power of the light. Instead, we are those who by faith we look at the darkness. In all of its ugliness and all of its manifestations in our own lives, we see it for exactly what it is, and we say Yes, that's real, but our God is greater. He will deliver us from even this. So therefore, we will cry out to him. In the midst of every affliction and every moment of despair. And that's what we see in verse 7. We see David say, In my distress I called upon the Lord. He's under the wave of death. He's entangled by the cords of Sheol as he's surrounded by his enemies. And so what does he do? He cries out to the Lord. Now to cry out to the Lord in a situation like that requires faith. Because what's right in front of you is still the waves of death. What feels most immediate is the reality of the trial and the struggle. David's crying out to a God that he can't see right in front of him. And man, that can be a really fearful proposition, can it? What if he doesn't answer? What if he's not really there? And I'm just keeping up words. We have to be prepared to confront those questions and those fears in our own hearts. But see here that in his distress, as David calls out to the Lord, David relied on what God had already revealed about himself and what he had already confessed about who God is. He relies upon what he had confessed about God in the first four verses, and what God had revealed to him to David about himself in his life and in the entire backdrop of the Old Testament. David relied on what he knew about God, and therefore in the midst of distress he called out to God. We see in the second half of verse 7, God heard his cries. No what comfort we find in that in the second half of verse 7. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry came to his ears. Saints, be encouraged that God hears the cries of those who call out to him in faith. This is foundational to your salvation, to how you come to saving faith. And it's also how God trains his saints to respond to life and to respond to trial in the midst of a fallen world. And I love just the imagery that this verse presents with us. Because it gives us language both of God's transcendence, that is his his above-allness, his otherness, but also his imminence, his nearness to his people. See here in verse 7, God is depicted as being in his holy temple, that is above everything, not like us. Far above, set apart, high up, and yet from his temple he hears the cry of one saint in distress. David's cry comes to God's ears directly, not up some kind of chain of command because it's especially important or the situation is Especially dire. We see here both that God is not like us. He dwells in a glorious temple. He reigns as the Lord over all things. Yet He He draws near to us. He listens. He cares for you, Christian. We know from all of Scripture that if you're in Christ Jesus, You have guaranteed access to the Father through the mediating work of Jesus Christ. Christian Christ's blood is a guarantee that God will always heal your prayers. So when you, Christian, are under the waves of death, whatever that might be in your life, in your circumstances, Jesus, cry out to your God and know that He hears you from His temple. Because you have a high priest in that temple who is pleased Pleading for you, and who always lives to make intercession for you, the book of Hebrews tells us. So, Christian, cry out to Him. You see here that David cries out. God hears him from his temple. But see that it's not enough for God only to hear. Because a God who hears but has no power to respond is not a God who can really provide comfort, right? He can only hear. That's not the picture that we're given here. No, what we're going to see is that God hears and God responds in power. This brings us to point number three. We see that God rises and rescues his son. Servant. There's so much imagery in verses eight through twenty, and we don't have time to dwell on every last bit of it, but I highly recommend you You go back, read it slowly, read the rest of this psalm. But see here how God is depicted as a mighty cosmic warrior. Who shakes the very foundations of heaven and earth as he comes in power to rescue his servant David. See just the awesome power of God being communicated in this language. Heaven and earth are quaking at his anger. Smoke and fire and burning coals are spewing out like this volcanic eruption. He's surrounded by thick darkness. Darkness and stormy clouds. He's riding across the skies on an angelic warrior. His voice it it thunders from heaven. Look at how he in verse 15 he sends out his arrows and his lightning and he just completely scatters and routes David's enemies. See that God's defeat of David's enemies, it's not a close matchup. It's not much of a battle. It's over in all of one verse. We have trouble, you know, opening jars. But see how in verse 16 God speaks, God breathes, and the foundations of the earth are laid bare. That's God's power to say. That's the might and the awesome glory of our God. Throughout the books of 1st and 2nd Samuel, we've seen David depicted as this mighty warrior, right? You know, he's charging armorless in the battle against Goliath. He's mowing down Philistines and chopping them up real, real good. He's slain his ten thousands, right? So the point here is that if David is this mighty warrior, how much greater is the warrior who comes to rescue David? How much more powerful must David's God be? And now we read this, and maybe you think, maybe you're tempted to think, maybe you're more spiritual. spiritual than me, but maybe you're tempted to think, Oh man, I I wish I could see this kind of mighty earth shattering deliverance in my life. This poetry is just so expressive, you know, we think, wouldn't it be amazing to experience what David experience. Sometimes we long for the, you know, Old Testament action movie, bad guys get obliterated kind of deliverances that we read about. We can look at our lives and feel like they're pretty boring by comparison, right? Pretty pretty pedestrian. But Christian, see that God has worked such a deliverance in your life. In fact, a more powerful deliverance Christian, the gospel is the power of God for salvation to all who believe. If you're in Christ Jesus, if you're being saved, Christ Jesus is the power of God and the wisdom of God. God has come down as a mighty warrior to deliver his people. God has worked a powerful, earth-shattering deliverance in your life by rescuing you from the domain of darkness, and by transferring you into the kingdom of his beloved Son in whom you have redemption. David's deliverance from physical enemies, it's great and it's glorious, but it's pointless Forward to a greater deliverance, to an ultimate deliverance that God would accomplish through the Son of David. You, you were surrounded by the enemies of sin and death. You were under God's wrath. But Christ Jesus came to save his people from there. Sins. What we have seen, what we have received by faith, what we assemble to sing about every week is a salvation and a deliverance that we're told in Matthew 13. Many pro Prophets and righteous men longed to see, but didn't. David's deliverance is great. Friends, we have received a great Deliverance. And see then that the great mystery here is that God's powerful and mighty and heaven and earth trembling deliverance for sinners It came through the second person of the triune God coming to earth as a helpless Fate, living in lowliness and in poverty and in fatigue. He laid aside his heavenly glory and took on all the limits of humanity. He was rejected by the people who were supposed to be looking for his arrival. And even worse than rejection, he was sentenced to death as a false prophet. He was hung on a tree as a common criminal. And that image, the image of a beaten, bloodied man hanging on a tree, doesn't it just seem like such a far cry from this imagery of a warrior god coming down to rescue his people? But it's through the weakness of the cross that the power of God to save sinners has been put on display. It's in that broken body, in that shed blood that our salvation, our deliverance has been accomplished. It's through what looks like the failure of death. That the Son of God disarmed all his enemies, and we're told in Colossians 2, put them to open shame and triumphed over them. Christian, through the weakness of death and to the miracle of resurrection, you have been delivered. You have received a powerful deliverance if you are in Christ. Jesus. And it's on the basis then of this deliverance that we've received, that we sing about, and that we assemble together to remember every single week. That we're now able to cry out to God in the midst of every wave of affliction and sorrow that we face in this life. It's on the basis of this deliverance that we can be confident that our God hears us. That we can be confident of his promises, that he who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us, will with him graciously give us all things. Now that might not mean in your life an immediate change to your circumstances. It might not mean immediate removal from the presence of affliction and difficulty. Difficulty, but God gives us something far better. He gives us himself. He gives us his presence. He's with His people. He's perfecting his power in our weakness. He's working all things together for our good. And that means, Christian, that even if death were to take you It would still be gain. Because Christ Jesus has overcome death. Christ Jesus has scattered and destroyed and routed every enemy. And God is with his people as a deliverer. even unto death. He's a deliverer who gives good things to his people. And we can see these themes of God's goodness and God's nearness in the last several verses of our passage here in verses 17 through 20. Verse 17, he sent from on high. He took me he drew me out of many waters. God himself comes down and draws David out of death itself. Wonderful imagery there of resurrection life almost, being drawn out of the waters of death and brought into the presence of God. nineteen we read that the Lord was his present support in the day of calamity. Verse 20 he says, He brought me out into a broad place. I love how that imagery contrasts with what we saw in verses 5 and 6. From being tangled up tightly in the cords of Sheol to being brought out into a broad place of blessing. A broad place, broad pastures of goodness and peace and rest. Christian, your salvation is not merely God kind of getting you out of a bad set of circumstances. It's God giving you ultimate, eternal good. Eternal, ultimate good that you experience both now and that you will experience fully in the life to come So we see in this psalm, in this song, that God rises, God rescues, and God defeats all his enemies. And God brings his people who have cried out to him in faith to a broad place of goodness and rest and blessing where he is present with them. He is their God and they're his people. As we conclude, I just want us to look forward to the end of the Psalm. Look with me at verses fifty. And fifty-one. For this I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations, and sing praises to your name. Great salvation he brings to his King and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David and his offspring forever. See here that the altar Ultimate purpose of God 's deliverance, both in David's life and the greater deliverance accomplished in your life through the Son of David, the ultimate purpose of that deliverance is God magnifying his own glory and his own praise among us. He brings salvation to David and to his offspring, which ultimately is Christ Jesus and those who are united to him by faith so that his glory and his praise and his majesty might be exalted in all the earth. That's why he has saved you, Christian. And from the perspective of this passage, you are the nations. You are the far-off people who have received the salvation of the Lord and who have heard the praises of God and have now joined in to sing those praises. Because you've experienced his salvation. So may the magnification of the praise of our God be our heartbeat as a people. May we be those who learn to cry out to him in every affliction. To seek refuge in him in life's storms because we want to see his glory lifted high. In all the earth. And all the earth includes Jarrett's still. It includes your home, and it includes this assembly of saints gathering together every week. May we long to see God's glory again Exalted in the nations. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you that your word gives us language to express the salvation and the deliverance That you have brought to us through Christ Jesus. We pray, God, that more and more our identity would be found in this Salvation in this deliverance. God, may we r rest and may we rejoice in what Christ Jesus has accomplished for us. And may we be a people who speak this truth Truth out in the world as we go forth from here. God be glorified in our hearts and in our lives. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.