Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 3. Today we're in Genesis 3. Verses sixteen through twenty, looking at life in a fallen world. Eventually, when we get into the body of the message, we'll be looking at three features of life in a fallen world. Let's give our time to the Lord in prayer. Father, we pray that you would once again show yourself faithful. Show yourself wise and show yourself powerful in opening our minds to your word. By your Holy Spirit, would you teach us? Would you bring to remembrance the things we need to remember? Would you convict us of the sins we need to be convicted of? Would you give us assurance and comfort by looking to Christ and Christ alone and nothing else? Help us to set our hope on Christ and not on the uncertainty of riches. Help us to live for Him and not for ourselves. Help us to remember His sacrifice on our behalf that purchased Our salvation that purchased our souls for you. Father, we ask that you would administer your grace to our hearts by your word and spirit. This is our greatest need. And we ask that you would do it in a great work of mercy and power this morning. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Romans 6. 23. The wages of sin is But the gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. So let's start with a question. Because Adam and Eve have been tempted, and Adam and Eve have sinned, but in our passage They are still alive. And after our passage, they will still be alive. And they'll live for many years. Now, if the wages of sin is death, then why in the world are Adam and Eve still alive? And I want us all to know the answer to this, because God is merciful. You see, the wages of sin really is death. And so if Adam and Eve are still alive, Something else has to be in the picture. Something else has to come into play. The wages of sin really is death. I've sinned. And I'm alive. You've sinned. And you're alive. So there's something else at play here. Well, what is it? It's the mercy of Almighty God. God is merciful. Which means he restrains judgment. He's merciful. He restrains judgment. He holds back what's deserved. Part of parenting is administering punishment for disobedience and administering discipline. Administering consequences for wrongdoing. That's an important part of parenting, right? Right? Right? Yes? Don't go soft. Because that's the only way children will learn right and wrong, and it's the only way children will learn personal responsibility and accountability. But another part of parenting, which is equally important, is often restraining the punishment. Often holding back what's deserved. Because our children need to learn more than right and wrong. And they need to learn more than just personal responsibility and accountability. They also need to learn about mercy, and they need to learn about grace, and they need to learn about compassion for the one who made a mistake for mercy, for patience with the one who disobeyed. This is the heart of the gospel. And so You see in parenting and other aspects of life, you see a faint reflection of the way God deals with humanity. Yes, there's judgment. Yes, there's discipline. And yes, there's wrath, but there's also mercy, and there's also grace, and there's also compassion And where there's sin, and the wages of sin is death, yet there is life because God is merciful. Psalm 103, verses 8 and 9: The Lord is merciful and gracious. slow to anger, and abounding in steadfast love, and he will not always chide, nor will he keep his anger forever. And it's so important to remember this because we're in a portion of the Bible, sin has entered the world, and now the curse of God comes on Satan and on the ground. And the judgment and di and um discipline of God comes upon Adam and Eve and mankind. But there's more than that The fact that life continues shows us there's so much more to that, the heart, the sum, the substance, the essence. How many different ways can I say this? The center, the core is the mercy of God. That's what keeps this story going, brothers and sisters. It's what keeps the story going. It's what keeps our lives going. His mercies are new every morning. Now, three features of life in a fallen world. Number one, we're going to look at the fact that God promised the coming Savior. That's number one, that'll be a review of 14 and 15, just in case you weren't here last week. Three features of life in a fallen world. Number one, God promised a coming Savior. Number two, God mercifully restrains judgment, aka preserves life. And number three, God reveals judgment through pain and hardship as a reminder of sin. And when we get to that point, That's something that's really important for us to grasp. Not only the fact that God reveals his judgment through pain and hardship. in this discipline on Adam and Eve. But I want us to grasp the the reason he does it, the purpose for that in the world. The purpose of God revealing his judgment and wrath in the world is to remind us of sin and to help us Learn that we need a savior. This is the biggest lesson that the world needs to learn. It's the biggest lesson we ever learned. Number one, that we need a savior. Number two, God has provided a savior. And so Three features. And the first one is God promised a coming Savior. This is verses 14 and 15. The Lord said to the serpent, Because you have done this, cursed are you above all livestock, and above all beasts of the field. On your belly you shall go, and dust you shall eat all the days of your life. And I will put enmity Which which means intense hatred and strife. Warfare. Really warfare. I'll put warfare between you and the woman, and between your offspring and her offspring. He shall bruise your head And you shall bruise his heel. It's a curse against Satan. It's a victory pronounced over against Satan. And it's also the promise of a coming Savior that will destroy the works of the devil. And not only is Adam and Eve still alive after They've sinned, which is a great act of mercy, but on top of the mercy is heaped grace, the promise of a savior. There's a way back to God Through faith in the coming Savior. There's a way to erase the guilt of their sin. Through faith in the coming Savior. There is hope for the future. Aren't you glad you have hope for the future? A hope that transcends the here and now? They have hope for the future. Through faith in the coming Savior. So you have mercy that preserves life. On top of that, you have grace that promises a savior. And grace that provides hope and grace that provides a way back to God and grace that blots out all of our sins before God. Thank God that He's made a way for you and I to be forgiven. And praise God that He has changed our hearts by the Holy Spirit. And praise God that he sent Jesus to 100% accomplish these things because we could never do it on our own. 1 Timothy 2, 5 and 6. For there is one God, and there is one mediator between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all. In all of your struggles, in all of your trials, in all of your temptations, in all of our weakness Let the promise of a Savior be our anchor. Let the reality of Christ hold us fast in the hope that we have. And now what is the way that we receive Christ? What is the way we receive the salvation and receive all of these benefits of forgiveness, of future hope of being reconciled to God. The way we receive Christ Jesus and his salvation is through faith. It's by trusting in him. It's not by working. It's not by being a good person. It's certainly not by doing religion. It's not by having sincere and honest motives because we think our motives are sincere and honest. But they're not, even if they were, that still can't earn us back our way back to God. Romans 3. 28, a person is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Does that sink into your heart this morning? A person is justified by faith. One is justified by faith apart from works of the law. So separate and apart from, and before, before we do any works of obedience, true works of obedience, we have to be justified by faith. Justified means declared righteous in God's eyes Alright, when you think of the word justification or justified, don't be confused. Just think of a gavel coming down. Think of a gavel in God's hand. And he brings the gavel down, and he's going to make a declaration about you and your status, and God brings the gavel down and says, innocent, that's justification. That's not hard, is it, Miss? That's easy. God declaring the verdict that you are innocent in his sight and blameless in his sight Stop trusting your own goodness and trust in the forgiveness that is found in Christ. God promised the coming Savior. From Adam and Eve's vantage point, that was future. From everyone in the Old Testament's vantage point, that was future. Well, from our vantage point, the Savior has already come. Amen. God became flesh. The eternal Son of God became flesh. He accomplished our salvation. He went back to heaven as the exalted Lord. He poured out the Holy Spirit. And ever since that day, the day of Pentecost, Jesus, by his spirit, by his word, for the glory of God, has been. Spreading salvation all over the world to sinners like me, sinners like you, infiltrating the kingdom of darkness really with the kingdom of light. The promise of a savior. That is the key feature, the central feature of life in a fallen world. In fact, the reason the world continues to exist after the fall so that we even could talk about life in a fallen world is for the is for this purpose of redemption. It's for God to accomplish this purpose of redemption in Christ. To showcase his glory and be praised forever. Oh, in all of our sin. In all of our sin. Sins of the heart, sins of the mind, sins of the motive and attitude, sins of the words, sins of the lips and tongue. We just spew out sin, pour out sin, sins of the hands, things we do, things that sins of the feet, places we go. Let Christ be our medicine. Let the grace of Jesus Christ be our remedy. Let Christ, the living Lord Jesus Christ, and his Holy Spirit that dwells within us, let that be the answer for our sin problem. The promise of a savior. Second feature of life in a fallen world. Now we'll get into our new text, verses 16 to 20 God mercifully restrains judgment, aka he preserves life. Now this comes first from verse 16a, where we see that Adam and Eve would still have the blessing of having children. Adam and Eve would still have the blessing of having children. Let's not take that for granted. This is a great blessing. Verse 16a To the woman, he said, I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. Yes, we'll talk about the pain. We'll get there, okay? But right now, look at the fact that they're still going to be blessed with children. That's a great blessing. That's a great blessing. They didn't earn that. God's not obligated to allow that. It's by God's goodness. Again, by God's mercy, by God's goodness, if he allows this. Now, from verse 19a, Adam and Eve would still have the blessing of, get this, food. Do you think in our culture we take for granted how much food and clean water we have? They would still have the blessing of food. Verse 19a: By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. Alright, we'll talk about the sweat of the face. Or we'll get there. Alright? We'll get to the difficulties. Hey, did you miss something? They'll have bread. Amen. They'll have food provided by God. They didn't earn it They didn't work for this. They just sinned against God. They just forfeited everything. And now they're going to have children? And they're going to have bread? Good Italian bread. Sure, they would even quickly have olive oil and herbs to dip the bread in to enhance the enjoyment. Not only the blessing of having children, the blessing of food, Adam and Eve would still have the blessing of marriage. Verse 20. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. The man and his wife, and they would still have the blessing of marriage. What do we learn from this? Well, not only is God merciful, preserving life and restraining judgment, And God is gracious, promising a savior and making a way back to himself, but God also is good. Giving good gifts for survival and enjoyment. Giving good gifts for survival and enjoyment. Psalm 100 verse 5. The Lord is good, and his steadfast love endures forever. Do you believe that this morning? Do you believe that God is good? That He's given you good gifts, not only for your survival, but also for your enjoyment? Do you believe that a steadfast love endures forever? The Lord is good, and his steadfast love does endure and will endure forever. Psalm 34, verse 8: O taste and see that the Lord is good, and blessed is the man who takes refuge in him. God is good. He gives good gifts for our survival and enjoyment. And even right after the fall, you start to see this. Even in the judgment, even in the discipline, even when it's attached to the curse of sin and death, you still see the light of God's goodness shining through. Why? Because God is good. He wants us to know that. And he wants us to sing that. He wants us to talk to the talk with each other about the facts that he is good. And all the good gifts that we have. And all the true, proper, holy enjoyments that we have in life come from God. Another way the scripture talks about this is with the word kindness, or often you'll see the two words together, his loving kindness. Alright, which is closely related. There's so much overlap here, but God's not only good, but he's also kind, which means he helps the weak and shows compassion. You love those kind of people in your life, right? Those who help the weak and show compassion. Well, God is in the supreme way, in the greatest way, in the highest way, helps the weak and shows compassion I'm happy about that because I am extremely weak. Brother, I need a lot of compassion. I need a lot of patience. Isaiah 54:8. In overflowing anger for a moment I hid my face from you, but with everlasting kindness I will have compassion on you, says the Lord your Redeemer. Well, that's an encouraging promise, and promise, is it not? In everlasting kindness, I'll have compassion on you, says the Lord our Redeemer. Romans 2, 4. Or do you presume on the riches of his kindness? And forbearance and patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. That's a powerful thought. Think of God's kindness and think of the purpose of God's kindness is to lead us to repentance. God is good and God is kind. Now, some Christians forget that God is holy. And when you forget that God is holy as a Christian, you'll end up professing faith, but living for the world. Others forget that God is gracious. And what happens when we forget that God is gracious is we seek to earn our salvation by good works. We'll seek to achieve God's favor through what we do. Some forget that God is holy, some forget that God is gracious, and yet others forget that God is faithful. And when we forget that God is faithful, our hearts have no assurance of salvation. Our hearts have no certainty of the hope of heaven when we forget that God is faithful. Because the inheritance that God has promised for us is based on I just said it, I just gave it away, God's promise And God is faithful. And he will provide, ritually provide, all that he's promised. Some forget that God is holy, some forget that he's gracious, some forget that he's faithful But many, many, many Christians forget that God is good. Many Christians forget that God is good. That one of his attributes is that he's good and that he's always giving good gifts for our survival. And he's always giving good gifts for our enjoyment. And that God is kind. That he's always helping us in our weakness daily. And he's always showing compassion toward us daily. And now what happens in the heart when we forget that God is good and kind? Famine happens in the heart. A famine. A famine of gratitude, a famine of appreciation, and a famine of contentment. Famine of gratitude, which means not being thankful as we ought to God for all that He's given to us for survival and for enjoyment, and for all of His kindness In showing mercy and compassion and help to us in our weakness. May God above fill our hearts with gratitude May each one of us have a revival of thanksgiving occur in our hearts this very morning to see daily his goodness To see daily his kindness and to return thanks unto him for all that he's done, and for all that he's given, and, brethren, for all that he's promised to give us in the future. The famine of appreciation is when we take for granted what we have. But we're just forgetful. We're forgetful. We're forgetful about the fact that Um all of these blessings that God has given us, not only for survival and for enjoyment, and then the spiritual blessings on top of that, they're all undeserved. They're all undeserved. And often we can forget that and we can take them for granted and we lack appreciation, a proper appreciation. You'll have one kind of appreciation. Let's say three people pay off for you three different fines. Alright, the first person pays off your late fee at the library for 35 cents. Yeah, that's appreciation. Someone else pays off your car. It was six thousand dollar balance. That's a whole lot more appreciation. Because the appreciation is gonna uh parallel, it's gonna line up with the debt that was owed and the debt that was paid. Six thousandth is a whole lot better. Than 35 cents. Now the third person is going to pay off your mortgage for $550,000. Now the appreciation just goes through the roof Well now think about what God has given us. Let's see. Hmm, life, breath, food every day, clean water every day, we're all clothed. Shelter. We could go on and on and on with all of the gifts, all of the good gifts that come from God for our survival and for our enjoyment. And we didn't even get to the greatest gift of salvation and eternal life through Christ Jesus. Appreciation. It's a hallmark of Christian living. We are people who appreciate what God has done. And contentment. These are all related, aren't they? Gratitude, appreciation, and contentment When we forget when we forget that God is good, and we forget that God is kind, and we can have this famine of contentment where our soul just chronically our souls are not at peace with what we have. And we all know what that leads to. Just grumpiness, grumbling, complaining, and just discontent. Think about in in terms of illustration, think about a child who has everything they could ever dream of and more. 20 times more than every other child on the block or the whole neighborhood, but then they complain, they don't get one thing that they want, and they complain to their parents, you don't give us anything, you don't let us do anything. That's a lack of gratitude, appreciation, and contentment. You see, they all go together. Or think of a husband who has a faithful wife and never says, thank you for your faithfulness. Thank you for your love. I appreciate your faithfulness as a wife. Or think of a wife who has a faithful husband, but only criticizes. And never appreciate. I appreciate all that you do. I appreciate your faithfulness to this marriage. Well, what about us as we stand before the Lord? What about your heart with the Lord? Have we remembered his goodness and kindness in a proper way? The blessing of children, food, marriage. They're just the three examples that come out immediately in this passage. Gratitude, appreciation, and contentment. Brothers and sisters, if there's uh there's anything we should be praying for, let's make sure those three things are on the The list. God, would you fill my heart with gratitude? Would you fill my heart with appreciation for all that you've done? And would you fill my heart and my mind with contentment? with contentment. First Timothy six, six through nine. First Timothy six, six through nine Godliness with contentment is great gain. And that means that's what it means to be truly rich. Great gain, truly rich. Godliness with contentment is great gain. For we brought nothing into this world, and we cannot take anything out of this world. But if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. But those who desire to be rich fall into temptation, into a snare, into many senseless and harmful desires that plunge people into ruin and destruction. That's a vivid painting, isn't it? Ruin and destruction over here, and then over here, godliness and contentment, and a peace that fills the heart. That's the side I want to be on Features of life in a fallen world. First of all, right at the heart, the thing that keeps this whole story going is that God promised a coming Savior. Number two, God mercifully restrains judgment, aka He preserves life. And in the midst of that preserving life, He on top of that, He Provides good gifts for survival and enjoyment. He reveals his goodness. He reveals his kindness so that we'd be grateful, appreciative, and content. Number three, and finally, God reveals his judgment Through pain and hardship as a reminder of sin. God reveals His judgment Through pain and through hardship as a reminder of sin First, women would experience pain in childbearing Verse 16 To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain and childbearing. In pain you shall bring forth children. That's painful. Can I get an Amen? But there's purpose behind it. The point is, God, in the nitty-gritty of human experience. Just a normal, everyday life in a fallen world. Nitty-gritty, rubber meets the road of human experience. God reveals his anger against sin, and he reveals his judgment against sinners so that we would look to the Savior for salvation That's the purpose of wrath and judgment being revealed in this world. It has a purpose. To teach us about sin, to teach us about God's anger against sin, to teach us about God's judgment against sinners, so that in our hearts I would say I need to be saved from sin. And so that in our hearts, I would look to Christ as my Savior to escape final judgment. Yes, there is a reserved judgment. Judgment 's not just poofed away. It's reserved It's held back until that final day, when all the judgment finally comes with no reservation. And only those who are found in Christ will be saved. Women will experience pain and childbearing. And the point is God revealing his anger against sin, judgment against sinners, so that we would look to the Savior and be saved. Letter A. Women experiencing pain and childbearing. Letter B. Women would experience marriage with sinful men. Women would experience marriage with sinful men. Verse 16. The rest of it, your desire? Shall be contrary to your husband, but he shall rule over you. You see, the man is a sinner And the woman is a sinner. And they're already in the marriage relationship. It was perfect before. Alright, there was no criticism before. There was no selfishness before. There was no pride before. There was no conflict before. There were no hurt feelings before. But now sin has entered. Any relationship between sinners is going to have trouble. It's going to have difficulty. Without the Spirit of God enabling us to relate to one another. In a proper way, it'll be devastating. Your desire shall be contrary to your husband There are different translations there. There's a lot of debate about this. Some say your desire shall be toward your husband. And on that interpretation , the the idea is that part of it's not a bad thing. Your desire toward your husband. The wife's desire is supposed to be toward her husband. But the problem is the husband, now the one in the leadership role, is a slave to sin. And he's corrupt instead of holy. Well that's a problem. It's a problem for the guy, but in this passage, it's a problem for the woman She has to be married to a sinful man. Your desire shall be toward your husband or for your husband. This other translation that's uh in the ESV, your desire shall be contrary to your husband. But he shall rule over you. And that translation just highlights even more that there's going to be a conflict because you have two sinful parties. You're contrary to him, he's contrary to you, he's ruling over you, he has leadership over you. Um But uh because he's fallen in sin, he's not going to do that in the proper way. Now if we're saved We can do that in the proper way. But even then, not a perfect way. Amen. Husbands, not perfect. Husbands keep growing in holiness. For the glory of God, ultimately, but for the good of your wives, please, and for the good of our children. Men. Keep if there's a man next to you sleeping, wake him up. Wake up, wake up. Keep growing in holiness for the good of your loved ones. I thought the women were gonna be like, amen falling out in the aisles. What? Oh man Yes, and women too, but this is he's talking to Eve here. So I'm going to just use the same perspective that's in the text Again, the point, the point is God is revealing his anger against sin and his judgment against sinners and the nitty-gritty of life. So it's this ongoing reminder, ongoing reminder of the reality of sin and judgment. And that's to teach us to look to God as our Savior. And let us see. Working the ground would become difficult for men. Working the ground would become difficult for men. Survival will be difficult. Verse 17. And to Adam he said, Because you've listened to the voice of your wife, and have eaten the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat of it. Cursed is the ground. Because of you, in pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. Again, thank God for plants of the field. And all the food, all the sustenance and enjoyment that can come from that. But this is not like the garden that was within Eden. This is gonna have thorns, it's gonna have thistles, it's gonna be tough, it's gonna be hard, it's gonna be non-stop. So that you can survive. It says, cursed is the ground. Now it's very important here. A curse is pronounced against Satan, and a curse is pronounced over the ground. But not upon Eve and not upon Adam. Read it again, read it again. Do your exegesis. If I'm wrong, you come correct me. The curse is the outpouring of wrath and judgment. The blessing is the outpouring of goodness and favor. The curse comes upon Satan, and the curse comes upon the ground. And mankind lives in the midst of the curse. But mercy is poured out upon Adam and Eve. And grace is shown to Adam and Eve. And goodness and kindness and compassion is shown upon Adam and Eve Not curse. Not curse. Not from the text. Working the ground would be difficult for men. Again, an ongoing reminder. An ongoing reminder. That's why they call it work, not fun. This is different than the Garden of Eden. An ongoing reminder of God's anger against sin and his judgment against sinners, so that we would look To him for a savior. Finally, letter D, men would live in the fear of certain death. Verse 19, by the sweat of your face you shall eat bread. Amen for bread. I'm not being funny. I want us to remember every time you take a bite out of bread for the rest of your life, be thankful to God that He's given you bread. Amen? Remember his goodness. Till you return to the ground. For out of it you were taken, for you are dust. And to dust you shall return. You are going to die. You are going to die physically. There's no escaping that except for two exceptions in history. Enoch and Elijah, it appears. But the rest of us will face bodily death. But if we believe in Christ, we'll never die. That means if we receive, Amen, if we receive eternal life in Christ now, when the body dies , The soul enters the higher form of life in going to heaven. So, in that sense, you'll never die. And then also on the day of resurrection, we'll receive a glorious, imperishable body. Like Christ received. Praise the Lord indeed. That's the inheritance. But in this life We live in the fear of certain death, facing death. Romans 1:18. For the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. who by their unrighteousness suppress the truth. The wrath of God is one of the things that's being revealed in the world through through the hardships of living in a on a ground that is cursed. Anger against sin, judgment against sinners. Brothers and sisters, punishing criminals is not wrong, but that is right. Punishing sin is not wrong, but that is right. Disciplining the wrongdoer, correcting the wrongdoer is not wrong, but that is right. Consequences For breaking the law. Consequences for wrongdoing is not wrong. That is right. Now, lost man And so philosophical, isn't it? Lost man. Lost Matt. Let's go, lost Matt, when Matt was lost, wanted total freedom with no consequences. Right? Total freedom with no consequences, but that's irrational. No area of human society can function like that On that principle, and true spiritual life does not function on that principle either. What do we learn here in this last point? About three features in a fallen world. Well, let's review and let's see what we learn here. Not only is God merciful in preserving life, And God is gracious in promising a savior and making a way back to Him. But also, God is good, giving good gifts for survival and enjoyment. And we've seen that God is kind. Who helps the weak and shows compassion. But we also learn that God is righteous and just. Amen? God is righteous and just, which means he's angry with sin and he punishes sinners. He's righteous and he's a just There's a verse in Exodus, God talking to Moses, that really summarizes and brings together these different character traits of God. Exodus 34, 6 and 7. The Lord passed before him, that's Moses, the Lord passing before him is Moses, and he proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord, a God merciful. and gracious and slow to anger, abounding in steadfast love and faithfulness Keeping steadfast love for thousands, forgiving iniquity and transgression and sin, but But who will by no means clear the guilty? He will by no means clear the guilty. The gospel is not God clearing the guilty. Here's what God clearing the guilty would be. If if I live my whole life putting myself in it as an illustration, if I live my whole life Rejecting God, hear the gospel, reject the gospel, reject the gospel, live for myself, live for the world, live for myself, reject the gospel, die Stand before God in judgment, guilty, and God says, No, that's okay, you're cleared. Now receive your inheritance in Christ. That would be God clearing the guilty Sometimes I've heard this preached like there's some kind of tension or almost uh contradiction here between this statement of God not clearing The guilty. And what happens in the gospel? The gospel is not God clearing the guilty. The gospel is God by a miracle making the guilty innocent by the blood of Christ. That's a different thing. Because when God makes the guilty innocent by the blood of Christ, you put your faith in Christ, and you live an imperfect but genuine Christian life. You die, you stand before God, and you are literally innocent before God. That's how you receive the inheritance of eternal life. By the blood of Christ and by the Spirit of Christ within you. All of your sin has been forgiven, and you are no longer guilty in God's eyes. Do you remember the gavel? Please remember the gavel. The gavel has already come down if you put your faith in Christ. The gavel's already come down. God has declared you. This is my gavel. God, I guess that's the origin of pulpit pounding. God has brought the gavel down and declared you innocent. The gospel is not clearing the guilty. It's making the guilty innocent by a miracle through the blood of Christ. Put your faith in him this morning. You'll have no regrets. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Jesus. Thank you for washing away all of our sin and giving us the great inheritance of eternal life. Thank you for your mercy, your grace, your goodness, your kindness. Help us daily to remember these things and live in light of them. In Christ we pray. Amen.