Well, let's take our Bibles and turn to Jude verses 24 and 25. Today, bringing our series on Jude To a conclusion. Jude verses 24 and 25, talking about the power and the greatness of God. Power is what God is able to do. Power is what God has the authority to do. You can think of the power of a massive tractor versus the horsepower of a compact car. It's a great difference in power. But you also can think about authority. The authority of a parent over their children, the authority of the governing authorities over the citizens. So power, but also the greatness of God He's exceedingly better than anything else. He's exceedingly higher than anyone else. I can only give inferior illustrations of this, but think of your think of a food that you like. I'll just use pizza as an illustration. There's bad pizza, there's mediocre mediocre pizza. There's good pizza and there's great pizza. And that's what I want. But you know the difference between bad and average and mediocre and good and great and exceedingly great Think of the difference between a small votive candle or one of those little Christmas candles that you put in the window versus the glory and the power and the brightness of the sun. It's a huge difference. What we're talking about today is the power of God, infinite power. And we're talking about the greatness of God, infinite greatness. What is it that makes God praiseworthy? What is it that makes God trustworthy? What is it that makes God worthy of all of our love, in all of our obedience, in all of our devotion? Power and the greatness of God. Well, now you know our topic. That's our topic. That's our theme. And it's the center, it's the heartbeat of Christian worship, fixing our hearts, the power and greatness of God. Now from Jude 24 to 25. Now to him who is able to To keep you from stumbling, and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy, to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, Father, we pray that you would minister your word to our hearts this morning. If there's any barrier between Between our hearts and your word, would you destroy it? By your grace, Father, if there's anything distracting us from receiving your word and being changed by your word , being instructed by your word and being consoled and comforted by your word. Father, would you overcome it, please? We beg you Help us to receive your word with humility and with joy and with faith. And Father, we confess our sins And we confess our weakness. We bring them before you because you are full of grace and you are full of mercy, and you are ready to forgive, you are ready to receive, you are ready to restore us. Father, that's our prayer. Those are our prayers as we come now to your word. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Acknowledging God's power and greatness is the heart Heartbeat of Christian worship. This passage is a doxology, which means a word of praise. It's a word of blessing or a word of praise to God. Of verse 24. Now to him. Dot dot dot. Now to him. And then verse 25. To the only God, our Savior, through Jesus. Christ our Lord. It's acknowledging things about God. It's ascribing to God that which is true about Him. Now to Him who is able. And to the only God, our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be dot dot dot. So it's acknowledging something about God Specifically, God's power to do things and certain aspects of God's greatness. This is a doxology, and it's a really good reminder of why we gather to worship We gather to worship, we gather to make much of God. We gather to magnify God. That means to speak highly of God. Think of What a magnifying glass does. It makes something big. It brings something into focus. It brings it nearer. It makes it clearer. It fixes all of our attention on it. And that That's why we gather to worship, to magnify God according to his word. What's the great hindrance to worship? Well, the great hindrance to worship. Is the sinful pride of the flesh. That natural tendency that we all have to focus on ourselves, focus on our own Wants or to focus on the world. And so we need God to turn our hearts and to turn our minds. And we would fix our hearts and our minds on His power and His greatness. That's what we're here to do today. And so by his spirit and by his grace, may God enable us to humbly and joyfully and biblically magnify God's power and God's greatness. And number one, number one one will magnify God's power to sustain us. That's the first point. The power to sustain us is God's. Verse 24 Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling. We magnify God's power to keep us from Stumbling. To stumble means to trip. It means to trip up. It means to fall. In fact, the King James translates it here, falling. To keep us From falling. Stumble means to falter. It means to fail in your faith, or to fail in your faith Faithfulness to God. But praise God that He has the power to sustain us, that He has the power, that He has the ability to keep us from stumbling And that's what it says. Keep you from stumbling. To keep has the idea of to guard. It has the idea of to protect. Has the idea of to watch over and preserve. And don't you want God to do that in your life? Don't we need God to watch over us and preserve us in the faith? God has the power to sustain us. So we magnify his power to keep us from stumbling. Now why would Jude 's audience need that encouragement? Well just glance up to verse four and see that these ferocious false Teachers have infiltrated the church. Jude says they've crept in unnoticed. And they're teaching immorality. They're perverting grace and teaching grace as a license to sin. Denying the Lordship of Christ, they're teaching uh extremely harmful lives. And um This the Christians, if they're gonna stand fast, if they're gonna stand firm, if they're going to stand and contend for the true faith They will need God to enable them by His Spirit. That's not something that Jude's first audience can do on their own. And that's not something Something that I can do on my own. I am not keeping myself. My Lord and Savior is keeping me. And you are not sustaining yourself. Your Lord and Savior is sustaining Sustaining you. We magnify God's power, not our own. Power of God to sustain us. If you're running a race, Dehydration can cause you to stumble and fall. For children, it's rebellion and disobedience toward your parents that will cause you to stumble And fall, and what you've been called to do, and how you've been called to live. A church, a desire for the world's approval, can cause us, or will cause. A desire to fit in with the world around us will cause us to stumble and fall, and we need God to sustain us us and keep us faithful. Children of God, many things can cause us to stumble or to trip up in our faith. In fact, the Bible says that. Chapter 3, verse 2, James writes, For we all stumble in many ways, and if anyone does not stumble in what he says, he is a perfect man, able also to bridle his whole body. And And it's true, we all stumble in many ways. We all get tripped up in many ways. We need God to sustain us. That's why, brothers and sisters, we must have an ongoing urge. urgency about the condition of our own souls. Yes, we want to evangelize. Yes, we want people to be born again. Yes, we want people to repent and to be baptized. But we must have an urgency See for the spiritual condition and the spiritual health of our own souls as well. Because we're still battling sin and we're still facing temptation. The devil is Still trying to scheme in our lives and scheme in the church to divide us and to discourage us and to distract us. And we must be diligent in matters of the soul Matters of the heart, because we all stumble in many ways, but we do magnify without shame and without Without hesitation, we magnify the power of God to sustain his own. Amen? And he will keep you to the end. Even when I I don't feel like he'll keep me to the end? Yes, because God's keeping us to the end is based on his promises and his faithfulness to his promises and his power to be able to make true on his word And so our being preserved is based on God. It's not based on Pastor Matt, I can never preserve myself. I'd be gone in a second back into a life But God by his spirit and God by his grace, based on his promises and for the glory of his name, God preserves His children. Church, we magnify the sustaining power of God. False teaching can cause us To stumble, prayerlessness can cause us to stumble, the allurements of sin can cause us to stumble, pride can cause us to stumble And what I mean their pride is specifically thinking that I'm beyond stumbling is going to be a cause for me to stumble. Does that make sense? Fear of persecution can cause us to stumble. Just the fear of man in general can cause us to stumble. The cares of this life, the troubles of this life can discourage us and cause us to stumble. Of God can fall into a season of stumbling, but I want to tell you something today. God is always ready to receive and restore the stumbling saint. Always. He's always He's always there. He's always available. If there's anything that's clear in the Bible, is that God has made Himself available to sinners. He's made Himself accessible to sinners, even though He's holy. And we're sinful and unholy and wicked by the blood of Christ and by the interceding ministry of Christ, the intercession of Christ, we have access to God. He's always available. Please, please don't have the mindset that you get to fix yourself up first and then come to God and then He'll receive you. That could never happen. That could never happen. He receives the wicked sinner who repents and is trusting in his grace. Come to God, turn to God, he'll receive, he'll restore. Talking about Jesus Christ, it says this, who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. God is faithful, by whom you were called Into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. God by His great power, God by His infinite mercy, has brought you into a relationship with Himself by the blessing blood of Christ, and he is not going to abandon you now. He is with you and he is for you and he will keep you, keep you, keep you to the end. Number two. We're going to take numbers two and three together. All in favor? Raise your right hand. The power to sanctify us is God's, and the power to sanctify us And so we not only magnify God's power to sustain us, but we magnify his power to sanctify us, and we magnify his power to satisfy us and satisfy us. Fill us with the supreme happiness of seeing Him. Fill us with the supreme peace and contentment and happiness and joy and sense of rejoicing of being with God. God forever. This too comes from verse 24. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the The presence of his glory with great joy. So it's a picture of the final judgment. It's a picture of you, child of God, having received a resurrection body Standing before the throne of God, the throne of Christ, and final judgment, to receive your final commendation. Not condemnation, commendation The declaration that you are a child of God. It's a picture of standing before God and not falling under judgment, but you're presented blameless before Before the presence of his glory, and you're presented not only blameless, but with great joy. With great joy. It's already true. Already true that your standing before God is one of righteousness because the righteousness of Christ has been gifted to you. You, believer, have been clothed in the righteousness of Christ. You've been granted a righteousness that is not your own. Christ lived a perfect life He met all the demands of God's holy law, and he has given this to us as a huge theological word coming up here. Ready, you note takers, as a Gift. G -I-F-T. God has given as a gift perfect righteousness so that we could stand before his throne and not come under his wrath, but be Proclaimed blameless. And on that day we'll also experience the supreme joy, a perfect joy. We'll have great joy as we're presented before God. It's a good reminder of the ultimate purpose for why we were made, and it's a good reminder Of the ultimate purpose for why we were saved, like where this whole thing is heading, why God has done any of this, is that we would behold in person. Behold the glory of God and of the risen Christ, and to respond in perfect love and perfect praise for what we behold. I'll say that again. But this is the goal. This is why God made us and why God has saved us. Is so that in person we can behold his glory and behold the glory of the risen Christ, and that we would respect. Respond to that glory in perfect love and perfect praise filled with perfect joy, that's the ultimate purpose of God. Are we called to do good works on the earth? Now. Absolutely, yes, but that's not our ultimate purpose. Are we called to worship God now as a local church? Yes, absolutely, but that's not. Our ultimate purpose. We are called to work hard and be responsible now. We're called to be responsible citizens, Christians Citizens of heaven who are also good citizens on earth now. We're called to be loving and kind to each other. We're called to be loving and kind to others in the world now. And you all Could go on and on to the things we've been given now, to the things we are called to now. But what I want our minds fixated on is our ultimate purpose. Where is it heading? Why is God doing any of this Child of God. It's so that you would be with him. It's so that you would in person see his glory, the glory of his throne, the glory of his exalted. And respond in perfect joy, perfect praise, perfect adoration, and perfect service forever and ever and ever. Now that will keep That's what will keep us grounded. Keep us from is going with the flow in the culture. Going with the flow and just being worldly people who do religion. Having an eternal Mindset having a mindset on the glory of God and our eternity with Him. God has the power to sustain us. He has the power to sustain us Sanctify us. He has the power to satisfy us. We magnify God's power in all of these things. But we also want to magnify God's greatness. We also want to Magnify God's greatness. And if you look at verse 25, there's a series of different aspects of God's greatness. We want to acknowledge. Be glory, majesty, dominion. And authority before all time and now and forever. I believe this is number four on your outline And now we transitioned from the power of God to do those things in verse 24 to these different components of his greatness that's brought out in verse 25. All glory is God's. That's the first thing he says. Be glory. To the only God our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory. And so, church, we've been set apart to be a people We speak highly of the greatness of God's glory. Glory in scripture has the idea of a weightiness or of a Dignity to God's presence. As an illustration, and it's such a small illustration, I almost hesitate to give it, but it can be a good illustration if you see it rightly. Think of a great Great leader, a respected, powerful world leader who walks into the room and they have all of their attendants, and they may have uh Bodyguards, there's a huge procession. There's a certain weight that falls on everyone else in the room. There's a certain weight of dignity that comes with that authority With that power, with that dignity. That's the idea here. There's a weightiness to God. There's a certain dignity that comes with the presence of God. Glory also has the idea of radiant beauty, of a radiant beauty that shines forth. Think about the grace of God that shines forth in Jesus. That's God's glory. It's the radiant beauty, the glory of God in Christ. In fact, an illustration of that could be a bride adorned for her wedding. Day. And the groom is up here, and he's sweating bullets, and he's nervous, and everybody's waiting for one thing. Other people are walked up. But that's not really all too big a deal. That's just tradition. What everyone's waiting for, what the groom is waiting for, is for the doors to to open and this certain particular music To start playing, and the the bride in her full beauty is revealed. A bride adorned for her wedding day. This idea of a radiant beauty. And the bride is adorned specifically to maximize Magnify her beauty, to shine forth her beauty in a particular and special way because of the weight of the occasion. So it is a weightiness and a dignity, but it's it's but don't think of that in this mechanical uh authoritarian way, but also connected with this idea of a of a powerful shining forth of all that's one Wonderful about God. In fact, in um describing the garments for the high priest and the garments for the priests under the old covenant, for the old covenant. Worship. These two things are brought together. Exodus 28, 2. And you shall make holy garments for Aaron, your brother, for both glory and for beauty. And then also in Exodus. twenty eight forty for Aaron's sons you shall make coats and sashes and caps, and you make them for glory and beauty, because the worship, the physical symbolic Worship should reflect something of God. Some reflects something of His dignity, something of His beauty. In other words, something of the glory of God should be reflected in Symbolized in these elements of worship, including the clothing. Church, we need to be a glory of God-focused people who are always magnifying, always speaking highly. Of God's glory, because all glory is his. But number five, also all majesty is his. All majesty is his. And so we magnify the greatness of God's majesty. That's the second thing that he says in verse 25. He says, Be glory, comma, majesty. That means exalted highly above. That's what majesty is. It means exalted highly above Above and reigning over majesty, the majesty of God. This is why we walk in the fear of the Lord, which means we're acknowledging God's authority over us. And we have this all-struck humility, this all-struck reverence, fear of the Lord that causes us to walk, striving to obey Him, striving to Please him, the majesty of God. All glory is his, all majesty is his. Number six, all dominion is his. That's the next thing that he says. He says, be glory, majesty, dominion. So we magnify also the greatness of God's dominion. That's the idea of strength. Sometimes it's translated might, his might to rule, his strength to rule. It's God's might to accomplish his His will in his world, his dominion. In the world there are kingdoms, and there are nations, and there are There are tribes and there are different leaders, tribal leaders, presidents, kings, queens, all kinds of governing authorities. Brother, Brothers and sisters, above it all is the authority of God. Every authority falls under the authority of God. All dominion is his All glory is his, all majesty is his, all dominion is his. He rules everything. And number seven, all All authority is his, all authority is God's, and so we magnify the greatness of his authority. And isn't that the next thing that he says Glory, majesty, dominion, and authority. It means the right of ownership You have authority over your car. You have the right of ownership. And you have authority over your property and your house. You have the right Rights of ownership. Certain things are yours. Lots of things are not yours. God has rights on everything, all authority. is his. The right of ownership for the whole world and everything in the world and everyone in the world belongs to God. There are different spheres of authority. authority in in life. You have the family in the home is one sphere of your life. You have the local church as one sphere of life Life, and by the way, all these spheres of life is just different components of our discipleship. So we want to we want to seek to honor God in the home and family. We want to seek to honor God. in the local church. We want to seek to honor God in the civil sphere, in the way we are citizens, citizens of the United States. Some of you may be citizens I don't know, but wherever we're a citizen, and you talk about our relationship to the governing authorities, brothers and sisters, that's an area of our discipleship. God and honors God's will and honors God's words and the morality and the purpose for life on earth that God has revealed to us in Scripture. From being a disciple. So you have all these different spheres of authority, but it all comes under this one grand sphere of God rules The world and everything in it. God is the final authority. We magnify his authority. And number eight, we magnify, we magnify the fact that this has always been the case and that this one Will never change. We magnify the greatness of God's eternity or his eternality. This is the last thing that Jude says in verse 25 to the only God Our Savior, through Jesus Christ our Lord, be glory, majesty, dominion, and authority. Before all time and now and forever. Amen. Now it literally says, before all ages and And now and into all ages. Before all ages, or before all the ages, you could do, but before all ages, and now and into all ages. These things need to be ascribed to God. These things are true of God from an eternal perspective. And now the practical application is this. Since all these things are gods from before all ages and now and into all ages, therefore you never have to worry about someone or something. Stopping God from doing what He has promised you. You never have to worry about anyone any authority sweeping in and thwarting the purposes of God in your life. Never, ever can it happen There will never be a nation who can stop the gospel from spreading in power to the ends of the earth. Never. There will never be a kingdom who can stop God. From discipling the nations. There'll never be a president who can stop you from being sanctified by the grace of God. And isn't that the heart of our discipleship? to be sanctified, to be conformed to the likeness of Christ. There'll never be any authority who can sneak into your life and stop you from being sanctified. There'll never be a culture so sinful. There'll never be a persecution so horrible. There'll never be a temptation so powerful that can stop you from inheriting That's where you are headed. And by the promise, power, and faithfulness of God, listen to This now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling, and to present you blameless, before the presence of his glory with With great joy to the only God our Savior through Jesus Christ our Lord be glory and majesty, dominion and authority before all time and now and Forever. Amen. Let's pray together. Father, I pray you would make us more and more Every day, every week, we pray that you would make us a glory of God focused people who make much of your power. Who make much of your greatness in all the various aspects, who press into fellowship with you through faith in Christ. For those who haven't come to faith or haven't made a profession of faith Here this morning. I pray that you would give them the grace, mercy, power, wisdom, and faith to profess Christ as Lord, to publicly profess Christ as Lord. Us, Lord, to submit to baptism, to join the church and join us in this great work of worshiping and serving you. Father, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen.