Words we'll examine tonight come out of 1 Peter 3, verses 18 through 22. 1 Peter chapter 3. Verses 18 through 22. The victor suffered. The one who won, the one who has victory, the one who has defeated sin and death He suffers. Why does this matter? Why do we take time? Why does Peter write about it? Why are we taking time to focus on the understanding and the idea that Christ Suffered. There's two reasons for it. The first is to recognize that just because we suffer does not mean that we lose. Just because we suffer does not mean that we lose. Really, that's been Peter's motive and his point over the last Chapter or so is to talk about how w as new creatures in Christ, a holy nation, a royal priesthood, God's chosen and beloved. With those identities, we should understand that we will still experience suffering here on this earth. And when we face suffering, that doesn't mean that we lost. We don't get downcasted. We don't lose hope and say, well if I'm gonna be if I'm suffering right now, then God must not be all that powerful. If I'm facing suffering right now and trials, well then maybe I'm not really a Christian. If I'm facing suffering right now, well, maybe there's no hope for a glorious future. And what Peter is doing here is he's he's proclaiming and telling us that that is foolish thinking. That just because we suffer does not mean that we've lost. And how does he do this? He draws the base, and the foundation is that we see that Christ Himself suffered Does anyone in here want to raise your hand and say you think Christ is a loser? You want to sit in here and say that Christ is not victorious? Good job. Keep your hands down. No, we know that he's victorious. And so Peter's reminding us tonight, we're being reminded that Peter, excuse me, that Christ is victorious, even though he suffered. Look quickly before we read it. We just see in verse 18 it says, for Christ also suffered. And jump all the way down to verse 22. Who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him. See those two differences? He suffered. He suffered. But then when we get down just a few verses, he's at the right hand of the Father And all these things have been subjected to them. So the first reason that we're examining the suffering is to recognize that just because we suffered does not mean that we've lost. We're not losers. If our Lord and Savior is not a loser, then we are not either. The second reason that we must understand and look at the suffering of Christ is because his suffering, his suffering has brought the victory to us. His suffering has brought the victory to us. Through his suffering, through his death on the cross, we have life. So with great joy we celebrate that. Amen. So now let us look at 1 Peter chapter 3, starting in verse 18. For Christ also suffered. once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the Spirit in which he went and proclaimed to the s the spirits in prison, because they formerly did not obey. When God's patience waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you, not as the removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him The victor suffered. Let me give you our three points tonight, and then I'll work through them. Point number one is that Christ's suffering brought us life. Christ's suffering brought us life. Point number two, Christ's suffering is proclaimed. Christ's suffering is proclaimed. And point number three, Christ's suffering was not eternal. Christ's suffering was not eternal. As we go through this, we'll see why each one of these is important and where we're getting them from the text. Take a look at that quote I put on there from Sam Samuel Rutherford. It's a nice little poetic way of saying this. Losses and crosses are the wheels of Christ's triumphing chariot. Losses and crosses are the wheels of Christ's triumphing chariot. Think about history, church history. At the time of when we see some of the strongest and most brutal persecution against the church, we can pinpoint in the map of history, and we can also see some of the biggest growth of the church around the world. As persecution, as attacks from the world come in and oppress the church, and it looks like the church is about to crumble, it's about to go completely away, what happens? It explodes. It grows. We see this in Scripture in the book of Acts. The church, there's thousands that at the day of Pentecost, thousands come to faith. They're in Jerusalem and they're multiplying by the day. Then what happens once persecution comes? You know, we would think, okay, here comes here comes the the Jewish leaders, they're trying to snuff out the church, trying to put it to death. And it looks like okay, that should be enough to scare away all these Christians and it should end it, right? What actually happens is as the persecution comes in Jerusalem The saints can't stay in Jerusalem, so then they scatter to the ends of the earth. And guess what happens then? More churches, church to multiply. Now you have where the persecutors thought, okay, we're gonna we're gonna snuff out these Christians here in Jerusalem. And our problems are going to be gone. What they've actually done is they sent the saints around the ends of the earth, to the ends of the earth, and planted churches. And now more and more people are hearing the gospel. More and more people are coming to Christ in faith That's in the New Testament. Then we see that throughout history over and over again. As persecution comes, as trials are mounted against the saints, we see the advancement of the church. And to this day we should still understand that. That suffering should actually point us when we're suffering rightly and for justice. For the righteousness of God, which we'll see in chapter 4, when we're suffering, while we are being righteous, we should expect the advancement of God's kingdom. We should expect and understand that God is victorious, and the enemies will be defeated, and his church will grow, both numerically and spiritually. So the losses and crosses are the wheels of Christ's triumphing chariot. Christ's suffering brought us life. We're going to talk about suffering. If we're going to talk about Christ's suffering, we must recognize this point first : that his suffering brought us life. Some translations may say, for Christ also died. Um instead of suffered. Some have the translation of die. But either way we understand the context there in verse 18. For Christ also suffered once for sins. The righteous for the unrighteous. Why did he do this? Why did he do this? It's right here that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Christ's suffering has brought us life. Beloved, this should be one of the greatest joys of our life. We recognize that his death, his suffering on the cross, has paid for your sins. His death on the cross has paid for my sins. A big fancy word for this? Anyone know it? That's a good one. I will give you uh half credit for that, just because that's not what I wrote down. Substitutionary atonement. Substitutionary atonement. Big fancy word, but we all know what a substitute teacher is, right? Substitute teacher is when your teacher's not there, comes in place of your teacher. Well, likewise, that's what substitutionary atonement is. Jesus' death was a substitute for our death. Jesus' death was a substitute for our death. We are the sinner. We are the unrighteous person being talked about in verse 18. Christ is the righteous one. Christ is the one that is perfect, holy, unblemished, has no sin, yet he is gone to the cross. and took on our sins. He has paid the penalty that we owe. Second Corinthians chapter five, verse twenty-one It says God made him who had no sin to be sin for us, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Him who knew no sin. Could you imagine knowing no sin? No, I'm not just saying he never committed a sin. We can maybe lie to ourselves and say we did that. No, but that's not true. But it's not even that he didn't commit any sin, but he didn't even dream about it. He didn't even fathom it. He didn't even think about sin in his mind. The temptation he was able to resist and never fell for it. Yet he became that sin. We must be reminded that we owe the penalty for our sin. That the wages of sin is death. We've all sinned against the holy God, and the just punishment that we deserve. The just punishment that we deserve is death and eternal separation from God Interestingly enough, uh uh John MacArthur passed away last week, and so there's been a lot of clips going around. And I forgot that he used to go on CNN with um Larry David? David David King. Larry King. I'm just making up people now. But he he's talking about uh judgment and that If they were asking him who's gonna go to hell hell and heaven and how's that gonna happen, and he lays out the gospel wonderfully on this scene and uh series that he did. And uh the the the co-ho the host says, Do you think that's justice? Do you think that's right? John MacArthur goes, You don't want justice. You want the mercy of God. Because justice, the justice is that we pay for our sins. But God, being just and the justifier, paid for our sins by the blood of his Son, Jesus Christ. This is what brings us life. Now we see the death happen there. And we were reminded in 1 Peter 2. 24, it says. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. Beloved, if we ever try to escape the understanding that Christ suffered, if we say the world doesn't like that, this suffering and this death talk isn't winning anyone over, then we aren't preaching the gospel. We must recognize and talk about the death of Christ because His death was the very thing, the very purchasing of our salvation. His death is the very thing that brought us life. And we see that it doesn't end there. Romans 6. 11 says that so you also must consider yourselves dead to sin. And alive to God in Christ Jesus. You must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. This is where we recognize the understanding, and we see it here, that death Brought us life. The death of cross, of Christ on the cross, brought us life So Christ's suffering brought us life. May we not shy away from it. May we not try to avoid it. May we celebrate it. As we see Christ going to the cross on our behalf, may we celebrate what he has done. May we celebrate that we have new life in him. May we celebrate that he has suffered for wicked and nasty sinners like you and I. And may we not be surprised then when the world's attacking. May we not be surprised if we face suffering as being obedient followers of Christ. Our Lord and Savior went to the cross. He suffered to bring us life. Which brings us to our second point. Unfortunately, or fortunately will be our longest point, is that Christ's suffering is proclaimed. Christ's suffering is proclaimed. Look with me at verses 19 through 21, and then we're going to slow down and talk about these few verses because they maybe cause some of the biggest confusion uh in the church today. Verses nineteen. In which, so remember we're coming out of Christ being put to death, but alive in the spirit, verse nineteen, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison. Because they formerly did not obey, when God's patient waited in the days of Noah, while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water Baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. No one has questions, right? We can just move on pretty smoothly. Let's pause just for a moment. We'll get back to the idea that Christ's suffering is proclaimed. But these two topics, there's two topics here that need to be addressed. The first one is found in verses 19 and 20. We see here, this language is saying that Christ in his death and his life in the Spirit went to proclaim in verse 19 in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison And we can be completely honest with one another, that's a tough verse. That's a challenging verse. But if we look at the context as a whole, We don't need to stumble over this. We don't need to get all tied up and challenged by it. What we can see here is that the victory that Christ had on the cross. He's proclaiming to everybody. He's proclaiming to everyone. Everyone is hearing the victory of Christ, even those that have been in the past. Now let's let me unpack this a little bit. Jesus preaching to the spirits in prison. We have primarily three main points of view of what's happening here So let me unpack them very quickly. I'll give you some some of my opinions, and then I will let you wrestle with this late into the night. The three views of this is the first one is that Jesus when he descended into Sheol at his death, he went into the death Sheol, he preached, he proclaimed his victory to the to the imprisoned spirits, which are either uh fallen angels, Or the wicked in Noah's time. So that's that's point number one, or view number one, is that he went into Sheol. And he's preaching, he's proclaiming his victory to the spirits that could be either and either or fallen angels that are imprisoned in the depths. Or wicked humans that have been cast into Sheol, the depths of Sheol. Alright, so that's point number one, view number one. View number two Is that it's a looking back language. The ESV doesn't translate it quite this way. If you have a King James, you'll see that language maybe a little bit different. But some of the language here is pointing to the idea that Christ's proclamation isn't in his death going to Sheol, as view number one has, but rather Christ has always been proclaimed even in the Old Testament. Even in the days of Noah, there was some shadow and glimpse of Christ. So as the wicked in Noah's day were rebelling against God, in fact they were rejecting Christ. And we see this, this is the imagery we have, this crimson thread throughout all of Scripture, that even at the fall in the garden in chapter 3 of Genesis. We see a glimpse of a future promise of the Messiah. Now, they don't fully taste it, they don't fully see it or understand in that moment, but there's a glimpse of it. And then all throughout Scripture, we're seeing these shadows and these glimpses. So view number two is that this is pointing backwards in the days of Noah, even then the proclamation of Christ was being pronounced. And really, this view would say that the proclamation of Christ was being proclaimed throughout all of history, even before he arrived in person. And then view number three. I'll just be up front with this. I don't think this is a viable option, but it's a common one you may hear. View number three of this passage would be that this is Jesus going into Sheol, into death. Going into what in our minds we understand is hell, going into hell and preaching the gospel to the saints that are imprisoned in hell. Excuse me, I said that wrong. Preaching to the spirits imprisoned in hell and giving them a chance to follow after him. I don't believe this is accurate. I think scripture is very clear that this is not the case. But if you go and look this up, you'll hear this argument for this. So I think the two viable options here is that he's entered, he descended into Sheol, into death, and he proclaimed to all the spirits, all the spirits proclaiming his victory. Or, this is talking about the proclamation, the proclamation of Christ throughout all of history, even back to the days of Noah. Now, I I'm okay taking either one of those points of view. And here's why. Is regardless of which view you take or maybe you mix and match or you take both of them or John you probably have uh one you've created on the spot right I don't want to hear it. But whatever it is, what we must see, what we must recognize Is that Christ's death, he is going and proclaiming it even into the depths. All of creation, all of creation is hearing of the victory of Christ. All of creation, past, present, future, all of creation is hearing of Christ's victory, even though he suffered on the cross. I do take the view that there's some understanding of Christ going into Sheol at this point. When Satan thinks he's victorious, when the enemy thinks he had won, because the Savior, the Son of God, has physically died on the cross. That Satan thinks he may have some kind of victory. He's going into Satan's realm and he's proclaiming that there's victory. He's proclaiming that his death is not eternal. He's proclaiming That there is hope in Christ. So I see here that there's a proclamation, and we see in verse 20, because They formerly did not obey when God's patience waited in the days of Noah while the ark was being prepared, in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through water. We also see this correlation here of the proclamation of Christ and his suffering is also being experienced and proclaimed in the life and story of Jonah. This is why we must be thinking about Christ whenever we read Scripture. Even in the Old Testament, we must see the glimpse and the image of Christ all throughout Scripture. That here's Noah. Do you think Noah suffered? I think there's some trials, some hardships, and some mockery coming from the world around him, you fool, what are you doing building this ark? What God are you fearing so much? But he stayed faithful to God, he's obedient to God, and then God gets him into the ark, preserves him and his family and all of creation through this ark. gets him through the devastating waters which brought death to the rest of creation and brought him into a safe landing. continued his creation. That's all God's work through Noah. Do you see Christ there? Can you see a glimpse of the victory of Christ? Getting us through the death that we deserve, getting us through the destruction that we deserve. Here's Christ, our ark, that we enter into that gets us through the waters. And we proclaim it. So Christ's suffering is proclaimed. The second controversial, challenging verse here is verse 21. Which reads baptism, which corresponds to this, now saves you. Not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. This verse, 1 Peter 3, verse 21, will be the go-to verse of anyone or any church that proclaims that you must be baptized to be saved. You'll hear, we'll see that in our world, many Christians who may hold this view that you must be baptized to be saved. And they'll point right to this verse. Let us understand what's being talked about here. Notice in verse 21 that baptism is what? Is corresponding, which corresponds back to the ark. Baptism corresponds back to the ark. And it's pointing us back to that, that the ark, the ark, was being prepared in which a few, that is, eight persons, were brought safely through the waters. So the ark was the mode and mechanism that God used to bring us safely through the waters, or know us safely through the waters. Now, what brings us safely into the presence of God is Christ. That's why the end of verse 21 says, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. So let's just work this out. Let's work through the idea that baptism is what is needed to be saved. If that's the case, we would struggle with 1 Corinthians 1:17. Here, Paul says, For Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. And not with words of eloquent wisdom, lest the cross of Christ be emptied of its power Think about the logic there. Then why would have Jesus Christ sent Paul into the world to preach the gospel, but clearly state that he's not to baptize? I mean that's what he says in 1 Corinthians, for Christ did not send me to baptize, but to preach the gospel. So so is Paul just instructed to preach a gospel that had no salvific work? It was only the Prepped for the moment of baptism, that was the real salvation. So there we have a struggle with it. But also mark this down, Acts 16. Acts 16, starting verse 30. This is with the jailer. Many of us know the story of the jailer. Sees the problem he's he's worried about, he sees what happened in his jail and the miraculous work of God. So the jailer said to the apostles at this time, he says, Sirs, what must I do to be saved? What must I do to be saved? This is a great question. It's a great question. It's a question I like to use with Jehovah's Witnesses and Mormons. What must I do to be saved? You know what the apostle said to him? You must be baptized. You must go to church. No. You must memorize all 66 books of the Bible. All these are good things, right? But what do they say? When he asked, What must I do to be saved? They said, Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved. Believe in the Lord Jesus, and you will be saved. Now let me not diminish baptism either. Because just a few verses later in chapter 16 of Acts, verse 33, it says, And they took him and baptized him. So baptism is valuable, but baptism is not the mode of salvation. Baptism is the recognition. It's the recognition Of the victory of Christ. Baptism is the sign, it's the symbol, it's the seal of what has been accomplished in our hearts. When we have come to faith in Christ, when we believe, right? That's what Scripture tells us. When you believe , In the Lord Jesus, you will be saved. Then we go and then we are baptized to proclaim this to ourselves and to the world around us. To show, proclaim the victory, to proclaim the suffering that has happened, to proclaim what Christ has done for us So, why does Peter use this language of baptism in verse 21? We use similar language in our lives today. We just don't think about it all that often. Next time you go to a wedding. Next time you go to a wedding, what do they share? What do they trace? It's rings, right? And the the common phrase and the common symbolism and script there is that the the bride and the groom they exchange the rings and as they're sharing the rings The minister will often say something along the lines of, with this ring, you commit to be wedded to the Buddha-da-da. And we go down the list of what the beauty of marriage is. Does any of us in here think that the ring was the mechanism and the thing that actually made us married to our spouses? Hopefully not, because many of us lost our rings like day one of being married. Right? Does that annul our marriages? Absolutely not. We understand the imagery of the ring. We understand what is being used there to define and talk about marriage. We also understand that baptism. Baptism is showing us and pointing us to the victory of Christ. So we kind of understand that now we must then see that baptism, while Christ went and proclaimed his victory to the Spirits. Imprisoned, we also see that our baptism is proclaiming and proclaiming the suffering of Christ. Why? What are we proclaiming? Why do we proclaim this? And we talked about this in the beginning, but 1 Corinthians 15, 55 tells us: death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? Are we proclaiming that? When we get baptized, That's that mark there. When we go down in the waters, we are dead. We are being buried. We are being put down in death with Christ. Do we hold you down? No. We don't hold you down. What happens is you come back up. You come out wet. Just like a newborn baby. Sorry for that imagery there. But it's there for a reason. You're new. You're coming out of there alive. You're coming out of the grave alive. Just like Christ did. When we are baptized, we are proclaiming the suffering of Christ. When we take communion, we are proclaiming the death of Christ. That's what 1 Corinthians tells us. Every time we eat and we drink, We proclaim the death of Christ until his return. Beloved, we must not shy away from the suffering of Christ, but in fact, we must proclaim it to the world Christ proclaimed it, our baptism proclaims it, and we too proclaim it Christ's suffering is proclaimed to the ends of the earth. Romans 6, 1 through 4 can mark that down, is talking about how our baptism marks and shows what Christ has done, his victory. But we would not have such a victory if it was not for his death. And we're now ashamed of it, we proclaim Christ's suffering This brings us to point number three, our final point. Christ's suffering was not eternal. You know, we can talk about Christ's suffering bringing us to life, and that we proclaim it. But we would really be challenged to live it out. We would really be challenged to have hope if Christ suffered eternally. If Christ never rose from the dead, if Christ never defeated sin and death, we would talk about it, and I think we would still have some passion for it. But it would be a real challenge if we didn't recognize that Christ is victorious, that he did not stay dead He did not stay in the grave. Notice in verse 18: for Christ also suffered how many times for our sins? Once. Once. Once for our sins. It was accomplished on the cross. His victory was accomplished on the cross. He cried out in his last breath, It is finished. The victory has been won. It was once and done. It's not this eternal suffering of Christ. Every time you sin, Christ doesn't have to pick up the cross again. and be crucified on it again and shed his blood again. His blood and his sacrifice is so powerful So sufficient that it has accomplished and paid for all of your sins if you are a believer in him. Sins you have committed in the past and the sins you will commit in the future. He has paid for it. The victory is won. His suffering is not eternal. It brings us hope. Notice in verse 22 of 1 Peter chapter 3. It says, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ, boom, not dead, not still in the grave, through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him. Does that sound like a loser to you? Nope. Does that sound like eternal suffering? The one that defeated the grave? See eternally suffering? The one that sits at the right hand of the Father? Is he eternally suffering? The one that angels and powers are subjected to him? Does that sound like he is suffering? Or does that sound like a victor Does that sound like the one who has won the battle? Does that sound like the one who has defeated all of the enemies? Why is this good news for us? It's because we are promised that we too will be resurrected like him. We are promised that we too have victory, not in our own work, not in what we have accomplished, not in how good we are, but our victory comes through Christ. We will enter into his glory one day. We will spend an eternity with him. The beauty here is that his victory wasn't just a momentary thing. You know, we all like sports. Some of us like better sports teams than others. But when, you know, you have that that first round or that first inning or or that series, you know, the World Series and that for your team just loses terribly that first game You think, oh man, we're done for. There's no hope. But a good team that plays out of Philadelphia, they come back. And they win the series, and they're the world champions, right? They win the world series, the greatest team ever to walk this earth, but then what happens next season? They just start back, they don't go bad, but they just start back over. Right? It's not like they get to keep the victory and they're recognized as the victors the rest of history. No, they start back over. The victory of Christ is not like that. It's not a momentary victory. It's not like Christ, okay, he resurrected from the dead, and for those 40 days he was the victor. And he was he was the best ever. And and the the enemies were defeated, but now you know he has to restart that and he always he's always fighting to hold on to his victory. No, his resurrection from the dead was the mark and the promise of that victory, but then his ascension to the right hand of the Father. is is the fulfillment of that. We see it laid out there. That as he sits at the right hand of the Father, this is his position, his position of power and authority. It's his position of power and authority. That from this position he now reigns. From this position, position, position next to the Father. He is now demonstrating and exercising his victory over all of creation. If you will, turn with me to Psalm 110. It's what we read at the beginning. But it's an important psalm to hold on to and to see this. Psalm 110 is talking about Christ and his victory. This is that that crimson thread in scripture that here in Psalm 110 Many, many years before Christ came to earth, we see a promised victory of Christ right here. The psalmist writes, the Lord says to my Lord, Let's just pause there. That language we sometimes skip over and don't think about it. The Lord, Yahweh, says to my Lord, The psalmist, this is David writing it. So David, the king of Israel, is saying, Yahweh says to my Lord. Well, David, who's your Lord? It's Yahweh. It's God. But here David has some understanding of Christ because the Lord says to my Lord, the Father says to the Son, sit at my right hand. Have the position of power and authority. Have the position of the victor, the one who's won the battle, the one who's overcome the grave. Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool. And that's what we see then back in. Keep your hand in Psalm 110. Back in, 1 Peter 3, verse 22, says, Who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God. So there we have the promise that Jesus has ascended into the heavens and is at the right hand of the Father, having authority , completely eradicating the suffering that he experienced on this earth. The suffering he experienced on the cross was was accomplished and he's not suffering any more in heaven. He's at the right hand But then there's that promise in Psalm 110 that sit at my right hand until I make your enemies your footstool, and then here in Psalm 1 Peter 3 22 is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him. Or you could put it this way, have been made a footstool before him. The king sits on his throne And those that are subjected to him bow before him. That's that language in Psalm 110. That's also what 1 Peter is saying. That everything, angels. Let's be honest, if we saw an angel right now came down into this room right now, we'd be pretty amazed, right? Subjected to Christ. Subjected to Christ. Powers or authorities, this is probably the political side. The governments, they're pretty powerful, right? Have a pretty big bank account May not be balanced well, but they have one. Pretty powerful if they come and say you do X, Y, and Z. As Peter says, we obey, so long as we don't break the law of God. They submit under the foot of Christ. They're subjected to Christ. Powers, it's probably the spiritual realm. I argue this is uh the the evil powers, this war, this great war that has been happening throughout history. The enemies, Satan. Satan's caused much destruction throughout all creation. Satan has destroyed a lot, has brought great harm Subjected under the feet of Christ. This is what Psalm 110 is crying out. Let me just go back to Psalm 110, jump down to verse 5. It says, The Lord is at your right hand. He will shatter kings on the day of his wrath. He will execute judgment among the nations, filling them with corpses. He will shatter chiefs over the wide earth. He will drink from the brook by the way. Therefore he will lift up his head This is the victor while he suffered on the cross for you and I, while he suffered and went into Sheol. He rose from the dead. He has a victory. He does not stay dead. He does not stay suffering. But his victory is eternal. His suffering is not eternal, but his victory is eternal. What about this? Why What does all this matter? All this suffering? We talked about it that we are called then. If Christ suffered, we too can suffer to know that we are not losing. But Christ is victorious, and we recognize that his suffering has brought us life. His suffering brought the victory to the saints. But what else? Why else are we spending so much time talking about his suffering? Let's work ahead just a little bit. Look at 1 Peter chapter 4. Verse 1 Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin so as to live for the rest of time in the flesh no longer for human passions, but for he who excuse me, but for the will of God Why are we talking about suffering? It's because saint, hear me. Saint, if you are a follower of Christ, you will suffer If you are following after Christ, you will suffer. That doesn't just mean that the enemy attacks. That will happen. But I don't think that's the only type of suffering. But as we wage war against sin and temptation in our lives, beloved, we experience suffering in that. That's painful. That's hard work. But we are empowered by Christ. We are walking in His likeness as we walk through this life, as we battle and wage war against sin and temptation. So the reason we talk so much about suffering is because we see the example of Christ, we see his victory, and that sets us up to walk in his likeness. And in chapter 4 over the next few weeks, we'll see this unpacked and see that we should expect it, but we should be ready and armed with the suffering and the victory of Christ. The suffering and victory of Christ can't be separated, and we are ready to wage war in this life. Peter laid out a good foundation of the practical suffering that we will face. In the workplace, in society, under civil authorities, within marriage. And now he's rooted us in Christ, and now we're going to see how we will walk in righteousness. Following after the example of Christ. So, beloved, may we rejoice in Christ's suffering because it has brought us life. May we proclaim Christ's suffering to the ends of the earth so that it brings life to others. And may we recognize that our suffering is not eternal because Christ's suffering was not either. We have the victory in Christ, and we celebrate the victory in Christ. Let's go before our Lord. Holy God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the work of Christ on our behalf. We thank you for his death and suffering that has brought us life Has made the unrighteous righteous. Has made the dead alive. Has made the enemy the child. Who's made the far off close? Who's brought us into your presence, Lord? We celebrate this. We thank you for this. Lord, I ask that you give us the strength and the wisdom to proclaim this to the world. To proclaim Christ's suffering and his victory to the world, to call the sinner to repent of their sin and find everlasting forgiveness in Christ. Lord, remind us of this. Remind us of Christ's victory and his suffering when we endure and face suffering ourselves. Remind us of how he has overcome suffering, that he sits in heaven today, having victory over all things. And that our suffering now is just for a moment, and one day we will enter into glory, and we will experience this victory fully and understand it completely and celebrate everything He has done even through our suffering. We thank you, we praise you. We ask that you strengthen us tonight. Give us hope for tomorrow. Give us eyes for the world to preach the gospel throughout the week. May we look to you in all things. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.