Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to 1 John 2. Or 1 John 3, rather, 1 John 3, 1 through 3. 1 John chapter 3. Verses 1 through 3. Looking at the Father's love, and as we read why that title came to be will be clear to you. First John 3 1 through 3, the Father's Love, we've been going through first John, we've been talking about the rich, rich blessings of what it means to know Christ. And in knowing him, we've been also been talking about the great confidence. that we have in Christ, the great spiritual assurance in Christ that our sins have been taken away, we've been reconciled to God forever. We've received the gifts of eternal life. We've also seen the confidence that we have overcome the evil one. We've also been talking about what it means to live for Christ. Today we look at the the Jewel or the gem that's behind all of this beauty and all of this radiance of life in Christ, this jewel of the Father's love for us. If you really burrow down, this is the root of it all. The Father's love for us. It's from his love for us that he sent his son to save us. And from his love for us that he then gave us his Holy Spirit that we might believe in Christ and know Christ and want to live for him. All of this is a manifestation of God's love. We're to experience his love and to enjoy his love. Here we go. 1 John 3, 1 through 3. See what kind of love the Father has given to us. That we should be called children of God. And so we are. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know Him. Beloved, we are God 's children now And what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. Let's pray. Father, as I look at that last phrase. We purify ourselves as You are pure, as Christ is pure. I ask that during this time you would purify the preaching and purify the hearing of your word. Apart from you, Nothing will happen. Apart from the mighty working of your spirit, we will remain the same people as when we came in here. But we are fully Believing in the Holy Spirit, and God, we're fully trusting in the power of your word. So I pray that you would prove Once again this morning, Father, that you are faithful, that your word is powerful, that your Holy Spirit is real and present and working for your name and for your glory. Make it a testimony to the reality and the mercy of who you are. Father, bless us now as we come to this passage. In Jesus' name, amen. To map out the message for you, there's two major sections. First, we're going to talk about the wonder of the Father's love. And then after a while, camping out on that and meditating on the wonder of God's love, of the Father's love, then we'll look at the work. In other words, what does his love do in our lives? What does his love accomplish for us and in us? So, first a wonder. Of the Father's love and then the work of the Father's love. Well, you hear that word wonder, we're talking about a a stirring within us. A deep stirring within us of feelings and emotions of astonishment and admiration and adoration of this great, incomprehensible love of the Father. First, the wonder of the Father's love. And I've got you an A, B, C on this, just to make it easy for you. We do A's, B's, and C's, okay? First of all, God's Trinitarian nature inspires awe and admiration. His Trinitarian nature. Now you see this phrase in verse 1 How the passage begins. Kind of love the Father has given to us. So that's what we're talking about. The kind of love that the Father has given to us. But if we don't understand Father, how could we possibly understand the nature of the love? Yeah, Father's love makes no sense to us and it will not bring us to a place of All -inspired admiration to God if we don't understand Father. So we must understand God the Father, and we cannot conceive of God the Father. Unless we talk about the Trinitarian nature of God. Trinitarian means three-in-one, or the three-in-one -ness of God. God is a being Like nothing else in creation. Which makes sense, right? Because God is not part of creation. If you really want to zoom out and make categories of things that exist, there's only two kinds of things that exist There's God, and there's everything else. There's God who is uncreated, and there's everything else that's created God is unlike anything within creation because he's not within creation. He's the creator, eternal, infinite, beyond comprehension. He's not of the creation. God is one eternal essence who exists in three divine persons. And you can say them with me. I know that you know them. Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. God is one eternal essence in three distinct persons. We worship one God, not three gods, but we gladly embrace this mystery of what Scripture reveals about that one God. That he exists as three persons, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are eternally distinct They're distinct persons, but they're eternally distinct. In other words, the Son was not created at a point in history The Holy Spirit was not created at a point in history. If that were true, the persons would be distinct, but not eternally distinct. But the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit are eternally distinct persons. And they are eternally equal. The Son is not a lesser being than the Father. The Holy Spirit is not an inferior being The Holy Spirit is not a lesser person, a lesser being than the Father or the Son. Distinct persons, but equal in divinity. That is why each person in the Trinity is worthy of worship. God the Father is worthy of worship. God the Son is worthy of worship. God the Holy Spirit is worthy of worship. And it's in this context that we understand the phrase worship. Kind of love the Father. Kind of love the Father has given to us You can search high and low and all of the man-made religions that are based on imagination and birthed from speculation. You won't find anything like this Because the one true God transcends our grasp of logic. The one true God confounds the reaches of our imagination. The one true God Pinpoints for us, what needs to be pinpointed for us, that God is not like us. He's a transcendent being Far beyond anything we could imagine or comprehend. The Creator, the eternal, infinite, perfect, almighty creator. You know, if your God basically looks just like you, you don't know God. Now, where's our culture today? But also examine your own heart. If all of uh God's opinions are basically all of your opinions, You probably don't know God or you don't know God. Or if God only teaches things that you would teach if you were in that role, your God is not God If the things that you agree with with God is only things that you already agree with in general, but you reject everything else that He has to say, you don't know God. See, God is not just a projection of ourselves into a man-made religion. God is so infinitely far beyond us, he has to reveal himself to us and teach us who he is. We're not to make God in our own image. This is the impulse of sin. This is the you see this manifest in our culture all around us. We make Standards of morality on our own image, based on our own carnal passions. Now here's what's right, here's what's wrong, here's what's true, here's what's false. Making God in our own image. But true worship is the opposite. So if the conception of God is just really just a reflection or manifestation of our own selfish desires and own personal opinions, that's not God. Listen, God is a real being. You understand? God exists. This is a real being with supreme power and supreme authority over us. We are accountable to Him. God is not just a conglomeration of human opinions down through history that evolved and developed over history and then we finally figured out who he is. No. God has revealed Himself to us. And apart from that, we would not have the first inclination of who God truly is. Are you with me, church? Are you with me? God must make himself known to us. And if I had an additional hour to lecture on this, which I don't, here would be the two sections. He must make himself known to us objectively, which would be through the word. And he must make himself known to us subjectively, which is changing our hearts to receive and embrace and understand the word. Through the Holy Spirit. So that's why I'm always coming back to this like a madman trying to always come back to the Word and the Spirit. God makes Himself known through the Word and the Spirit. He sanctifies us through the Word and the Spirit. We worship him truly by the word and the spirit. The Trinitarian nature of God should fill our hearts with astonishment of who he is. You see, you have an essence. And you have a singular personhood, right? You are a thing, and you are a person. And that's better than a rock. A rock has an essence. A rock does not have a personhood. If you think that they do, come see me afterwards. Do some biblical counseling for you about the nature of created things. Your rock has an essence but no personhood. You have an essence and personhood. God has an essence and Three persons. It confounds our grasp of logic. Please don't ever think that something in the that if something in the Bible Transcends your grasp of logic, therefore it can't be true. Please don't ever think that. Get out of the box of our own understanding. God is bigger than what we thought. He's higher than what we could imagine. Father, Son, Holy Spirit. Now this being, this being has freely chosen to love us. That's the Father's love. This infinite, incomprehensible, Trinitarian being has chosen to love us. The wonder of God's Trinitarian Nature. Letter B. Not only does God's Trinitarian nature inspire awe and admiration. But God's inner love inspires awe and admiration. And by inner love, I'm talking about the love that has eternally existed amongst the Father, Son, and the Holy Spirit before creation. Aside from anything else, apart from anything else, if you just take God and nothing else, within God, there is an eternal, perfect relationship of love and peace amongst the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. In 1 John four eight and in 1 John four sixteen, John writes, God is love God is love. That's different than saying God is loving. And that's different than saying God does loving things. And that's different than saying God has a love for you. Oh, that's true. God is loving, God does do loving things, and God does have a love for you But why is all that true? That's true because first, God is love. You see, his love for us is a revelation of himself. God is love. He's the only notion of God in the world where a perfect relationship of love and peace is an eternal attribute of his nature. That's because he's not just a notion of God that has arisen from the world, but a notion of God that was revealed to the world. Makes you think about our our great need for interpersonal relationships. Makes you think about our great need for love and affirmation. It makes you think about our great need for community. It makes you think about our great need for connection and family and friends and fellowship, a fellowship of faith. Because we are made in God's image. It's an eternal attribute of God, a perfect relationship of love and peace. We are in his image. We're the image of God, the likeness of God. So we have this built in desire and need for love. And for relationship and ultimately for God's love and ultimately for relationship with God. That's why things in the world that keep seeking after to fulfill you, that's why they can't fulfill you. You're made for something greater. You're made for something higher. You're made to be a recipient of a divine love. And only that can give you that transcendent peace, joy, pleasure, hope, fulfillment that you've been looking for. Only God can fill that space. Only God can give you what you need. He is love. And zooming in on some verses about this inner love of God, just a few about the Father. John 5. 20, Jesus says The Father loves the Son. John 17, 24. Jesus says again in a prayer to the Father, he says, You loved me. before the foundation of the world. One more, Matthew 3. 17, a voice from the Father at the baptism of Jesus, this is my beloved Son in whom I am well pleased. What kind of love is this? That the infinite creator would choose to love us. Do we deserve that kind of love? Is there something about us that's special, that's holy, that's right, that's pure, that warrants this incomprehensible, glorious God to bestow his favor upon us? Absolutely not. Mercy and Grace, mercy and grace when whenever we're talking about any of any of this stuff. God making himself known, God loving us. It's an astonishing. It is an astounding reality, the nature of God. You know the problems today, so many Christians are bored with God. So many Christians are bored with God. Don't give me that doctrine. That's dry. That's mechanical. Just tell me what to do. Tell me what to do. Because even though In the secret recesses of our heart, even though we would say that we're not justified by our works, often we live it out that we're justified by our works. So the thing that really gets us going, that really fills us with a sense of fulfillment is what we do rather than the God who saved us. Brothers and sisters, that's wrong. That's the opposite. God is our portion. God is our joy. God is our pleasure. Anything else we do is just a fruit of that. To honor Him and to glorify Him. But friends, you take God out of the picture. You've lost it all. And all this is fake. So that every week I say this in one form or fashion. If you take the Holy Spirit out, it's all fake. If you take the Father out of it, also it's all safe. Oh, that our hearts would be stirred with a passion for God, with an awe -inspiring vision of God based on his word. I don't mean literally you need to see God physically. I mean you see God by faith through what He's revealed. And it stirs our hearts stirs within our hearts a sense of admiration and should be awe-inspired. Have this wonder at God. You know, there's some things about uh human innovation that are awe-inspiring. And that are worthy of admiration and even adoration. You look at technological advances. Look at some of the technological advances in the medical field. Even something as common as simple as airplanes. I'm astonished at airplanes, how they get up, how they stay. There are some things in nature also that are awe-inspiring. There are some things in nature that uh deserve, rightly so, admiration and adoration. That's just jaw-dropping things. How can this be? How can this be? But the ultimate of ultimates behind all of that is God Himself. God Himself, who He is, and the love that He's bestowed upon us. We should be what gets us out of bed in the morning. But if it's not what gets us out of bed in the morning, it's what will help us get through the day. As we grind it out, and as we face temptation, as we face trials, as we s as we face suffering Do you ever notice about this servants of Christ? The more you try to give your life and service to Christ, the more attacks from the enemy come upon you. And they come from places you didn't expect. They come from people you didn't expect. They come in ways you didn't expect. Just arrows, flaming arrows from everywhere. God will be your rock. God will be your shelter. Keep your eye on God. Otherwise, what are we doing? The wonder of the Father's love, first of all, the wonder of his Trinitarian nature. Secondly, the wonder of his inner love, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, eternal relationship of love and peace. Third, I guess this will be C on your outline is the wonder of his outward love. The wonder of his outward love also inspires awe and admiration. You know the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit have different roles in saving us. They're different persons and they have different roles in saving us. The Father loves you, the Son loves you, and the Holy Spirit loves you. That should help you rest at night. The Father planned salvation. Amen. Are you awake with me? The Father planned salvation. The Son came into the world and accomplished salvation. And the Holy Spirit applies salvation to our hearts and lives. If you take any one of those out, the whole thing's gone. You need the whole thing. The Father from all eternity planned our salvation. The Son within history accomplished our salvation. And the Holy Spirit within our lives applied salvation to our hearts. As we turn to Christ in faith, different roles in loving us, different roles in our redemption. The Father sent the Son. And the Father gave you the Spirit. The Son came in the flesh. The Son lived a righteous life. The Son died a sacrificial death. The Son rose again to eternal life, the reward of his suffering. The Spirit, the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, not a thing, not an impersonal force. The Holy Spirit of God gave us new hearts The Holy Spirit of God sanctifies us into the likeness of Christ. The Holy Spirit of God comforts us through sufferings. Are there sufferings in your life? The Holy Spirit of God strengthens us during temptation. Are there temptations in your life? The Holy Spirit of God grants us the gift of repentance from sin in our life. You need the Holy Spirit. Don't think He's the throwaway person of the Trinity. You daily need the nature of our relationship with Jesus is through the agency of the Spirit. If you don't have the Holy Spirit, if I don't have the Holy Spirit, Spirit, which would make me a false teacher, among other things. If I don't have the Holy Spirit, I do not have a relationship with Jesus Christ. It's the Spirit who unites us to Christ. And this whole thing, this whole package, is one gracious salvation of the Almighty God. God's purpose of salvation is not centered on man and man's temporal comforts in the world like the heresy of the prosperity gospel would have us believe The purpose of God's redemption is to manifest his own glory and goodness in the world, to make himself known as Father, Son, Spirit. to showcase and shine forth his grace towards sinners, his mercy towards sinners, his love towards sinners, so that what? So that sinners would be saved and then praise him for all that he's revealed of himself. This is what Christianity is about. I mean you've got you'll never get this if you only can think in terms of outward religion, of external religion, and what we do and all these different things. You got to you've got to burrow under that. You've got to close your physical eyes and with the invisible eyes of your heart, by faith, see into the spiritual realm where there's a living Savior reigning over all things who freely offers. God. That's Jesus' offer to you. It's God. This is the offer of offers, the gift of gifts. Come to God through Christ. The wonder, the wonder of the Father's love The wonder of his Trinitarian nature, the wonder of his inner love from all eternity, and the wonder of his outward love to us, summarized in the gospel. Turn with me to Ephesians one, if you will, Ephesians one three through six Something unprecedented happened to me in my preparations for the sermon last week. Now, I'm not a crybaby, but I I am brought to tears often. With by from theological and spiritual things, knowing the great love and grace God has had on me in a pitiful Weak, undeserving sinner. So often in listening to sermons, I will be brought to tears or in singing with the fellowship, singing of the gospel, be brought to tears, and often in my preparations be brought to tears. Different thing. Well I guess maybe I am a crybaby. But new territory this past week. Never's happened before, and I don't know it'll ever happen again. The very first thing I do for uh a message early Monday morning is write down the passage and then write down the working title. Now often that title will change, but recently they haven't changed. And I wrote down the passage and I started writing out the Father's Love and I was brought to tears. Something about it you can't predict those things, but seeing this on the page and having it coursing through my mind of the Father's love for me broke broke my heart right then and there. Because apart from the Father's love, brothers and sisters, we have no hope. Apart from the Father's love, we have no relevant message for the world around us. Apart from the Father's love, we're the most pitiful people on earth. If all this is faith , everything grows out of the Father's love for us. Don't ever think Old Testament God unloving , unrighteous, unjust, incompassionate, not patient. Hate sinners, New Testament, New Testament God, Jesus is different than that. No, no, no, no. What you see in the New Testament brought and wrought by Jesus Christ is a manifestation of the love of the God of the Old Testament. God doesn't change. Historical eras in the history of redemption change, but God doesn't change. Where did I tell you this earn? Ephesians, Ephesians one. Ephesians one three through six And uh your homework would be three through fourteen. This whole passage is about redemption and the Trinitarian structure of redemption. But for our purposes we'll look at just the section on the Father. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us in Christ with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. even as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we should be holy and blameless before him. In love he predestined us for adoption to himself as sons through Jesus Christ. according to the purpose of his will for the praise of his glorious grace with which he has blessed us in the beloved. I said earlier the Father plans salvation. Well, that's the plan right there. That's just the more detailed, inspired Description of the Father's plan. Now we've got to go to the work of the Father's love. The work of the Father's love. Turn back to this passage, to our passage in 1 John 3. God's love is not just an idea for philosophizing. It's not just a box that we check. What's the result of his love? What's the result of a mother's love in the life of a child? Care, affection Discipline, encouragement. What's the result of a husband's love for his wife? Encouragement, support, care. What's the result of the father's love? I'll give you I'll give you all all three of these up front and then we'll back up. First of all, it's a restoring love. It's a love, in other words, that makes us his children. Second of all, it's an estranging love. If you are truly a recipient of the Father's love, it's an estranging love, which means his love has made us strangers to the world. Strangers to the world. And then lastly, the Father's love is an effusing love, which means it fills our hearts with true and lasting hope. Is love is a restoring love, an estranging love, and an infusing love. First, a restoring love. This comes from the very first part of verse 1 and the very first part of verse 2. See what kind of love the Father has given to us that we should be called the children of God. And then in verse two, Beloved, we are God's children now. If you look at verse 1, you can circle the word given. See what kind of love the Father has given to us The Father's love is a gift given to us. And the result is we become children of God. And that's the structure of verse 1. Being God's children is a result of God's love. The structure's clear. Apples is a result of an apple tree. Grapes is a revolt result of the great vine. Being children of God is a result of God's love. See what kind of love, what kind of love the Father has given to us that we would be called children Of God, which is something naturally speaking, we have no right to be children of God. So we know right off the bat it's a gracious love that's given us a favor. That we do not deserve. We know right off the bat it's a merciful love. It's because when we bec we become children of God, there's a restraining of judgment, there's a taking away of judgment that we do deserve. He's made us as precious children. 1 Peter 1, verse 3 is the good cross-reference. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he's caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Galatians 3. 26 is a great memory verse, a great summary verse for this. In Christ Jesus, you are all sons of God through faith. Galatians 3. 26. In Christ Jesus, you are all sons of God through faith. And if you walked in here this morning Not a son of God through faith. You could become a son of God through faith. By the way, that is nothing to do with gender. It has to do with Status in the household of God. It has to do with with being a legal heir of God. It has to do with becoming Reconciled with God, being his child, instead of alienated from God, a rebellious sinner. It's about salvation, not gender, to be a son of God. You're son of God through faith Well, how much better than the alternative is that? To be a child of God? What's the alternative? To be a child of the devil? What's the alternative? To be a slave of sin? To be an heir of damnation? To to remain apart from God? What's the alternative to being a child of God? That's the worst thing there is in human experience. To not be a child of God. God's love is a restoring love. He restores us to fellowship with himself. He makes us his precious children. And then he becomes in our hearts our precious God, whom we love and are grateful for. But his love is also an estranging love. It's an estranging love that makes us strangers in the world and strangers to the world. This comes from verse one also, but the second part of verse one, where John writes, The reason why the world Here you go. Does not know us. Does not know us is that it did not know him. Did you ever want you did you ever notice? I'm sure you have. The culture increasingly thinks Christians are just crazier and crazier because you have a completely different set of principles than the fallen culture around you. You have different priorities for your life. You have a different worldview. You have a different conception of the rights And also a different conception of the wrong. You have a different, completely different idea, completely different conception altogether of what's true and worthy. As opposed to what's false and unworthy. Brothers and sisters, we're strangers to the world. To the extent that we try to fit in with the world, we'll hinder ourselves in our spiritual growth. Do you get that? You keep living for the approval of the world. You're hindering yourself and becoming more and more like Christ in the Spirit We're not made for the culture. We're not made for the world around us. We're made for God. We don't need the culture's approval. You don't need your friends' approval. You don't need your family's approval. We need the approval of God, which we have by his grace. They're strangers to the world. Strangers in the world and strangers to the world. It's knowing God that has rendered us so. We've been sanctified, to put it in my crude South Jersey language. You've been plucked up out of this fallen culture and set aside. For God's purpose. God's love is an estranging love. The world does not know us. And I want to commend you, church, for not giving up your profession of faith in Christ. And I want to exhort you and encourage you, keep going no matter what the culture says, no matter what Hollywood says, no matter what the government says, no matter what the People at work say you keep going with Christ. It's worth it for the glory of Christ. Are you with me? It's worth it for the glory of Christ, the kingdom of God. The salvation of the lost. I commend you for not giving up your profession. But we give the glory to God for that fact that we've not given up our profession. It's hypothetical, but if God were to take his Holy Spirit from us, we'd be gone in the snap. But he keeps us. I do want to remind you that you're not of this world. Brothers and sisters, you are a stranger to this world. And I exhort you, exhort you, keep your eyes fixed on Christ and on eternity. And you'll do well. Even tells us, John even tells us here why we're strangers to the world is because Christ is a stranger to the world. Look at that verse again, the end of verse one. The reason why the world does not know us is that it did not know him, Christ. Christ came. The fullness of love. The world rejected him. His own people rejected him. Christ came The fullness of truth, the world rejected him. His own people rejected him. Christ came perfect in compassion. The world rejected him Christ came, never stole , never lied , never assaulted anyone In a simple way, the world rejected him. Christ came the perfect revelation of God. The world rejected him. And his own people rejected him. Now, you put two and two together. If God's work in our lives is to make us more and more like Christ, is the world going to reject us or accept us? Don't believe this lie if you were just more like Jesus. Well then we'd accept you. Well we like we would like the church if the church wasn't so hypocritical. If the church was more like Jesus Then we'd come, then we'd love you. That's not true. That's a lie. No one was hated more than Jesus. More and more we become like Jesus. The more and more we love what he loves. And stand for what he stands for and seek what he seeks, the more and more we'll be rejected as strangers who don't belong in this world. We don't belong in this world. Our home is in heaven. Brothers and sisters, our home is in heaven. That's where we're headed. It's an estranging love. And I'll give you homework on uh why the world did not know him. Which is the reason why the world does not know us? John 3 19 through 20. It's very, very simple. The world loves darkness. John 3 19 and 20. The world loves darkness. I used to love darkness. I didn't roll I I didn't roll come out of the crib, climb out of the crib a spirit-filled Christian. No, no, no. You you're not born a Christian. You have to be saved. You have to be born again to be a Christian. But there's a portion of our lives where we lived in darkness. There's a portion of our lives where we therefore hated the light The word loved darkness, therefore it does not receive the light. Finally, God's love is an infusing love. The Father's love is a restoring love that makes us his children. It's an estranging love That makes us strangers to the world, and it's an infusing love that fills our hearts with true and lasting hope. And verse two and three describe that hope Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not appeared. That's the future. What we will be is a future that doesn't exist yet. What we will be has not yet appeared. By the way, that's the resurrection body. Now here's what he says after that, but we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we'll see him as he is. That's pointing forward to the return of Christ when he appears. And when he appears, we shall be like him. That means you'll receive a resurrection resurrection body, just like his resurrection body. No , that's what we will be. It's not yet appeared, but when he appears, we'll be like him because we'll see him as he is. You see, there's an appearing of Christ. And at his appearing, there's a seeing of Christ. And upon seeing Christ There's a becoming like Christ in resurrection glory. That's what we're living for. That's the inheritance. That's what we will be. This is the hope that we have And then in verse 3, he goes right to the practical application of this hope. Verse 3: Everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. That means something very, very simple. That means we desire holiness and we strive for holiness under the grace of God. By the blood of Christ. In the Holy Spirit, we desire holiness and we strive after holiness. I'll expand on that and the next message But here you see here that that's connected to the hope that we have. Our hope is a a future reality that has a present impact. There's this future hope that determines how we live now. And it's not for things. It's not for entertainment. And it's not for money. And it's not for the approval of the world. Heaven forbid we live based on what other people think of us. Are you with me? We live for our relationship with God through Christ. And we have that relationship now. We are children of God now, he says And we also live for the full manifestation of that in the future. What we will be has not yet appeared. I reject a wonderless Christianity. I reject an emotionless Christianity. In the Bible, doctrine is not meant just to fill our heads. It's meant to fill our hearts with awe and love and adoration for God, and out of that We obey him. The Father's love, oh, the wonder of the Father's love and the work of the Father's love. Let's pray. Father, first of all, I want to pray for those who don't know your love. I know there's some sitting in the room that, for one reason or another, have not taken that step of faith. to receive your love in Christ. But I pray you your word would get through. Maybe it's that they're sins they don't want to leave behind. Maybe just afraid of what others would say. I'm not sure. There's gonna be so many different reasons. But I pray that your love would get through and melt the sinner's heart. God, I pray by your Spirit you would change the heart to embrace Christ. To live as a recipient of eternal life, to have their sins forgiven. Father, open the heart to that. I pray for each one of us. To continue to sanctify us to the likeness of Christ, according to your power, according to your will, according to your wisdom. It's in Christ we pray. Amen