Tonight is the leaven of the kingdom. Now the study is from Matthew 5, 13 through 33. Matthew 5, 13 through 20. So get there. But the title is coming from one of the kingdom parables in Matthew thirteen, thirty-three The parable of the leaven. So I'm calling the study the leaven of the kingdom. Hopefully in a few moments that makes sense why I'm doing that. Why would you get your title from one verse and use it for another passage? Because that passage is describing something that's symbolized in that other verse. Matthew 13 verse 33. He told them another parable. The kingdom of heaven is like leaven. That a woman took and hid in three measures of flour till it was all leavened. The three measures of flour did not immediately have leaven all throughout it. She put the leaven in, and then eventually all three measures were leavened. The kingdom of heaven is like that leaven. The leaven in this parable represents the spreading. Really infiltrating. Spreading is not powerful enough of a word. I mean, it is a spreading, but it's more of an infiltrating into the darkness. The leaven of the kingdom is the infiltrating example, witness, and manifest power of the kingdom of heaven. The infiltrating example of Children of God in the kingdom, the infiltrating witness of the gospel of the kingdom, and the infiltrating manifest power. of the kingdom. Power that's manifest in regeneration. Power that's manifest in sanctification. And then discipleship, as we strive to live for Christ in all areas of life, this is a manifestation of the power of God, the redemptive kingdom of God. on the earth. And then of course in some of the the outward things of church life also manifest the kingdom. In a particular way, baptism, Lord's Supper, congregational worship, the preaching of the word, the leaven of the kingdom. The kingdom Of heaven is like leaven that a woman put into three measures of flour until the whole bunch was leavened. So, one more time The spreading or the infiltrating example, witness, and manifest power of the kingdom in all the world. That's the last phrase to put on it. That's what that parable is getting at. In all the world. The manifest power of the kingdom. Now we can go back to Matthew 5, 13 through 20. It's talking about the same thing in a different way. It's talking about the relation of Christians, or even just the relation of Christianity, to the world around it. This is the leaven of the kingdom. Let's go ahead and read Matthew 5, 13. Let's begin just with 13 through 16, although we will get through verse 20 tonight, if the good Lord allows. You are the salt of the earth. But if salt has lost its taste How shall its saltiness be restored? It is no longer good for anything except to be thrown out and trampled under people's feet. You are the light of the world. A city on a hill cannot be hidden, nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket, but on a stand. And it gives light to all in the house. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. The first point comes from verse 13. Christians are the salt of the earth. Verse 13 You are the salt of the earth. I got really clever on that first point, didn't I? Christians are the salt of the earth. You are the salt of the earth But if salt has lost its taste, how shall its saltiness be restored? Now, it's a rhetorical question, right? The answer is implied in the question. What is the answer that Matthew wants us to think of or Jesus wanted the first audience to think of when he asked that question. It can't be. That's right. And then he says, it's no longer good for anything. Now he could have just stopped right there It's no it's no longer good for anything. But just to hammer hone the point of how bad this situation is, of how worthless it is to emphasize the worthlessness of salt without saltiness or salt without taste. It's no longer good for anything except throw it out and just just people have walk have people walk all over it. Just toss it out the window. Toss it in the dirt. It doesn't matter. It's not good for anything. It is important to pursue Christian character. You are the salt of the earth. Now there's many not many, but there's a few different interpretations of what the Metaphor means. What does salt mean? Because salt that does have different purposes, and it had different purposes in that culture. One purpose was it was a preserving agent. I I don't go with that interpretation. Um there's no inherent goodness in the world that salt needs to preserve the goodness in the world to keep it good. That makes no sense. The world is the darkness Salt, another use is seasoning. You take that in its most general sense, it provides something additional. It brings something that was not there. It brings something good. It brings something better. It improves. that which it comes to, the salt of the earth. If you take the salt of the kingdom of heaven out of the earth, all you have is a world covered in darkness and lostness and idolatry. The salt of the earth is very important. It brings that which is good, that which is of God, that which is Better, that which is redemptive, a new creation in the midst of this old fallen creation It improves the overall condition of the planet so that it would not be a planet full of sin and nothing else. How important is the salt of the earth? Picture the world without the salt of the earth. Picture Maryland without the salt of the earth. Picture your own life without the witness and example and ministry of the salt of the earth It's something that God used to bring you into the kingdom and turn you into the salt of the earth. This is a great passage. This is very, very important. Think about the alternative. Salt of the earth, it's like seasoning. Now that's a general uh interpretation of the metaphor Let's say what it is specifically. What it is specifically. It's a God-given And a God empowered, and a God sustained, Christ-likeness. As you write down one word , If you don't have a paper, write it on your hand, write it on your arm, whatever. Christ likeness in heart, mind, word, and deed. In heart, mind, word, and deed, being conformed to the likeness of Christ. This is a God-given gift. It's the gift of sanctification. It's a God-empowered gift Means he's the one working this work. And it's a God sustained gift. He's the one that keeps us going in it. Christ's likeness. And remember what discipleship is. It's living for Christ in all spheres of life. It's not just living for Christ at church And then doing whatever you want to do in all the other spheres of life. Home, school, work, hobbies, your role as a citizen. It's representing Christ in all spheres of life, in every sector of culture, every nook and cranny of our lives is to be submitted to Christ. This is discipleship Living for Christ, they're seeking to honor God in all spheres of life. You know, if Christ's likeness in heart, mind, word, and deed is coming to define us, we are now taking Christ, taking the manifest grace and power of God. We're taking Christ into the world. In all these different ways, we're taking Christ into the world in various ways. as the salt of the earth. This is not just formal ministry. This is Christian living that this is talking about. The formal ministries is like the touch point. This is like boot camp or or the base camp, rather. Not the front lines. The front lines, the the line of demarcation maybe, but the front lines are out in the world where we represent Christ. That's not to diminish the work of the local church. If we get to all my notes, I'll re-emphasize again as I try to do that the local church is the centerpiece. Of God's kingdom work on the earth. But it's not the the the uh the whole picture of God's kingdom work on earth. Just the the starting point. The salt of the earth. Um now if you look back At the passage we studied previously, the Beatitudes, which was the way of the kingdom. And it it reviews and summarizes the different character traits of children of God, or you could say the the uh the spirit or the heart Of citizens of heaven. And it also talked about some of the promises, some of the consequences. We called it the way of the kingdom. So now right on the heels of that in verse 13, it's the salt of the earth. The picture basically is taking this character into the world. This character now represents Christ in the world as the salt of the earth. The character from verses 1 through 12. And you're the salt of the earth. Romans 1 5, you can turn there if you'd like, but you don't need to. Romans 1 5. Paul summarizes The purpose of his apostleship. At the end of verse 4, just picking it up in the middle. He mentions Jesus Christ our Lord, now here verse here's verse five, through whom we have received grace and apostleship, to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all nations. The obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all nations. Keep this in the back of your mind for when we get to the purpose of our good works later on. the purpose of our obedience later on. First of all, look it I guess you don't you you don't have to look at it. If I told you you don't have to turn there, you don't have to look at it. But Just uh listen to what he says. His purpose of his apostleship is to bring about the obedience of faith. That's the obedience that results from faith. That's the obedience that grows out of faith We're saved by grace through faith, and out of that faith grows obedience. The purpose of his apostleship is to bring about the obedience of faith, but then he says For the sake of his name. It's for the glory of God. The obedience of faith is to help make God known in the world. That's the purpose of good works, the central purpose of good works, is they have a part in making God known. And this is the best thing that could ever happen. This is God's purpose, to make himself known, and by making himself known Saves sinners that they might know him and love him and praise him forever. The obedience of faith for the sake of his name, not just so we look good in front of each other. Not just that we feel good about ourselves for doing good things. If you get more sense of fulfillment and personal joy and satisfaction from good works, than you do then from Jesus personally, then you need to repent of your discipleship mindset. It is Jesus Who gives us that sense of fulfillment and joy and peace and meaning, not our good works And if it's the other way around, this is a critical area where repentance needs to happen. Obedience of faith for the sake of his name. Do you remember the last phrase? Among among all the nations, among all the nations, salt of the earth Nailed it. Right? The leaven that will work through the whole measure of flour. From Daniel 2, the stone that becomes a mountain, the mountain then grows to cover the whole earth. The kingdom of God. Salt of the earth. Any questions on salt of the earth? That means a whole lot more than just kind of like a down to earth person from the country, right? I'm always I'm always reminded of the solid earth person that I see the So why sticking on it's a good reminder that you remember, hey, yeah. You know, I never thought about that when I looked at those stickers, but now I always will. It is a it is a good phrase for remembering this The salt life. Pursuing Christ's likeness in heart, mind, word, and deed. Yeah. Any other com any other questions or comments? Yes, Marie? Shh. and seasoning. Salt also wets our appetite. Yeah. And therefore it means this means it wets our appetite once goes well. Yeah, it should. It's a it's a good metaphor you bring it what's it what's the appetite and um that actually is a really good metaphor for the role of our example and the role of our good works in the world. They help to make God known, but specifically they help to bring sinners under conviction. They function like the law functions to to show uh the need for a savior, and that in the metaphor kind of turns us or what's the appetite for a savior to turn to Christ in the gospel, John? But too much soul can hurt you. Let's not push the metaphor beyond what scripture intends it to mean. Yeah, but too much of Christ's likeness cannot hurt the world. Right. So we don't want to we don't want to stretch it to those reasons. I know you're joking. I know you're joking. No, no, no, no. All right. Verse um verses fourteen through sixteen. Anyone guess what this point is going to be? You are the light of the world. There we go. We get real creative tonight, aren't I? Number one, you are the salt of the earth. Number two, you're the light of the world. Really, in the context, it's Citizens of the kingdom of heaven. That's what you are. But in terms of Matthew's theology that he's emphasizing through his gospel. This is we think of ourselves as sons of the kingdom, heirs of the kingdom, citizens of the kingdom of heaven, are the salt of the earth and are the light. uh are the light of the world. You are the light of the world. A city set on a hill cannot be hidden Nor do people light a lamp and put it under a basket but on a stand. And it gives light to all in the house. Just emphasizing the importance of having light. Light. Think about life on Earth without light. I mean like really without any light You wouldn't be able to live. You would need some kind of light. I'm not even talking about just the sun. I need any light at all. Electricity, candles, bioilluminescence, whatever you should because you're probably trying to come up with, well, we could do this or we could do that. No, I'm saying literally, if there were no light at all, we wouldn't be able to live. Thank you so just some illustrations on how light is used in a practical way. It has a practical purpose I'm sitting on a hill, so it's not hidden. Uh you light a lamp in your house, put it on a stand, it gives light to the whole house. It's important, it has practical use. And verse 16, in the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father who is in heaven. There you see it's stated in a general way, in a summarized way, that our good works do have a role in making God known. God planned our good works. And God is the power behind our good works. And it's his purpose that our good works are serving, making himself known in the world. So that they may see is uh a good phrase to underline So if salt was and is seasoning, light is a different metaphor. Light Exposes what's in the darkness. Number one. That's what it does. Gives you the ability to see what was previously hidden So just think of when the gospel came into your mind and into your heart and it gave you the ability, the spiritual ability, to see what previously you didn't see. The reality of your sin, the reality of Christ as Savior, and on and on. Just making the general point now that light gives the ability to see. It exposes what's in the darkness. Secondarily, It provides a way of escape, shows the way of escape out of the darkness. So it exposes what's in the darkness. But if you're in the darkness and you need to be able to find your way out. The light shines toward you so that you can see. Think lighthouse. A light can give you direction to rescue, to safety. This is why you bring flashlights when you go camping or lanterns. Right? Light helps you find the way. It exposes light God shines his light into the world to expose the darkness. For what it is to expose what's in the darkness and as a way of escape for those who are in the darkness, aka redemption. The light of God's redemption, which we'll come back to with in just uh a few moments on some verses about that. That is the Primary, not the only, light's a symbol for it used as a symbol in many different ways. The primary symbolism, the main symbolism, is the light of God's redemption redemption Shown abroad in the world. The light of God's redemption and of his redemptive purpose. Um, one Not a preliminary point. We're 22 minutes into not a preliminary point. But one important side note. We should never think about This light of the world, being the light of the world, or God shining the light of redemption in the world, we should never think of this idea of light. apart from God's word or apart from God's spirit. The light is the metaphor. It symbolizes something literal. It symbolizes concrete reality. The Word of God and the Holy Spirit of God. Bringing about the redemptive kingdom of God within a world of darkness and to cover a world of darkness. So we must think of concrete spiritual realities. When we think about God's light shining in the world. It's through his word and through his spirit that his light shines. So if we're going to be the light of the world, and if we are the light of the world, That means our lives have been captivated by, and use the word that Jason used the other night, saturated, saturated by the word of God And walking in the Spirit of God, Spirit-filled, Bible-saturated Christians. This is what makes us the light of the world. Do you agree that's an important side note? The light of the world. The light teaches the truth amidst a world of error. The world proclaims hope amidst despair and pessimism. The light displays wisdom amidst foolishness. The light Puts a premium on love and pursues love in the midst of a world of violence, hate, and division. The light worships God rather than man, and worships God and seeks God rather than things. Worships God and seeks to find fulfillment and satisfaction in God rather than carnal pleasures. John writes in 1 John, God is light. God is light. All that he is, all of his the purity of all his perfections and attributes and all of his thoughts and all of his desires, all of his judgments, everything he has spoken, everything he has done. God is light. He is that which is good. Specifically, I said this earlier here It's saying we are the light of the world. And that's only true insofar as we have a role in God's redemptive plan. The light is the light of God's redemption. Now, to prove that, and to prove that that is what's in mind here, look at Matthew 4, 15 through 16. This was the lesson a few weeks ago on the beginning of Christ's earthly ministry. There is the Bible gives us the theological and historical meaning of the location of where Jesus started his ministry. right on the doorstep of the nations, right on the doorstep, right on the threshold of the Gentile world, which was a world in darkness. Why did he start his ministry? There. Matthew 4, 15 through 16, Matthew gives us the answer. So that what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah would be Fulfilled. The land of Zebulun, the land of Naphtali, Naphtali, the way of the sea beyond the Jordan, Galilee of the Gentiles, aka starts with an N What does Gentiles mean? Nations. That's all it means. The Gentile nations. The people dwelling in darkness have seen a great Light. And for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, on them a light has dawned. If you want to know what the light is. The great light from verse 16 and the light that's dawned in ver in verse 16. Just read verse 17. From that time Jesus began to preach, repent. For the kingdom of heaven is at hand. That's the light. The light of redemption dawning over the whole world that's going to cover the whole world with God's kingdom of redemption. The light of redemption that dawned in the coming of Christ. And specifically that's fulfilled in Jesus starting his public earthly ministry right there on the doorstep of the nations. The light of God's redemption. Now turn to uh John eight twelve Again, Jesus spoke to them saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me Will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life, also called eternal life, also called salvation. Jesus is the light of the world. That means he brings redemption to the world. He's the savior of the world. Whoever follows him will not walk in darkness. Flip backwards in John to John three nineteen Now this is the judgment. The light has come into the world. And we've got to stop there just because Just to show that that is talking about Jesus, right? Just glance up to verses 16 through 18. Even the very last phrase of verse 18, this is how it ends. The name of the only Son of God. And this is the judgment the light has come into the world. All throughout John, Jesus is the light. The light has come into the world. And people loved darkness rather than the light, because their works were evil. Now, is that is that the best summary, the most accurate summary of mankind? And us naturally before we were saved, not just the world out there. We're all, you know, we're all sinners. This is us naturally, this is the world summarized. Right here. It's a great summary. People love darkness rather than light because their works were evil. That's why you can't become a Christian unless your heart is changed. Since you love the light rather than the darkness, that you love what is good rather than what's evil. And then in verse 20, for everyone who does wicked things Hates the light and does not come to the light lest his works should be exposed. It 's just running hide like Adam and Eve. Right? That guilty conscience. That shame, that pride, that selfishness. But 21, but whoever does what is true comes to the light. So that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. Alright, let's go back to uh All the way back. All the way back. Isaiah forty two, six. There are four sections in Isaiah called servant songs. Four servant songs that are Sections, the whole sections are prophecies of Christ and his saving work and the kingdom he will establish. This is the first of those servant songs, Isaiah 42, 6. I am the Lord, I have called you in righteousness, I will take you by the hand. And keep you, I will give you as a covenant for the people, a light for the nations. To open the eyes that are blind, to bring out the prisoners from the dungeon, from the prison, those who sit in darkness. Pretty pretty cool picture. This uh servant of the Lord who will come and establish a covenant For the people indeed for all nations, a light for the nations. And we know this is a prophecy of Jesus for many reasons. One of them being Simeon quotes it as much as such. Luke 2, verse 30. Luke two Luke two, verse thirty, and Simeon's prayer as he's holding a A little baby named Jesus. For my eyes have seen your salvation, that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for glory to your people Israel. Ready for the math section of the uh of the lesson? Israel plus Gentiles equals the world This is everybody. And he even said it in there. All peoples. This salvation is for the world. A light for revelation to Gentiles and for glory. So light, the light of God's redemption, is a common theme, important theme in Scripture. Going back to Matthew 5, when Jesus will say, and this applies to any believer anywhere, believers. You are the light of the world. It has to do with our part in God's redemptive plan. To the extent that we Are participating in God's redemptive plan, we are the light of the world by the power of the Spirit, by the power of the Word. Christians are on earth not to seek our own glory but to seek the Redeemer's glory Not not to represent our own personal preferences and desires of what we think is right and what we enjoy and what we think we need or we think people need or what we think will attract people. We're here to represent the Redeemer and his authoritative word and seek the advance of his kingdom in his way. If we do things our way, who gets the glory? We get the glory. If we do things God's way, God gets the glory. We are not called just to believe Christian things and then do what do whatever we feel like doing that we think is expedient. But we're to structure our lives and our ministries according to God 's word. That's why a local church has to be a crucial part of your discipleship. It is the discipleship tool. Being involved in the body life of the local church, which is designed to seek and save the lost, gather the lost, uh gather the saved. into a local body of believers structured and organized according to God's word, worshiping according to the word and in the Spirit, teaching, preaching, baptizing, celebrating communion, singing together, on and on and on. All of these things are a gift to us To build us up in the faith and to equip us to live the Christian life so that we would be the salt of the earth and the light of the world. And uh one more thing on this, I've already set it, but just to just to punctuate With an exclamation point, verse 16. In the same way, let your light shine before others, so that they may see your good works and give glory to your Father in heaven. Just want to say something quickly about this And then we'll take questions and comments on the light of the world. It's very important that you have a proper theological understanding of your good works. I don't know if you ever thought about that or not, but it's very, very important that you understand the theological purpose and the nature of your good works. For example, What would you say to someone if they thought their good works helped to make them right before God? Would you say they're on track or off track? Lauren is shaking her head. That's off right But you'd say that they had a a misunderstanding. I mean at the very least, at the very least, let's be charitable. Let's not say, well, they're a lost person. At the very least, they just have a misunderstanding of the nature of good works. Um And the purpose of good works. But let's say there's a person who um They would never say, and they would and they definitely don't think that their good works help to make them righteous in God's eyes. They don't think that their good works help to justify them. But they think that the their good works are the means of their sanctification. If they're going to get holier and they're going to grow in the faith, well, what's the main way I grow in the faith? Well, I have to serve. I have to have a ministry. In other words, I have to have good works. That's going to enable me to grow. In fact, that is the growth. What would you say to someone like that? No, I see I see that a lot in those who would absolutely reject the first guy for saying his good works was a justification, but what about those who live as if their good works are their sanctification? It's an equally bad misunderstanding of the role of good works, and good works Can become an idol. Ministry can become an idol. Where you get a uh your your main sense of fulfillment and belonging and and spiritual vitality comes from the ministry work that you do. And not Jesus personally. The role of good works is to help make God known That's it. It doesn't they're not the means of sanctification. And and they certainly don't constitute sanctification like this is sanctification. I'm serving more and I'm learning to serve more. That's one of the fruits of being sanctified inwardly, of course. They're not a means of sanctification. They're not a uh a ground of justification Good works are the result of God's grace within us, and they help make God known in the world. And specifically, they help function like law. They help function like law. They they're they don't function like gospel is what I'm saying there. Like people don't see your good works and can have it like this is literal. I'm not speaking to hyperbole here. People Can't see the good example and the good works of Christians and have their heart changed to trust in Christ. That can't happen. Now, if the gospel seed has already been planted, and they understand the gospel, once the seed has been planted, we don't know exactly when and how God will bring that seed to fruition. The Spirit is like the wind, like that. You see its results, but you can't tell exactly where it came from. You can't map out where it's going. John chapter 3, the Spirit works like the wind. But It's not a good example. It's not good works that's going to change somebody's heart. The role they play is supplemental to, and maybe even parallel to the preaching of God's commandments. It's the revelation of godliness, it's the revelation of holiness that will help to bring sinners under conviction. And that is important because when sinners come under conviction, now they know their need for a savior. And the only next step that needs to happen is embracing Christ as that savior. So let's not think too highly of our good works. Let's not make our good works About ourselves. Let's not make our good works an end in and of themselves. They're a means to an end. And certainly let's not make our works an idol Think of the story of Mary and Martha. Do good works have a good place in that story? No way, Jose. Because they became an idol for Martha And she had a self-serving, self-centered heart while she was doing all her serving. She needed to do less serving so that she would grow spiritually, not more. That's my little rant on Martha. Well Martha's like all of us. We're all like Martha rather. We all have weaknesses, we all have growth areas. Alright, any questions on light of the world or the role of good works? Yes, Anita. We use the word work under Plus Code. And that's the only time I've worked with that at all. Yeah. Yeah. That's right. That's what I that's the thing that makes them good works, is they're done in faith and they they come out of obedience and What's the first act of obedience? It happens in the heart. All other obedience comes from this. You have to know this as a Christian If you blank me, you'll obey my commandments. Love. Yes. They grow out of an obedient heart, which is a heart that loves God. And Any work that's like you could say you can look at a work outwardly, superficially, and it may look like a good work, but it's not good unless it comes from a heart of love and obedience. Yeah, it's a gr it's a great point. It's not just the thing itself, it's it's uh the person and the heart that's coming from it. That it's coming from rather. Yeah, Donnie? you know, Revelation where it talks about uh, you know, the new kingdom and all. There isn't gonna be a sun or a moon. God is the one. He's gonna In the new heavens and new earth. Yeah, there'll be no sin. There'll be no sinners except for fully redeemed ex sinners. Mm yeah, yeah, that's right. And all effects of sin that had come about from the curse, all that will be wiped away too. Becky. So growing up I hurt a lot. Let's get 'em plugged in. There's a new member, maybe a new Christian, maybe someone just moves in, should we go to church, they take membership, and we get them plugged in. So you would think that would be getting I think in most times, in fact in my experience, the people who plug in the most the quickest fizzle out and a lot of times leave Um a lot of that even more than urgency, sometimes in anxiety to get people doing good works immediately comes from pragmatic worldly thinking and practices. Yeah, I mean that's it's treated as if it is the very definition and heart and soul of someone's spiritual growth, and it's not It's just not. And I've s I've seen that over the years in so many different ways and so many different degrees. Um Yeah. And it has bad uh consequences, to say the least, but it distracts From and takes away energy and focus from what is the true heart and soul and essence of spiritual growth The preaching of the gospel and growing in the gospel and growing in grace, inwardly seeing Christ. Everything is about seeing Christ by faith and being transformed by him. But I think it's I think it is quite common to have Christians who are more hungry to do good works than they are hungry for Christ, hungry for the word to be proclaimed. I think it's a big problem. The essence for me is that it's just a love relationship. The love relationship that you have with God. And that's what I don't have to plug in anything. I've already got the love of God and He and I love Him that much. And so that is the to me the essence of what I do, not because of plugging in and Well it's not simple Yeah, that's simple. But when you start asking the questions of practical ministry and practical church life and how you treat discipleship, i it's not simple because okay, he loves God, she loves God. But how do you grow? What is going to bring about spiritual growth in your life? Right, we just let's we all we all love God. We can have different answers to that question. And for a lot of churches, a lot of pastors, a lot of Christians, the emphasis is on get them plugged in, it's serving, it's works, it's good works. Centered, not gospel-centered inward transformation. That's all I'm saying. I agree with you. It's an essence of a love relationship. Um and that's that's what Anita was saying. It's gotta come from that heart. It's gotta come from the obedience. Yeah. Anita? whether they've been a long time or brand new they need to be nurtured and loved and and developed and not just saying, oh, you have that gift and do that. That kinda throw him to the lion. We need to help them and nurture them and have them be comfortable with us. And then they What about someone who's doing a ton of jobs at church but's has no hunger to study and read the scriptures, is kind of bored with sermons. Not really tuned in or looking forward to them, is not praying. But they've got lots of good works. And sometimes we can feed into that system because we're so worried about keeping the machine going. And can we equated, we think more works means health, means spiritual health and vitality. And it doesn't. It doesn't at all. Usually burn out. Yes, yes. Yeah. For sure. But that's natural. Right. It's so comfortable to be busy. When I get in panic sometimes I just have it like a mantra like keep moving the ball down the field. That's nice when you're setting time or you're trying to move a load but in a relationship with God Almighty or another person, you know, saying what's the plan? Where's the spreadsheet? That might feel comfortable But that's not what we're we're really called. Right. Yeah, that's right. And so what if I fill my life up with uh good works, but I'm not doing those other things, not praying, not in the word, bored with sermons, don't really care about it. How in the world am I going to be sanctified? How am I going to be how am I going to Be conformed to the likeness of Christ. Do good works sanctify me? See, that's the problem, but it's very, very common. Very common. And that gets and see that gets equated with love for God, my love, my relationship, but then that you see this manifest in a life full of good works, but void of a true hunger and thirst for righteousness and sanctification. Because if that was there, there'd be a an unquenchable appetite for the gospel, for gospel preaching, and for the word and for prayer. So it's It's it's uh it does come down to different approaches. But we all need to check our own hearts. I need to check my own heart. I try to do this weekly, check my heart on on this and Sometimes I do better on that heart check than other weeks, but um preaching is not the place where I get my main edification. Like me actually preaching or me doing the teaching. Behind that better be me sitting under and receiving and listening. To good preaching and good teaching and reading. Otherwise, I'm a hypocrite. What am I going to be a teacher but not be a learner I'm going to be a herald of the word and a preacher of the word, but not humbly sit under the preaching of the word so that I could be fed, so that I could be sanctified. It would be hypocrisy. Um so we have to prioritize sanctification and the spiritual level of things, the spirit true spiritual growth, not just fill our life life up with external works This the third point is um first point salt of the world salt of the earth, second point, light of the world. Third point, which is crazy we have just over ten minutes for this, because it's such a huge topic We're to be doers and teachers of God's commandments. Doers and teachers of God's commandments. Verse 17. Do not think that I have come to abolish the law or the prophets. So let me just let me just ask. Did he come to abolish the law and the prophets? No. Okay I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them. Alright, so whatever fulfill the law of the prophets means, it cannot mean abolish the law of the prophets. It can't mean that. It can't mean stamping it null and void, like you would null like you would stamp a contract null and void, nullify it. Not relevant. It's not relevant anymore. Whatever fulfill means, it cannot mean abolish, which means get rid of all the relevance. Now he's going to expand on this. For truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away, uh let me ask, has heaven and earth passed away? Alright, not yet. Until heaven and earth passed away, not an ayoda or nor dot. We won't get into that, but that's the smartest the smallest markings on the law in the law Not the smallest piece will pass from the law until all is accomplished, which lets us know that all is not accomplished. Christ's first coming is the foundation and the fountain source of all that will be accomplished. It all grows out of there, but there's more work to be done. Uh and then it'll pa then it'll pass away. Therefore, whoever relaxes, which means uh treat like it's you minimize it. We would say you minimize or you make it like it's a negligible thing. Uh maybe. Um therefore who whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments Which would be like the least important, like the smallest thing, like tithing, mint, dill, and cumin. And teaches others to do the same So not only are you minimizing God's commandments, but you're teaching others, yeah, no big deal. Don't worry about it. Hey, Christ fulfilled the law. You don't need to worry about obeying Teaches others to do the same will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does them and teaches them, that's my point, doers and teachers, does them and teaches them, will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. For I tell you, unless your righteousness Exceeds that of the scribes and Pharisees, you'll never enter the kingdom of heaven. And that 's easy to do. Don't ever read that and think, whoa, I can never do that. That's easy to do. Because the scribes and Pharisees had no true righteousness. Self righteousness is not righteousness. You believe in Jesus Christ, you're number one, righteous in God's eyes So right there, your righteousness exceeds that of the righteousness of the scribes and Pharisees, because your righteousness is true and acceptable before the eyes of God. You've been clothed in the righteousness of Christ. And then the Holy Spirit's living within you, giving you a love for God. And in the spirit and through faith, you're serving the Lord and you're being sanctified. That now is a righteousness. In that sense, righteousness just means obedience. Pastor Johnny said practical obedience Righteousness, practical righteousness, you know, obeying God. You don't obey God perfectly. No nobody does, except for Jesus, but you can obey God truly. Don't ever fall for this false teaching that you can't obey God. Just because you can't fulfill the law perfectly like Jesus, that doesn't mean you can't obey the law You're not a perfect lawkeepers, but you are lawkeepers, and I can prove it to you by having you answer one yes or no question. Do you love God? You're a lawkeeper. That's the greatest commandment. All of the law is summarized in two commandments. Love God, love others. Do we do this perfectly? No, we don't do this perfectly. We're not saying that, but you can do them truly, and it's acceptable, not by the virtue of us love by our love, us loving God. But by virtue of the blood of Christ that cleanses us and makes us acceptable, it simultaneously makes our obedience acceptable And our good works acceptable. Everything about us is received by God through the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ that purifies everything about us. That's why our obedience is acceptable, not because it's perfect and merits God's rewards or payment or something like that. But it is true obedience because it's God doing it in us. Doers and teachers of the law, which we cannot do either of those things, right? We can't do the law or do the commandments. Commandments is synonymous with God's law. We cannot be doers and teachers of commandments if we don't understand God's commandments. We can be doers and keep teachers of the law if we don't understand God 's law or or what it means that Jesus fulfilled the law. You've got to know both of those things to understand this passage. What fulfill means and doesn't mean. Well, first of all, it can't mean abolish, right? In some sense, God's commandments are still relevant till the return of Christ, until all is accomplished. You can turn to Romans 331. In fact, someone do that for me. Turn to Romans 3. 31. Whoever's there first. Proclaim that verse out for us nice and loudly. Because this is the section where Paul is about to Paul is teaching and about to unload teaching that we're saved. By faith, not by works. And what does he say in Romans 3 31? Go ahead. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means on it. Contrary, we uphold the law. We uphold the law. We affirm its relevancy. We affirm our need for it in order to obey God. I'll give you two things on what it means that Christ fulfills all the law and the prophets. And then I'll have to just give you the cross-references to look up on your own. We won't have time to go to those. Maybe maybe uh a couple of them. First of all, it means that he brings about everything that's promised and prefigured within the law. It means that he brings about Everything that was promised and prefigured within the law. Within the law As a whole, the people living under the law within the scriptures that they had were promises of redemption. Um are you still at Romans 3, whoever that was? Could you read Romans 3, 20 and 21? Listen carefully to this. No human being will be justified in his sight, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and That's good. The law and the prophets bear witness to the righteousness that we now have in Christ. They couldn't produce that righteousness. But they bore witness to it. Um I'll give you the other ones on this for you to look up. But there's many s many New Testament passages that teach that this is what the law and the prophets and Psalms, everything about the Old Testament was promising and prefiguring Christ and a righteousness. That could be found in him. John five, forty-six, Luke twenty-four, twenty-seven. And then still in Luke twenty-four, but forty-four through forty-seven. I'm sorry, when was the first one? And don't forget the one Denise just read, Romans 3, 20 and 21. And then Acts 10, 43. Acts 10, 43. And use your marginal references on all of these and follow them out to other verses that talk about the same thing. Christ fulfills the law. What does that mean? It means he brings about everything that's promised and prefigured within the law. Now The and connect it's connected to that, but the other aspect I want to make sure I highlight what it means that Christ fulfills the law. Um He does what the law could not do. That is, make us righteous. That is the thing that's promised and prefigured. Right, he brings about what's promised and prefigured. That's great. What's promised and prefigured. He does what the law could not do, make us righteous before God. I'll read this. Romans 8. One through four There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. For the law of the Spirit of life has set you free in Christ Jesus from the law of sin and death. For God has done what the law, weakened by the flesh, could not do by sending his own son in the likeness of sinful flesh. And for sin, he condemned sin in the flesh, in order that the righteous requirement of the law might be fulfilled in us. Who walk not according to the flesh, but according to the spirit. He did what the law could not do. And the final passage for the evening is Hebrews 10. Hebrews 10 1 through 4. Bear in mind the context and the point of this paragraph in the Sermon on the Mount Whatever this means, what we're talking about right now, Christ fulfilling the law, whatever this means, it does not mean that the relevancy of commandments or the relevancy of his law is abolished. Until heaven and earth pass away, until all the work is accomplished. There's still a relevancy and a purpose. And I pr actually preached about this last Sunday. It brings people under conviction It brings sinners under conviction that they might be saved and it continues to bring saved people under conviction so we might continue to be sanctified and continue to repent. Right? You need the Word of God convicting you of your sin, driving you to Christ for repentance and sanctification. So that's one relevancy, the central relevancy of God's law. Hebrews 10, 1 through 4. For since the law had but a shadow of the good things to come , It's like if you're walking toward a shade tree. Maybe you're in its far-off shadow, but that's not the same thing as fully sitting under that shade tree On a hot summer day. The shadow is not the real thing. The law had only a shadow of the good things. The law had but a shadow of the good things to come. instead of the true forms of these realities, it can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. That means Cleanse the conscience, cleanse the worshipper as they approach God. That's what that means. Their sacrifices couldn't do it. The law only had a shadow. Verse 2, otherwise Would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins? Verse 3, but in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sins every year, for it is impossible. For the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Those sacrifices didn't take away sins. They reminded the worshipper of their sins that they needed to be taken away by God Himself. And Skip all the way down to verse 8. When he said above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings. And burnt offerings and sin offerings, these are offered according to the law. But then he added, Behold, I've come to do your will. He does away with the first in order to establish the second. And by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. That's the only thing to sanctify. The good works don't sanctify. That may be one of the fruit, outward fruit of repentance and sanctification, but it's the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ that sanctifies. Initially Giving us the Holy Spirit, saving us, and then progressively continuing to sanctify us. That's why the gospel must be thundered in the church. The gospel is for within the church, for the spiritual growth of God's children, and for evangelism. In fact, our evangelism, I'm convinced of it, will be. A fruit of, an outpouring of, or an overflow of the preaching of the gospel within and the ministry of the gospel one to another within the church. He does away with the first in order to establish the second. That's talking about covenants. He does away with the old covenant, establishes the new covenant. in the blood of Christ, and this covenant's better. This covenant is a covenant of grace. It actually saves and sanctifies sinners. Let's pray.