If you have a Bible, grab your Bible and turn to Ephesians 3 verse 7. Going through verse 13 this morning. That's Ephesians 3, 7 to 13. And we're looking at the wonder of Christ. Alright? The wonder of Christ Thinking about a sense of all that should be in our hearts when we think about who Christ is Meaning an abundant joy that's overflowing abundantly in our hearts, a joy when we think about all that Christ has given to us and promised to us. The wonder, the awe, the joy, the glory of Christ, the wonder of Christ, what is it that your heart treasures most I don't mean in religious theory, but in reality, what does your heart seek after most consistently What does your heart desire and long for most deeply? What is your mind fixated on? Continually, what does your heart treasure most? It should be The Lord Jesus Christ. We should have a wonder, a wonder and awe and abundant joy in our hearts at Christ. Let's read Ephesians 3, 7 to 13 before we go into the body of the message. Of this gospel , I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power, to me, though I am the very least of all the saints, This grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ. And to bring to light for everyone what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God, who created all things, so that through the church The manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places This was according to the eternal purpose that he realized in Christ Jesus our Lord, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence through our faith in him. So I asked you not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory. You see this phrase. See this phrase in verse 8. It's the way of Paul, one of the ways he summarizes the content of his message. He summarizes the substance of the gospel, of his preaching. Paul, what are you talking about? The unsearchable riches of Christ. Unsearchable riches is a powerful metaphor, isn't it? Think about if you have enough diamonds And stacks of pure gold coins, such to the effect that you can never count them They just keep going and going and going. You can't tally up these riches. It's priceless. You don't know. It's unsearchable, uncountable. He says the un Unsearchable riches of Christ. You can spend a lifetime worshiping Christ with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, but you still have not exhausted the praise and worship that he deserves. You can spend a lifetime learning about the depth of the love of Christ, but you still will not plumb the depths of his love. You can spend a lifetime studying and writing and teaching about the grace and mercy of Christ, but you'll not finish everything. There'll still be more to say. The riches of Christ are unsearchable. The love of Christ is infinite. It keeps going and going and going. His mercy is like diamonds That you can't count. His grace is like stacks of pure gold coins that you can't count. These are unsearchable riches. It's breathtaking. It's beyond what we can imagine. What Christ has done for us, what He has procured for us, relationship with God, the promise of heaven. The promise of resurrection. The promise of eternal glory in the new heavens and the new earth. Unsearchable riches, beloved of God. Unsearchable riches. There should be in our hearts a wonder, a wonder of Christ in our hearts, a deep awe, a pressing awe that's there in the morning, an abundant joy that's there in the evening. The unsearchable riches of Christ in verse 8 is really what captured my attention in preparing this message. And there are other phrases of Paul's letters that also are some of my favorites along the same lines. So in Ephesians 2:7, if you just want to flip back, you'll see Paul uses the phrase, immeasurable riches of his grace. How big, what size is the riches of God's grace? It's immeasurable. It's bigger than you can imagine. With all the sin that I have sinned, and yet God's grace is bigger? Yes. And all the sins that you have sinned. And all the guilt that we've accrued and all the judgment that we deserve, and you're telling me that God's grace is bigger? Yes, God's grace is bigger. Immeasurable riches of his grace In chapter 3, this same chapter that we're in this morning, chapter 3, verse 19, Paul will talk about the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. The love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. So here's what your knowledge can grasp. And here's the love of Christ It's bigger than what we can grasp. It's higher than what we can think. It's transcendent over what we can imagine. Take all of our knowledge together. Add it all up. Here's our knowledge. But here's Christ, here's the love of Christ that is greater than all of our knowledge, the immeasurable riches of his grace. The love of Christ that surpasses knowledge. One of my favorites is from the reading we did earlier in the service, Philippians 3. 8, where Paul talks about the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus. The surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus. Now I know two kinds of life. My former life and my current life, which is life in Christ. And I know what life was like before knowing Christ. And I know what life is like now, the surpassing worth of knowing Christ. What was it like to have life outside of Christ in the mire of sin? Under the judgment of God, in rebellion against God, not having the Holy Spirit, not enjoying the grace and mercy and power of Christ in my life, now we have A relationship with Jesus. And Paul will say this is of surpassing worth. It's of surpassing worth. Whatever we had before Christ. What we have now is of greater worth than that. Another one is Colossians 2. 3. Colossians 2. 3, Paul will say, he'll teach that in Christ. are all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Everything that you need to know. Everything you need to know about wisdom and how to live life Everything you need to know to have true knowledge, a true, meaningful, and lasting knowledge, it's all found in Christ. Paul really likes this metaphor of riches and treasures when he talks about knowing Christ and what we have in Christ. In Christ are hidden all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Which, brothers and sisters, isn't that a good reminder? Stop going to the world for practical wisdom and knowledge. Stop looking to our own feelings and personal preferences for wisdom and knowledge. Go to Christ. Go to God's word. In Christ are all the treasures of wisdom and knowledge. Immeasurable riches of grace, a love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, the surpassing worth of knowing Christ Jesus. In Christ are hidden all treasures of wisdom and knowledge. And then again, our verse. Ephesians 3 verse 8, in our passage, this morning, the unsearchable riches of Christ Has the wonder of Jesus Christ captivated your heart? Or has your heart grown cold? You know it can happen to any one of us. We just get so wrapped up in life. We can get so just week after week, so wrapped up in the routine, that our hearts can grow cold and we can find ourselves in a situation where our hearts are void of an awe and wonder, uh uh joy even of knowing Christ. And beloved of God, it should not be So if that's you, would you purpose in your heart to repent this morning? Would you purpose in your heart to look to Christ anew this morning? That he would revive you, that he would give you what you yourself cannot provide for yourself, and all in a wonder and an abundant joy in response to Jesus. Jesus Christ, the wonder of Jesus Christ, the unsearchable riches of Christ. Now you can see on your outline three simple points Three simple points to flesh out the wonder of Christ. First of all, we'll talk about the wonder of preaching Christ. All right, and Paul will use that word, preach, the wonder of preaching Christ. And then secondly, we'll talk about the wonder of the church of Christ. Paul will use that word also, church. And after we talk about the wonder of preaching Christ and the wonder of the church of Christ, we'll talk third and finally about the wonder of faith. in Christ. Alright? The wonder of faith in Christ. And you guessed it, Paul used that word, faith. Alright, we'll try to do this in digestible parts. The wonder of preaching Christ, the wonder of the church of Christ, the wonder of faith in Christ. The wonder of preaching Christ, verses 7 to 9, Ephesians 3, 7 to 9. Of this gospel I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power. To me, though I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ and to bring to light for everyone What is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things? Did you see the word preach? Did you see the word preach? It's part of Paul's calling, it's part of Paul's purpose. It's part of our duty as a church to preach Christ. He says right in the middle of verse 8, to preach. To preach to the Gentiles, which means to preach not just to Israel, but to preach to all the nations. Paul was the apostle sent to the Gentiles And this is the wonder of preaching Christ. Now the word preaching means the public heralding of good news. The public heralding of good news, the bold proclamation of good news. And the church must always be about this. There's never going to be an age in the church or an era in the church where we could say, oh, don't need to preach Christ anymore. Just like you eat every day and you drink every day and you breathe every day and you sleep every day, every generation of the church Every local church, every pastor of every church, every year, every month, every generation must continue to boldly proclaim the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the heartbeat of the church. That's the lifeblood of the kingdom of God. Paul was called for this. He says, To preach, to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ, the public heralding of good news, bold proclamation of salvation in Christ. You can see the purpose of preaching is to bring salvation to the world. What's the purpose of preaching? It's to bring salvation to the world. Because when the message of salvation comes to people , They turn some some hear it and they turn in faith because of the message of salvation, and now they have received salvation Look at verse 8 again. To me, though I am the very least of all the saints, this grace was given to preach to the Gentiles. And then in verse 9, he says, and to bring to light for who? For us. Yes. Amen. Everyone. Gentiles is the nations. Everyone, the Greek word behind everyone means everyone. The purpose of gospel preaching is to bring the message of salvation to everyone. And God 's purpose in this church age is to bring the message of salvation to everyone, to all nations, to all tribes, to all languages, to all cultures, to save sinners. By the blood of Christ and for the glory of God. This is the purpose of preaching. The purpose of preaching is to bring salvation to the world. Preaching will bring the message of the reality of God to those who do not believe in God. So we all need to learn that God exists. And we all need to learn what God is like. And we need to learn about his holiness. We don't know these things when we're lost. We may have an intellectual knowledge of these things because of our background or how we grew up, but we don't have a true knowledge, a heart knowledge understanding of who God is and what God is like. So that's why we need biblical churches to bring that teaching to us. And we need biblical Sunday school teachers to teach that message. to our children. And we need biblical preachers to preach that message with boldness and clarity from the scriptures. Because the message of salvation It begins with the truth of God. Who is God? He is the creator. He is holy. He is the lawgiver. He is the judge. The message of salvation also brings the truth about mankind, that we've sinned against God and therefore are under judgment. And that's our need for salvation. It's really once God starts to stir, stir us up to spiritual things, and He can in different ways, through different things in our lives, God can start to awaken us to the things of God. But what needs to happen is we need to experience what's called conviction. We need to come under conviction. We need to be burdened in our heart. In sensing and seeing the reality of our sin. We need to be convicted, convinced in our heart, convinced In the bottom of our heart, that we are sinners and we need a Savior, that we are guilty and we need forgiveness, that we're alienated from God and need to be reconciled to Him. We need to have a godly sorrow. When we hear the message of the truth of God, and then we hear the message of our own sinfulness of rebellion against God, it should break us, it should crush us, it should convict us, it should fill our hearts with a godly sorrow. Sensing our sinfulness and guilt before God. Does God want us to stay there? No, God does not want us to stay there. From that brokenness and from that sorrow, he wants us to look to Christ, the Savior He's provided. And he wants us to see in Christ the free forgiveness of sins. And he wants us to see in Christ that we can be reconciled to God. despite our sin and despite our rebellion. God wants us to see the gospel. He wants us to see that Jesus died in our place. He died in our place on a cross so that we can be saved. This is the gospel. This is the message of Christ. This is the unsearchable riches of Christ. The truth about God, the truth that we are sinners, and the free salvation that's found in Christ. Only Jesus, only Jesus can reconcile you to God. Did you know that? That only Jesus can erase the guilt of your sin? Your good works can't do it. Going to church cannot do it. Being baptized doesn't do it. Being baptized does not save you, reconcile you to God, or erase the guilt of your sin. Only Jesus. Okay, well, yeah, that's great. How do I get Jesus? Through faith. Through faith. I'm glad I got one amen on that. It's kind of a big deal. Through faith in Jesus. Dear sinner There is a love that God has for you. There's a free salvation that God has for you. And the way you receive it is by looking to Jesus with the eyes of your heart. You look to Jesus. You believe in him as your Savior, and immediately you are saved. Immediately. There's no other work for you to do. You don't have to go off and prove yourself, prove that you can live a holy life. Well, now we can now they're saved. Now they prove they can be good. That's not the gospel. That is not Christianity. Salvation by grace through faith, not By works. The wonder of the preaching of Christ, the reality of God, the problem of sin, the solution of free salvation in Christ. The point of preaching, the point of preaching is to make known and magnify Christ. And God's plan in Christ, so this is the end of verse 8, into verse 9, to preach to the Gentiles the unsearchable riches of Christ and to bring to light. For everyone, what is the plan of the mystery hidden for ages in God who created all things? Now, if you want more on that mystery, you've got to read and study. And go back and listen to the sermons if you want to, from Ephesians 2. 11, all the way up to our passage today. This mystery of Christ, of God's plan to bring Jew and Gentile together in Christ. Part of the purpose of preaching is to explain God's plan to bring all things together in Christ. And Paul will use that phrase in other places. to unite all things in Christ, to sum up everything in Christ, to bring all things together in Christ. And at the center of that is going to be bringing Jew and Gentile together in Christ under the new covenant. They were making known Christ, we're magnifying Christ. Are we still captivated by the treasures? pleasures, approval, and lusts of this world? Or have our hearts been captured and Captivated with awe at the various riches of the Lord Jesus Christ. The treasures of this world will pass away. You did get the memo, right? You can't keep it You can't keep it. You can't take it with you. That's what I used to hear going up. You can't take it with you. It's true. In all the pleasures of this world, it cannot save us. The approval of others. It's so sad looking out into the world and thinking about my formal life and seeing so many, and seeing myself in the formal life, but seeing so many people out there living for the approval of others. And trying to get for themselves the sense of identity and the sense of fulfillment based on what others think, based on what others say about them. It will never come. It will never ever come. You can live a billion years and have everybody in the world, you can have everybody in the world for over a billion years. Approve of you 100%, only say good things about you, only say that you're awesome, wonderful, good, and you will still in your heart not be fulfilled People cannot give you what you need. People cannot satisfy the deep longing of your soul. People and their approval and their kind words cannot give you a piece. a peace in your heart that surpasses understanding and that can get you through anything in this life and even will endure to eternity. The treasures of this world, the pleasures of this world, the approval of this world, the lusts of this world, it's all fleeting. It's all temporary. It's not what you need. Now what's What's the impulse of the sinful flesh? The impulse of the sinful flesh that's natural to all of us says, oh no, no, that's exactly what I need. More, more of that. I need more stuff I need more things, I need more treasures, I need more pleasures, I need to fulfill my natural lusts. I need more people to like me. I need more people to accept me. I need more people to see me, see me, approve of me, love me. That's the impulse of the flesh. The impulse of the Spirit. The impulse of the Spirit is to say, those things cannot help me. I need Christ. I need God. I need God's approval. I need God's favor. I need Christ's power. I need treasures of heaven. I need eternal treasures. I need lasting treasures. I need heavenly treasures. I need spiritual treasures in the heart and in the mind. That's what we need, church. Why would we live like the world around us? Church, church, why would we live like our former selves? Why would I live like the old man? When the new mat is filled with the Spirit and has communion with Christ, why? Why would we live for fleeting things when we have unsearchable riches in Christ? The purpose of preaching to bring salvation to the world, the point of preaching to make known and magnify Christ In whom are true treasure and lasting treasure and life-changing treasure and soul-saving treasure. Did you know that Christ is the only one who can Keep you safe when the final judgment comes. And that's a part of the Christian message that's thoroughly biblical, Old and New Testament, but it's not very popular, is it? That there's a final judgment coming from God against the world, and there's only one thing that can keep us safe when that final judgment comes, and that's the Lord Jesus Christ. If you would believe in Him, Believe in him. I'm not asking you, and God is not asking you to turn over the world or to turn around your whole life and create a whole new good life. But look to Jesus. Look to Jesus and be saved and be safe from the coming judgment. Finally, the power of preaching, and I have just one word for you here on the power of preaching: God. God is the power of preaching. God is the power of Sunday school lessons. God is the power of your private devotional Bible reading. God is the power behind any ministry, anywhere, whether it's the ministry of the word or the ministry of good deeds. God is the power behind it. And I'm getting this from verse 7. You see Paul's mindset in his ministry. Of this gospel, I was made a minister according to the gift of God's grace, which was given me by the working of his power. Pretty easy if you were to preach a sermon on that. It'd be pretty easy just to pick the key words and phrases, wouldn't it? Paul has a ministry Paul has a gospel ministry. He says, of this gospel I was made a minister. Now where did it come from? Next phrase, according to the gift of God's grace. Paul's ministry, he saw primarily, not as his gift, that he was doing something great for God. Paul saw his ministry primarily as God's gift to him. It was a gift of grace. I wonder if we think about our ministries that way. Do we think about our ministries, do I think about my preaching as primarily something I'm doing for God or as a gracious gift from God to me? How do we think about our ministries? How do we think about our ministries? Paul thought about it as a gift of grace, and then he says, which was given me by the working of his power. It 's by the grace of God and through the power of God that Paul is able to preach. And it's by the grace of God and through the power of God that any of us are able to preach Or that any of us are able to teach, or that any of us are able to truly love each other like we should be loving each other That's the Baptist tree. That was not me. No, I think this is a big one. I I mean this probably warrants the whole sermon. I'll ask Pastor Anthony to preach on this one day. I think it's the widespread problem of we see our ministries primarily as a good work that we're doing for God. Now, ministries are good works, and ministries are for God. Ministries are for each other too. But primarily, primarily, our ministries are a gracious gift from God to us. And see, brothers and sisters, that's important because that's what keeps us humble. That's what keeps us humble. That's what guards us from being territorial. Like that's what guards us from being territorial. This is my ministry. God's called me to this. And you can be saying things on the surface that seem spiritual, but they're selfish. And they're territorial, and you're not thinking about ministry in the proper way as a gift from God to you. The power of preaching is God. The power of any ministry is God. And Paul is clear about that, and we need to be clear about that. The wonder of preaching Christ. Its purpose to bring salvation to the world, its point to make known and magnify Christ, so that sinners like us might know Him and glorify Him forever. And the power of preaching is God. If you take God out of the picture. It's all a game. It's all fake. And I mean that literally. I'm not just trying to have like shock value here. Think about our gathering right now and the preaching right now. If you take God out of the picture, it's all fake. It's all pretend. We had nothing. Nothing. It's just external religion. But praise God by his promise and by his word and by the working of his Holy Spirit that God is with us And God is with us as we gather, and He's with us as we fellowship, and He's with us as we hear the Word to instruct us, inform us, and encourage us. The wonder of the church of Christ. Now the wonder of the church of Christ is the wonder of what God is doing in his bride, as the scripture calls it, the bride of Christ, or the body of Christ, the church. The assembly of God's people, the community of faith, the household of God, the wonder of the church of Christ. Now this comes from verses 10 and 11. And that's verse 10. If you look at verse 10, it doesn't start with a capital letter, it starts with a lowercase letter, because it's not a new sentence It's part of the sentence that comes before it. And because what you get now, starting in verse 10, is the result of what the gospel does in the world. What the gospel does in the world is create churches and then build up churches. And so you have in verse 10, so that through the church. So that through the church Picture that now. Through the church, the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known to the rulers and authorities in the heavenly places. That's talking about angelic beings and Quite probably more of an emphasis on demonic beings, the enemies of God, that God now, through his church, is displaying his wisdom and displaying his victory to his defeated foes in the demonic realm. Verse 11, this was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord. I would emphasize right off the bat in verse 11, He does not say eternal purpose that he will realize. He says eternal purpose that what that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord. Has realized his eternal purpose. Is all the work done? No. All the work is not done. The gospel is still going out. The kingdom is still advancing. The kingdom is still spreading. People are still being saved. History will progress. And then at some point Christ will return and consummate the whole thing. And there'll be a final resurrection, a final judgment, the complete purging of all of God's enemies from creation. And there'll be a new heavens and a new earth. So that the story is not done. The work is not all done. But the work of the church age is not all done, the work of salvation is done. But you understand what I'm saying, there's still work to be done in in the church in history. But the way Paul talks about it here is he says, has been realized, which just lets you know that this final era, this final stage has begun. The last days has begun. The last hour has begun. That's the way the scripture talks about the last days. So you have The wonder of the church of Christ, number one, I'll give you these real quickly. Number one, the church displays God's wisdom. That's verse 10. It's easy to see. The church displays God's wisdom. He says, so that through the church the manifold wisdom of God might now be made known. That's putting on display. Think of the display cases in the jewelry store. That's basically all the jewelry store is. Just display cases and bright lights and whatever's in those display cases. It's all being made known. Everything in the jewelry store exists just to make known The jewels and whatever else is in those cases. It's making known. It's displaying. That's the way Paul talks about the church. The church is putting on display, glorious display, not rings and watches and necklaces and things, the church is putting on display. What does Paul say? The wisdom of God The wisdom of God the church is putting on display. And it does that on earth and it does that in the spiritual realm. And also the church fulfills God's purpose. Verse 11. The church fulfills God's purpose. He says this was according to the eternal purpose that he has realized in Christ Jesus our Lord. The church displays God's wisdom and the church fulfills God's purpose. When he says When he says in verse 11, eternal purpose that he's realized in Christ Jesus our Lord, I believe in the context of Ephesians 2 into Ephesians 3, It's pretty clear to me that in the context, the only possible thing that he can be talking about is the bringing of Jew and Gentile together in Christ under the new covenant. The whole section is about that. Mystery of Christ. That was the last sermon. The mystery of Christ in these last days to make a new covenant with Israel, but then also bring the nation into that new covenant so that God would have an international body, a global body of people called the church. That's how the church displays God's wisdom and simultaneously fulfills God's purpose. Practical application, that's why we should have just the highest priority of being a part of the local church Local church is not man's idea. It's not my idea. It's not the deacon's idea. It wasn't the apostle's idea. It wasn't the prophet's idea. The church is God's idea The church is God's plan. The church is the bride of Christ. The church is the body of Christ. God loves his church. Christ loves the church The Holy Spirit loves the church and fills the church and ministers to the church and spreads the church and builds up the church. God has a high priority on the church. The church is what God designed to display his wisdom to the world and to the invisible realm. The church is God's way of fulfilling and realizing his purpose. So now let me ask you: if all that's true, and it is true because Scripture teaches it, if all that's true, what priority should we put on the church? Where should the church be on our priority list? Where should attending church and joining the church and fellowshipping with the church and praying for the church and having grace and love and kindness and encouragement for the church when giving to the church. Where should all that be on our priority list if the church is the fulfillment and realization of God's eternal purpose? It should be a convicting word, and it should be an encouraging word. It should be an encouraging, I mean that encourages, it convicts me, but it also encourages me Because God has brought us into His plan and purpose rather than leaving us out on our own just to do our own thing. Are you happy about that? That God didn't leave us in our own filth, but it's brought us into the glorious body of Christ to display his wisdom and fulfill His purpose. And by the way, God doesn't just display his wisdom in the church. He displays his grace in the church because he's made wicked sinners, his children and his heirs. That displays his grace. God also displays his power in the church, his power because he's changed our hearts to love him and want to live for him. He's changed our hearts. That speaks of God's power. And also his power that he can reconcile sinners together to fellowship and true love and grace. The church displays God's grace, his power, his love, his righteousness, and his wisdom, the church is God's way of displaying his various attributes in a practical way in the world. The wonder of the Church of Christ, and then finally the wonder of faith in Christ. If you were to boil down just my practical goal, number one practical goal in preaching and ministry, and that's not unique to me. If you have a ministry, this should be your practical goal in your ministry. practical goal in your teaching, practical goal in all of our prayers for others, with that you could boil it down by saying our number one practical goal, ultimate goal is to glorify God, right? We come to the rubber meets the road, the practical things. The practical goal is to help people come to faith, to help people live out their faith, and then to help people grow in their faith. That's number one practical goal. That should be my practical goal for me. Okay, now I've come to faith in Christ, and now what do I do? Well, I want to live out that faith, and I also want to grow in that faith And our practical goal for each other, okay, we look around and you see many people who've come to faith, but now we want to encourage each other and support each other in living out that faith in our lives. And in growing in that faith, according to Scripture. Well, what if there's people who haven't come to faith? Well, that's our practical goal. Now we we want to help them come to faith in Christ. And then we want to help them live out that faith in Christ according to God's word, and we want to help them grow in their faith in Christ. But it it all centers on faith in Christ. Verses 12 to 13 is where I get this emphasis on faith, in whom we have boldness and access with confidence How do we get that? Vince, how do we get that? Here's what he says, through our faith in him. Do you want boldness before the throne of God? You are confidence before the throne of God that you will not face judgment. It only comes through faith in Him The wonder of faith in Christ is that faith gives us assurance of salvation. And I tell you this morning, on the authority of God's word, you can have the assurance of salvation. You know, there are some groups that don't teach that. They would say, if you have assurance of salvation, if you say, I believe in Christ, I know I am saved, they would accuse you of pride and arrogance, and they would say that's ungodly and that you are lost for having such assurance. That's not what the Bible teaches. God wants you to have assurance. I believe in Christ. I am saved. You can have that assurance. That's part of the wonder of faith. That you can know that you are a child of God. You can know that you belong to Him. You can know that your sins are forgiven. You can know a thousand percent that when you die, you're going straight to heaven. You can know a thousand Present that on the last day you will be risen to eternal glory to dwell with Christ. You can have this assurance. Faith also gives us endurance through suffering. That's why Paul closes this. So I asked you not to lose heart over what I'm suffering for you, which is your glory. He's suffering for them. Yeah, he he was arrested and imprisoned. Because of his ministry, because of his gospel, bringing it to the Gentiles, bringing Gentiles into the covenant people of God. He was arrested. He was imprisoned. He's suffering this because of his ministry to the Gentiles. But he says Which is your glory. And that's his way of saying to the Ephesians, you don't need to be ashamed that I'm in prison. You don't need to feel bad, then I'm in prison. Like this is what Paul is saying. This is your glory. I'm in prison. Because I brought you the gospel and you came to Christ. And that's for God's glory. It's only because of that that Paul's in prison. So it's their glory. It's to their honor. It's to their credit. Ultimately, God is the one who gets the credit, but that's what he's saying. He says, which is your glory. If this is your glory, don't be ashamed. That Paul is in prison. Don't be ashamed that Paul is suffering. But that is a result of his gospel going to the Gentiles. Paul's not mad about it. Paul is not mad about it. And the way in other places Paul talks about his imprisonment, he'll talk about how his imprisonment all it did was open up more open opportunities for sharing the gospel with different people. And so Paul's not ashamed of the gospel. The Ephesians don't need to be ashamed of the gospel. When we think about the wonder of the faith that we have in Christ and how it lifts us to a higher realm of existence in communion with Christ. When we think about the wonder of the church of Christ and God's glorious work and his love and his power and his wisdom displayed in the church, When we think about the wonder of preaching Christ and making known God, making known the reality of sin, making known the gospel, the substitutionary death of Christ, we think about the wonder of Christ. Are our hearts captivated or bored? You know, that's what this pulpit is devoted to. That's the heartbeat of this church and the preaching ministry of this church is making known and magnifying Christ to make much of Christ. If you're not on board with that, I'm telling you right now, you're going to get bored, you're going to get frustrated, and eventually you'll just fade away. This pulpit is devoted to what the Bible is devoted to. Making known and magnifying Christ. Making much of the wonder of Christ and calling all of our hearts, this heart first This heart first calling all of our hearts to a renewed awe and wonder and abundant joy at the Lord Jesus Christ. Are you captivated by Christ? Is there a deep cherishing and adoration in your heart for the Lord Jesus Christ, preaching him for his church, for faith in him, and all that flows from faith in him? I'm calling you this morning. If it's not there, I'm calling you to repent. I'm asking you to go to God. I'm commanding you to go to God. Go to God for mercy. Go to God for restoration and revival and repentance and any other word that starts with R-E that you can think of. Go to God for it. Life in communion with the Lord Jesus Christ, brothers and sisters. Any guests that are with us, life in communion with Jesus Christ is the best thing ever. It's the best. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for the salvation that is found in Him. We pray that you'd renew our hearts this morning. Every single one of us, in one way or another, and to one degree or another, needs revival. So we ask that you revive our hearts. Give us a renewed conviction of our sin. Give us a renewed looking to Christ in faith for mercy and grace. Give us a renewed love for you. Give us a renewed hunger for your word. Give us a renewed zeal for obedience. Give us a renewed cherishing and prioritizing of the local church and all that goes on here Father, we pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.