Well the words we'll examine this morning come out of 2 Corinthians chapter 2 verses 14 through 17. 2 Corinthians chapter 2, 14 Through 17. This morning we'll be talking about the blessing of a message. This summer we've been going through a series of talking about all the blessings that God gives to his children. Those that have been redeemed, those that have faith in Christ, have received these blessings. And many of them revolve around the new identity we have in Christ. The forgiveness we have of our sins. And as we work through much of Ephesians chapter 1, we saw all these blessings God has given us. This morning I want to remind us of another blessing we have. That the very message that God used to save sinners like you and I is The same message that we have to give to the world. We should rejoice that God has given us uh a mission before us. That as Christians, when we are born again of the Spirit, When we have recognized what Christ has done for us, that we want to take this good news, the gospel of Jesus Christ, into the world. We want to preach it. We want to proclaim it. We want to live it out. And that we have meaning and purpose in our lives today. We are blessed with a message. We should seek to have the world see and hear our message. We should want the world to know Jesus and see his goodness and his mercy. The same goodness, the same mercy, the same Jesus that we ourselves have come to know and love. So before we get into the passage, let me just make it clear what is the message we have? What is the message we have to take to the world? In my words, you can fill in however you would want to say it, but we have to first recognize that we have a holy God that created all things. made us, and he gave us commandments. And we as his creatures have rebelled against him. Because of our rebellion, breaking of his commandments, we receive a just punishment for our sins. Eternal separation Eternal separation from God and eternity in the lake of fire. And it doesn't matter how hard we work, how good we are, how much we pay. How much we try to come to church and to do good things, there's nothing we can do on our own accord to ever pay off the penalty, to pay off the debt that we owe. But thanks be to God that he sent his son Jesus, truly God and truly man, to live a perfect life To obey the law perfectly. To be the perfect sacrifice as he went to the cross, as he died on the cross, he bore our sins. He took the penalty that we deserve to pay. He died, he was buried, he rose from the dead, defeating sin and death. He ascended into heaven, and now he sits at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth And all of those that have faith in Jesus as their Lord and Savior have their sins forgiven, and they will spend eternity with Him. This is the message we have for the world. It's the gospel. We don't have anything else, a good show, a good performance. We have the message that sinners can find hope and eternal life in Jesus Christ, in Him alone. That Jesus died for their sins, that they deserve to pay, and they can have eternal life. And we don't boast in this saying, look how great we are. We say we are those sinners that Jesus has died for on the cross. Now, world, come and join the same family that we are in. Come, find faith in Christ. Come, be born again by the Spirit and have new life. This is our message, church. This is what we take to the ends of the earth. This is what we preach in our households. This is what we preach in our workplaces. This is what we preach in the public square. That Jesus is Lord and He saves sinners. Amen. This is our message Now, when we talk about taking this message into the world, this is where, okay, yes, we love the gospel. We've been saved by Christ. Yes and amen. And yes, I want to share the gospel. But then we get kind of nervous and scared, right? Let's be honest. We don't have to act like, no, we're never scared of preaching the gospel. There's times where we go, I don't know if I wanna preach the gospel to myself right now. I I'm pretty content with just going in my sin. I don't know if I want to go into the world and preach the gospel. You know what they would say to me at work if I talked about Jesus. I don't know if I want to go into the public square That's Caesar's domain. We shouldn't touch Caesar's domain. Let me encourage you this morning, Saints. That if you have been born again of the Spirit, you have faith in Jesus Christ, you have the tools, you are equipped to preach the gospel God has made you into Christ-likeness. He has made you new, and you are ready to preach the gospel. We don't need to do a seminar on tricks and tools and techniques. These things are helpful at times. But what I want to encourage us this morning is that in our newness in Christ, we are equipped and we are living out the gospel and preaching the gospel already. And as we focus on that this morning, I want to encourage us and encourage us that we are his children and we are preaching the gospel in the world around us. So let us look at our passage this morning and hear about the beautiful message we have and how we are taking it into the world. Second Corinthians chapter 2, verse 14. But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in a triumphal procession, and through us spreads the fragrance of the knowledge of Him everywhere. For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. To one, a fragrance from death to death. To fragrance of death to death, to the other, a fragrance from life to life. Who is sufficient for these things? For we are not Like so many peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God, in the sight of God, we speak in Christ. My goal is to encourage us that we can and shall preach this message. We should proclaim Christ in the world. We don't need to fear the world. We don't need to fear the judgment of the world around us. We don't need to fear that we're not eloquent enough with our words. We can't form sentences. We don't have These tools and the techniques to preach the gospel. I want to encourage us today, if you are a Christian, you can and shall proclaim the good news of Jesus Christ. So let me start with this encouragement. The Christian, if you're a Christian, the Christian has been conquered by God. If you're a Christian this morning, you have been conquered by God. And this is good news to us. Verse 14 starts with: But thanks be to God. Beloved, this is our song. This is our praise day in and day out. But thanks be to God. That he has saved wretched sinners like you and I. But thanks be to God, who in Christ always leads us in a triumphal procession. This imagery, we we have a a grasp of it today, this imagery of a parade. You know, Fourth of July. We have nice parades and and we have floats and candy and bands playing. We have some old trusty veterans walking down there and we celebrate, right? We're celebrating the victories of our nation And how God has blessed our nation in many wonderful ways and the freedoms we have as a nation. But we That understanding, the modern concept of a parade isn't quite what's being written about by Paul. The Roman triumphal procession is a bit different. So the the Roman triumphal procession would be after a general has a complete victory. A complete victory, that he has completely destroyed another nation, another army. Has won the battle. There's not, you know, well, there's still a little fighting going on and but he's gonna have a victim. No. It's over. The battle is won. He is the victor. What would happen is they would gather the masses in Rome. And they would have a massive parade But these parades aren't quite like we have today. There probably wasn't much candy. There wasn't a whole lot of floats and celebrations like that. The celebrations were focused on the general that won the battle. And the procession normally would go that the the leaders of the parade would be the governmental leaders. The the Congress, the senators that that had led the nation during the time, and they would lead the parade, the procession down and All the fans, the people are cheering and chanting for them. And then following them would be those that were captured during battle. Those that were captured during battle, the uh the soldiers that were captured, the opposing enemy that was captured, maybe villagers that were captured, they would be marched down in this parade. As the people are cheering and chanting for the victor, here's these these folks that have been captured. And at the end of the parade they're going to most likely either be enslaved for the rest of their lives or they're going to be put to death. Beloved, may we recognize that outside of Christ, that's our position in this parade No one will defeat Christ. No enemy is stronger than Christ. In the end, all will bow down to Christ No enemy will overpower him. There's not this chance that some enemies will get away and take the victor and have their little enclave of a militia. No. All enemies of Christ will be completely destroyed. And you and I outside of Christ stand in that position as the conquered. The conquered that Christ has taken victory over us. That's where we belong. As I continue to proclaim and explain this triumphal procession of the Roman times, you'll see that we don't stay in that slave status. We don't stay in the status of those destroyed. But we're actually being led by our general. So after the captured in the parade would be the musicians They're playing music. They're they're building up the energy of the crowd. This morning in Sunday school, we talked about the importance of music and how it's a a weapon and a tool. And we see that this is bringing up the energy. Things are getting really hyped up. And then following the musicians is the priestly class, the religious class. And they often will have some kind of incense with them. Uh they'll they'll be doing their prayers to their false gods in Rome. But there there's an aroma coming out with their incense and their prayers, and then immediately following the religious class is the general that has won the victory. He's riding high up on a chariot led by horses. He's clothed in fine linen. He has a crown on top of his head. All the signs are pointing to him being the victor. He is the winner of the battle. We got to see those who he conquered walking before him. And then immediately following the general are all the soldiers that have marched in battle with him. You can just hear it at this point. The crowd is cheering. Here's this general. He's being treated like a god because he's he he's destroyed the enemy in battle. And then here's all these soldiers, these warriors that he used for this victor. That's the type of parades that happened during Paul's time. While we understand we belong, we belong in that that that conquered class, that group that's being marched down to their death or to their enslavement. That's where we belong outside of Christ. But Romans 5:10 tells us this. For while we were enemies, we were reconciled to God by the death of His Son. While we were his enemies, we were reconciled to God. How did this happen? It's through the death of Jesus Christ. And this is what brings us such joy and excitement, Christian, is that we have been conquered by God and we're no longer the slave class. We're no longer those that are being marched to our death, but now we are being led. Notice Paul's language here. In verse 14, who in Christ always Leads us in triumphal procession. We are now that class marching behind Christ. We are the soldiers that have been brought into his army. Paul is very aware of this. This language is used throughout Scripture 2 Timothy 2, verse 3, the good soldier of Christ Jesus. So it's worth thinking about how we can take this message into the world. How can we be encouraged that we can preach the gospel in this world? Well, beloved, we must recognize that God is victorious. While we were his enemies, Christ died for us and has now made us his children, his warriors, and he's the one leading us in this victory march. We read this in Thessalonians that we are captured up with him in his return. We are captured up with Christ in his victorious procession. To return to his earth, to take dominion over, to show his power and his might and how he is the victor over all. We join in this victor procession, not because of what we have done, but because of the victory in Christ Jesus. Does that encourage us a little bit? Maybe okay, maybe we can take this message. Maybe we can take the message of how great Christ is, how Christ destroys the enemies, how Christ redeems sinners like us. When we recognize that he has redeemed us, he has conquered us, I think it it it it builds us up a little bit to to be a little bolder in the proclamation. To not shy away that, oh, well, you know, this enemy, this world really hates Christ. Yeah, you're right. And they seem so powerful and so strong. They got the government, they got their schemes, they got their systems, and they say mean things to us. But when we rest in our understanding that Christ is the victor, that God has conquered us, And he's going to conquer all of his enemies, either by destroying them in the lake of fire, or by making them children through the blood of Christ. We should be boldened. We should be emboldened by this and preach the gospel with confidence. Christ is victorious. The Christian has been conquered by God. The second point of confidence I want to build in us is that God spreads the knowledge of Him, or Himself, spreads the knowledge of Himself everywhere. God spreads the knowledge of Himself everywhere. There's no borders That the knowledge of God does not cross. The gospel doesn't get up to the border of North Korea and go, uh oh, we can't cross. We don't have a good passport. We can't go in there. No. There's no powers that the gospel cannot overtake. The gospel's not advancing and then here comes some some king or some warlord that the gospel goes, ah, actually, we can we can't keep preaching the gospel here. This warlord is just too strong for us. There's no demon or spiritual power that God goes, I don't know if I can get the gospel into this land because of this spiritual evil that's over this land. No, that's not how it works. There's no system that God looks at and says, ah, I can't advance the gospel. Here's communism. There's no hope the gospel can advance here. Oh, here's this system, this banking system. There's no hope of the gospel advancing here. God does not look at these things like that. There's no enemies that God does not know that He will take over and be the victor over. God is spreading the knowledge of Himself everywhere. Everywhere. We should be encouraged by this. Nothing will stop the spread of the knowledge of God. Nothing will prevent the spread of the knowledge of God from going forth. Look with me again in the middle of verse 14. It says he leads us through a triumphal procession and through us spreads the fragrance the fragrance of the knowledge of him everywhere. Oh, this one verse is so beautiful for us to hear. Let's start with the reality that he is spreading his fragrance everywhere. As I said, there's nowhere, nowhere in this earth, nowhere in this universe, nowhere in all of creation that the knowledge of God will not be spread. But how does he accomplish this? With by sending down lightning bolts? By sending down some kind of scene that the the the eruptions that then oh this makes it clear this is this is God, this is Christ? No, the spreading of his knowledge is through us. Well, we've got to remember, we were just told that we're being led through this procession by Christ. He's the one leading us. We're not the victors. We're not the ones that accomplish this. But by the grace of God and his mercy, he uses broken people like you and I to spread his knowledge around the world. This is why we send missionaries. Newsflash, as a former missionary, missionaries aren't perfect. I know one. I married one, but then the rest of them aren't perfect. I get kudos now, right? Alright. No, they're not perfect. They're broken vessels. But often we make these missionaries and And for some of you may make your pastors these these extra holy and these extra spiritual people. No, they're just broken, like you and I. Yet God uses them to take the gospel around the world. Why then do we assume that God would not use a broken vessel like you to preach the gospel in your household and in your workplace? Why would God not you abro use a broken vessel like you to preach the gospel on the streets We should not think, well, we're not worthy enough. We talk about that later in this passage. We're not worthy enough. We don't we didn't earn this. You're right. You did not yet. For through God's wisdom, he uses his children to preach the gospel. May we rejoice in this. And may we know that nothing will prevent the advancement of the gospel. I I I am tired of this idea and this mentality that Christ loses here on this earth. That the church loses on this earth. That yeah, you know, we're good, but until Christ returns there's no victory. That's not what Scripture tells us. Scripture tells us that the advancement of the gospel is victorious. I'm not saying we'll have riches. I'm not saying we'll be the president, but what I'm saying is the preaching of the gospel wins souls, that the Spirit uses the preaching of the gospel to make dead people alive in Christ. That's victory to me. That's not losing. And we need to realize that there's nothing that's going to stop this advancement. God spreads the knowledge of Him everywhere. Matthew 24, 14, and this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations. This gospel, the gospel of Christ, the kingdom, will be, it's an absolute, will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations. We believe this. We know this. We think about and we rejoice in this understanding that we will enter into heaven and we will be singing the songs of praise to our Lord with a multitude of languages. And a multitude of ethnicities. We rejoice in this understanding that we gather around the throne room of God in the eternal, singing praises to Him with people that do not look like us. Do not speak like us. Do not act like us. There's nothing similar about us except our unity in Christ Jesus And when we think about that, we recognize for that to be accomplished is that the gospel must be preached in the nations. And Jesus promises that it will happen in all nations around the entire world. Let us rejoice in that. Let us be emboldened by this. Let's be encouraged by this. If the gospel 's going to be preached in North Korea, then why is it not going to be preached in Jaredzil? I I think. I've never been to North Korea, but I think it's It's more of a challenge for the gospel to be preached in North Korea. But we have the promise of Christ that it will be preached in all nations. It's not a challenge to preach the gospel in Jarrettville. Belair. There's struggles there, there's suffering, but the legality, the ability to do it is endless. So let us take confidence that the God spreads the knowledge of Himself everywhere. Let us rejoice in that, that someday we will be in heaven worshiping our God with people we have never met, languages we have never heard of, nations that we couldn't pronounce their names. We will be worshiping the same Savior. in heaven. We praise God that his knowledge goes everywhere. The third encouragement for us And this message we have is that the Lord is the one who saves. The Lord is the one who saves We need to be encouraged on this a lot of times because when we preach the gospel, when we're in the public square preaching the gospel, we will see many people reject the gospel. And the temptation is to go, well, maybe I need a new trick. I need a new trick, a new method. Maybe if I would have worded things perfectly, that would have convinced me. Or if I just showed them this this way of thinking, or how often have you done this? You're talking with someone and you leave that situation, you know, the the the The cashier, we have this conversation in my house. You leave the cashier uh at the grocery store and you get home, you're like, I just missed the opportunity I should have said this. I should have made this comment when she said this. It was the perfect it was the perfect gospel opportunity. Well friends, let's not beat ourselves up too much about that Because we must be reminded that the Lord is the one that saves. He's the one that saves. It's not our wording There's no system, there's no special track, there's no little uh trick that we can do. It's the preaching of the gospel that God uses to save sinners. It's his work It's the work of the Holy Spirit within the heart of the sinner. That's how you are saved, and that's how all sinners will be saved. It's by the work of the Spirit. in their hearts. It's not by trick. It's not by a perfect system. It's the work of the Spirit through the preaching of the gospel. What Paul does here is he's working all for this fragrance imagery and analogy. He works from the fragrance of the knowledge of him that's spreading everywhere. Right? We know how how fragrances work, good and bad, right? There's we know some bad fragrances. I was gonna name I wanted to name this passage the blessing of a stank, or the blessing of a smell, but I didn't think that would be appropriate. So I just mentioned in the middle, so I guess it's still not appropriate But this he uses this imagery that who we are as Christians is an aroma. It's just wafting off of us. It it's not like, oh we start the aroma here, right? It's not like if I had a candle here that if you got this close and said I don't want to smell it, the candle stops. No, you're gonna smell it. That aroma is just drifting and moving throughout. There's no boundaries, there's no limitations to it. It just goes and and someone has a cologne, you smell that cologne wherever they are, and sometimes even after they leave the room, you still smell that smell that person. You know, oh that's so and so, that's their cologne. Well that's how the gospel message is for us. The world smells us, smells the gospel when we walk into the room. Now, we often think our message is only verbal. Yes and amen. It is a verbal message. But it's also how we live out our lives. So I read that passage in the beginning of the service that when we love one another, the world will then see that we love God. It's our actions of how we live. And this aroma of the gospel is just, it's floating everywhere we're at. And it's floating around. But then he changes from the fragrance in verse 14 to the fragrance and aroma in 15. He says, For we are the aroma of Christ to God among those who are being saved and among those who are perishing. So here he's talking about the fragrance, the fragrance that we are to the world as the knowledge of God spreads, but then he transitions to this word aroma of Christ to God. It's important we capture this because the aroma to God is a phrase that's used regularly throughout Scripture to talk about a righteous sacrifice in the temple. Alright, so Leviticus 113 talks about a pleasing aroma to the Lord. So the burnt sacrifices are being done rightly, and that aroma, this imagery is being used of that that smell, the righteous sacrifice. is a pleasing aroma that has drifted up into the heavens, into the nostrils of God. And then in Ephesians 5, verse 2, it says, Christ Loves us and gave himself up for us a fragrant offering and a sacrifice to God. That the sacrifice of Christ is that sweet aroma To the Father. It's drifting into the heavens that brings him pleasure. Because Christ is that ultimate sacrifice, that perfect sacrifice that pleases God And then we, for we are the aroma of Christ to God, so we are part of that aroma, that pleasing aroma to God that is living within the world. Both to the living and to the dead. So this imagery is really beautiful that we owe that aroma pleasing to God, but we're also that aroma and that fragrance that is living within the world, preaching the gospel. But here it is that we gotta grasp. We gotta hold on to this. In verse 16, to one, a fragrance, a fragrance from death to death. And to the other a fragrance from life to life. The same gospel message brings life to one person and death to another The same gospel message that Christ died for sinners, that if you have faith in Christ, you have eternal life has brought life to so many. So many. Many of us are part of that. But it's also brought death to so many because they reject it. And and this is where we get kind of caught up in our emotions and we go, Oh well, maybe I gotta do something different I gotta try harder. I gotta twist the No. The same gospel that saves you is the same gospel that so many completely reject. It's because we're not saved on our own wisdom. You didn't get saved because you got really smart. You didn't get saved because you logically figured out the cosmos and and sin. You didn't get saved because you had memorized so many Bible verses. You got saved because of the work of the Holy Spirit within you that has given you faith That's what we got to deal with. This is a challenge, friends. This is a challenge for us to think about. That we preach the gospel, and to some, eternal life comes to them, and to some, eternal destruction and death is coming to them This idea of a good smell and a bad smell, I thought about my upbringing. If you've been to Lancaster in the spring, there's a special smell in Lancaster County. The Amish call it mish, I'll give you a little Amish word. We would call it Minor. Right? And and it's it's a s I I remember when Kenzie first went up there, she's from Louisiana, different country, but when she moved up there and she smelled this, it was it was putrid to her. She hated it. And probably most of you are that way. But growing up in it, it has a bit of a sweet, you know, home home feel to me. Uh my brother's a farmer and his son when he was little uh you'd be driving, you'd smell it, and you'd be like, Gentry, what's that smell? And he goes That smells like money. You know, that's that's that mindset right there. But to some it's death, and really to all it should be death. Langster has corrupted us a little bit, right, Neil and Terry. But but you see to some that's a sweet smell But to all there's just a disgusting smell. Many foods are that way. When you smell Brussels sprouts being cooked, that is a sweet, life-giving smell, right guys? But to some us to some, you're like, that's the most disgusting meal you can give. Well, friends, the that's what's happening with the gospel. We can't change the nostrils of the people that are receiving the gospel. It's the work of the Spirit. Now, what's challenging is that we don't know who is eternally dead and eternally rejecting the gospel and who are only maybe momentarily rejecting the gospel. And the Spirit later on will continue its work and and bring new life to that person. So just because someone rejects the gospel today doesn't mean, okay, that means they're dead. That means that the deadly smell to them. And I'm going to stop preaching. No, you let that aroma rest in their nostrils. So that either they go to their eternity smelling that death, or they go to their eternity smelling the sweetness of new life that's found in that gospel You do not stop preaching the gospel. Maybe some of you are sitting and saying, no, that's not true, Anthony. Everyone could be one over. Everyone could be one over. Go preach in the public square. See the vile and wickedness of the world. See the dead zombies of the world come and scream and argue about the gospel. Until you do it and you see that there is there is a wickedness in this world and a disgustingness in this world, you may think, oh no, it's not that bad. No, it is death And this should bring us to our knees in prayer as we think that there is people dying in eternal death. And while we don't know their eternal state, we are crying out to the Lord on their behalf, crying out to the Lord to save them. And crying out to the Lord to give us the strength and the wisdom and the words and the way of love to preach the gospel to that person. And we trust. than the Lord's wisdom, that person will be brought to life through the working of the Spirit, or they will receive the just punishment that they deserve, that we all deserve. But there's a wickedness in this world that hates the Lord, hates the gospel, and will reject it. As many of you know and have been praying for me, I go out uh regularly. uh to the abortion mills to preach the gospel and yesterday was one of those days and it was the most vile day I've ever had there The demons at work and the screaming and the shouting and the hatred of the gospel is we're preaching a gospel of Christ and a gospel of eternal life, a gospel of hope, and they just hate. Hate, hate life. And we see this. And while what happens is we want to get angry, right? We want to scream back. We want to shout back. What we must do Peter, you've heard me say this before. We must love them more than we hate the sin. We see the zombies, we see the death. I'm telling you, it's a spiritual battle out there. You see the the wicked activity there, and we must love them so much that we say, I I don't care how much you hate me, I don't care how much you scream at me, you cuss me out, you threaten me, we will preach the gospel. Because we believe the gospel saves. We believe that the Spirit uses the preaching of the gospel to conquer his enemies, to bring new life to the dead. And we trust the Lord in his work. Titus chapter 3, verse 5 tells us he saved us. He saved us. Not because of works done by us in righteousness. But according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit. So how are people saved? Not by their works, but by the Holy Spirit. And God has promised that through the the Spirit works through preaching the gospel, and we are those broken vessels that He has uh given the power and the tool to preach the gospel. We are the fragrance that He's using to spread His gospel to the ends of the earth. And we must trust the working of the Lord that He is the one that saves. Beloved, this should encourage us. But even when we don't say words correctly, even when we fail to love perfectly, even when we leave a situation and go, ah, I should have said this this way and We can trust the working of the Lord. We pray for growth. We pray for his wisdom and maturity and our ability to preach the gospel, but we trust the Lord That He is the one that saves. It's not a system or a program or a uh uh play we put on, but it's the working of God that saves us people. We should be encouraged by this. This should give us confidence to preach the gospel more and more and trust the work of the Lord. This last encouragement is that we preach the gospel. I want to give the ways that we are preaching the gospel. Not a system. I'm not telling you you first say this, you then, you know, your elevator pitch idea. What I want to do is just remind you as we approach the living out as Christians. Which involves the preaching of the gospel. So how we love one another, how we love our enemies, how we love God, how we verbally preach the gospel, all of that is encompassed with these four things. And we get these out of uh right in the middle of this fixing it says, Who is sufficient for these things? For we are not like so many peddlers of God's word, but as men of sincerity. As commissioned by God, in the sight of God we speak in Christ. We're not charlatans We're not faking this. If you're going out and say, well, I gotta live as a Christian because I gotta put on a show, stop. Don't waste your time Because it's not showing the new creation within you. If you say, well, I gotta preach the gospel because I'm a Christian, but I really hate it. I hate telling people that they need a savior, and that savior is Christ. No, stop. We're not charlatans. We're not doing this just to become rich. News flash, you're not going to become rich by preaching the gospel. You're not doing this to try to win fanfare. Oh, if I go preach the gospel, I'll become really popular, then I can go and become governor or pres. No, stop. We're not doing this as charlatans or as peddlers, as Paul says. But we're doing this. We preach the gospel with sincerity from God, for God's glory, and as saints. We preach the gospel with sincerity from God. We preach the gospel from God. We preach the gospel for God's glory. And we preach the gospel as saints. I I love this lead up question in verse 16. It says, Who is sufficient for these things? Who is sufficient to preach the gospel? And every one of us should look at one another and say, Not me. Not me. In my own strength, in my own wisdom, in my own ability, we are not sufficient to preach the gospel. But in our new creation, when we have been born again of Christ, we are a new creation through the work of the Holy Spirit. We are the ones that are sufficient for it. We are the ones. It's not just the pastors. It's not just the missionaries. It's every single one of us that has experienced the mercy of God and has been born again of the Holy Spirit, who has faith in Jesus Christ. You are the one that God has called to preach the gospel. Why? How? With sincerity. Do you love the people Do you hate sin? And do you realize and truly, truly believe that Jesus is the only answer for everyone? If you believe that for yourself, you should believe it for your neighbor. You should believe it for your friends. You should love them. You should care for them And part of that does involve the calling out of the sin so that they can know Christ. We call this the law gospel. We have to have both of it. We must know the law of God. We must know the law of God because the law of God points to our brokenness, that we are sinners, we are wretched, and our temptation, if we don't get it right, our temptation is to keep going back to the law. Okay, the law shows that I'm broken and a sinner, so let me try to perfect the law so that I'm not a sinner. But we know that the moment we've broken one law, we've broken them all. And we deserve the just punishment of death from the Lord. So we must have the gospel. That yes, we have broken the law of God, so that's our sin. We don't shy away from sin. We don't say, no, sin's not that important. Let's just talk about the love of God. The love of God is meaningless if we don't realize how wretched of a sinner we are and how we deserve the just punishment. But here we have the gospel that while we were wretched sinners, while we were dead in our sin, a holy, merciful God sent his son Jesus to die in our place. This is the good news. And we do this because we believe it, we believe it, and we love God and we love His creation. So we preach the gospel with sincerity. We also preach the gospel from God. Says Bo as men of sincerity, as commissioned by God. You're sent by God. He is your commander. You take his word, his instructions, that he has commanded us, and we preach that. When we recognize that he is our commander, he's the one that has sent us, who here wants to deny the commandment of God? Now we do, we sin, but who outwardly wants to say, I'm good, I'm not going to do that? Thanks for your instructions, God. I'm going to reject it and ignore it. No, that's not what happens. We see that we we want to obey him, and he's the one that has commissioned us. So the message that we are taking has been commissioned, we have been commissioned by God to take that message. So we shouldn't shy away and say, I don't know if this is right. Well, the creator of the universe has commanded us to preach the gospel and how we love God, how we love one another, and how we verbally proclaim the gospel. So our gospel preaching is from God. If it's from God, we don't get to make it up. We don't get to make it up. Meaning we don't get to preach a gospel that's like, come to Jesus so you become rich. All your ailments are healed. Come to Jesus, and then you can say a prayer and then go back, get baptized, and then go live however you want. You just got to do it for a moment. That's not the gospel message God has commissioned us with. So, if we're going to preach the gospel that has been commissioned by God, we better understand what his message is. We don't get to pick and choose what we preach. It's from God. We also preach the gospel for God 's glory. This comes from at the very end. It says, in the sight of God. Here's what we n this is a challenge. If we rework our thinking of this, we'll be more encouraged to preach the gospel. That when we're thinking about preaching the gospel, we often think about the person that we're going to proclaim Christ to. Right? Stop it. It's hard because that's the person in front of us. I'm thinking, okay, I want to share the gospel with that person. Stop thinking about that person. Start thinking about how you're bringing glory to God as you're preaching to that person. Start thinking about how you're bringing glory to God as you're preaching the gospel that could bring that person's life. Not because of what that person is or who that person is, but because of how great our God is. We refocus how we think about this. Beloved, I I pray this for myself. I know Pastor Matt thinks this way. I'm sure if I twisted Jeremiah's arm, he would think this way, when we preach up here, we love you. We're preaching to you and for you, but ultimately we're preaching for the glory of God. of God. We're preaching to proclaim and herald Christ. We're preaching so that you know God and He is honored and respected as He deserves. And we do this when we preach the gospel, when we love our neighbors. We don't do that just so we have a peaceful home or we have a peaceful society. We do that for the glory of God. And then lastly, we preach the gospel as saints. I love this one. This is vital. I want you to hold on to this. It says in sight of God we see. Speak in Christ. Why is this so important? It's because when as you're sitting there and you're going, I'm not equipped, I'm not qualified, I'm not able, I don't know how to preach the gospel, you do. You do know how to. You are equipped. You are qualified if you have been born again of the Spirit. If you have faith in Christ You are the ones to preach the gospel. How can I say such a big thing? You have experienced the grace of God firsthand. So when you're proclaiming the gospel, what are you doing? Proclaiming what Christ has done in your life. That's it Yeah, that grows. We mature in that. You kind of learn how that works and what that looks like and functions, but that's all we're doing. We're not making a cool system or category. What we're doing is saying, if you've been born again of the Spirit, why don't you tell people about what that is? If you recognize that you once were dead in your sins and now you're alive in Christ, why don't you start telling people about that? It may be confusing at first because you're like, I don't even fully understand it. And we have to work it out, but ultimately We are preaching the gospel as saints, those that are redeemed, those that have experienced the grace of God, and we're just preaching that grace to the world. Maybe we'd be encouraged by that. May strengthen us. We don't need a seminar. They're good at times. They're beneficial. You don't need a class. Maybe you need to help just word and understand what the Spirit has done within you. But if you have been born again, You already have the message. God has commissioned you. Do it with sincerity and preach the gospel to the glory of God. Friends, may we be encouraged this morning. May we be encouraged this morning to preach the message, to rejoice in the message God has given us, to preach it to the ends of the earth, and to trust that God saves sinners through the preaching of his word. Let's go before the Lord in prayer. Holy God, we thank you. We thank you that you have saved wretched sinners like us. We thank you that you have given us the message of hope to take to the ends of the earth. And Lord, I now ask that you give us strength and wisdom. To live out the newness, the new identity you have given us. May we walk in faith. May we walk in the likeness of Christ. May we preach the gospel to ourselves, to our homes, to our workplaces, to the ends of the earth, trusting and believing that you are saving sinners day by day. We pray this in the name of Christ. Amen.