Tonight we're going to be in First Thessalonians four, thirteen through eighteen. First Thessalonians four, thirteen through eighteen on the second coming. History, as we know it , will come to an end one day. The present form of this world, the present situation of this world. Will come to an end one day. And the day that that page will turn is the day when Christ returns. This world that's currently under the curse of sin and death. This world where the devil and all of his demons are active, waging war against God and waging war against the people of God. This era of history, this present form of the world will come to an end one day. And that day will be the day Christ returns. That's what we're talking about tonight. First Thessalonians four thirteen through eighteen to second coming. And let's go ahead and read it. But we do not want you to be uninformed, brothers, about those who are asleep. And that you may not grieve as others do, who have no hope. For since we believe that Jesus died and rose again, even so, through Jesus. God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. For those for this We declare to you by a word from the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord, will not precede those who have fallen asleep. For the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the sound of the trumpet of God. And the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive who are left We'll be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord. Therefore encourage one another with these words. Let's pray. God, I pray that you would take the central truth of this passage and impress it so heavily upon our hearts That our lives are never the same. This truth that Christ is returning and that He will gather His church and glorify His church to be with Him forever. This glorious inheritance that Christ has procured for us as a manifestation of your grace, as a manifestation of your power, as a shining forth of your glory, so that we could know you and praise you forever. Father, press it down into our hearts like never before. Set this goal, this great goal of all things, as our personal goal for our existence It's in Christ we ask that you would deliver your heart, your word into our hearts by the work of your Spirit. And it's in Christ we pray. Amen. Now before we get to the outline, just quickly so we so all of us know what we're reading, I want to talk a little bit about this phrase, those who are asleep, because we saw that in verse 13, those who are asleep and then we saw that at the end of verse 14 those who have fallen asleep and then One more time at the end of verse 15, those who have fallen asleep. It's a figure of speech. It's a way of talking about believers who have already died bodily. So it's an idiom, or it's just a saying, a figure of speech that's referring to believers who have already died bodily. On the day Christ returns, he will glorify and gather his church to be forever in his blessed presence. That's the message. I think it's just the simplest way I could think to include all the key elements of this, to boil it down. I'll read it again. On the day Christ returns. He will glorify and gather his church to be forever in his blessed presence Just a few other ways scripture talks about this. First Peter 1, if you want to read that in your devotions later tonight, talks about our inheritance. The inheritance that is kept for us in heaven. It's this inheritance of our final salvation, a salvation ready to be revealed in its full form. the inheritance of a final salvation, or just one word you could use, glorification. That's the what we're talking about. The doctrine of glorification. When Christ returns in glory and he gathers his church and he glorifies his church to be with him forever. Glorification. Romans 8. 23, Paul calls it the redemption of our bodies. That's a really nice, concise phrase, the redemption of our bodies. And in Romans 8, Paul says, it's in reference to that hope that we were saved. It's regarding that final hope. that we were saved and received Christ in reference to or pointing to the redemption of our bodies, also called glorification, or this inheritance of our final salvation. We'll see five points tonight, at least five points. That's what I have on the outline, but I reserve the right to add a six that the spirit so moves. First of all, the second coming of Christ is a source of comfort presently. In fact, that's the first point that is made in this passage. The future coming of Christ, the second coming of Christ is a source of comfort presently. 1 Thessalonians 4:13. We do not want you to be uninformed, brothers. About those who are asleep. That refers to, in this context, that refers to believers who've already died bodily. Don't be uninformed about them, so that you may not grieve as others Do who have no hope. Christians are like everyone else in that we feel the pain of losing loved ones. We are like everyone else in that we grieve the loss of our loved ones. And we don't need to sugarcoat that. Death brings suffering. Means loss, which brings sadness, which bring can bring emotional distress. It can upend our lives in unexpected ways. It could be traumatic We don't need to sugarcoat the reality of death and specifically here of losing loved ones. We grieve, but what Paul is saying Is that we don't grieve in the same way. We grieve as a people who have hope. We grieve as those who know that our loved ones in the Lord are with the Lord. So our grief, our mourning, the loss of our loved ones, looks categorically different than the grief of those without Christ. That's what he says. Don't be uninformed, brothers, which is just another way of saying you've got to know the truth about this church. Don't be uninformed about this, brothers. We've got to know the truth about those who are asleep, so that we would not grieve. As others do who have no hope. We grieve as a people who have hope, not only for ourselves, but for our loved ones who've died in the Lord, are now with the Lord. The second coming of Christ. It's a source of comfort presently. And we'll see exactly why in just a few verses where Paul makes the connection for us But secondly, the second coming of Christ is a source of encouragement presently. And in fact, the point about comfort is the first point that Paul makes. The point about encouragement is the last point that Paul makes. This doctrine of the second coming is book-ended by practical application for a Christian living. This is not abstract philosophy. This is not just material to debate the details. This is not just end days drama to be hotly debated. This is life-changing, life-defining stuff. First of all, it's a source of comfort presently, but second of all, the second coming of Christ is a source of encouragement presently. Look at verse 18. Therefore, encourage one another with these words. Encourage one another with the truth that Christ will return. Encourage one another with the fact that we'll all receive resurrection bodies one day. Encourage one another. With the fact that not only those who are alive when Christ returns will receive resurrection bodies, but all the saints from all the ages who've died bodily. They've died in Christ, they've died in the Lord, they too will receive resurrection bodies. In fact, they'll receive theirs first So we encourage one another with these words. You knowing the goal at the end of the journey will help us persevere through difficult times. It will help us to push through. It will help us to move through obstacles and to overcome hurdles. To make it make our way through difficulties and trials and discouragements because the goal is in view. You can think of an athlete training for something, all of that suffering, all of that sacrifice, all of that time, all of that energy, often money. Why do you doing all that? Because the goal has been set. If you want to have a good marriage, it takes sacrifice. It takes time. It takes energy. If you want to have a good home, if you want to be good parents, it takes a lot of energy, nonstop energy and personal sacrifice. But if you have that goal, you can get through it. If you have the goal at the end, you can get through it. Why do soldiers make so many sacrifices? Often the ultimate sacrifice. Why do they give up so much to train the way they train? To put their life on the line. Well, because they have a goal. A goal. They have they have uh tethered their own personal goal to the goal of the nation, to the goal of something bigger than themselves. So they make sacrifices and persevere. And it's the same thing with Christian living. We have a goal, a specific goal that God has set, that we would be with Christ in glory for all eternity. This present form of life is passing away. And we'll all come to a crashing halt one day on this day Christ returns. Perhaps it's true. Perhaps we'll never know all the details about Christ's second coming and all that leads up to it and all that comes after it. But I do I do know this. Without a doubt, the second coming of Christ is a source of great comfort to our hearts now, and it should be a source of great encouragement for our walk of faith now. It is a preeminently practical Christian doctrine. The second coming of Christ, number one, is a source of comfort. We do grieve, but we do not grieve. like others who have no hope, and it's a source of encouragement presently, verse 18, so that we could encourage one another with these words, which just means encourage one another with this doctrine. That he just spoke about. Number three, when Christ returns, she'll return with his church. Now mark this If I were to say who he returns for his church, I'm sure you've heard that before, Christ is coming back for his church to gather his church. To glorify his church. But the first thing that Paul says, he's coming with his church. Look at what it says in verse 14 and key in on this phrase. Bring. With him. Bring with him in verse 14. For since we believe that Jesus Died and rose again. That's the gospel, right? We believe the gospel. We believe that Jesus died and rose again. Even so, through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. When Christ returns, he returns with all believers who had already died bodily. He returns with his church. Now he does return for his church, who are still alive at that point, but he hasn't gotten there yet. Let's not get ahead of it. Christ returns with his church. All believers who had already died bodily, this is the first detail Paul zooms in on Through Jesus, God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. Now that's Connecting it to that point about comfort. This is why we don't grieve like those who have no hope. Because if Christ is bringing with him those who have already fallen asleep, what does that tell us presently about those who have fallen asleep? That they're with him. Those who've fallen asleep, believers who have died bodily, live and reign with Christ in heaven and all the angels. So, may it never be that we grieve like those who do not have this hope. Because this is the greatest thing in the world, that loved ones in the Lord are with the Lord, they're with Christ. To the effect that when Christ returns, he returns with them, with his children. Now that's called the intermediate state, which just means in the middle. In the middle of their bodily death. on the one hand, and the return of Christ on the other hand, there's this intermediate state. Intermediate just means in between, in between, or in the middle of a believer's bodily death and on the one hand and Christ's return on the other hand, this intermediate state of those believers dwelling with Christ in heaven. But that'd be a that'd be a good book. Dwelling with Christ in heaven. That's where our departed loved ones in the Lord are. They're dwelling with Christ in heaven. And when Christ returns, he'll return with them. Praise the Lord. Glory, hallelujah. When Christ returns, he will return with his church. I'll give you others more than this, but I have four references. On this intermediate state. First of all, Jesus promised it. John fourteen three through six If I go and prepare a place for you, I will come again and will take you to myself that where I am you may be also. And you know the way to where I am going. Thomas said to him, Lord, we do not know where you are going. How can we know the way? Jesus said to him, I am the way and the truth and the life. No one comes to the Father except through me. Jesus is going to the Father. Jesus is the way to the Father. He's going to the Father, and all those who believe in him, when they die bodily, they'll be with the Father also. Over and over, Jesus is saying how he's returning to his father. He's returning to his father. And he promises that his disciples will be with him in the place where he is going. Thomas says, well How what's the way there? How do we get there? Jesus says, I am the way. Because if you know Jesus, which means if you have a relationship with Jesus now, you're guaranteed fellowship with God on the other side of your death. On the other side of your last breath on earth, you'll enter into the presence of God, and there you'll be with God forever. Not only did Jesus promise it, but Paul knew this, and Paul taught this very clearly and very strongly. Philippians 1:23. He says, I'm hard pressed between the two. Between two what? Living and dying. I'm hard pressed between the two. My desire is to depart and be with Christ, for that is far better. Jesus promised it, Paul knew it Departed saints are presently experiencing it. Hebrews 12, 22 to 23. Now, this is the author of Hebrews addressing Christians, but he'll reference Christians who've already died. As he's addressing Christians. Did that make sense? Felt like that maybe was a little bit of a riddle. Hebrews 12, 22 and 23, Paul's addressing Christians. But as he's addressing them, he makes reference to Christians who have already died. But you've come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God. You've come to the heavenly Jerusalem. To innumerable angels in festal gathering, let me ask you, where are angels in festal gathering? Heaven That's right. You've come to innumerable angels in festival gathering and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. And to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. So Paul, well there you go. There's my view on Hebrews. Which you have to say the author of Hebrews, because we don't know for certain. You know, I tried to keep that under wraps, made it five years. No, I'm not very dogmatic. I'm I'm not too strong that Paul's the author of Hebrews, but I think he's the strongest possibility. How about that? Is that acceptable? The author of Hebrews is detailing the different components or the different members of the kingdom of heaven. And so he says, you've come to Mount Zion, you've come to the city of the living God, you've come to the heavenly Jerusalem. It's all different ways of talking about the Kingdom of Heaven. And then he details the different parties who are involved in this. Innumerable angels, the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. I believe that's all Christians everywhere. And you come to God, who's the judge of all, and you've come to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. Because the spirits of the righteous made perfect are already in heaven. They've already joined the festival gathering of angels in heaven in the presence of God. And by faith we've entered this worship assembly. around the throne of God and the Lamb, our mediator. So Jesus promised it that when believers die they go to be with the Lord. Paul knew it. Paul believed it. Expi uh experiencing this right now are departed saints and then living saints, living saints, which that's what the category we're in. Living saints are to be strengthened by this, to draw from this as a well of encouragement. 2 Corinthians 5, 6 through 9. Paul writes, we're always of good courage. Now we know that while we are at home in the body, we are away from the Lord. For we walk by faith, not by sight. Yes, we are of good courage, and we would rather be away from the body and at home with the Lord But whether we're at home or away, we make it our aim to please him. We make it our aim to please him And what Paul means, and he says this in other places too, is essentially this whether I live or whether I die, let it be for God's glory. We should be strengthened by this promise of being with the Lord after we die. When Christ returns, he will return with his church all saints who had died bodily up to that point. Therefore, we know that saints who have died bodily Are with the Lord. And we know that when we die bodily, we'll be with the Lord. So number one The second coming of Christ is a source of comfort presently. Yes, we grieve the loss of loved ones, and we we mourn when we suffer loss And death does bring pain, and we experience that, but we experience it as those who have hope. Secondly, the second coming of Christ is a source of great encouragement. Verse 18 encourage one another with these words. Build up, strengthen one another with these words. Let's keep putting that final goal before each other to help us persevere. The trials and tribulations of this life. Third, when Christ returns, he'll return with his church. Verse 14, through Jesus God will bring with him those who have fallen asleep. Number four, when Christ returns, he'll descend visibly and loudly. When Christ returns, he will descend visibly and loudly. Verse sixteen for the Lord Himself will descend from heaven. This is the opposite of what happened in the ascension. In the ascension, the risen Christ ascended from earth into heaven. On the day of his return, the exalted and risen Christ descends from heaven to earth. So where he in his ascension Before it happened, he was there on earth visibly, bodily, and he ascended, disappearing into the heaven of heavens. But when he returns, that essentially is reversed. The Christ who's invisible now in heaven will descend and be made visible, visible, bodily And loudly he will be made visible. Going on in verse 16, when it says, the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel, and with the with the sound of the trumpet of God And it says the dead in Christ will rise first. The dead in Christ will rise first. Now that's what we had already been talking about. When Christ returns with his church, those who had already died bodily and they've been in that intermediate state dwelling with the Lord. The Lord returns with them, and they get their resurrection bodies first. The dead in Christ will rise first And that's you see the end of fifteen can be has the potential to be confusing if we never make it down to the end of sixteen. That Look at verse 15 one more time. For this we declare to you by a word from the Lord that we who are alive, who are left until the coming of the Lord Will not precede those who have fallen asleep. What does it mean that those who are living will not precede those who have fallen asleep? It means they won't get their resurrection bodies first. It means those who have fallen asleep will get their resurrection bodies first. And then those who are alive will get their resurrection bodies. So those who are alive until the coming of the Lord will not precede those who have fallen asleep. Now go to the that last sentence in verse sixteen. The dead in Christ will rise first. Who will rise first? The dead in Christ will rise first. Just picture this. It blows my mind to picture this. Christ with the whole church, all believers from every era of redemptive redemptive history, Christ returns with the souls of his church and they receive resurrection bodies first. It's a glorious picture. When Christ returns, he'll descend visibly and loudly. In other words, when this happens, it will not be silent, it will not be secret, it will not be invisible, it will be the most public event. Ever. Now this is just me and my little brain. This isn't revealed in scripture, but I like to make this comparison with Mount Sinai. Do you remember the glory and the power and the attention getting attributes of God's revelation at Mount Sinai, the shaking, the quaking, the fire, the the cloud. It was a terrifying well I just pictured that, but not Mount Sinai, the whole planets That's just my way, my little metaphor of trying to begin to grasp the power of this event. But here's what Paul says. Whatever metaphor, whatever parallel you you use to help you try to grasp the significance of this, I'll let you decide. But here's what we know for certain, what Paul says in verse 16. When the Lord descends, It will be accompanied by a supernatural cry, announcement from heaven. It'll descend from heaven with a cry of command, with the voice of an archangel. The voice of an archangel will shake the world. That will wake up everyone who's sleeping. That will get everyone's attention. The voice of an archangel at the command of God. Announcing the return of the Savior. The cry of a command, the voice of an archangel, with the sound of the trumpet of God. The last trumpet, the sound of the trumpet of God, a trumpet that is announcing the return of the Savior Who's going to gather and glorify his church? Who's going to put to final judgment and final execution all the enemies of God? That's going to usher in the new heavens and the new earth and get rid of every sin Every effect of sin, get rid of it all, purify the world for his glorified church. It will be Visible, it will be loud when the exalted Christ bodily descends and appears, coming down from heaven. The Lord Himself will descend from heaven with the cry of a command, with the voice of an archangel, with the sound of the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. They don't disappear, they receive resurrection bodies. They're transfigured. They receive bodies like unto Christ. Number five. Number five. When Christ returns, the whole church will be glorified and gathered to his presence. Where they'll be forever. And it gets back to that opening sentence. On the day Christ returns, he'll glorify and gather his church to be forever in his blessed presence. That glorification, that inheritance of final salvation, that redemption of our bodies, when Christ returns, the whole church will be glorified and gathered to his presence. Verse 17 verse 17. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them. in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. And so we will always be with the Lord. Now that's the central point. That's the point of points that we'll forever be with the Lord. Will forever be with the Lord. Verse 17 begins with the word then. So that is a word that is referring to some kind of sequence. And it's picking up on the very end of verse 16. The dead in Christ will rise first. There's a resurrection of the dead in Christ first. Then we who are alive, who are left, will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. We skip that step of the intermediate state. So our resurrection occurs in a little bit different way. We don't just those who are alive when Christ returns. Never experienced that intermediate state of their soul leaving the body and dwelling with God in heaven. But they go right from this mortal body of flesh immediately into a resurrection body when Christ returns. I 'll give you some cross references for that. First of all, first John three, two. 1 John 3, 2. Beloved, we are God's children now, and what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. When he appears, we'll be like him. I don't know if there'll be a snap of the fingers. It's just for preaching impact. When he appears And believers see him. They'll be transformed to be like him because they'll see him as he really is in the full Heavenly glory and exaltedness of the Son of God. When he appears, will be like him. Because we'll see him as he is. When we lay eyes on the heavenly glory of Christ descending from heaven and appearing in the earthly realm, we'll be like him, which means we'll receive a resurrection body. That's what that means. The full sight of the exalted Christ brings about the full experience of Christ's likeness. Also Philippians 3 20 and 21. Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body To be like his glorious body by the power that enables him, even to subject all things to himself Our citizen citizenship is in heaven, but we're waiting for our Savior to come from heaven. And when our Savior comes from heaven, he'll transform our lowly bodies To be like his glorious body. That's a resurrection body. John six, thirty-seven to forty Jesus said, All the Father gives me will come to me. Whoever comes to me I will never cast out. For I have come down from heaven not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. And this is the will of him who sent me, that I should lose nothing of all that he has given me, but that I should raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. And we We're going to read and hopefully contemplate verse 40 one more time. Because it's on the last day where all believers are risen. On this last day where all believers are risen. Verse 40: This is the will of my Father. Everyone, everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. Raise who up? Everyone who looks to the Son and receives eternal life. Everyone who looks to the Son and receives the gifts of eternal life will be risen on the last day. Whether we're died bodily and are returning with Christ, Or we're still alive bodily, living on earth, when Christ descends from heaven, everyone will receive a resurrection body when Christ returns. When he appears, we shall be like him because we'll see him as he is. 1 John 3. Philippians 3. 20 When the Savior returns, he'll transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body by his power. 1 Corinthians 15, the most detailed passage on the resurrection and the resurrection body I'm plucking out just a few verses here from 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 44, where Paul makes some contrast Between our mortal natural bodies now, on the one hand, and on the other hand, our eternal, glorified bodies. In the resurrection. 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 44. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable, what is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory. It is sown in weakness, it is raised in power. It is sown in natural body, it is raised in spiritual body. If there is a natural body, There is also a spiritual body. The phrase is quite telling. It is a body, not just a soul. It is a resurrection body. And Paul's Really his summary phrase to come up with a general category of where we could put this body, he says, spiritual body. Spiritual, in the New Testament, most clearly and explicitly in Paul, that which is spiritual is the opposite of that which is fleshly That which is fleshly is corrupted by sin. That which is of the flesh is of a sinful nature. Contrast to that, that which is of the spirit. That which is of the new creation brought about by the Holy Spirit on the one hand, and that which is fleshly and mortal and corrupt on the other hand. And that's what it means to have a spiritual body. It's not a ghost body. It's a body that's fully characterized by the presence and power of the Holy Spirit of Christ, a spiritual body, not a body that's imprisoned to the corruption of sin that lives in us. Somebody should say amen. Don't you want that So that's what spiritual body means. He makes some other contrasts. Also in 1 Corinthians 15. He says So it is with the resurrection of the dead, and then he makes these contrasts. And the first contrast is of the mortal body, the corrupt the corruption of the mortal body, this body is perishable, but when it's raised, it's imperishable. And that's the first. And then the second is this body is uh dishonorable, but it's raised in glory. And this body is marked by weakness, but it's raised in power. This body is a natural body. It belongs to the first creation, and the first creation is under the curse of sin and death. This is a natural body, but it's raised a spiritual body, a body of new creation. The body that houses the soul that's also perfected and made righteous, so that When we have this body, we 'll no longer experience sinful desires. We'll no longer have selfishness. We'll no longer have pride. We'll no longer have a godless hatred and jealousy and greed and idolatry And no longer be distracted by temporal things. We'll have a spiritual body. We'll be glorified. We'll be rid of sin. We'll be rid of all of the effects of sin. Even if there were temptations around us in that state, which there won't be. But even if there were temptations and forces of evil around us once we received these these glorified bodies, we wouldn't fall prey to them. They wouldn't even think about this. They wouldn't they wouldn't have any seductive power to lure us to sinful things because of the glorified body. Because of the soul made perfect. What a glorious, glorious goal that God has procured for us in Christ. Given to us as a free gift, guaranteed us by giving us the Spirit as a deposit, a down payment within our hearts. That not only will we be with Christ forever, but we'll be like Christ forever. We'll have a resurrection body like Christ forever. When will we receive this resurrection body on the day Christ returns? When he descends with his church and he descends for his church. And the dead in Christ will be given their resurrection bodies first. And then the alive in Christ will also receive their resurrection bodies. Now for those who are really, really wanting me to talk about that phrase called up together in verse 17. In a Latin translation of the scripture, that would have been the word rapture. It's that word the Greek word behind that is actually a word we would use for arresting somebody, for seizing somebody, for taking somebody or taking something with force. If you do a New Testament study, you'll see that's uh used several times in that way. But this word is also used for spiritually transporting a person in one way or another. Right. 2 Corinthians 12, 2. This word is used by Paul when Paul talks about himself being caught up to the third heaven. It's the same word. It's some kind of spiritual transportation experience. Some kind of supernatural experience where Paul is raptured up into the dwelling place of God to receive a vision from God. Second Corinthians twelve, two through four. Same word, Paul being snatched up or Paul being called up, but there it's a heavenly vision. It's not the resurrection. In Revelation 12, 5. Any guesses where this word is used in reference to? Revelation 12. 5. It's used in reference to the ascension of Christ. The ascension of Christ. Revelation 12 5. In Acts 30, Acts 8. 39. Now if I give you a clue, I think you'll get this one. It's another time where this word is used for some kind of spiritual transportation or supernatural relocation of a person. Really, it's pretty cool when you think about it. Acts eight thirty-nine, I'll give you the clue. The clue is Ethiopian. When Philip was supernaturally transported after baptizing the Ethiopian eunuch. Same word. He was called up. He was he was snatched away. He was seized away And here in our passage in 1 Thessalonians 4, it's the same kind of idea. It's a spiritual or supernatural relocation where Those who are alive bodily when Christ returns are called up to join the heavenly assembly. It's a really simple picture. They receive their resurrection bodies right after Those who have fallen asleep receive their resurrection bodies, but they 're all gathered into one glorious heavenly assembly of the gathered and glorified church. Let's pray. Father, thank you for saving us and thank you for the blessings in Christ we're experiencing now. I cannot imagine life without Jesus. I cannot imagine trying to plow through life without the blessings and hope and joy and peace and power of the Holy Spirit, apart from the truth of your word. What a devastating thing to think about. But you've also put something greater at the end of this. This great glorious inheritance, this redemption of our bodies, this dwelling with Christ forever in glory. Father, make this the apple of our eye. Never let us drift from this path. Never let something else become the final goal or the supreme goal of our life and existence. But to be with you, to be like Christ, to worship you and serve you forever in your presence. Father, we pray, like we prayed at the beginning, impress these things upon our hearts. We plead with you to do such a thing. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.