James 5, 1 through 12 tonight. I'm going to read the passage. James 5 beginning in verse 1. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. Your riches have rotted, and your garments are moth-eaten Your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. Obviously, you see the theme already of tonight is a warning, a warning of a coming judgment. You have laid up treasure in the last days. Verse 4. Behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud , are crying out against you And the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. It's talking about corruption. Those who are oppressing others and cheating others. Verse 5: You have lived on earth in luxury and in self-indulgence. You have fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. You have condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. That's talking about persecution against Verse 7. Now he addresses the church Be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits for the precious fruit of the earth Be being patient about it until it receives the early and the late rains. You also be patient. Establish your hearts, for the coming of the Lord is at hand. And do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold The judge is standing at the door. As an example of suffering and patience, brothers, take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord, behold, we considered those blessed who remained steadfast You have heard of the steadfastness of Job, and you have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful. But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth, or by any other oath Let your yes be yes, and your no be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation. There's lots in here, this passage The thing I'm plucking out to be the overarching theme is uh the the the way we prepare for the Lord's coming is to serve him with patience. To serve him in peace and to serve him with integrity. We serve him in patience. We serve him in peace. And we serve him with integrity. And we'll see those in that second paragraph. You saw there's two sections, right? The first section is a warning, it's very harsh, very strong warning against uh the rich and fraudulent. It's not wrong to have riches, but it's wrong for riches to be your God, and it's certainly wrong to be fraudulent So there's strong warning against them. But then there's a strong encouragement to the church. Strong encouragement to believers. Don't give up. Be patient, be steadfast, hang in there, don't give up, and then he says in the middle, don't grumble against one another. That uh we can have a tendency to turn against one another when things get difficult Things get stressful. So preparing for the coming of the Lord. I said many times during this study on James that James, more than any other New Testament book, is reminiscent of the books of wisdom in the Old Testament. For instance, the book of Proverbs. It's a very strong on practical wisdom and principles and when it you're strong on principles of wisdom you're also going to be strong on what does foolish look foolishness look like. We've seen a lot of that in James This paragraph, the first paragraph of James 5, is very reminiscent of Old Testament prophets. The language of uh the strong language This intense dramatic language, vivid language of judgment rings true of prophets in the Old Testament. And uh James is is unique in the New Testament. in this. It rings true of that. It's reminiscent of wisdom and it's reminiscent of a prophetic warning. So what I want to do is give you these up front. Give you all the blanks, and then we'll go back and work our way through. So, first of all, Christ's coming will bring Judgment against those who live for wealth and luxury. Important phrase is live for. Where this is the purpose of your life. This is your chief pursuit. This means everything to you. This is where we seek meaning. This is where we seek purpose. I need more things. I accumulate wealth. I live in luxury. Self-indulgent is something he Says here. That's what my whole life is about. Judgment 's coming. That'll come from verses 1 through 3. Secondly, Christ's coming will bring judgment. Against those who are corrupt and oppressive. That will come from verses four and five. Again, verse four: Behold the wages of the laborers who mowed your fields. Which you kept back by fraud. So he's cheating they're cheating their workers. We'll come back to this in um a little bit later on. It's multiple times in the book of James where issues between the rich and the poor have come up. There m there was some kind of elitism going on, some kind of uh ignoring the poor, treating the poor uh with less respect and less dignity than others. There was favoritism being shown. And here again you see it in chapter 5. Number three, Christ's coming will bring judgment against those who persecute God's people. You see that in verse 6. You've condemned and you've murdered the righteous person, and he doesn't resist you. Of course, there was harsh persecution Toward the early church. It came from two sources. One from a rebellious Israel, all right, against the church, and then two, from Rome. Number four, Christ's coming means believers must patiently wait for him. We must be patient. That was verse seven. Be patient. And then the illustration of a farmer waiting and a farmer being patient. And then right after the illustration, he says again in verse 8, be patient. And then he says this phrase. I love this phrase: establish your hearts. Establish your hearts. Get your heart set. Get your heart fixed on Christ and persevere. Be patient. That uh comes from seven and eight. Number five, Christ's coming means believers must not grumble against one another. Verse nine, do not grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. First of all, there's too much work to do. There's too many people who need to be cared for. There's too many lost people who need to be need to be reached. There's too much work to do. But it's not only pragmatic. It's also a spiritual issue. It's an issue of loving one another. It's also an issue of the witness and the example we give to the world around us. Christians should lead the charge in not grumbling against against one another. And then finally uh ver uh number six, which comes from verse twelve, Christ coming Means believers must be people of their word. We must be people of our word. Let your yes be yes and your no be no. We do not need to dress it up in formal oaths, formal public oaths, and swearing by this or swearing by that. Let your yes be yes and your no be no. Verse 12. We must be a sincere people, and we must be a people of our word. People should be able to trust us. We should be able to trust each other. And that probably goes back to something else that's come up over and over again in the book of James, how we use our tongues. Are using the tongue properly. And remember This was I I remember when we went through this and w we got done chapter three, which is all about the sins of the tongue and taming the tongue. At the end of our study on chapter three, everybody was just like d we just l look like ghosts. And felt felt like our hearts were ripped out of us because it was um very convicting to see the sins that are connected to our tongue. And this is so this is again the same kind of theme but in this very specific way, being people of our word. Uh all right. So there's your overview blanks. As you know what I've been doing is I give you those at the beginning, I put them away and then we Just work through the passage. Alright. The coming of the Lord. I said that's going to be just what I'm plucking out to be the The overarching point. There's several points in here. First of all, let's just make sure we see that in the text All right. Verse seven. Be patient therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. And then uh at the end of verse eight, the coming of the Lord is at hand, which means means it's near. If we get there, we'll get that'll be the very, very last point of the night if we can get to it, what that what that could mean. Um and then again in the end of verse nine, the judge is standing at the door. So the coming of the Lord, and the number one theme connected to it in the passage is the theme Theme of judgment. The theme of judgment. The world is a world of right and wrong and consequences. You don't want to be the kind of parents and I don't w want to be the kind of parent who teaches my kids and models for my kids. that right and wrong don't exist and that there are no consequences for everything. That wouldn't be doing them a service. I don't want my kids going to a school where the principal believes and the teacher Teachers believe that right and wrong don't exist and there's no consequences for everything. Every sphere of society, everywhere, right and wrong exist, and there are consequences Now people define right and wrong differently, but humans have a conscience that's given to us by God, since we're made by God and Uh we're made in his image, we have a conscience, we understand right, wrong and consequences. Well that's a r all all these specific examples in the world uh are just a reflection of the grand situation of the whole world as we stand before God. Right? There's right and there's wrong and there are consequences. And there will be a judgment. So the coming of the Lord and the theme is judgment. That's the first thing I want to do is go through this passage And look at all the phrases, or at least just point out all the phrases that bring out this theme of judgment at the coming of the Lord. Lord, first of all is the phrase, let me see where if I can pick it out here Here, evidence against you. It's in verse three. Your gold and your silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be. Evidence against you and will eat your flesh like fire. He's talking about all their ill-gotten gain will be evidence. It's a courtroom setting. Um what's the thing that a lawyer will say when they present evidence? I have such an exhibit exhibit A or exhibit one or whatever they say they present their evidence in court. Here it's ill gotten gain that's r that's rotting away that they can't even keep. That's the real tragedy here. They It's evidence against them. And then another phrase is crying out against you. Verse 4 The wages of the laborers who mowed your fields, which you kept back by fraud, are crying out against you. So crying out against you. I think. So what is crying out against him? If you Look at the passage, it's the wages. The wages of the laborers that they were supposed to pay out that they didn't pay, they kept for themselves in fraud. The wages of the laborers you mowed your who mowed your fields You kept back by fraud. He's cheating his workers. Well those wages are crying out against you. I think that's paralleling what he just said earlier, that your um your riches will be evidence against you. And then he says the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord. We're not going to go into that. Ble believe that's uh harvesting angels, just gods, emissaries of judgment throughout scripture are angels. And so this has got the attention of the Lord. And These um these corrupt elite are guilty before God And then the most obvious one is in verse 9. Do not grumble against one another, brother, so that you may not be judged. Alright, judged. And then behold, the judge is standing at the door. That's talking about Christ. And standing at the door parallels um where he said at hand, the coming of the Lord is at hand. So this should not be something that we can ignore, but something that we stand to attention and take note of of and obviously what's going to be the call to to this group of people, the first paragraph, repentance. Just repentance There's still hope for them. They can turn. They can believe. They can be saved. They don't have to continue to live in this corrupt, self-indulgent, luxurious lifestyle. Judgment. And obviously, the practical application That flows out of this is going to be ethics. Ethics. There is such a thing as ethics Let me read the first paragraph again. Come now, you rich, weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. That's one of the Ways that parallels the ways the Old Testament prophets would give a serious warning for a coming judgment. James says the same thing. Weep and howl for the miseries that are coming upon you. It's not going to be good. It's not going to be pretty. Your riches have rotted and your garments are malthy, and your sil your gold and silver have corroded, and their corrosion will be evidence against you, and will eat your flesh like fire. So it's their own sin that they're being judged for, not other people's sin. You have laid up treasure in the last days, and the last days is uh the era of history between Christ's first coming and Christ's last coming. It's the days of fulfillment. All of history has been about God's promise of a redeemer, and that history gradually uh progresses. The whole Bible is about this. God's promise of a redeemer. It progresses, it progresses, it unfolds, and the fulfillment comes in Christ. So this is the age of the fulfillment of God's promises. Paul writes in Second Corinthians. All the promises of God are yes in Christ. They find their yes in Christ. All of his promises, an essential promise is the promise of redemption. That's what last days mean. We lean we live in this last era of history as we know it. This era in between Christ's coming to accomplish salvation and Christ's return to consummate salvation. Which just means bring it to its full conclusion. That's so last days is the whole era of history of uh the church age between Christ's first and second comings, or first and final coming. Behold, verse four, behold, the wages of the laborers who mowed your field. Which you kept back by fraud are crying out against you, and the cries of the harvesters have reached the ears of the Lord of hosts. You've lived on earth in luxury and self-indulgence You fatten your hearts in the day of slaughter. You've condemned and murdered the righteous person. He does not resist you. And that language is so strong. Because they don't know i is in the way that they're living, they're completely oblivious to the fact that they're just heaping judgment upon themselves. They're preparing themselves for judgment. So they need to hear this. It's supposed to wake them up so that they turn from that and can escape judgment, so that they can find salvation. It's supposed to help them so they can see the error of their ways and turn and be saved. The rich, not just the rich, but the fraudulent rich. The corrupt rich, the the elite, the powerful who are persecuting the church and oppressing the working class in this past Now remember I said you see this in James often, rich and poor issues. We'll do a quick survey, flip back to chapter 1, verse 9. We won't have time to discuss all of these, but at least we want to get our eyes on them and read them. So we can see this is a really big problem to the People James is writing to Let the lowly brother boast in his exaltation, and the rich in his humiliation, because like a flower of the grass he will pass away. The grass, its flower falls, and its beauty perishes, so also the rich man fade. So also will the rich man fade away in the midst of his pursuits. In the midst of his pursuits. Flip over to chapter two, verse one through seven My brothers show no partiality. What's another word for partiality? Favoritism, preference Yeah. Show no partiality as you hold the faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, the Lord of glory. For if a man wearing a gold ring in fine clothing comes into your assembly, and a poor man in shabby clothing also comes in, And if you pay attention to the one who wears the fine clothing and say, You here, sit in a good place. Well, you say to the poor man, You stand over there, or sit down at my feet. Have you not then made distinctions among yourselves and become judges with evil thoughts? Listen, my beloved brothers, has not God chosen those who are poor in the world to be rich in the faith and heirs of the kingdom? Which he has promised to those who love him? But you have dishonored the poor man. Are not the rich the ones who oppress you, the ones who drag you into court? Are they not the ones who blaspheme the honorable name by which you were called? Really twisted stuff going on there. You see that at the end is the elite who are persecuting the church. And yet some people are showing them favoritism, maybe because they were afraid. And they didn't want to get arrested. They didn't want their stuff confiscated They didn't want to be ostracized from society. Again, rich, poor. Later in the same chapter, verses 14 through 16 What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? And then he gives an illustration. If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, one of you says to them, Go in peace, be warmed and filled, without giving them the things needed for the body. What good is that? Well let me just ask, what good is that? It's not. So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. So there's favoritism being shown, and here overlooking, ignoring You know, the Christian Church throughout history, all over the world, has a rich, rich heritage of helping the poor and giving relief. to the poor in different ways. It's because of teachings like this. That's not just in James. It's all throughout Scripture. And one more before we go back to chapter 5. And it's found in chapter 4, verse 13 Through 16. Come now, you who say, Today or tomorrow will go into such and such a town and spend a year there and trade and make a profit. Yet you do not know what tomorrow will bring. What is your life? You are a mist that appears for a little with time and then vanishes Instead, you ought to say, if the Lord wills, we'll live and do this or that. But as it is, you boast in your arrogance, and all such boasting is evil. So preoccupied with their business and being Presumptuous about the future and just going about their business. It's not wrong to go about business, right? What do they say? We're going to go to this town, we're going to spend a year, we're going to trade, we're going to make a profit. That's not wrong in and of itself. It's not wrong to work and make a profit and to do trade and to travel. Those things in and of themselves are not wrong. But it's wrong to do that, just like it's wrong to do anything, it's wrong to do that as if God doesn't exist It's wrong to do that, completely oblivious to God's will and how God would have us steward our time and steward our work and steward our resources Everything that we have is a gift from God. And we should not use it just for ourselves, but for e for each other to serve each other and to serve others, to serve the needy. That honors God. God has mercy and God has compassion for the lowly, for the forgotten, and for the hurting, and one of those groups will be the poor and the needy. They're not treated, they're not to be treated like second class citizens in the church. They should not be overlooked. Should be served, they should be helped, and the rich should not get partiality. The rich don't have more power, more decision-making of power or authority in the church. So the rich-poor issues now coming to a head in chapter five with these very harsh Frightening warnings of judgment against these whoever they were, corrupt, unjust businessmen And judgment is coming. The sins listed. Obviously, the word fraud was used. We've said that several times. If you owe somebody something, pay it to them. And then also, you've lived in luxury and self-indulgence, you've fattened your hearts in a day of slaughter. Again, just living without regard for the Lord's will. Taking things that in and of themselves are to be good things and to be And we're to be good stewards of those things and service serving others and serving God with what He's given us, not to hoard everything, just so we can live in luxury and self-indulgence. That's not what we're what God wants. Not gonna have a problem finding people who need help in this world. That's one thing we're for sure of All right. Ready to move on to the uh the happier portion? Verses seven and following? But that judgment the final judgment is coming. And I have uh that's what your handouts for. We'll get we'll get there Verses 7 through 12, I want to take as a unit. The way we wait for the Lord This this whole thing is about waiting for the Lord, which I'll just go over here, is to serve him With patience To serve him in peace with each other. That's a really important thing in Scripture Uh and with integrity, personal integrity It's about character. It's about interpersonal relationships. Christianity is not just about believing things And then living however we want. And it's not just about doing the outward things of formal religion. It is about knowing things and learning things and believing things. Yes, of course. And it is about doing things. But character transformation, heart transformation, spiritual growth And in our hearts and in our words, in the way we treat and relate with other people, we're to serve God as we wait. For him, with patience, that's not easy, is it? I mean that's something I really struggle with. I think of course obviously for me and for all of us it's our own, you know, natural sinful flesh why we the main reason we have a problem with these, but also just this culture and society we live in is a is one of immediacy. That if you want it, you can get it. You can get clean water whenever you want. You can get food whenever you want. You can get a snack whenever you want. Hop in your car, go wherever you want. Hop on a bus. Plane go where we could do whatever we want. We're just a culture of immediacy. If I want it, I make it happen. I do it. I get it. But with the things of the of God, with the things of the Lord, we don't have that kind of control. So we have to have patience. We have to live in peace. You know, there is a real spiritual warfare going on. And um we have to show diligence and um effort and prayer toward living in peace with one another. another so that we can focus on the most important things. You know, if we're always grumbling against one another and complaining and getting into little quarrels and And fights and drama. It'll distract us from our own spiritual growth. It'll distract us from the work of the gospel. It'll distract us from caring for one another in a practical way. It'll just distract us from all the positive things, from all the good things. So we want to wait with patience, serve him with patience, serve him in peace, and serve him with integrity. All right, I'll read the passage. Hopefully those things pop out to you. Verse 7, be patient, therefore, brothers, until the coming of the Lord. See how the farmer waits. This is a great illustration here. See how the farmer, what does he do? He waits. He waits for the precious fruit of the earth. The farmer has no choice. The farmer has no choice but to wait, and we have no choice but to wait Being patient about it until it receives the early and the late rains. He's got to wait the whole season. You also must be patient. Establish your hearts. It could be said, confirm your hearts. Settle get this settled in your heart is a common way we could say that. Establish your hearts for the coming of the Lord is at hand. And don't grumble against one another, brothers, so that you may not be judged. Behold, the judge is standing at the door. As an example of suffering and patience, brothers. Circle the word suffering. I'll come back to that in just a few moments. As an example of suffering and patience, brothers. Take the prophets who spoke in the name of the Lord. Behold, we consider those blessed who remain steadfast. You have heard the steadfastness of Job. You can circle the word Job. So now you have circled what two words? Suffer And Job. So you get a little bit of more of the context of what these people were going through. Because you know the story of Job, right? He's suffered greatly. He was the righteous sufferer. And you have seen the purpose of the Lord, how the Lord is compassionate and merciful. Compassionate and merciful to whom? To the one who suffered. But above all, my brothers, do not swear, either by heaven or by earth, or by any oath, but let your yes be yes, and your no be no So that you may not fall under condemnation. Suffering And the example given of the prophets who were God sent them to bring the truth to Israel, and they suffered greatly. Of course, Jesus suffered greatly when he came, and then he gives the example of Job, who suffered greatly. Turn back to James 1. These were people who were living in the midst of persecution. There's no way to understand the first generation of the church, the ancient church, apart from persecution It was one of the defining marks. It didn't stop the gospel from spreading. It didn't hinder the gospel from spreading. But it was one of the realities. James 1:1, James, a servant of God and and of the Lord Jesus Christ, to the twelve tribes in the dispersion. The dispersion was early Christians who, because of intense persecution, had to flee Jerusalem to get to safety. You read about that in the book of Acts And then in verse 2, James 1, verse 2, count it all joy, my brothers, when you meet various, when you meet trials of various kinds. Now why would James begin the book on that topic? Because these people were meeting trials of various kinds. And then in verse 3, for you know that the testing of your faith produced They were being tested. Their faith was being tested. Their faith was being tried because of suffering, because of trials, because of persecution. Because of various difficulties. But in God's providence and God's power, He would use that time of testing, produce faithfulness, and strengthen them and grow them in their faith. I'm going to pause for questions while I Do I want to erase all of it? Let me see. I'll just erase this. Alright, any any questions I know I'm not looking, so just don't raise your hand. Nobody. Why did everyone smile? All right. This is your life. I think I 'm gonna run out of space. I think I need six. No, five will work So the the last major thing for everyone is gonna be The judgment, the return of Christ, the judgment, that'll be for believers, the resurrection of our bodies. And whether you have already died bodily when Christ returns Or if you're still alive bodily when Christ returns, you'll receive a resurrection body, just like Christ received a resurrection body. This is not the end of Things existing. It's just the end of the world as we know it. It'll be the final doing away with this old fallen order of sin and suffering and death. And the the uh the new heavens and the new earth will be brought into existence. On the other side of that judgment At the return of Christ. So that's even though that's five, I'm starting with that. Because that's what our passage is fixing our eyes on that, because that can give us perspective. But where did your life begin? And we're not we're talking about the actual in history our lives, not from all eternity in the mind of God and his invisible secret eternal purpose. We were created when we were conceived. We'll just put conception. This is the first major life moment created by God, of course, in his providence. through biological process that he created and that he's ordered, but like all things he's working in in providence. Um life comes from God. That's why we're to worship him and serve him and love him. Because life comes from God. After that, we had to be born into this world. That's not when a baby becomes a person, but that's a major life change. To enter this world, to enter a new phase of life, life out of the womb. but in the world, born into the world. And then as we grow older, by God's mercy, by God's grace, and God's providence, He brings the truth of his word into our hearts and into our lives, and we hear that we're sinners and we learn that we're sinners by his power, not because we're smart, and we hear the gospel and our hearts are changed. And we're born again. You must be born again. This is a spiritual birth. Born again. By the Spirit. That's when our hearts are changed so that we believe in Christ. This is when we enter a new phase of life. Uh and that's life under grace. That's life as a child of God, not just as a creation of God who's lost in sin, but as a child of God, who's forgiven. Christianity is about forgiveness. And um we can never ever forget that. Christianity is about being forgiven and then living a life of gratitude to God because He forgave us. And then eventually we will die bodily. Now that should put things in perspective for us We should number our days that we might gain a heart of wisdom and get life in the right perspective. We're not going to be here forever. Our bodies are aging. They cannot live forever. They cannot last forever. And they will not. We're going to die bodily. In between number four and five is what most would call the intermediate state because it's this it's a provisional temporary state, it's an intermediate state when our can you Can you shut that door, please? When our souls depart from the body and live with God in heaven. But that's not our eternal home, and that's not our well, in a sense, heaven is our eternal home, but that's not our eternal state. We will not eternally be disembodied souls. When Christ returns we'll have a we'll receive a resurrection body. And that shouldn't be strange to us. Sometimes that's strange for us to think about or to hear. I remember the first time I was reading these passages about this and hearing sermons on that and like, wait a minute, what? Uh first Corinthians fifteen is a good chapter, the best chapter to read on this on the historic reality of resurrection. And towards the end of 1 Corinthians 15, Paul will give actually give attributes of the resurrection body. and contrast that body with this body. But it shouldn't be strange for us to believe that God can create something. God can create anything. Everything that exists comes because God uh comes from God creating it. God can create anything he wants. God has proven in creation that he can create bodies. So this is just another kind of body. So it's strange because we've never seen it. We didn't we haven't seen the risen Christ. But God can and Paul makes that argument in First Corinthians fifteen. He argues from the natural order, explaining the logic of it's it's perfectly natural and normal to believe God can create a new body with a new kind of flesh with a new kind of But he argues from creation. So we'll die bodily, and our souls will go to be with the Lord if we're in Christ, and then if Christ returns in final judgment, we'll receive a resurrection. Resurrection body. Now why do I go through all that? Well, because everything, everything in the world around us is trying to get us to live as if that's not true. These things aren't true. But this is this is the Christian worldview as it pertains to the self. Right? Me. This is this is our story. This is your life. And uh Um of course only for those who come to Christ but that's who I'm I'm talking to our group, you know, believers who've been born again by the Spirit. And anyone who's not yet born again by the Spirit, they can be If they turn to Christ in faith. You don't have to become a good person first and then come to Christ and be saved. You don't have to practice religion for five years or even five minutes first and then come to Christ. Any sinner can come directly to Christ, trusting in him for salvation, and by the Spirit's power, they're born again. There's nothing you have to earn first. It's a free gift to be received by Faith. So it's as long as a person is alive, repentance is on the table. Salvation is on the table as a free gift. I put this list up here for us, for believers. This is this is who we are. We're children of God. And though we will die, yet we'll live forever. And um We'll live forever, not only living forever, but living forever. Perfectly sanctified, which means what? It means no sin. Alright, uh, and perfectly glorified in the resurrection body. There's none of the sadness and sorrows and sufferings and weakness and aging and injuries of this age at all, and we'll be in the presence of Christ. That's the real kicker. All this other stuff is just preparing us to be able to To be with Christ and to enjoy his presence forever. That's the Christian life. That's the Christian hope. Keeping that perspective will enable us and will enrich our hearts, so to speak. We have to have integrity and character that's part of our witness in the world. What time is it? Seven forty-five. Oh, this is good. All right, we have time for the final judgment This is just a New Testament overview. This is not every verse in the New Testament about the final judgment. I've picked out a specific ones Because not every verse on this doctrine says everything about the doctrine. Just like every verse on Jesus doesn't say everything about Jesus, right? And every verse on the church doesn't say everything about the church. I'm picking out ones that give a broad overview. The final judgment's gonna happen on one day, and it's gonna be a j a general judgment, which just means judgment for all. So the that's why I've called this the final judgment and then that overview sentence at the top. There will be one general judgment on the day Christ returns. General means all people from all nations. So I'm just going to read through these and you see the underline there of the relevant words. Acts 17, 30 and 31. This is Paul preaching. in Athens. He says the times of ignorance God overlooked. Do you know what times that that is? That's the times before Jesus That's the time when uh all the world was in darkness except for one chosen nation, which was Israel. That's the times of ignorance God overlooked. But now He commands all people everywhere to repent. Because he's fixed a day on which he will judge the world. The line should go all the way to the under the world. He's fixed a day on which he'll judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. Anybody guess who that man is? That's Jesus. And of this he's given us assurance to all by raising him from the dead. Here, the resurrection of Jesus is God's proof. It's God giving us assurance That Jesus is going to judge the world in righteousness, which is important. That means he's going to judge the world by his standard, not by my standard, not by your standard, not by the culture's standard, by his standard. Standard. It's going to be a day on which he judges the world. John five, twenty-eight and twenty-nine. Do not marvel at this for an hour. So this is an hour. It's uh even more specific. It doesn't have to be literally an hour. The the word hour is not always literally but it but it does refer to at one time. This is going to be one event. Do not marvel at this. An hour is coming when all who are in the tombs Will hear his voice and come out, those who've done good to the resurrection of life, and those who've done evil to the resurrection of judgment If you're a circler or a highlighter, you can circle those who've done good to the resurrection of life, because that's one group of people And then also those who've done evil to the resurrection of judgment. So it's one general resurrection. Some the resurrection of life, some the resurrection of judgment. It's one judgment. Some who've done good and some who've done bad Evil. They've done good we t uh those who've done good we take in the context all of Scripture. It doesn't mean they're saved by their good works. Uh anyone who's saved is saved by what? It's a very important word in church. Saved by grace through through faith. Uh but the reality is those who are saved by grace through faith um Um, do obey God, not perfectly, and not by our own strength. It's by the Holy Spirit, and it's always an imperfect obedience, but by God's grace and by the work of the Spirit, we do render True obedience to God. That's not the basis of why we're saved. But the fact is, those who've done good to the resurrection of life and those who've done evil to the resurrection of the life Resurrection and judgment. So both groups, all who are in the tombs, in this one hour. So it's a general resurrection of all. Matthew 12, 35 through 37. The good person out of his good treasure brings forth good, and the evil person out of his evil treasure brings forth evil. I tell you, on the day of judgment, singular day. It's not a metaphor. It's not a day age. It's a day, a day of judgment. People will give account for every careless word they speak. For by your words you'll be justified, and by your words you'll be condemned. So there'll be those who are proclaimed justified, and those who are proclaimed condemned on this one day of judgment. When all people, it doesn't say all, but uh this I think it's clear because it's talking about the good and the evil, it's talking about justified and condemnation, all people on this one day of judgment 1 John 4, 17 through 18. By this is love perfected with us, so that we may have confidence for the day of judgment. John wants us to have confidence for the day of judgment, because as he is, so also are we in this world. There's no fear in love, but perfect love casts out fear. For fear has to do with punishment. And whoever fears has not been perfected in love. You have to look a little more closely here, but the same ideas are present. First of all, Day of Judgment. Singular day, day of judgment. But you still have both groups. You have those who there's going to be a punishment. And this is the group that should fear but doesn't. And then for believers, they do not need to fear. They'll be present, but they don't need to walk into that day with fear in their hearts, but with confidence. Confidence because of the blood of Christ. We may have confidence for the Day of Judgment. And what's that set in opposition to here? Obviously, that's set in opposition to living in fear of the day of judgment. We're not a people who live in fear. The love of God within our hearts casts out fear. Fear has to do with punishment. So if we were under the judgment and punishment and penalty of our own sin, Then we should have fear. Rather, Christ died for our sins. He bore our punishment. He bore our guilt. So there's none left for us. So, single day, but a day where some can have confidence and a day where others will have fear and punishment. Matthew 25, 31 through 32, the final one. When the Son of Man comes in his glory, that's what's in view here, right? The return of Christ, the coming of the Lord. When the Son of Man comes in his glory, and all the angels with him Then he will sit on his glorious throne. But when we talk about a general resurrection, you can't get any clearer. Gathered before Christ is how many of the nations All the nations. And he will separate people one from another as a shepherd separates the sheep from the goats. All people, the saved and the lost, in one judgment, when the Son of Man comes, it'll be It'll be the judgment is going to be a separation. So there's your final judgment, one general judgment on the day, singular day, Christ returned. Again, there are other passages about the final judgment. Some of them will focus, or the return of Christ, rather. Some of them will focus more on the resurrection There's different aspects of what happens before and at that day and then the uh the effects and the fallout of what happens after that day. But uh these are just the New Testament verses and this is just an overview of the ones that I think Bring out this idea that there'll be one general judgment on the day Christ returns. Now we don't live in fear of that. And one of the things that should do for us is give us a burden to reach the loss. Give us a burden. Now Christians are not people who are who are angry at people who don't know God. Or we can be angry at sin. We should be angry at our own sin. But we have a heart of love and mercy and compassion and wanting to seek out and reach those who hate God so that their hearts could be changed so that they could love Love God. God. Final judgment keeps our perspective, but it also keeps us on mission to reach the lost, to have a burden for the lost so that they would know God.