We are in James 5 with the last study in our book of James. We've called this A Guidebook for Christian Living. It's focused on the practical aspect of Christianity, but the practical aspect of Christian life is based on the invisible. It's based on the spiritual. A living faith, not just doing things, but a true living faith inside of us that then is manifested in Christian obedience Tonight is James thirteen James five, thirteen through twenty, a steady diet of devotion. And that's not just talking about quiet time. That just means things we're devoting ourselves to. A steady diet of devoting ourselves to the things of the Lord. Alright, let me give you the blanks that are on the sheet. The outline that I'll be working through is different, but the blanks on the sheet will give us at least a starting point. Number one, it's on uh it's on this one, the the regular booklet. But then yes, the handout is what we'll be going through for the lesson. So first stay devoted to prayer. Secondly, stay devoted to care. Care for one another's, that is. Specifically care for the hurting and the sick. Number three, stay devoted to reconciliation. And number four, and this is the note that James ends on stay devoted to bringing back wanderers. So many things in the Christian life take patience. Waiting on the Lord, patience in ministry, patience in life for God to answer our prayers in different areas of family and finances and And just learning to wait and learning to trust in God. But ministry of seeking out and bringing back wanderers takes a lot of patience Uh sin can be a a vice grip on the heart. And um that's the note the book of James James ends on. Let's go into the passage beginning in verse thirteen. Is any anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. Is anyone among you sick? Could also be translated weak Instead of getting into the you know the debate on which one he's emphasizing, we'll just say both. Is any one of you sick or weak? Let him call for the elders of the church. And let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick And the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he'll be forgiven. Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another. that you would be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain. And for three years and six months it did not rain on earth. And then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death. Cover a multitude of sins. He's obviously talking about spiritual things. He's talking about the person being saved, verse 15, being raised up, same word for resurrection, verse 15. Also verse 15, if he has sinned, he'll be forgiven. There's obviously about reconciliation and bringing back the wanderer. And then it ends on this note. So we'll save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins, but it's also talking about physical weakness, physical sickness, and And being healed. There's one point, if there's one point I want us to remember, or one word I want us to really latch on to in this passage to put in our back pocket and carry with us Through life. It is a word in verse 16: power. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working There is power in prayer. God uses the prayers of his people to bring about his kingdom. That's why we pray your kingdom come, your will be done. Prayer has power because God, who is all powerful, uses our prayers. We should never think that our prayers have no impact or have no effects. The prayer of a righteous person has great power. How are we righteous? We are not righteous by works. We're righteous by faith. We shouldn't be ashamed to think of ourselves as those who are righteous. But we have to understand that we're righteous by faith. We're righteous because we're united to Christ. When you see that word, the righteous person, don't think of a Pharisee. Don't think of a self-righteous person. There's a difference between a self-righteous person and a truly righteous. The righteous will live by faith. Right. Righteousness comes to us by faith. It's just another way of saying a believers' prayers. A believers' prayers. You see them in the book of Revelation uh come up to God on his throne as incense. And then those prayers are answered and God dispenses uh judgment and sends out his messengers to do his will in response to the prayers of the saints coming up to him like bowls of incense in his throne room. So believe in the power of prayer. Believe that your prayers will be used by God to accomplish his purpose. Um not only in your life, but in the church and in the world. So we pray. Great power in its working. And then um Verse seventeen begins just to make a point that the power of prayer Is not inside the one who's praying. Does that make sense? The power of prayer is not in us and how well we pray or how powerful powerful we pray, whatever that looks like. Elijah was was a man with a nature like ours. There wasn't something special about Elijah that made his prayers more effective than my prayers or your prayers. God had specific purposes and he had he was in the office of a prophet. And we're not the so the details are different, but Elijah was a man with a nature like ours. It's was a sinner saved by grace. And he prayed and God answered his prayers. It wasn't because of Elijah that his prayers were powerful. It was because the one to whom Elijah prayed that his prayers were powerful. He was a man with a nature like ours. This is a passage, if there's a central theme, and if I mean he talks about some different things, but if there's a central theme It's prayer. If there's a primary practical application for all of us, it is this: pray and believe in the power of prayer. Believe that God uses prayer to bring about his purposes. Alright, let's go up to number one. We're calling this study a steady diet of devotion, things to be devoted to. And it's interesting, you'll see that this is not just personal. Devotion. It there's personal aspect, but it's also congregational. It's relational. You'll see both of those aspects, which is both of those aspects are critical for biblical Christian living. Number one, pray for the hurting. This cause is the first thing he says. Is anyone among you hurting, let him let him pray. So the Passage really is the person, if you're hurting or you're suffering, what do you do? You pray. I'm expanding that. We should pray for the hurting too. We can pray as intercessors. If you're hurting, or if you're suffering, James says, pray. But since we're bound together by the Spirit, since we're one body in Christ, also obviously we should pray for the one who's suffering and for the one who's hurting. So are you suffering? Pray, which would be the opposite of uh how the devil would try to trip us up when we're suffering, which would be complain Which would be grumble, which would be lose faith, which would be forget about God. Well bury yourself in self-pity. No, no, no. If you're suffering Pray. Obviously, prayer is going to God, pouring out our hearts to God, asking God for help So when we're suffering, when we need help, we have to go to the one who can help us, to the one who cares. If you're suffering, pray. We expand that out as someone suffering. Friends, let us pray for them. And uh I'm sure you could come up with more. I've listed quickly today five different ways the person could be suffering. Uh number one, physically. Someone could be suffering physically. James says to that sufferer, pray, and then we can apply that to the rest of us pray for the sufferer physically. That could include in a specific way hunger Someone who's impoverished. And that may be given given James and how often James has dealt with the rich and the poor and looking out for the poor, that maybe is the thing that he's talking about. Someone could be starving. Someone could need clothing, could not have a home. That person should pray and we should pray for them. And also based on James 2, we actually should help them, and we could be the answered prayer. Someone could be suffering in their relationships. Family struggles, a nuclear family, extended family, or with friends, or whatever, just relationships in the world. You know, it's not all uh roses and rainbows. And so there's things that can happen in people's lives where they're suffering and going through anguish. because of relationships and we can James says to that person, pray and we'll pray for them. So physically, um Poverty, relationships. Someone number four could be suffering emotionally. Emotional suffering is a real thing. We don't Uh look down on people for that. We don't scoff at people for that. But James says pray and then we also should be praying for the one who's suffering. And God can help in those situations too. And then finally I just put here this is the catch-all one, uh some sort of spiritual crisis. Pray. James says pray. The sanctification process can be painful, it can be spiritually really painful because God is chipping away so much of who we used to be. The pride in our hearts. The selfishness in our hearts. The sanctification process is God coming in there with a hammer and a chisel and just Knocking so much of the old self off, and it can be painful as God sanctifies us, as bringing us through fire to refine us. And as we go through those spiritual crises, we're we're stick together. And we support each other. We don't look down on someone because they're going through something spiritually, but rather we encourage them in Christ. We give them assurance in Christ, not in their works, not in how they're feeling, but in Christ. Point them to Christ. Point each other to Christ. This is how we minister the gospel. James says, pray, and we should be praying. Psalm 34, 18. The Lord is near to the brokenhearted, and he saves or he delivers Those who are crushed in spirit. God will come near, God will save, but we must approach Him and pray also. Psalm 147, verse 3. He heals the brokenhearted and binds up their wounds. God cares for the hurting. But the hurting, God wants the hurting to come to him for help, not to turn away from him. And blame him or become bitter, like uh Israel in the wilderness when things got tough, and they put the Lord their God to the test, and even at one point one of the most shocking and uh chilling statements in all of scripture. Let's go back to Egypt So pray for the hurting. If anyone among you is suffering, let him pray. And then he says this, and this will be number two. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. Sing God praises for bl for blessings. Blessings that would make us cheerful. It's so uh intriguing to me to think about The struggles and the weaknesses of the flesh. Sometimes when we're hurting For some people that will they'll get mad at God and don't want to have anything to do with God. But for God's true children, what should happen is in times of hurting we lean on God more than ever because we don't have any choice. We've come to this place where we know that nothing in the world can help us. But children of God are prone to when things are going really, really well and full of cheer, that's when we're prone to forget to go to God and to forget to sing praises With the same passion, with the same zeal that we asked for help when things were going bad. We all have different personalities and God has us at different places in our Sanctification. So you may lean one way or the other. But when you're cheerful, something has made you cheerful, and it's God is the one who gave you that thing. If it's a proper cheer, a godly joy. Praise God for blessings. And then what I did was I just Put another list of five. Like remember how there's five things of different ways you could be suffering or hurting. I made another list of five to parallel that and just put the opposite. The opposite thing would be a blessing. So the first one would be physical health. Physical health is a gift from God. We should not take it for granted. We should never take it for granted. We should be cheerful for whatever measure of health that we have, life comes from God. Life itself comes from God. We should be thankful for that. We should be cheerful. That we exist rather than not exist, that we were made rather than not made, and that whatever measure of health we have , we can be cheerful, thanking God for it. And sometimes that's hard to remember that the breath we breathe comes from God. And our heartbeat comes from God. And our the fact that our minds work properly comes from God. These are all gifts that we should thank God for. Contrary to what the world says, we're not just chemical, biological accidents floating through space with no purpose. We were made by God in the image of God. Every good thing that we have comes from God, and it's meant to turn our hearts in cheerfulness and joy, turn our hearts to God to say thank you. Thank you, God. Praise you, God. Thank you for this. You've been so good to us. This is what the good things in creation are meant to do. So, health, physical health. And just life in general. Should make us cheerful and we should sing God's praises for that. Secondly, any provisions in life. Uh the number two suffering I had uh Uh was suffering that could come in relationships, nuclear family, extended family, just the things of the world. So this is more broad, but any provision in life a provi provision Uh actually no I'm sorry, this is the opposite of uh of the poverty, of the poverty point. The provision is the opposite of uh of the poverty point You could be suffering because you're starving, you're homeless, whatever. So if you're not starving, none of us in here are starving. We're not missing meals. We have clean water. We have clothing. More clothing than some villages in the world. That's not to make us feel guilty, it's just to make us recognize God has been good to us. Brothers and sisters, God has been very, very generous and good to us and kind to us And any provision that we have in life, we should be cheerful and turn our hearts to God in gratitude. The next is the blessings of family. This is the opposite of relationship or family sufferings. Any blessings of family or friends or a church family, we should thank God for that. We should thank God for that. Church He's given us. He's brought us together by His truth and for His truth to rejoice in His truths, truth. We're a people constituted by God and by his spirit. We should be thankful for that. That's just one example of uh blessing of family. That's the church Family. And then the opposite to emotional sufferings or emotional anguish would be joy. Joy is a gift from the Lord. Joy is fruit of the Spirit. Um any true joy that we experience that's rooted and grounded in our hope in Christ is a gift from God. It can only come from God. That's not an accident. To experience true godly happiness, lasting eternal happiness, aka joy. That's why we sing God's praises. It's easy to To c take these things for granted, isn't it? And to forget, to forget about these things. We're not entitled To uh be happy all the time or to have joy all the time. The culture that we live in, the society that we live in, is made an idol out of comfort. And the uh highest I was gonna say the greatest idol or the the highest ideal, the greatest ideals in our culture is number one, personal autonomy, right, self-rule, no authority outside of myself, and personal comfort. You know that you're entitled to rule your own life and do what you want, what you feel, when you want, whatever you think. Yes, that's true, self-rule and self-comfort. You're entitled to feel comfortable and anyone who puts is a threat to your personal comfort is evil. So don't let them in. But we're not entitled uh to certainly don't have the right to call the shots, but we're called to submit to God Because God made the world and God made us, and God's the standard of what's true, and God's the standard of what's right, God's the standard of how we ought to live. Any joy that we have is a gift from God. So sing God's praises for the cheer, the cheerfulness that He's given. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. And then finally, this is the catch-all. Spiritual blessings. I've alre already mentioned those. Spiritual blessings. We should be giving thanks to God and singing his praises. So a steady diet of devotion, already in verse 13 you see two of the critical components of Congregational worship, prayer, and singing praises. We pray as a body consistently. We sing God's praises as a body consistently. It's part of what makes us the church. We're praying people, we're worshiping people. Any uh questions or thoughts on Numbers 1 or 2, which is just one verse so far before we move on? Alright, we'll go to number three. Pray over the weak and the sick. Verse 14, is anyone among you sick? or weak. It could also be translated. Let him call for the elders. You got to be proactive in that. Um call for the elders of the church. We don't know some people like visits, some people don't like visits. So when they're sick and when they're suffering it stresses them out more. Um they want to be given space and some people if they don't get a visit they might be upset. They may feel extra lonely. People have different personalities, people have different needs, there's different Different situations. We don't know. Um the Bible says either the person or the person can have someone do it for them. Let let the church know. Let the elders know. Let someone know that you want a visit. And we'll make that happen. Of course we will. We'll jump to it. But we we don't always know. We don't know everything. We can't read minds. Um Call for the elders of the church and let them pray over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. Without going into all the uh You have the cultural background of anointing with oil. If you do some research on that, this was a practical care. Not not to the extent of medical care, but one way of caring for the sick, of bringing them comfort and And cleaning them and showing them mercy when they're sick. It was a completely different culture. in a completely different time. So to come and administer some care, physical care, cleaning, and Is appropriate you know at times. But I want to go into the background of that. Anointing with oil in the name of the Lord. You can do some research on that, or if you have a good study Bible, maybe read a note Verse 15, the prayer of faith, which is the opposite of what? Yeah. Very good. Doubt. Kind of cool. This is in James chapter 1. This is one of the first things he talked about. James 1, 5. It's on a different issue. It's on when we lack wisdom. But he says James one five, if any lacks wisdom, ask God, who gives generously to all without reproach, and it will be given to him Obviously James believes in the power of prayer because he believes in God's goodness and generosity and faithfulness. Verse 6 But let him ask in faith with no doubting. For the one who doubts is like a wave of the sea that's driven and tossed by the wind. So, yes, there's a prayer of doubt. There's a prayer of faith. Ask in faith with no doubting. There is a way to pray and just go through the motions. Just to voice words and ask for something is not prayer. Um obviously Jesus rebuked the Pharisees for their prayers, public prayers. They were mouthing words. But they weren't doing it from a heart of faith. That was from a heart of pride and self-righteousness. They wanted to be esteemed highly in the eyes of the people So we pray for the sick and for the hurting in faith. And it says it will say, the first thing it says, verse 15. Is it will save him The prayer of faith will save. It's the word for salvation. Sometimes that word is used like in the miracles of Jesus when there's a healing involved. And the Lord will raise him up. That that also could be a metaphor for Um healing. Raise him up. He's not bed and ridden anymore, but he's been risen up. So we pray and we expect that the Lord will heal Just like we expect when we pray for wisdom, God will give us wisdom. That's the prayer of faith. Does God do everything right down to the details that we ask for? in prayer in the outward details. No, he doesn't, but we still come to God with confidence and faith that He will answer our prayers according to His purpose, according to His will. From our our job is to be faithful. Our job is to believe. And we'll let God take care of the rest. The prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. But then he says, and if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. There's spiritual things that need to happen for this person. as well. There's some kind of sin involved and if we can get through let's see how far down on the outline it is. to the to the next page, we'll see that it could be dealing with something that's not a very popular uh teaching to talk about, but there are things in scripture about it where this could be the one who's being disciplined by the Lord for habitual unrepentant sin. And so what's really being what's really the issue that's being dealt with here is will this person be restored? But let's move on. It's either way, either way. Let's just say this at least, right? Either way, it's not just the physical issue that's In view. The forgiveness of sins is in view. If he sinned, he'll be forgiven. And then that is connected. It doesn't end. The discussion doesn't end. Verse 16 says therefore so whatever he says after that he's connecting it to the the possibility that there'll be the forgiveness of sins to this person Therefore, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another that you may be healed. Again, bringing these two things together: confessing sins, And praying that there'll be healing, that there'll be restoration. And then he says about the power of prayer. The power or the prayer of a righteous person is great power as it's working. Whatever situation he's talking about, there's a desperate need for prayer. The only thing that's going to help is Prayer. Over and over and over here. Pray. You have to pray. You have to pray. Pray for the person. Confess your sins. There'll be forgiveness. We have to pray. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it's working. Elijah was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain, and for three years and six months it did not rain on earth. And then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit. God answering prayers that uh from an earthly perspective looked like there's no way that's gonna happen. But God answered the prayer Verse 19, my brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth, so again, there's this spiritual issue, sin issue is in view all throughout this. My brothers, if anyone among you wanders back from the truth and someone brings him back, let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering will save his soul from death. And we'll cover a multitude of sins. And back up to the uh that outline at the very top of our page and just uh hit all the points And then uh move on. Okay, so under number three, pray over the weak and the sick. Whatever else we interpret. From this passage. Whatever else we don't know, whatever questions we can't answer, we know this, we should be praying over the sick and the hurting. It's a biblical thing to do. Now they call upon us, we'll go pray over them. Letter A, give practical care where is appropriate. Getting that as a general point from anointing with oil. Letter B, pray in faith for the saving and for the rising up of the weak or sick. I'd say that'd be safe to pray for. Those are the words in the passage. Pray that they'll be saved, pray that they'll be risen up. God knows what it means. Believe. Pray in faith. Let her see the sick or the weak will be forgiven. And you wouldn't expect that as the exclamation point on that first Thought pocket of the passage. But it's forgiveness that's the main thing. If you have that in place, everything else is going to be okay in the end. Number four, actively pursue reconciliation. That was verse 16. Actively pursue reconciliation. Confess your sins one to another and pray for one another. So there's a confess There's uh praying, A B, Confess, A, pray, B, and then C, believe in the power of prayer This is not just a general statement for you to go to random people in the church and confess your sin. If you've sinned against someone and there's an issue there, there's a problem there, confess your sin. Sin. Admit that you've sinned. Admit that you are wrong. The world's not going to end, okay? It's okay to admit that you're wrong That's what this is about. And we pray for one another. We don't uh turn ourselves against each other. We're not enemies. We're allies. Satan is the enemy. We're allies. We're brothers. We're sisters. We're family. One body filled with one spirit. And number five, seek to restore the wandering brother who's ensnared by sin. Verse 19 My brothers, if anyone among you wanders from the truth, someone brings him back. Let him know that whoever brings back a sinner from his wandering Will save his soul from death and will cover a multitude of sins. Y you're you'll be able you'll have to cover a multitude of sins if you're gonna bring a wanderer back. You need to be gracious. You can have to be forgiving. You're gonna have to put things in the past. Not that we don't deal with any practical issues that come about from whatever happened, but you have to cover multitude of sins. To bring them back. Let's go through reconciliation and restoration just now. All of this is uh launching up from this verse where is it? Verse 16, confess your sins to one another and pray for one another. I want to spend a lot of time talking about reconciliation and restoration. At the end of the passage, it's about the wandering sinner who needs to be restored, but in the middle of the passage I believe there's reconciliation is in view here, and rest uh reconciliation and restoration of when someone has been sinned against. And that has happened in the book of James. He's dealt with different ways. They were sinning against one another. So when you know someone has an accusation against you, this is I'm just going to read through these notes. You can follow along because the Bible tells us how to pursue reconciliation. When you know someone has an accusation against you, uh, which means you uh let's see Which means you have wronged them. Either truly wronged them, so they have an accusation against you and it's true, or allegedly you've wronged them. But they still in their hearts they have an accusation against you. So this is how to do it when someone has an accusation against you. Matthew 5, 23 through 25. If you're offering your gift at the altar, and there remember that your brother has something against you Leave your leave your gift there before the altar and go. So it's putting it as a priority. First be reconciled to your brother and then come and offer your gift Come to terms quickly with your accuser, right? This is someone who has an accusation against you. Come to terms with them While you are going with them to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge and the judge to the guard and you be put in prison. What's the point? If you can avoid the conflict, avoid the conflict. We don't need more conflict. We don't need to go look there's an We don't need to go looking for fights. We don't want to be quarrelsome But if you can settle it, settle it and move on for the glory of God. So when someone has an accusation against us , The illustration is, or the example is, leave your gifts at the altar. Don't all leave your gift at the altar. Don't give it to God yet. First, go make things right. Here's true devotion. Lived out. Go and seek reconciliation. First, middle of verse 24, this should be highlighted. First, be reconciled to your brother. And then come offer your gift. Work it out. 19 times out of 20. Just go talk. What are some of the reasons we're afraid and we don't want to do that? Real question. We'll get yelled at right there because we we have this fear that this is one of the things that the devil can use to tempt us. We we have this fear that we're gonna say something and the person is gonna destroy us Good fear of this just gonna make things worse. What other fears? Yeah, yeah. It could um it could it could create more accusations against you. And then it could just make things worse in that way too. In general, we think it's gonna make things worse. Uh we could be afraid it's gonna um people are gonna have a bad perception of us. Uh And sometimes uh maybe there's something in us that's just stubborn or hard headed. You just don't want to be wrong. We don't want to admit it. There's there's some you know, on both sides of this thing There's going to be a requirement of an H -word that doesn't come naturally and that we fight against of humility There's gonna have to be uh a cross-shaped humility. Something's gonna have to die in both of these people And and probably probably in different ways, both admitting they were wrong about one thing or another, shouldn't have done one thing or another. Rarely, rarely is it a one-way street or uh you know, just a one-way thing. I mean that can be true. But often it's both. So there could be s just the stubbornness, there could be uh and uh and sometimes because of who the person is, sometimes maybe maybe maybe Maybe we do want a little fight. Maybe we do want a little quarrel. Just so we can get something off of our chest or something like that. There's all kinds of ways the devil can get a foothold when it comes to personal conflict. And so we've got to be aware of his schemes. And we've got love, one of the things love does in 1 Corinthians 13 is it believes all things, which I take to mean Think the best. Assume the best. Don't think the worst possible scenario of the person. They're not the devil. Especially this is a brother. This is a Christian. They have the Holy Spirit. So expect the best. Think the best. And you go in there humble and uh say things in the right way, a simple way. a proper way, which will take prayer and practice , God will work it out. God will fix it. So if someone has something against you, either truly or allegedly, whatever, where you've wronged them, go seek reconciliation. And y you know, I have to do this, you have to do this, I have to do this as a husband, I have to do this as a father, as a friend, as a pastor, as a neighbor, as a coworker. This is This is a normal part of human existence. Conflict. There's a a flea up here I'm not seeing things, just in case I was going like this. I wanted you to know there actually was something there. It's a normal part. So uh you know, y y for relationships to be truly healthy and growing, uh, there's got we've gotta be able to know how to go about reconciliation. Sometimes you just say, you know what, uh I'm not quite sure what to say but I I know we need we need to reconcile on this and I just Sometimes just saying that, admitting that, Proverbs says a gentle answer turns away wrath. A gentle answer will calm things down. So if you come in l like with a machine gun of malice and wrath just unload on someone, yeah, that will make it worse. But you come in and just say, listen uh uh you You know, I just want to make this right. I just want to make this right so we can move on. Just wanted to talk to you about it. I'm telling you, nineteen times out of twenty, the Lord gives reconciliation. That would be the answer to prayer. Reconciliation If you go on with a selfish agenda, it's not going to be there. But if it's truly in our heart, God, please just make this right. Now, second, when you believe that someone has wronged you. So that's the different situation, right? This one is when you believe someone has wronged you, so now you have an accusation against them. And again, that could be truly or allegedly whatever. You believe someone has wronged you. In the passage, it actually is wronged you. But uh my point is in applying this, sometimes you can think someone has sinned against you and they really haven't. Right, because you heard it from a person four, who heard it from person three, who heard it from person two, who heard it as a prayer request three weeks ago. Who knows what's happened? Right. Everyone's sm smiling. But it does happen. Uh that's why if you read the book of Proverbs and see what the book of Proverbs has to say about murmuring and gossiping. It will it it would be one of the things to help us zip up. But it's it's tough. We've all got to grow in these things. Anyway, when you believe someone has wronged you or when someone actually has wronged you, Matthew 18 15 through 20. If your brother sins against you, step one, go and tell him his fault between you and him alone. If he listens to you, you've gained your brother. But if he does not listen, step two, take one or two others along with you. Don't take your best friends and your best champions. Take their best friends and their best champions That that show of grace and that that show of humility right off the bat will give you a r a much better chance of step two working. Take one or two others along with you that every charge may be established by the evidence of two or three witnesses. If he refuses to listen to them, step three, tell it to the church, which means the congregation. And if he refuses to listen even to the church, step four, let him be to you as a Gentile or a tax collector. That means a formal disfellowship. Step four. The goal is not disfellowship. That is the last resort. That would be grievous. That's not what would make us happy. What's the goal? Restoration Restoration. We try to follow this principle here. It's a last resort. This fellowship is a last resort. We want to, you know, there's no time, Pastor John always says there's no timeline God has given us. For these different steps. Don't need to rush through them. We need to be patient and prayerful and try to be faithful in these steps. To seek reconciliation between me and the brother, whoever this is. Four steps. And then there's immediately goes into some principles. Principle one: discerning God's will based on God's Word. Verse 18: Truly I say to you, whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. And whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. That's also used in Matthew 16 with the keys of And you'll also read about the key the keys of the kingdom, not only being gospel ministry, and grant the authority to grant people entrance. into uh the uh the church. But also the keys talked about in terms of the authority to disfellowship But that's going to take a lot of prayer and compassion and patience to discern God's will based on God's word. We can't just fellowship people for just because they may disagree with us on something that's subjective or a matter of personal preference or something like that. You've got to be very, very careful with formally disfellowshipping people from the the uh the church, which is the outward expression, the uh the outward manifestation of the kingdom of heaven. And that's why it's linking. You know, what we do here on earth is connected to God's authority and God's will. Whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, or shall have been bound in heaven, and whatever you loose on earth. shall be loosed in heaven. It's a metaphor for authority and it should humble us and it should make us think two, three, four, five times. And these things are really big things. Principle two Pray because only God can bring reconciliation. Verse nineteen he says Again I say to you if Two of you agree on earth about anything they ask, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. That uh is an oft quoted verse, but I want you to know that that verse Uh is not just floating out there in space. It doesn't exist or come to us in a vacuum. It's in the context of seeking reconciliation and working through the steps of reconciliation and trying to get Trying to bring people into agreement with one another in the midst of a disagreement. Trying to bring reconciliation in the midst of accusation. Trying to bring them into agreement when there's sin one against another. It will be asked, it will be done for them by my Father in heaven. So the whole so step one, step two, step three, step four, going through this whole thing, throughout the whole process, we're asking. God to bring agreement throughout the whole thing. Step one in the heart, but then also outwardly, we're praying to God to give us agreement, bring us into agreement. If you have to get to step two, it's the same thing. We're asking God. God, bring us into agreement. If you have to go to step three, we're asking God, please, we know it seems like nothing's going to change in that this person's heart, but we don't know what God can do or what God's going to do. God bring us into agreement. And like we were talking about in that paragraph in James. We don't know exactly how, when, or what, you know, how God's going to answer our prayers. Our job is to believe. Our job is to have faith. God, bring us into agreement. And that will help, you know, praying those prayers will help to shape our hearts. And I believe that will help us find agreement. Only God can bring reconciliation. Sometimes we think if we just tell our side of the story more, it will magically change the other person's heart. And if the other you see the other person getting frustrated and more frustrated and and still we think it well they s they're just not getting me. If I could just tell them more of my side of the story, then they'll get me and so that's what we do and we just Keep explaining and explaining and excusing and rationalizing and it's just making it worse. We think we can bring the reconciliation if we say our side more, only God can bring reconciliation. Principle 3, and it's Jesus' presence that makes reconciliation possible. Verse 20, where two or three are gathered in my name, there I am among them Getting together. The step one has to be done by faith in Christ. The step two, bringing two or three witnesses, has to be done in the name of Christ. Step three has to be done in the name of Christ And even step four as a last resort will be done in the name of Christ. But the whole thing has to be done. Now we're talking about conflict in the church if your brother sins against you. So these are people professing faith. They should be filled with the Spirit, if they're filled with the Spirit. And if they're praying, and if Jesus is there present, there should be reconciliation. And again, when we follow the steps humbly, truly wanting God to restore. God will take care of it. God will take care of it. Sometimes we l we just make things bigger than they are. Uh we sh we spread We sh we talk to others instead of going to the person. It uh it stirs and What's the word I'm looking at? Gets soaked up in our hearts. Think things become worse. The problem gets exasperated. And then it becomes harder and harder and harder to find reconciliation. But if we would just nip it in the bud properly, quickly, humbly, properly, in the proper order, God will take care of it. Now when we do this, we have to be ready to forgive the same sin repeatedly. Turn to Matthew 18, 21. Matthew 18, 21. What if uh someone's someone sins against you and you talk to them and you get reconciliation and then four months later they do the same thing So you go talk to them, and this time you have to go to step two. They don't hear you quite right, and you have to bring two or three witnesses, and you get reconciliation, and then next year they do the same exact thing. You go to them, seek reconciliation, find reconciliation, and then three months later they do the same thing. Matthew 18 21. Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgive him? As many as seven times? Which he would have thought, and anyone who heard that would have thought, yeah, that's a lot. Like he probably thought that was exceedingly virtuous. That's the number of that's a biblical number of fullness or completion Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy-seven times. Therefore, the kingdom of heaven can be compared to a king who wished to settle accounts with his servants. When he began to settle, one was brought to him who owed him ten thousand talents. Alright, uh talent was about twenty years of work. It was just wealth. So this is uh exceeding wealth. Owed him 10,000 talents. It's like an amount of money that you can't even fathom. Professional athlete money Or no, owner of professional sports teams money. And since he could not pay, his master ordered him to be sold. With his wife and children and all that he had and payment to be made. See now you see that this is a lot of money, because what's it gonna take? Sell him and his family and everything that he has. So the servant fell on his knees, imploring him, Have patience with me and I'll pay you everything. And out of pity for him, it has to be pity, because he knows he can't pay him. Literally he's not able to pay him So out of pity for him, the master of that servant released him and forgave him the debt. That was his that was his only option, the guy who's begging for mercy and pity. That's his only option. to be made right with this master is if he literally forgives the debt, takes the debt away. And that's what he did. Great act of kindness. Verse 28. But when the same servant went out, he found one of his fellow servants who owed him a hundred denarii. A denari is a day's wage. Alright. So day's wage. So this is you know a hundred days of work, you know, three months, a quar a quarter year, whatever. It's um the other one was many years of salary. This is a portion of one year of salary So much smaller debts. But he seized him, and then what's the next phrase? Yeah, someone said it. He began to choke him. He physically attacks this person, saying, pay back what you owe. You just picture this happening. It's not only what's happening, physically attacking this guy, demanding payment right after his debt that was many, many times. Bigger than this guy's was completely wiped out. So his verse 29, so his fellow servant fell down and pleaded with him, have patience with me and I'll pay you. Same thing he said. He refused. He went and put him in prison until he should pay the debt. When his fellow servants saw what had taken place, they were greatly distressed. I would guess so. That's good. These are the good guys. And they went and reported to their master all that had taken place Then his master summoned him and said, You wicked servant servant, I forgave all this debt because you pleaded with me. Should not you have had mercy on your fellow servant as I had mercy on you? And in his anger and in anger his master delivered him to the jailers until he should pay all his debt. So also my heavenly Father will do to every one of you if you do not forgive your brother from your heart. Seventy times seven. Not seven. Seventy times seven. Now, a couple things. Uh verse 34. In anger's master delivered him to the jailer until he should pay all his debt. Who's going to be in jail longer? Th him or the guy that he put in prison. Him. He's gonna be in there probably his whole life. This is done. It's a done deal. The other guy will be out in a little bit. He'll be able to pay that back. Some wa some way or another. It's at least it's possible. Now the master represents uh who in the Story. The first master, the great the master who forgave this guy who had this incredible debt that he couldn't pay back. It represents the Lord. So the Lord forgives us. The debt that we could never ever pay, our sin debt. Sin against him, personal offense against him, God forgives, in unfathomable debt. So we're that first servant pleading for mercy that have already been forgiven. We go out, you know, we sin against each other. Now what are we going to do? Are we, so to speak, gonna be attacking each other? This guy's choking, demanding repayment. Basically, what's that a picture of? A refusal to forgive each other after being forgiven by God, a debt that you can't even imagine. Refusal to forgive. And if you go back to how the story began, it's not just that we have to be willing to forgive, but we have to be willing to forgive. And they're willing to forgive, and they're willing to forgive, we should be glad and happy to forgive, proactively looking to forgive Forgive. Forgiving each other should make us happy, not angry at God because He's forcing us to do this. Now that'll take sanctification. Only the Spirit of God can change our hearts. So we have to be ready to forgive the same sin repeatedly. Basically what we want to happen is to have the mercy of God. transform our hearts and to be reflected through us to each other. That we be merciful as God is merciful and gracious and forgiving as God is gracious and forgiving. Forgiving. And we should be the most forgiving people on earth. Christians should be the most forgiving people on earth. The people who are least likely to hold a grudge. The people who are least likely to choke someone and demand repayment and Christians also should be the people who are most willing to ask for forgiveness and admit that we're wrong. And should be the should be the best reconcilers in the world. And God will help us to do that. Additional notes. Flip over to the next page, at least one of At least you want to introduce this and then you can read through the Bible verses on your own. As you saw at the end of James, it was it was Bound together or woven together, the issue of this person being sick or at least weak, and the fact that there's the need of forgiveness. And reconcili uh forgiveness and restoration for the saving of his soul. There's the spiritual and the physical. It it could be that this person is being disciplined by God. Well you got to be you gotta be have your uh you have to have your discernment lenses up Because uh just because that could happen in one instance, that does not mean I've actually heard this preached, that does not mean uh that every time someone is sick, God is disciplining them or God is mad at them. That's not true. But it looks like in the apostolic age, God would protect the church in his wisdom That we can never comprehend by removing particular unrepentant sinners. Go down first to number two. Now your first example of this will be Ananias and Sapphira. 1 John 5, 16 and 17 is there under number 2 letter B. If anyone sees his brother committing a sin not leading to death, he shall ask, and God will give him life To those who commit sins that do not lead to death. Now there is a sin that leads to death. I do not say that one should pray for that. That's very similar to what God said to Jeremiah multiple times. God told Jeremiah, don't pray for these people. Judgment is set. It's just a matter of time. God told Jeremiah three times, stop praying for the people. There is a sin that leads to death, and I do not say that one should pray for that. All wrongdoing is sin, of course, yes, all wrongdoing is sin, but there is a sin that does not lead to death. We know that everyone who has been born of God does not keep on sinning, but he who is born of God protects him. That's Jesus. And the evil one does not touch him. There's a sin that leads to death. Go up to number one , very, very top, though it's often difficult to admit Sin really does deserve death. All throughout history, God has intervened to bring about judgment in different ways. Certain cities, Sodom and Gomorrah. Not every city, but certain cities. God has brought historical judgment. Certain individuals, God has brought judgment Pharaoh and his army, God brought judgment. Northern Kingdom of Israel, God used Assyria to bring about a historical judgment Achan ben Karmi, remember Achan stole the idols? God brought about judgment. The sons of Korah, God brought about judgment. Um Israel worshiping the golden calf. God brought through Moses brought about judgment. Not a complete full judgment of everyone because of Moses and intercession, but keep reading the story. There is a judgment, a plague that's brought about. In judgment for the God brings about judgment. It's God it's within his rights to bring about a judgment, a historical intervention judgment to an individual, if he so pleases. We've got to be very careful about that. We it's it's we don't have the wisdom To speak into someone's life as if we know the secret providence of God. We can speak about the instances in Scripture that we know about and learn about, like Ananias and Sapphira. But from a theological standpoint, we do have to have it settled that sin is worthy of death. Our sin is worthy of death. That's why we're so thankful to be forgiven. Our sin is worthy of death. Romans 6. 23, the wages of sin is death. Genesis 2, 16 17. If you eat this tree and that day you eat of it, you'll surely die. Romans 5. 12. Just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin, and so death spread to all men because all sin. Sin deserves death. Uh skip to Genesis 6 1. That's just the whole world was sinful. Therefore, the whole world was going to be blotted out. God saved Noah and his family. James 1, 14-15. The sin when it's fully grown brings forth death. Now it's very, very important to understand what the sin is that leads to death. It's not just any sin. There is something very specific going on in the early church of heresy infiltrating the church. and drawing people away from the true church, leading people astray, leading people into wickedness and ungodliness, and in protection of his church There was a sin that would lead to death. Now, if you flip over that page, uh, if you should start number three, what sin leads to death, this is what you can study on your own What sin leads to death, uh it's A, B, C, D. It's a very specific thing that was going on at a very specific time in the foundational era of the church, and God in his providence protecting his church. It was just a category that they thought in. It probably started with Ananias and Sapphira being removed from the fellowship by God through death. For the protection of the church, for the integrity of the gospel in the early church. That doesn't make it normative for all of church history. Just because something happened in the past doesn't make it normative. Um and then number four, some supplemental stuff for you to study. All sins are not equal in every way. All sins are equal in some way. Yes, all sin breaks God's law and brings judgment upon us. I put just a sampling of passages on here that prove from God's word that we this is the world's thinking just to put every flat and everything down. And say, well, everything's the same. All sins are equal. This is just as bad as that. Very common sense we know that that's wrong. It's worse to murder someone than to gossip about them All right. It's worse it's worse to burn down a building than lose your temper at your children. There are not all sins are exactly the same. And there's a sampling of passages that draw that out. And so this whenever you do talk about this passage of the sin that leads to death in the Old Testament, first of all you've got to qualify that by the context of first John where that's used is what sin is he talking about? It's a very specific diabolical sin that would have destroyed the church if God didn't intervene. That's number one. Number two, that doesn't mean that this is Things that happen in the apostolic age doesn't necessarily mean that they're normative for the whole church era. But it could be, my point is this could be what's going on. in James and part of what they're trying to do is to discern who they should be praying for, who they should not be praying for, and there is a sin that if the sin is not repented of There won't be a restoration. I'm I'm not sure. I mean it's a difficult passage. It's one for you to, you know, study on your own. But but remember how we began. If there's one thing to take away from that last paragraph of James, it's this. We must believe in the power of prayer, and we must be praying for each other.