Our sermon this evening, and the words of which we'll examine, comes out of 2 Samuel chapter 23. Verse 1 through 7. 2 Samuel chapter 23. Sorry for the misprint there, but chapter 23, verses 1 through 7. David's parting words. This will be wrapping up our series on the life of David. We've journeyed along with him, but here we're taking a time to look at his last words. And I believe it's important for us to recognize that his last words must hold some kind of value. There's some importance there. There's a reason that they are the last that he's saying. Um there's a reason that these are the words he he he's saying repeatedly, we'll we'll see tonight, but the last things because they have meaning. It's that thing, it's that last punch you want them to remember. And as you're going out, you you want them to remember when we lived in Italy, our ministry there was uh with soldiers, and uh we had we called them the bad news bears, which I knew is that terrible movie but we just had kind of this the these these characters, let's say that. They were characters. Um that and Friday nights we'd have uh Bible study in our house with dinner and we'd just have a great time. But as they left This was our instructions to them is is make wise choices. Make wise choices because that's not what they're designed to. There's paratroopers, they wanted to be crazy, they wanted to be wild, and and these young men and women that we love so much, we just our last things we want to tell them is Be smart. Be wise of what you're about to do. It's what we want people to hold on to. We see a similar idea with with Jesus. Some of his parting words are about the Great Commission, right? Go right into the nations. Baptizing, making disciples, or the promise of the coming spirit, the coming helper. These are important words that we hold on to because they have value. And what we see here tonight is that David has some parting words for his family, for his nation, and for us that we should recognize are quite important. And we'll see them tonight and we'll recognize how they are still important to us many, many years later. So join me in 2 Samuel chapter 23, starting in verse 1. Now these are the last words of David. The oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of the man who was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob, the sweet psalmist of Israel. Israel. The Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His words his word is on my tongue. The God of Israel has spoken. The rock of Israel has said to me When one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God, he dawns on them like the morning light. Like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning, like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. For does not my house stand so with God? For he has made with me an everlasting covenant, ordering in all things and secure. For will he not cause to prosper all my help and my desire? But worthless men are all like thorns that are thrown away, for they cannot be taken with the hand. But the man who touches them arms himself with iron and the shaft of a spear, and they are utterly consumed With fire. The last words of David. Now it's a bit interesting because we see here in chapter 23, it says, Now these are the last words of David. And we read them, and then we can turn to the very next chapter in chapter 24, and we see David speaking. Right? Well wait, what what's happening here? So let's just let's just reason why it's saying this. There's there's a few arguments and possibilities. One is that out of twenty-two, uh Jason did a wonderful job last week of Showing this beautiful song that David is singing and proclaiming. And we actually see it in the in the Psalter as well. And so there's an argument that This in twenty chapter twenty-three is just the last words of that song of which he's singing. I I think that's a good possibility. Uh that makes sense. But I also think there's more than he's just Concluding the song, I think this was probably a common topic or a few topics that David just talked about over and over again. You know, it's it's one of those things and And we probably have a lot of people in our lives that have have now passed but we look back and like they always talked about this moment in history or they always just gave this advice and talked about how great this was or how important it was to do this. And I see this is probably what is happening here is that these were some of the topics that David talked about over and over again. And then you don't have to turn there, but we see in 1 Kings chapter 2, David's last words to his son on his deathbed. Sound very similar, right? Talking about the law of God. 1 Kings chapter 2 is that God will destroy the enemies. So it's this this mantra that David just has in his life. Uh there's a young man in in this church that plays guitar and sings often that has this mantra, I've heard it many times now, of downstairs in the nursery, those spinny things. There is a rule made in the nursery that you can't stand or sit on top of them. And the claim to fame is that he is the one that made that rule because he was sitting or standing on top of it. And I will go to my deathbed hearing about not standing on the spinny things. But what are the words that that we just cry out to people? What do what are we going to be remembered for? When we go, when we're lying on our deathbed, what will your children remember you sing? What will the world remember you, your friends and your family? Well, friends, I want to encourage us that we are remembered for proclaiming the glory of God. Sure, they're going to remember us for a lot of things, a lot of goofy things, fun, uh, sad things, but ultimately, I I pray that that Long after I'm gone, my children and my grandchildren talk about that I was a man of God that desired to be obedient to God. Well not perfect. I talked about God. I talked about how He has redeemed me. While I was a sinner, Christ died for me. And friends, my call is that we all have that desire. That's what we are remembered for. So why should we care about David's words? Out of all the people, why is his parting words important to us? Well, the first reason is that he was king. We see this. This is what a lot of our study has been on the life of David, is that he's king. But look with me in chapter 23. Verse 1, part way down, says the oracle of David, the son of Jesse, the oracle of the man who was raised on high. He held a position of authority. And even today we look at uh past presidents, past leaders, and their words have some kind of impact. Good or bad, their words are important to us. I mean this is why we have history books. We have history books to record what has happened in the past, and often it's recording the words of past leaders. So if nothing else, I think it is at least valuable, it's worth our time, to examine the parting words of David because he was the king of Israel. I mean we actually do that with uh with bad kings as well. Read the book of Judges. Right? We see the the the bad leadership of a nation. We see uh the mistakes of a nation and we have them recorded so that we can study them and see the depravity of man. So I think it's worth our time for us to examine the parting words of David But the other reason that's worth our time is that he was anointed by God. Just following after that in verse 1, the oracle of the man who was raised on high, the anointed of the God of Jacob. Hey, if if God has chosen him to sit in this position, if God has anointed him to to lead his nation, I I would say it's probably important for us to hear his words We could turn to the last portion of the Old Testament, and we see a bunch of men that God has anointed to be prophets and to proclaim the word of the Lord. So let's take time to examine his words. The third reason that it's important that we take this time is that he writes parts of Scripture. We see here the sweet psalmist of Israel. Turn to the book of Psalms if you want. Just start flipping through, and you're going to see David's name all over it. You're going to see evidence of David's writing all throughout the Psalms. And that God has spoken through him. Look at verse 2. The Spirit of the Lord speaks by me. His word is on my tongue. So why is it important? Why is it worth our time to look at the parting words of David? It's because they're actually the words of the Lord. May we not take this and say, well, uh because we're going to talk about some things that we may not feel comfortable with. And the temptation is to go, well, that's just a man. He he's you know he has a lot of good things, but we don't have to take everything from him. No, the Lord has spoken through David and given us these words. here in our Bibles. And we recognize that God has spoken through him and he has written scripture for us. So it is valuable for us to hear And then the last reason, this is this is probably the least important, but it's valuable, is that he speaks these words last and multiple times because they are important. I think it's worth us hearing it repeatedly. I think it's worth us examining it because he thinks it's of value that he says it multiple times. Think about Paul. I mean we could list some of the things that Paul talks about. What's some of the most important things about Paul? That we are sinners redeemed by a holy God. That the true Jew is the one that has faith in Christ. That is the child of God. That all the works that you ever try to do will never be sufficient. We could go through this list, and you could go through almost any letter that Paul writes, and you're going to get pieces of that throughout his writings. And that's what we're doing here with David, is that he's saying it multiple times. This is his last breath on his deathbed to his son. So let's find some value in it. So what are these things that David talks about? I have three categories that David talks about a lot. The first one is that God's law is good and beneficial. God's law is good and beneficial. The second thing that David goes back to over and over again is that God is the Redeemer. God is the Redeemer. And then the third category that we'll examine is that God will destroy his enemies. God will destroy his enemies. So God's law is good and beneficial. God is the redeemer. God will destroy his enemies. So let's look at this first point. This first topic. God's law is good and beneficial. Look with me back in chapter 23. We'll start in verse three. The God of Israel has spoken. The rock of Israel has said to me, When one when one rules justly over men, ruling in the fear of God, he dawns on them like the morning. like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning, like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. David's telling the people, telling us, that when rulers lead in the fear of the Lord, when rulers look and value the law of God , It is good and it's beneficial to the people. It's just not it's not just beneficial to that ruler, to that king, to that president. No, it's beneficial to the people. the subjects of that kingdom. Friends, I believe that we have lost this truth in much of our culture and society today. We have lost the value of God's law. We've lost the value that God has given us his word. He's given us instructions of how we should live. And he's actually given us instructions of how to take dominion and lead and care for the nations and the people around us. We try to divide it and and we we get all all mixed up in our mind, right? Because we say, well the law of God that's that's Old Testament, that's that's Israel stuff. And now we're under the under grace, right? Did Jesus say that that he has fulfilled the law? Yes. But we can see in the New Testament that, and this is what Paul is talking about, is that we don't just go on sinning No, what's he say that okay we live by by grace? We have faith. We live by grace. Does that mean we continue to sin, allow sin to abound? And what's he say? By no means, I love that. He is screaming this in his writing. By no means shall we continue to live in sin. Well, then what's the only option we have? Is to live by the law of God. So how do we deal with this? How do we we deal with this separation we've created that God has not created? Is God 's law good? Amen. Yes. It is good. It is perfect. But let's be honest, when we start to read some of the law, we start to read some of Exodus. Go ahead tonight. Go and read Exodus 20. You'll see the Ten Commandments and we can all agree pretty well with that most of the time. And then you flip to Exodus twenty one and now there's some laws there that make us feel uncomfortable. We start talking about slaves and the just the the just just treatment of slaves and and we get all twisted up, what are we to do here? And then we talk about um uh uh uh rape and and how we should deal with that and then we start talking about there's punishments for breaking the law that people should be put to death for for crimes and sins and and we just don't know what to do, do we? Well friends, we must be reminded And then David is telling us this, this is his parting words, is that the rule and the law of God is good and beneficial to a people. Friends, we should desire. We should desire and want our nation to lead and make laws according to God's laws. Now you're saying, oh, you're crazy. That's that's some radical uh Christian extremism. No, that's that what else do we have? If we're not calling the nation to make laws according to God's law, what are we calling them to make laws according to? Our feelings? Man's law? Man's desires? Their passions? What are we calling them to do? Of course we want them to make laws according to God's law. Now is that perfect? By no means, right? Not even slightly. But our passion, our calling to the government, our calling to the leaders cannot be just do whatever you want. Just be generally good to society. No, we must call them and point them to the law of God. Friends, I I hope you recognize that the church should be doing the same thing You should be calling your pastors to lead and govern by the laws of God. It shouldn't just be some uh Pastor Matt and I just have a feeling the deacons we just We just feel jolly in our bellies and so we're going to start doing some crazy dances and wildness up here and say this is worshiping of God. Not doing any kind of dances. David danced, celebrating. But no, it's the same thing. Don't think this is just, oh, just it's just the political scene. No, this is for the church. Our church should be governed by the law of God. It's good. It's righteous. Now, what happens when a nation is governed by the law of God? What happens when a church is governed by the law of God? What happens when a family is governed by the law of God Or David tells us The beauty of the law of God and how it governs. Verse 4. The ruler, so this is first from the ruler, he dawns on them like the morning light. Like the sun shining forth on a cloudless morning. I ha uh I hope none of you look and say, Ooh, the sunrise, that I don't like the sunrise. That doesn't sound nice. I hope you hear this language. It's actually saying it's a beautiful thing. It's the warmth that warms up the soil. It's the warmth that wakes us up in the morning. It's a good thing. When a ruler leads and rules in fear of God and by his laws, it is the warmth of the the the uh the rising sun on us. It should be Bring us joy. It's a good thing for a ruler to lead by that way. But not only that, it's not only the ruler, but like rain that makes grass to sprout from the earth. There's productivity that comes from it A godly ruler actually drives his people and his nation, his family, his church to produce good and beautiful things. Friends, may we see that the law of God is good. May we want to be governed by the law of God. Christianity sometimes, probably more than sometimes often, from the world, is saying, oh, well, there's just so many rules in Christianity There's there's just all these rules and and you just have to obey and you have to say no to all the fun stuff. And you just have to You you have to be obedient and what we're saying and what the Word of God is saying, what God is saying, and what David is saying, all these people are saying, is that the law of God is good and beneficial to us. It actually produces good things. When we're obedient to God, good things are produced. When we desire to follow after Him, good things are produced. Both spiritually and physically. May we laugh at the world. This is a bit of a side note, but Pastor Matt and I just talked about this. May we laugh at the world when they say, oh, Christianity is all about a bunch of rules There's the 600 plus, 660 plus laws in the Old Testament. I encourage you someday to go down to the courthouse and ask for the Maryland State Law Book. You're gonna have more than 660 pages with multiple laws in that. So let's not allow the world to say, oh, Christianity is just a bunch of rules and laws. May we say yes, because God is good and He's given us good laws and we should follow after them. They produce good, they are a joy to our lives. Read all of Psalm one nineteen if you doubt me. It's all about the law of God being beneficial to us. Us. Turn with me and we'll be quick here to back to 1 Kings chapter 2. These are the parting words that David's giving to Solomon, who's about to be the king. In verse chapter 2, verse 2, I'm about to go the way of all the earth. Be strong and show yourself a man. Alright, so be strong and show yourself a man. And then what's he say? And keep the charge of the Lord your God, walking in his ways and keeping his statutes, his commandments, his rules, and his testimonies. As it is written in the law of Moses, that you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn. You wouldn't be strong, you wouldn't be courageous, you want to be a man, you wouldn't be strong, you want to be a fearless leader and a woman. Here's how you do it. Walk in the way of the Lord. Walk in the way of the Lord. It's why David says this over and over again. Things were really good in David's kingdom when he was walking in the way of the Lord. Victories were being won. The nation wasn't being established. Right, worship of God was being restored. And we saw this in our study over the last few weeks. What happened when he did not walk in the way of the Lord? And he slept with Bathsheba. He murdered her husband and he lied and covered it up. Did he prosper? No, he lost a son. He's just a living example of this truth. He's not telling us to do something that that he doesn't recognize he needed to do and he recognizes and witnessed and experienced the failure to walk in the way of the Lord brought pain and suffering. So friends, our charge tonight is to walk in the way of the Lord, to recognize that God's law is good, not bad, and that it is beneficial. The law of God will bring prosperity to us. Both spiritual and physical. The second topic that David talks about a lot, that God is the Redeemer God is the Redeemer. Look with me back in 2 Samuel 23, verse 5. It says, for does not my house stand so with God? For he has made with me an everlasting covenant. Ordered in all things and secure, for will he not cause to prosper all my help and my desires? For he does not, back and six, for does he not my house stand so with God? David 's recognizing, and he's telling us, he's telling anyone that's willing to listen to him, that God is the Redeemer. God's the only reason that his household is standing. God is the only reason that there is a kingdom. God is the only reason that he is king. God is the only reason that he is passing the kingship over to his son. God is the reason for all success. But he doesn't stop there. He actually drives it home. And he says, For he has made with me an everlasting covenant. An everlasting covenant. Now we talked about this a few weeks ago, the the the covenant that that God makes with David. I think that's Pastor Matt, if I remember. correctly that talked about the covenant and that God promises to to make a king come out of the lineage of David. God promises that the nations will come to To God out of the lineage of David. And essentially David's reminding the people of that truth. He's reminding them. Do not forget the promises God has made. Do not forget what God has said he's going to do. Do not forget that God is going to establish his kingdom and his king and restore the nations. Do not forget that. Now we live post-Christ and we see the fulfillment of that, do we not? Look with me in Acts 5 We see that Christ is the fulfillment of that promise. That's why David was saying it over and over again. Because there's times when things are hard, we forget the promises God has made. When it's dark out, it's hard to remember those promises. Acts 5, verse 31. This is God exalted him, meaning Christ. God exalted him at his right hand as leader and savior. Some translations may have prince and savior. To give repentance to Israel and forgiveness of sins. And we are witnesses to these things, and so is the Holy Spirit, whom God has given to those who obey Him. We are reminded that God is the Redeemer. We are reminded that God is fulfilling his promises that he made all the way back in the days of David. David. Actually, we see that God is fulfilling his promises he made all the way back in the days of Abraham. Actually, we see that God is fulfilling his promises that he made all the way back in the garden at the fall. May we never forget that God is going to keep his promises, that he is the fulfilling what he has said he's going to do, and that he is going to redeem broken, corrupt, and sinful people like you and me. How does he do that? How is this accomplished? David had had no way of fully understanding how this is going to be accomplished, but here we get to witness it. and is through the life, death, burial, and resurrection of Christ. And now he sits at the right hand of the Father after his ascension. And that's why we read in Acts the that God exalted him at his right hand as leader and savior. Christ is the king now. In heaven, having dominion over heaven and earth. Christ is building and advancing his kingdom now. And David wants us to be reminded of that. David wants us to see and rest assured that God is the Redeemer. He wants his son to know this. Turn back with me to second uh 1 Kings chapter 2 We didn't read this section, but uh if you go down to verse 9, now therefore do not hold him guiltless, for you excuse me, let me back up a little bit more. Uh verse midway down through verse eight, but when he came down to meet me at the Jordan, I swore to him by the Lord, saying, I will not put you to death with the sword. Now therefore, do not hold him guiltless, for you are a wise man. You will know what you ought to do to him. We see that God is actually preserving David. There's a whole background of enemies and fighting happening. But God has preserved David and promised that that he will have life in this time, but now Solomon is being instructed to destroy the enemies. And we'll see that in in our third point. But may we rest assured, may we be reminded that a God is the Redeemer. God is the one that saves Look just up a few verses in verse 4. The Lord may establish his word that he spoke concerning me, saying, If your sons paid close attention to their way, to walk before me in faithfulness. with all their heart and with all their soul, you shall not lack a man on the throne of Israel. God's promise Is that David's sons will inherit the kingdom. God's promise is that David's lineage will have a king on the throne. But here's the problem Are David's sons, is David's lineage, blameless? Were they perfect in their obedience? No Not until Jesus. We see that Christ is the fulfillment of that. While man failed, God did not. While man rebelled and broke his commitment, broke His commitment to the covenant of God, God never breaks his promises. We see that he set his son Jesus to be the perfect, perfect king over all of creation. God is the Redeemer, and that is fulfilled in Christ Jesus. Point number three that David wants us to hear. He goes back to over and over again. Is that God will destroy his enemies? God will destroy his enemies. Look back in 2 Samuel chapter 23. Verse 6, but worthless men are all like thorns that are thrown away, for they cannot be taken with the hand. But the man who touches them arms himself with iron and the shaft of a spear, and they are utterly consumed with fire. So David's talking that the there's enemies, there's problems out there, there's thorns. But they're going to be thrown away. And David's recognizing that there's going to be a physical battle in war, and if you continue reading through the historical books in the Old Testament, you'll see that war and that battle. Um s uh actually you see it before David even uh goes on to glory. But there's also a sense of this this eternal s uh destruction of the enemy Because we see that they are utterly consumed with fire. There's a total destruction of them. And then we can turn to Revelation and we will do that, but we see the fire consuming God's enemies in the end. But but David wants us, isn't it interesting? David wants us to hear and to know, to be reminded that God will destroy his enemies. This is actually an encouragement to us, brothers and sisters. Because there's enemies all around. We see the enemies of God raging war. It appears as though they're strong. David wants us to be reminded that they will be destroyed. He wants his son to be reminded that they will be destroyed. He also wants the son to be strong, be courageous, be ready for the war. It's the physical and the spiritual war that he's going to face. Be ready for the day of battle. And be rest assured that God will destroy his enemies. You know, these three items here, law. Redeemer and destroying the enemies, uh, we start to think that David wouldn't be invited to Thanksgiving dinner, right? What's the three things you're not supposed to talk about is money, politics, and uh religion? Well he's covering two of the three uh with with politics and religion, and then he's throwing in talking about enemies and their destruction. I'm like, David, come on man. Is there nothing else? Who have you talked about maybe something different? Well no, I I I think these words are so important for us today. Why are they so important? What should we glean from that? Why why are we preaching these and reading these? Well, friends, I want us to be reminded that that these three principles, that God's law is good and beneficial, God is the Redeemer, and that God will destroy his enemies. Are words that give us hope and give us a future glimpse into the glory of God. They give us hope and they give us direction and purpose for our lives. How is that so? God's law. God 's law gives us instructions of how we should live as Christians. That's why David says it over and over again. Talks about the law. Talks about how good it is We need to follow after God's law. We need to examine it. We need to ask questions about it. We want the law of God in our lives. We must recognize that we will fail. We cannot keep the law perfectly. We are not saved by our obedience to the law. But through Christ, through his sacrifice on the cross, through the indwelling of the Holy Spirit, the new creation that we are, we now should desire to follow after the law of God in all things. It gives us direction, it gives us purpose in our lives, it gives us how we shall live. How then shall we live is by the law of God God being our Redeemer, I think this is easy to see. It gives us hope. Praise God that He is our Redeemer. While we break the law of God, we are forgiven in Christ. While the enemies try to deploy and deploy their schemes and their attacks, we have a God that will rescue us in the end. While we were sinners, Christ died for us and made us children of God. Man, what great hope we have. A hope here for this earth. A hope here for this time. This moment in history, we have a hope that we are forgiven. That we are children of God. I say this over and over again. This is one of the mantras, John. When I'm long and gone and you are well into your hundreds and seventies, I want you to hold on to this and say, Anthony talked about that Men and women that recognize and live that they are forgiven by God live courageous in the world. There's no shame the world can bring against us. There's no attack the enemy can lay on us, accusation the enemy can lay on us because we are forgiven. By God. The Creator of the universe knows our sins and has forgiven us through the blood of Christ. Oh, what hope we have. But not only that, what about the future hope? We're looking towards our resurrection. We're looking towards the day that we enter into the presence of our holy God. We enter into the presence of our Redeemer. Why? It's because Christ has saved us. Man, we should be happy people. We should be joyful people. We should live lives that reflect the joy of redeemed beings. in this world. The world is sad. The world is sad. Don't let them lie to you. All the riches, all the fame. All the popularity on social media, whatever they have, all the desire and following after their sexual pleasures They're sad. They're attempting to chase after things that make them feel good for a moment, but ultimately they're dead. And depressed. We have the hope. Let us proclaim this hope to the world. Let us call the sinner to turn from their sin and place their faith in Christ with boldness, with joy. May we cry out to the sinner and tell them to come and follow after a true and everlasting redeemer. How shall God uh the third point, how shall we live and why does it matter that God will destroy his enemies? Well once again it gives us hope. These attacks here and this time are painful. Let me not diminish the pain of the attacks of the enemy. Let me now not diminish uh the frustration that that God's enemies bring to this world. Yes and amen. But they will be faint thoughts when we enter into glory. They will be erratically destroyed in the end. There's two modes of God's destruction of his enemies. One is through faith in Christ. You once were the enemies of God, and now you're children of God, because he destroyed you as his enemies when you were redeemed by the blood of Christ. And the second destruction is the eternal destruction. We rest assured that all the unrighteousness, all the unjust actions of this world, all the filth, all the problems, all the crimes that appeared to be just gotten away with will be paid for in the end. Turn with me to Revelation chapter 20 This is our glorious hope that we know that we have a redeemer and we know that we worship and serve a holy God that will punish the wicked, will destroy his enemies forever. Forever they will be destroyed. Not just for a moment. It's not just, well, the the armies won the victory and we're just hoping the enemy uh goes to sleep for a few days. No, it's an eternal victory. Look in Revelation twenty, verse eleven. Then I saw a great white throne, and him who was seated on it From his presence earth and sky fled away, and no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, great and small, standing before the throne, and books were opened. Then another book was opened Which is the book of life. And the dead were judged by what was written in the books according to what they had done. And the sea gave up the dead who were in it Death and Hades gave up the dead who were in them, and they were judged, each one of them according to what they had done. Then death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Death and Hades will be thrown into the lake of fire. Death and Hades? That great enemy? That enemy that we face day after day, we faced it recently, is death, the punishment and the destruction of sin. We see it, we feel it here on earth. That's going to be destroyed and thrown into the lake of fire. Well, if death is going to be cast in a lake of fire, how much more will every other enemy that tries and attempts to stand before a holy God. Friends, may we have hope. May we rejoice in the truth that all the enemies will be destroyed in the end. It should motivate how we live. It should motivate us to call once again the enemies to turn and repent. Turn to the Lord. But we also can face tomorrow in the moment of great trials. We can face tomorrow knowing that our God is in control and He will punish the wicked for their deeds, He will destroy the enemies. Even if they're attacking us right now. Friends, may we hear the parting words of David. May we be reminded that God's law is good and beneficial. May we desire to live after it. May we know and rest assured that God is the Redeemer, that Christ has saved sinners like you and me. And may we be excited for the day that all of God's enemies will be destroyed. And we get to spend eternity celebrating and worshiping our Holy God. Let's pray to Him and praise Him for what He has done. Father, we thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you that you are a God that's near, God that cares for us, God that has spoken. You've redeemed sinners like us. You've given us new life. You've given us the ability and the desire to follow after your law. Lord, remind us. Renew in us. Show us how good your law is. May we never doubt it. May we never think that man's law is better. May we never think that you are cruel or unjust in your law. Lord, I ask tonight, you just you make us fall in love with your law. You make us fall in love with your commandments. Give us passions to follow them. Lord, we rejoice that you redeemed us. We rejoice that you saved us. That you're not going to destroy us for eternity, but that we will be with you. Lord, give us the power and the wisdom to proclaim these truths. to the world. And may we give you all the glory in all that we do. In Christ's name. Amen.