Well, let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Genesis 3. We continue in our series in Genesis God made the world and everything in it. He made it all good. It was very good. He made man, both male and female, in his image and likeness, perfectly obedient, perfectly righteous, with a The right knowledge of God, and then temptation entered, and then sin entered, and death entered through sin. Now we are still in the Garden of Eden Genesis 3, 20 to 24 is the text for today. Genesis 3, 20 to 24. But, in this passage, Adam and Eve are driven out from Eden. And we leave Eden, the Garden of God in Eden. So that's the title, Exile from Eden, Genesis 3, 20-24. Maybe a good way just to start thinking about this is before and after. A before and after Before temptation, before sin, Adam and Eve were innocent, but now after, they're guilty Before temptation, before sin, before judgment, before exile from Eden, Adam and Eve were pure. And holy, but after they are corrupt, before they are in fellowship with God, after they're alienated from God, before They have a knowledge of good. But after they have a knowledge of good and evil, experiential knowledge of good and evil. Before they had free entry to the Garden of God in Eden, which means open access to fellowship with God. But after they are driven out after they are exiled, after they are banned from entering the Garden of God, which means cut off from that open fellowship with God before and after. Well those afters sound pretty bad, don't they? Those afters can be quite depressing, but there is hope. Because there is a way back. Because there is the promise of a savior And there is mercy that comes from God, and there is love that comes from God, and there is grace that comes from God. So even though the Adam and Eve are in the after They can still get back, not get back to Eden, but they can still get back to fellowship with God. They can still get back to obedience to God because of the Savior that God promised. Let's pray together and then we'll read the passage. Father, we pray that you would stir our hearts by your powerful living word this morning. Convict us of our sin and our weakness to show us just how desperately we need Jesus Christ every single day of our lives. And Father, turn our hearts to Christ. Fill our hearts with devotion and affection for Jesus Christ. Fill our hearts with a great pressing sense of dependency on the Holy Spirit. Father, I pray that you would increase our appetite for your holy word. Strength in a hunger within us for your holy living word, we pray. We pray for the lost That you would convince them of their need for a Savior and convert them to faith and repentance toward the Lord Jesus Christ. Save them, we pray. It's in his name we lift this prayer. Amen. Adam and Eve, yes, they were exiled from Eden, from the garden, as a consequence of their sin. But God still loved them, and God did not abandon his purpose for them or for the world. Now that's the message. Yes, God exiles them as a consequence of their sin. But God still loves Adam and Eve. And God did not abandon his purpose for them, and he did not abandon his purpose for the world. Let's read Genesis 3:20 to 24. The man called his wife's name Eve. Because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord God made for Adam and for his wife garments of skin. And clothed them. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever, therefore the Lord God sent him out from the Garden of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man. And at the east of the Garden of Eden, he placed the cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. Key phrase, verse 23, sent him out. And also key phrase, verse 24, he drove out the man Exile, driving out, casting out, putting out. Now Eden was a region The garden was in the region of Eden. Now it's called the Garden of Eden. Eden is a region, but there is a particular garden sanctuary where Adam and Eve were put. And this is what they're driven out of. They were exiled as a consequence of breaking God's law, but God still loved them and did not abandon his purpose for them. And I hope to draw that out from this passage this morning. Before I begin to draw it out and go through those points on your outline, I think there's rich, rich encouragement for each one of us in this overarching point. Adam and Eve sinned, and there was a consequence of that sin, but God still loved them and did not abandon his purpose for them. I draw encouragement from that because guess what? I sinned. But I know because of Christ, God still loves me. And God will not abandon his purpose for me, which is to sanctify me into the likeness of Christ. Now, please apply that to your own heart because you sin. I'm weak, and you are weak, and yet God loves us for the sake of Christ. And God will not abandon us. He will not rip the Holy Spirit from your heart. God will not abandon this purpose for which he's predestined you unto, which is to be conformed to the image and likeness of the exalted Lord. That encourages me. Romans 8. 28, we know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose We know that for those who love God, that's those who've been saved by grace, not by works, but they've been saved by grace And the result of that is love for God. We know that those who love God, all things work together for good for those who are called according to his purpose. Now he's called us according to his purpose. Do you think he's going to give up on his purpose now? Do we think he's going to fail in his purpose now? Absolutely not. And that's why we know. Whatever God's purpose was for us, he will accomplish to perfection in Christ. Amen? June 24. Now to him who is able to keep you from stumbling. Well, I'm really happy about that. Leave me on my own for three seconds, and I will stumble. Him who is able to keep you from stumbling and to present you blameless before the presence of his glory with great joy. Brethren, can you imagine? Being presented before the holy throne of God Almighty and being counted blameless? This is wonderful. I know the life that I have lived. The thoughts that I have thunked. Is that right? The desires of the flesh, the selfish pride, the sinful pride , the greed and the envy, and the impatience and the lust. We know, by the grace of God, we know this. Only by the grace of God do we know that we are sinners who deserve judgment. But by the blood of Christ we will be presented before the pure heavenly throne of God and be counted blameless. And not be terrified, but be filled with joy when that happens. Praise God Glory. Hallelujah. Jesus has saved us. And if you're here today and you've not come to faith in Jesus Christ, you can do it today. On the basis of his death on the cross. Where he died to receive the penalty of due sinners. He died in our place, took our penalty, took our sin, took our guilt, took our shame, put your faith in him, based on that sacrifice, and based on the fact that he's living now in heaven. That's how you can come to Jesus. Put your faith in him and you too. You too will one day be presented before the pure heavenly throne of God and be, praise God, blameless. Amen. That's what this is about. This is the heart of worship. This is the heart of worship. Brothers and sisters, this is not just the heart of evangelism. This is the heart of Christian living. This is the heart of worship. This is the heart of our daily prayers. This is the heart of everything. This makes everything possible to Jesus Christ that saved us by his blood. Isn't this just the introduction? Shouldn't I, at some point, move on? At some point, I will. 1 Corinthians 1, 8 and 9, speaking of the Lord Jesus Christ, who will sustain you to the end First Corinthians, first Corinthians 1-8, who will sustain you to the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus The day of our Lord Jesus is the day when he returns in fiery wrath and judgment from heaven, and on that day you'll be guiltless, guiltless before him. Verse 9 gives us the reason. God is faithful, by whom you were called into the fellowship of His Son, Jesus Christ our Lord. God is faithful. We will not persevere to the end based on our faithfulness. We'll persevere to the end based on God's faithfulness. Brethren, God is faithful. God will not abandon his purpose, generally, and he will not abandon his purpose for you, child of God. And his purpose for you is to conform you perfectly to the image of the exalted Lord Christ. And to present you blameless and joyful before his throne. That's your purpose in life. Let the world chase after riches Let the world chase after sensual pleasures. Let the world chase after collectibles. Let us chase after Christ and his heavenly kingdom. That's our purpose in life. Now that'll set us straight. That'll help us make decisions in life. That'll bring us down to earth. That'll knock us off our pedestal. Adam and Eve were exiled as a consequence of breaking God's law. But Adam and Eve, Genesis 3. 15, heard the gospel promise. And I believe they, based on scripture, I believe they came to faith and were saved. I believe Adam and Eve are in heaven right now, in the fellowship of God, blameless before the throne of God, full of joy that they can't even put into words. Because God so loved them and he did not abandon his purpose for them. Now, for the rest of our time, I want to zero in on three aspects of Adam and Eve's exile from the garden. Just three. Three aspects. You probably could have predicted there's going to be three something. Three aspects of Adam and Eve's exile from the garden. First, provision. Second, protection. And third, punishment. Provision, protection, punishment. There's a lot that goes on in this passage. It could have been just one sentence, God came down, kick them out. And they go ahead, figure it out yourselves. You're on your own That's not what happened. There's a provision, there's a protection, and there's a punishment. First the provision. I'm getting this from verses 20 and 21. The man called his wife's name Eve, because she was the mother of all living. To me, I take that as a sign of Adam's faith. He has faith that there's going to be a living, there's going to be people, there's going to be a mankind after him that God promised, that God provided for. The man called his wife's name Eve because she was the mother of all living. And the Lord, Yahweh, the Lord God, made for Adam and for his wife garments for skins. Garments of skins and clothed them. God came down, the Lord God came down, He offered the first animal sacrifice, and He made garments. to cover the nakedness which represented the guilt and the shame of their sin. Remember from the earlier passages? God covered What they tried to cover but could not. The first sacrifice offered by God himself This is provision. This is provision. Now, we have already learned in Genesis 3. 15 that God is a gracious Savior. God is a gracious Savior. He promised victory over Satan. He promised to send a Savior. That's the gospel. In the form of an embryo, in the form of a seed. God is a gracious Savior. We already know that. If we're tracking with the text. Here he strengthens the point and he solidifies the point. God not only is the Almighty Creator, but He is a gracious Savior who will not abandon His purpose. To say that God is a gracious Savior can be summarized in so many different ways because you know it's true. There's so many different aspects of salvation. One way to re- I love this, one way to really summarize That God is a gracious Savior is that He provides a remedy for sin. He provides a remedy. He provides the healing ointment. He provides the cure. Because sin is a sickness. Sin is a spiritual illness. It is a corrupt, evil power that now lives within us. And only God can provide the remedy. And the fact that God does provide the remedy for sin proves and shows that He is a gracious Savior. And here you go to scripture, outline scripture. God is creator, God is Savior. There you go. Two major bullet points. That's what scripture is about. It's God in history and in his word, revealing himself as an almighty creator and as a gracious. Savior. Lots of our hymns go through that movement. With a first verse, maybe also the second verse, the singing God's glory as made known in creation. the the the creation of the world and then within the creation itself and God's providence. But then as you move through the hymn, verse 3, verse 4, verse 5, some of the old hymns, as you move through them, it moves into the story of redemption What are those hymns doing? They're trying to, not trying to, they are leading our hearts in worship to see God as an almighty creator Who is sovereign over all things, who controls all things, who has a purpose for all things, and to show our hearts that God is a gracious Savior. And He has a love for sinners and He has a mercy for sinners and He sent a Savior for sinners. That's The structure of Scripture, broadly speaking. Do you know that God is the Creator? Do you know that God is Savior? Is your heart given over to Him fully? He provides a remedy for sin. He's a gracious Savior. Here you see this In a symbol, in an earth the first symbol of an animal sacrifice And then from that sacrifice, a covering for sins. It's an illustration of the remedy God provides. Sacrifices in the Old Testament have a meaning, they have a symbolic meaning, and as you go through the story, you see altars. You see sacrifices, you see offerings, you see the tabernacle system eventually, you see the temple, and it's all centered on the sacrificial system. So you don't learn all about it, everything we need to know right here, tell me everything. No, you just get the beginnings here. As we go through the Old Testament, we learn more and more and more of the meaning and the importance of substitutionary offerings, where God accepts the life of one thing in the place of you. A Passover lamb, so that you can live. A lamb in the thicket so that the child of promise, Isaac, can live. The sacrifices are teaching about the principle of substitution, the teaching about the need for life to be given so that sinners can be pardoned That's the lesson. The remedy for sin comes through sacrifice, comes through blood. Without the shedding of blood, there's no forgiveness of sins. That's why we must be found in Christ. Because only by his blood the sins are forgiven. 1 Peter 2. 24. All the sacrifices. The Old Testament, Old Covenant, beginning here, the Old Covenant wasn't inaugurated yet, but your Old Testament, starting here, all the sacrifices are foreshadowing the sacrifice of Christ. But they're symbols of what Christ accomplished. 1 Peter 2. 24. He himself bore our sins in his body on the tree. What in the world is that? That substitution. That's the gospel. Substitution. He didn't bear his sins and his body on the tree. He had no sins. How did he bear his sins on the tree? He had no sins He bore our sins and his body on the tree. Not our body on the tree. Not your body under the judgment of God. Not my body under the judgment of God. His body, his body. Bore my sins. His body bore your sins on the tree, which means cross He himself bore our sins in his body on the trees, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed, for you were strained like sheep. But now have returned to the shepherd and overseer of your souls. That's a really nice name for God. That's a really nice title, office for God. He's the shepherd. And he's the overseer of our souls. Now, when we were lost, we were the shepherd of our souls. We lived as the overseer of our souls. But now that Christ has saved us, beloved. God is our shepherd and God is our overseer. And it's all by the blood of Christ. Now, do you agree with Peter when he says this? For you were straying like sheep, or do you disagree with Peter? I want to know. Do you agree with Peter when he says you were straying like sheep? We all agree with him. That's conviction Brothers and sisters, we need to remember that. Can we remember that God in sovereign mercy plucked us up out of darkness? Can we remember? Can we praise his name that he snatched us out of corruption and rebellion? so that we might know him and be his servants forever? Praise God for this great salvation. God is a gracious Savior, he provides a remedy for sin. And so yes, Adam and Eve are driven out. They're exiled as a consequence for breaking God's law. But God still loved them and he did not abandon them. He immediately begins to teach them about the way of redemption. And he makes a sacrifice. And he clothes them and covers their guilt and shame. Number two, protection. Protection. Oh, that God would stir our hearts to his grace Oh, that God would light a flame in our hearts for his mercy. Protection. Not only is God a gracious Savior, provides a remedy for sin, but he's also a faithful guardian. Who preserves and protects his people. He's a faithful guardian who preserves and protects his people. Protection. Verses 22 and then down to 24. Then the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. Now, lest he reach out his hand and take also of the tree of life and eat and live forever, and then most of your Bibles have a like a mega hyphen right there. Right? And that's to accentuate that in the Hebrew grammar it's an incomplete sentence. It's a incomplete conditional sentence Lest he reach out his hand and take also the tree of life and eat and live forever. And it just hangs you off there. But the idea is if they would have eaten from the tree of life in their corrupt state, they would have been confirmed in that corruption and guilt and not had a way of redemption. So God is driving them out. So that they do not live forever in a state of guilt and corruption. So this isn't see this as an act of kindness Verse 24. We'll come back to verse 22 for one more thing. But verse 24, he drove out the man and At the east of the Garden of Eden, he placed a cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life. So verse 22 and verse 24 are connected. Verse 22, you get the reason. We've got to You've got to get them away from the tree so they do not eat of this tree and live forever in this corrupt and guilty state, be confirmed in unrighteousness. That's the last thing we want is to be confirmed in unrighteousness. Now you have a guardian angel, a guardian cherub with a flaming sword in Scripture, which symbolizes judgment and destruction. Guarding the way to the tree of life, which is important. Not just guarding the way into the garden, but specifically the tree of life. Because again, if they get to that tree of life, though it appears as if This is the concern. They'll be confirmed in unrighteousness with then no way of escape. Verse 22, the Lord God said, Behold, the man has become like one of us in knowing good and evil. There's some different interpretations of that. The us, one translation, which is the one I, one interpretation rather, which is the one I lean to, is similar to in Genesis 1. Let us make man in our image and likeness. I take that as the triune council, just the inner council of God as Father, Son, and Spirit Others will take this as God's heavenly court. God does have a heavenly court that you see God and he's surrounded by this high order of angels and then out you go out another row and there's another order of angels. The council, the heavenly council, the heavenly court of God. Well, whichever way you lean on that, you see that man now has the knowledge of good and evil. Now for man Is different than from God. God knows all. God knows what good is, and He knows what evil is. It's that which is opposite to His character. But from man's vantage point Man's from a different situation. , Man's from a different vantage point. Before the fall into sin, all that he knew in his mind, heart, and experience is that which is good. So for man now to be in experiential knowledge of good and evil is not good. It's not good. It's bad. That's what we need to be saved from. We need to be redeemed from that. It was better, here's my point, it was better for Adam and Eve before sin entered the world, where all they knew was good and perfect communion with God. It's good, right? Amen? That's good. No sin, no suffering, no death, no rebellion, no fights, just out of the name, in perfect fellowship with each other. Perfect fellowship with God, communion with God, all they knew was good. But now that sin has entered, they have a knowledge, experiential knowledge of good and evil. Which is not better for them. It is worse. So they need God to protect them. If God doesn't protect them, they have no hope. They have no chance at all. They have no chance at all if God doesn't help them. First God comes with the promise of salvation. Then God comes with teaching them sacrifice, teaching them the way of redemption to provide a covering for sin. Now God is going to guard them from the tree of life. And make sure that they do not have access to the tree of life because he does not want them confirmed in their unrighteousness. And of course, we would expect Adam and Eve. If that was God's law, that they were not allowed back in the garden, you think that just by virtue of the law that they would obey and listen to God? No, that's not what sinners do. Remember, Adam and Eve are now sinners. They're saved by faith, but they're still sinners. And how often do we do things that God has told us not to do, church? How often do we neglect to do things that God has told us to do? And how often do we do things where God has told us not to do? So God takes the extra step, He goes the extra mile to protect them, to guard them. He puts an angel with a flaming sword of heavenly judgment to guard them from the tree of life. Now it's not exactly the same, but I think there's rich application for us here in trying to have victory over sin. And trying to have victory over temptation. Beloved, we don't try to have victory on our own strength. We don't try to have victory on our own wisdom. But we have to go to God for strength. Let God be our strength. Let God be our wisdom. You are not called to defeat sin on your own. We are called to put sin to death, but we do that through faith in Christ. We do that through prayer. We do that through crying out to God and calling upon God. God, would you save me from my sin? That's why in 1 Corinthians 15, where Paul summarizes the gospel, and he summarizes the importance of the gospel, he says of the gospel by which you are being saved. Well wait a minute, Paul. You already said in chapter 4 that I am saved and that I have been saved, and then you get to chapter 15. You say, by which you are being saved Yes, because we still need to be sanctified from the ruling power of sin. We still need to be saved in an ongoing manner against the tyranny of sin in our hearts. Amen? And then my point is: if God doesn't help you in that, you're sunk. If God doesn't help me, I am sunk in saying no to temptation. Provision. Provision. God is a gracious Savior. Amen? Protection Supernatural protection. God is not only a gracious savior, he's a faithful guardian. He preserves his people. And he protects his people. You know, you don't need that if all you want to do is the uh the superficial outward things of Christianity. You don't need God for that If you want to turn for sin in your life, you need God's power upon you. Now we cannot go back to the original garden. But we can go back to fellowship with God, which is what that's the important thing about the garden. And we can't go back to the original garden, but we can go back, beloved, to innocence and righteousness before God, which is the important thing about the garden. Fellowship with God, innocence and righteousness. And the tree of life, which sets forth in symbol the prospect of heavenly fellowship with God. We can get those things. God did not destroy the garden immediately. The garden was destroyed later in the flood. But it's still here as an object lesson. It's still here as an object lesson because the promise of what the garden stood for remains with one major caveat. It can only be attained by the promised Savior of Genesis 3. 15. He's the way back to fellowship with God. He's the way back to innocence and righteousness before God. He's the way to attain to heavenly life, symbolized in the tree of life. Adam, you can't do this. Eve, you can't do this. I'm convinced Adam and Eve were just like me. If you give me five minutes without that guardian cherub, I'd be right back in that garden doing what God didn't want me to do. In Revelation, images, the book of Revelation, images of Eden reemerge. And they're used to describe the wonder and the glory of the new creation. In Revelation 2, 7, to the one who conquers, I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God. What does that mean? Does that mean If you persevere in Christ, God will give you a time machine and He'll send you back to me with Adam and Eve. No, that's not what that means. It's the thing that the tree, the thing that the garden sanctuary symbolized you will inherit. Which is heavenly life with God. Perfect fellowship with God. Innocence and righteousness before the throne of God. That's what we want. That's what we need. And that's the purpose of the gospel is to bring these things like a gift-wrapped package to people's doorsteps Here's the throne of God. Here's the way to be innocent. Here's the way to get to heaven. The Lord Jesus Christ. Revelation 22, too. A visionary picture of The glory and wonder of the new creation. On either side of the river, the tree of life, with its twelve kinds of fruit, yielding its fruit each month, the leaves of the tree were for the healing of the nations. And then again 2214 Blessed are those who wash their robes so that they may have the right to the tree of life. In the Old Testament In Ezekiel chapter 28, chapter 31, the Garden of Eden is called the Garden of God. This was not just your ordinary garden. This was just not just the prettiest garden ever. This was the garden of God that functioned for Adam and Eve a parallel way that the tabernacle functioned for Israel. It was the garden of God, a garden sanctuary, a place of worship, a place of prayer, a place of communion with God. That's what they're cast out of And it represented God's presence to them there, but it also represented to them the prospect of joining God in his heavenly rest that God entered the day after the six days of creation. Gracious Savior who provides a remedy for sin. Check. God is that. Faithful guardian who preserves and protects his people all the days of our lives. Check. God is that. The provision, the protection. And number three, the punishment. Verses 23. There is a punishment, verses 23 and 24. Therefore the Lord God sent him out from the garden Of Eden to work the ground from which he was taken. He drove out the man, and at the east of the Garden of Eden he placed a cherubim and a flaming sword that turned every way to guard the way to the tree of life Not only is God a gracious Savior, He provides a remedy for sin, and He also is a faithful guardian, He preserves and protects His people, but He is a loving Father who disciplines His children. To teach us wisdom and to teach us to walk in the fear of the Lord. He is a loving father who disciplines his children. To teach us wisdom and to teach us to walk in the fear of the Lord. You see Adam and Eve being punished If you see Adam and Eve being exiled, and you think that this is God being mean, or you think this is God being unrighteous, or you think this is God being unloving, you will! Parents who love their children discipline their children. Discipline their children. God loves us. Now he disciplined Israel by exiling them into Babylon Teach them. And there's judgment. Clearly in the prophets there's judgment. But for true children of God, for believers in Israel, it is discipline that will help teach them. Wisdom and teach them to walk in the fear of the Lord. The northern kingdom was exiled to Assyria by Assyria As judgment, punishment, discipline of the Lord. The southern kingdom was exiled by Babylon as judgment, punishment, discipline of the Lord. Adam and Eve are exiled. So that they might learn to fear the Lord, which just means acknowledging his supreme authority over us. Walking with a reverence and walking with an awe in light of God's authority. over the world, over us, over our souls. God has rights on everything. It's such a tragic thing. The lost world of which I used to be a willing member of before God saved me. It's such a tragic thing. This lie, this myth, that human beings have the right to live on earth however we please, we do not have the right To live on God's earth in bodies that God gave us and do whatever we please. We will be judged. Brothers and sisters, there's a judgment coming. God made the world. God made us, and we're accountable before God. And that's why the wages of sin is death. The wages of sin is death because life is a gift from God. And so when we rebel against the giver of life, we forfeit that gift, brothers and sisters. And the only way to get it back is through faith in Christ. I love that part. Brother, I love that part. That I didn't have to go out and work for it. That I didn't have to go out and be a good person for it. That I didn't have to come to church and do religion so that I can get it. But as a free gift. Through the blood of Christ, received by faith, God gives life to dead sinners. Amen? That's the gospel. That's what we're about. Church, what are we about? That's what we're about. Being transformed by that gospel. Hearts captivated and captured by that gospel. Is that where your heart is this morning? So there is a punishment to teach, to discipline, Proverbs 1-7, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. You don't have the fear of the Lord. You haven't yet started your journey toward knowledge. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Hebrews 12, 5 and 6. Have you forgotten the exhortation that addresses you as sons? My son? My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord. Nor be weary when reproved by him. For the Lord disciplines the one he loves, and he chastises every son whom he receives. How does that enter your heart this morning? Do you know that God disciplines his children? Do you know in delight that God reproves his children and corrects his children? It's because he loves us. He chastises us because he loves us. Punishment. Punishment. Discipline for God's children. That's not the only punishment that see in scripture. 's You see punishment against the reprobate, punishment, final judgment, punishment of destruction. But we're talking about for God's children, brothers and sisters, God's children. Those saved by grace, those united to Christ, God will use our hardships to discipline us. He'll use our sins and the earthly consequences of our sins to discipline us. To humble us. Again, knock us off the pedestal. Why? Why? To teach us. Same reason we have to discipline our children because they don't know right and wrong. They don't know it's wrong to grab a toy from someone else's hand. They don't know it's wrong to hit someone in the back of their head because everybody else says It's funny. They have to learn. Children are sinners. They have to learn right and wrong. They have to learn wisdom. They have to learn to walk in the fear of the Lord. And so do I. And so do you. So what does God do? Does he kick us out and say you go figure it out? No, he disciplines us. Oh, Christian, please never forget that God is present with you in your life. And the Holy Spirit lives in your heart. He's providentially working in your life for your good to sanctify you to the likeness of Christ. There'll be times of discipline. There'll be times when the Lord reproves you. Times when the Lord has chastised me. It's hard for the moment. Amen. It's hard for the moment. But it's for our good. He wants to humble us And I know I need this, and I know you need this, where we need to learn, you learn gradually how to depend on God more and more. We learn gradually how to make better and better decisions in life. We learn gradually over experience and sanctification. We learn gradually how to exercise proper discernment. In our lives as to what's good and right versus what's wrong and what's evil. God is a gracious Savior. He provides a remedy for sin. He's a faithful guardian. He preserves and protects his people. And he's a loving father. Disciplines his children to teach us wisdom and the fear of the Lord. When you read this passage, if you blink, you'll miss it. God comes down to earth, makes a blood sacrifice , And provides a covering, a remedy for the guilt and shame of sin. But that's a picture of Christ. That's a thumbnail. That's a thumbnail sketch of what Christ did. He came from heaven to earth. To offer a blood sacrifice, to make a remedy for our sins. Jesus died on a cross. He himself Bore our sins in his body on the tree that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. By his wounds you have been healed. If you do not know God this morning I beg you, I beg you, turn to Christ in faith and be saved. Don't go to hell. Please, don't die and stand before the throne of God still guilty. Please turn to Christ so that the guilt of all of your sin, all the guilt of all your sin will be erased, cleansed, washed away. So that when you die, your soul goes and stands before God. And rather than guilty, you're innocent. And rather than corrupt, you're pure. And rather than to be blamed for all of your sin, you'll be blameless because of what Christ did. Let's pray. Father, thank you for salvation. Thank you for Jesus. What could we say? You've given us so much. You've given us life. Every day you give us food, every day you give us water, every day you give us clothing and shelter and health care and freedom. And protection and family and friends and church and job and all kinds of earthly good things to show your goodness. And then on top of it, you give us yourself. You give us the Holy Spirit. You take away our sins, and you give us the hope of heaven. You give us eternal life. You give and you give and you give. And so we lift your name on high. And we praise you. In Jesus' name. Amen.