Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. Daniel 7, 1 through 8. Although, in just a minute, when I read the passage, I'm going to read through verses verse 12 and also read a few other verses later in the chapter. Daniel 7 is a transitional chapter in Daniel. It's a very important chapter. The first six chapters of Daniel are basically stories revolving around Daniel. His friends. Of course, there's other main characters, right? But stories revolving around Daniel and his friends. And chapter seven begins Daniel's prophecies. And that will be the second half of the book. Daniel 7, 1 through 8. Calling this class, God sends his prophet. Obviously, you know the prophet is. Daniel. God sends his prophet. And if I had to put a subtitle on it, I would call it this. And he shows his prophet the future. Right. He doesn't just send his prophets, okay, go figure out what you need to say. No, he he shows Daniel the future And Daniel's job as the prophet is to, first of all, to record that and to disseminate that truth for the people of God. And it's with us today in the book. Book of Daniel. God sends his prophet and he shows his prophet the future. Daniel w uh Daniel 7, we'll read verses 1 through 12. In the first year of Belshazzar, now that should pique your interest, and we'll get to why when we're done reading the passage. In the first year of Belshazzar, king of Babylon, Daniel saw a dream And visions of his head as he lay in his bed. Then he wrote down the dream and told the sum of the matter Daniel declared, I saw in my vision by night, and behold, the four winds of heaven were stirring up the great sea. And four great beasts came out of the sea, different from one another. Now the first was like a lion and had eagle's wings Then I looked, its wings were plucked off, and it was lifted up from the ground and made to stand on two feet like a man. And the mind of a man was given to it. Verse 5. And behold, another beast, the second one, like a bear. It was raised up on one end or one side. It had three ribs in its mouth, between its teeth. And it was told, Arise, devour much flesh. Verse 6: After this I looked, and behold, another, like a leopard, but with four wings of a bird on its back. And the beast also had four heads, and dominion was given to it. After this I saw in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying and dreadful, exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth. It devoured and destroyed and stamped what was left with its feet. It was different. It was unique from all the beasts that were before it. And it had ten horns. I considered the horns And behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the first horns were plucked up by the roots And behold, in this horn were eyes, like the eyes of a man, and the mouth speaking great things. There's just one thing I want to make a mention of right now, just to help us get the imagery. We'll get to the interpretation and everything later on. Lord willing. Just something to help us with the imagery of this horn, this little horn that's coming up among or in the midst of these ten horns. horns and it supplants these other horns. Just to picture it, I this may be gross for you, but imagine if one of your teeth just started supernaturally growing and growing and getting bigger and bigger. What would naturally happen is the two or three teeth around it would just be pushed out and fall out. That's the idea of this horn growing up and these it gets so big and so prevalent these other horns it just pushes out. Now that's the imagery of this horn. And there's lots of debate on the there's lots of difficulty with the interpretation of this horn. We'll get to later. But that's the imagery of what what the horn does. And it's a powerful and grotesque Image of this horn and the beast coming up and uh supplanting these other ones. Let's continue reading verse 9. Verse 9 As I looked, now remember, this uh this beast, we're in the midst of the fourth beast. The most terrifying, the most powerful, this dreadful beast. This is the context. So don't let the paragraph break, send our minds to just some abstract universe where nothing's going on. It's in the midst of this beast where Daniel now looks and thrones were placed. And the ancient of days took his seat. So now we're immediately in the throne room of God, where the sovereign king over all things takes his seat of judgment. In the midst of and over this beast. His clothing was white as snow. The hair of his head was like pure wool, his throne was fiery flames, its wheels were burning fire, a stream of fire issued and came out from before him. A thousand, thousands served him. Ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court sat in judgment and the books were open. The beast has no power on this one. Doesn't even come close. He's not even in the same Category, the same league as the Ancient of Days. The Ancient of Days sits in judgment. The beast doesn't sit in judgment Now the reason 9 through 12, and I'm going to read 11 and 12 in just a moment, that's not in our study tonight. Because I wanted to give ample time for studying the imagery of this passage and some other things related to it. Verse 11, I look then Because of the sound of the great words that the horn was speaking. You see? Same context. Same context. The little horn speaking. And as I looked, the beast was killed, and his body destroyed, and given over to be burned with fire. And there's no battle. There's no battle in the im in the imagery, in the vision. There's no issue of, well maybe the beast will prevail over the ancient of days. It can't happen. It won't happen. It didn't happen The beast was killed and its body destroyed and given over to be burned with fire. As for the rest of the beasts, their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season and a time. Now go down to verses 15 through 18. Just a little glance at the interpretation of this vision. As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was anxious. And the visions of my head alarmed me. I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me and made known to me the interpretation of the things. It appears as though he approached one of the angels, right? These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth. So what's the interpretation of the beast? Kings, right? And we know in scripture and in Daniel also the kings and the kingdoms are basically the same thing, right? The king represents his kingdom. And the kingdom's power represents the power of the king who's been instituted of a kingdom. So like Nebuchadnezzar is the king of the Babylonian Empire at the beginning of the Of the book. So, the four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth. They're worldly kingdoms, earthly kingdoms, wicked earthly kingdoms. and the kings who reigned within them. Verse 18 But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom for ever and ever. ends our reading. And in terms of from chat anything from verse 9 forward, I mean we're we're gonna peek and cheat a little bit tonight as is necessary, and we already did But in terms of in-depth study and discussion, not going to get into anything past verse 8 Tonight. That's all related. So and then when we get to those later sections, we'll be able to refer to verses one through eight. But I don't want to just rush over the context in the beginning. So let's go back to verse 1. Daniel the prophet. First of all, Daniel the prophet And notice the time. Notice the time. In the first year of Belshazzar, king of Babylon. Now why is that interesting? Well, it's interesting because Belshazzar died in chapter 5, verse 30. So we've been put in the time machine again, but this time going backwards. We're back in the Babylonian era. Alright? We had been taken to the era of the Medes and the Persians, but now we're going backward. So Daniel, chapter by chapter by chapter, is not strictly chronological. Alright? We are back in the first year of Belshazzar. Look at chapter 5, verse 30. That very night Belshazzar the Chaldean king Was killed. And Darius, the mead, received the kingdom, being about 62 years old. So at the end of chapter 5, Belshazzar was killed But in the beginning of chapter 7, we're in the first year of Belshazzar. Alright, we've gone back. He's gone back to the Babylonian era. Five fifty two B C. So notice the timing of it. Secondly, notice the means of revelation. What Daniel's task is. He sees number one, and he writes number two, and he speaks. Number three. He sees, he writes what he sees, and then he speaks, or he preaches, or he teaches, or he Tells. Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head as he lay in bed. These are things that God showed Daniel through supernatural revelation. Daniel saw a dream and visions of his head as he lay in bed. Then he wrote down the dream. And told the sum of the matter. Daniel is a prophet. He doesn't invent what he teaches. He receives What he teaches. He receives from God authoritative truth, in this case, about the future. Doesn't always need to be about the future, it's going to be a truth in general God is creator. It could be a truth for a contemporary audience, but this is truth about the future. receives and he faithfully records and preaches what he receives. Now our approach and our confidence To the word of God should be the same as Daniel's in general, right? We trust it, right? And we we Preach it, teach it, tell it. Right? We have a closed canon, Old Testament, New Testament, and we have prophecies for the future. We know what's going to happen in in the future. Not every single detail, okay? But we know the main things, the important things, the central things, the critical things that are we know how the story is going to end. We know our place in that story. Again, not every detail, but we have the details God wants us to have. So we don't get lost in things we don't know, but we rejoice in things we know Daniel received the word, we've received the word. Trustworthy word from God. And it's our goal not just to receive it and believe it, but to faithfully teach it, preach it, share it, tell it. This is so important. So we notice the time. We notice the means of revelation. God showed Daniel in a supernatural way. And then Daniel. Wrote and spoke it. Notice the central and foundational fact that's given before we even get into the beasts. Daniel declared, verse 2. I saw in my vision by night, and behold the four winds of heaven. We're stirring up the Great Sea. The Great Sea is symbolic of earthly powers, the chaos, the wickedness of earthly kingdoms The kingdoms of man, but they're stirred up by the four winds of heaven. It's a quick reference It's a brief reference. But the picture is of God's sovereignty over the kingdoms of man. The power source is in heaven. Heaven. The one with the plan for whatever's about to happen is in heaven. The one who's able to carry it out is in heaven. It's a divine stirring. It's a heavenly stirring. It's the four winds, four symbolic of universal. The four winds of heaven were stirring up the great sea. What's about to happen is something that God is going to do. That's the point. What's about to happen? Symbolically in a vision, God is showing Daniel what God is going to do. God's sovereignty over kingdoms of men Man. And if you remember, this was the main theme in chapter one and this main theme of God's sovereign kingship over all things has not changed from chapter one to chapter seven and has not changed from chapter seven until now. chapter. God is the sovereign ruler over all things, over the kingdoms of man. The kingdom of man Sovereign rule of God. God is a great God and a great king. And it's right that we serve Him and worship Him and depend on Him for all things. Now we get to the prophet stream. So that's a little introduction into Daniel the prophet, the timing, the means of revelation. This underlying or foundational truth of God's sovereignty. From verses 3 to 8, we see the prophet's dream. And we'll just call this the prophet's dream part one because his the The dream, the vision does not end in verse eight. Okay, can I be official on the record for that? The vision does not end in verse eight. 8. So this is the prophet's dream or prophet's vision, part one. And what you see are four successive kingdoms of man. Four successive kingdoms. And we're going to read this again, verses three through eight. As we read, I want you to see that even within the vision itself, you see him Hints and clues of God's sovereignty over what's happening. So the Great Sea is stirred up, and four beasts came up out of the sea. It's because of the heavenly stirring. But the four winds of heaven, that the four great beasts came up out of the sea, verse three, different from one another. The first was like a lion and had eagles Wings. And then I looked, and its wings were plucked off. It didn't pluck its own wings off. Its wings were plucked off by another. And it was lifted up from the ground and made to stand on the ground. Two feet like a man. God does something to this kingdom. He plucks the wings off off, he lifts it up, he makes it stand, and he gives it the mind of a man Now verse 5, and behold, another beast, a second one like a bear. It was raised up on the sometimes I just say one side, some say on one end. There's many different interpretations. of uh you know what exactly does that mean? I think it means and I could be wrong, I think it means the bear's the bears up, standing up Uh, which would be terrifying. Because you look at what it comes next. It had three ribs in its mouth, between its teeth, and it was told to rise, devour much flesh. It's a bear ready to attack. It's a bear on the attack, standing up. I would be Absolutely terrified if a bloodthirsty savage bear stood up over me. I f but again you if you're interested, get a good commentary on Daniel and look at the different different things about up on one side or up on one end. Verse uh oh but wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute. Don't go too fast. Don't go too fast. It was told , Arise, devour much flesh. The bear is under the command of another. The bear is given orders. The bear is, in other words, under the sovereign control of the And command of God Almighty. Arise, devour much flesh. In verse 6: After this I looked, and behold, another like a leopard. This beast is incredible, with four wings of a bird on its back. The beast had four heads, and dominion, here we go again, was given to it. Did not attain its dominion on its own, by its own strength, by its own power, because of its own wisdom, because of its own Own planning or strategy. Dominion was given to it by a sovereign God. After this I saw it in the night visions, and behold, a fourth beast, terrifying, dreadful, exceedingly strong. He had a great iron teeth. Devoured and broken pieces and stamped what was left with its feet. It was different from all the beasts that were before it, and it had ten horns. Let's just stop right there. Well these kingdoms, parallel kingdoms of chapter 7 , successive, successive kingdoms in chapter 7 Parallel the kingdoms of chapter 2. And that's why I drew this on the board or wrote this on the board. In chapter 2, remember Nebuchadnezzar's dream was a great, great image. The uh head of gold that Daniel interpreted to be him and his empire, Babylonian, it was a silver chest that represented the kingdom of the Medes and the Persians. And then there was a bronze middle, which represented the Greek Empire, and then the legs and feet of iron, feet mixed with iron and clay, was the Roman. And in the days of these kings, this was so important, and it was so important in chapter two, it should be so important to us. In the days of these kings, the God of heaven will set up his king. And it was a a huge stone, a supernaturally huge stone, that then struck the feet, destroyed the dominion, destroyed the kingdom. Here, and then that stone grew to become a mountain, and the mountain grew to cover the whole earth. And parallel to this The succession of these kingdoms throughout history, we now have four beasts. So the first one is a lion with eagle's wings He's a lion, he's mighty, eagle's wings, he's fast, both feared hunters, but then he's humbled and tamed. We know that happened to Nebuchadnezzar. And in this vision in a different way. It's represented in a different way because it's a different image, a different set of metaphors, so to speak. But he's tamed and This kingdom is done away with. I'll give you some cross-references for you if you're interested. Jeremiah 4:7, Nebuchadnezzar is Referred to as symbolically as a lion. Ezekiel seventeen, an eagle. And in Jeremiah 49, 19 through 28, symbolically he's referenced as a lion and an eagle. So this imagery that Daniel is seeing in this vision is Elsewhere in the prophetic literature is referring to Nebuchadnezzar. But that's the first kingdom, the first beast. The second beast is like a bear. I think it's interesting. What what 's like a bear? It's very close to being a bear, I'm not sure, but it's like a bear, fierce like a bear, strong like a bear, tall like a bear, mighty like a bear. You wouldn't even need to show me a bear to terrify me Just show me like a little bear claw poking in the doorway and I'm done. I'm out. Terrifying Now this bear is has a lust for bloodshed. The savage lust, I think I've read that phrase in one of the commentaries. He's a fierce devouring bear. He's not a cute cartoon bear that you would see. Right carrying Around a honey pot. He has ribs hanging out of his mouth. And in that moment, as he's devouring, he's commanded by God to continue devouring, devour much flesh. And then a leopard with four wings and four heads. Speed, speed, and expanse. Fierce Predator Speed and expansive reign, and four heads of wisdom and strategy. And you can think about the spread of the Greek Empire under Alexander the Great and just historically what that looked like, this is what it's this is what it's uh symbolized by in Daniel This leopard beast, dominions given to it. Very powerful, very strategic, very swift. Again, for universal, universality, just this broad dominion Now, beast of beasts, beast of beasts, the Roman Empire It's unique. We'll just put unique. I can't write everything down that's said about this. And what's unique about it in the imagery? Is that there's no earthly beast or strange combination of earthly beasts that is used to depict Maybe so beastly that no earthly beast or strange combination can describe. It's incre Incredibly powerful, incredibly frightening and deadly and destructive, and has no mercy. And as if the regular razor sharp teeth Teeth of an earthly beast are not enough. This has iron teeth. No amount of devouring will satisfy. He crushes all. He chews up all. Look at it again, verse 7. After this I saw in the night visions and behold a fourth beast, terrifying, dreadful, exceedingly strong. It had great iron teeth. It devoured and broken pieces And stamp what was left left with with its feet. It's just merciless. Just no end. It was different from all the other beasts that were before it. It had ten holes Horns, had ten horns, and considered the horns, and behold, there came up among them another horn, a little one, before which three of the other horns were plucked up by the roots. Behold, in this horn were eyes like the eyes of a man and a mouth speaking great things. It's a person. This is the basic idea there. This is a it's a person horn. The horn represents a person. Now some general comments about why more detail about the fourth beast. He nar he starts to narrow in on the fourth beast and then even narrower to the kings and then one of these kings uh because you're at the height of the conflict You're at the height of the conflict. You're right here. You're right when God said He would set up His kingdom You're at the height of the inbreaking of God 's eternal kingdom through his son. Which the rest of this chapter is going to be about prophecy about the coming of Christ and his ascension and setting up the kingdom of God. It's the height of conflict. So you get more about what you get more about this beast and you get more of a narrowing in, a zeroing in. You get more information about What it's going to look like when this stone that represents the establishing of God's kingdom, you get more information about what it's going to look like when the stone strikes this kingdom. And destroys it and then begins to grow to fill the earth as a mountain. You're getting more details into the nature of the conflict , but the victory. When God comes to set up his kingdom. Look at verses 19 through 24. Again, cheating. But I told you we would do this, so technically it's not cheating. We'll call it previewing. Previewing Wetting your appetite because you get more i in the interpretation about the fourth beast as well. imagination that like we're trying to force that in the vision itself, but in the interpretation, which is where we are in verse 19. Then I desired this Daniel, I desired to know the truth about the fourth beast. That's good, right? Want to know the truth about the fourth beast, which was different from all the rest, exceedingly terrifying, with his teeth of iron, claws of bronze, that's new, and which devoured and broke in pieces and Stamped what was left with its feet, and about the ten horns that were on its head. And the other horn that came up, and before which three of them fell, that horn that had eyes and the mouth, and spoke great things And seemed greater than its companions. Spoke great things, just the idea of uh exceedingly boastful, exceedingly arrogant, maybe like uh Like a Roman emperor who claimed to be God incarnate. Something like that. Verse 21: As I looked, this horn made war with the saints. And prevailed over them. Until the ancient of days came, and judgment was given for the saints of the Most High. And the time came when the saints possessed The kingdom. Saints possessing the kingdom. If you're in Christ, right now you've been steaded apart, sanctified a saints Saint unto God most high. You are a citizen of the kingdom of heaven. You've been transferred from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. You are a citizen of the kingdom of God, the kingdom of Christ, the kingdom of heaven. And therefore, we know that we are co-heirs with Christ of eternal glory. We're not heirs of eternal glory unless we're united to Christ. The only way we can be heirs of glory is that we're co-heirs with Christ. He's the Son of God. He inherits the blessing, and we inherit the blessing only in union with him. Go down to verse 23. We just got done verse 22. The saints possessed the kingdom. Verse 23. We're only going to through verse 24, okay? Thus he said, as for the fourth beast, so remember there's uh some sort of interpreting angel here Helping Daniel understand. Thus he said, by the way, that happens in Revelation 2. Angels help John understand things that he's seeing and things he quite doesn't don't doesn't understand. Verse 23. Thus he said, As for the fourth beast, there shall be a fourth kingdom on earth which shall be different from all the kingdoms. That Roman Empire was like that. It seemed like nothing the world had ever seen. And he shall devour the whole earth, and trample it down, and break it to pieces. As for the ten horns out of this kingdom, ten Ten kings shall arise, and another shall arise after them. Some again here, this is where there's a huge debate with the language and the interpretation then this is part of the Aramaic section of Daniel so it's just incredibly difficult and that preposition is the only time it's used. in the whole s in all the Aramaic sections of scripture. Some say after, some say among. It's a big debate because in the vision section that we read earlier it says among, but now it says after. So is this horn in the midst of these tenth horns and it's one of them, or is there ten horns and then after there's an eleventh horn. We're not going to get into all the minutiae I just want you to know that there's different ways of interpreting that. Again, if you get yourself a good commentary on Daniel, you can work through that if you're interested. But the main point I want to say now is this these represent can These represent people. As for the ten horns, out of this kingdom ten kings shall arise. And another shall arise after them or among them. He shall be different from the former ones. He shall put down three kings. So you have , I think, in the most general sense, the most general sense, we can be a hundred percent certain as to what's in view here. We we even if we can't get the details down, even if we'll to the day we die we don't get the specific details down, we know what's in view is the Roman Empire and Roman Emperors Okay, that we know for sure because we already know what this kingdom is. We already know what the kingdom is. It's the fourth kingdom, it's the Roman Empire, and we know the kings of that kingdom were the Caesars. The emperors. So, in a broad sense, nothing has changed from chapter 2. God had prophesied and promised he was going to establish his kingdom in the days of the Roman Empire. And in chapter seven, God is prophesying and promising he's going to establish his kingdom in the days of the Roman Empire. Now, if there's some details that we can't get, okay. But let's not lose sight of the clear and obvious and overarching prophecy that in the days of the Roman Empire, God prophesied, and God promised that He would come and He would set up His kingdom. And that kingdom that began as one supernaturally cut stone from a mountain would not only destroy the sovereignty of these kingdoms, but become a mountain and grow to cover the whole earth. Alright, the kingdom of God established in Christ, advancing to the cross to the church, through the power of the gospel. So What I want to guard against is things we don't know, things maybe we're not meant to know, confusing us and taking us off into uh into a maze of speculation that doesn't help us. There are the clear and overarching things that we know. So, in view in general, the Roman Empire, Roman Emperors And intense persecution. Intense persecution. Verse 21: this horn makes war with the saints And prevailed over them. Now you've got to take that in context. Prevailed over them in an absolute sense? No, of course not. Otherwise there'd be no saints on earth. Or we know that's not the message of Scripture. From an earthly standpoint, maybe from a physical or a bodily standpoint Prevail over them in the same way that you could say that the rebellious Jews and the Roman authorities prevailed over Jesus. Yeah, from a worldly standpoint But who's the one that's victorious in the cross? The Lord is victorious. Jesus is victorious. He laid his life down to accomplish his Father's purpose, to establish his kingdom. To defeat death, to defeat sin, to defeat Satan, to erase the written code against us For guilt against uh guilt for a violation of God's law. But there's in there's no way around it. There's intense persecution, intense suffering, there's going to be bodily death But in a war, both and some of your soldiers, military background Does only one side suffer, but the other side that's victorious doesn't suffer, doesn't experience loss? No, both sides suffer. Both sides experience loss Death, both sides experience loss, but only one side suffers unto victory. You can think back to the first gospel promise. the seed of the woman will crush the head of the serpent. But his heel is wounded So it's it's redemption through suffering. It's victory through death. This is the way of the cross. This is the way of the cross. This is the way Christ established his kingdom. It's the way we enter the kingdom. Suffering and death. Now, hopefully that's in general, giving us a picture of The uh the fierce, bloodthirsty nature of this kingdom Is then focused in on and zeros in on the saints of the Most High God as God historically is establishing his kingdom on earth. And And read the book of Acts in the next couple of days, and you'll see two things happen simultaneously all throughout the book of Acts. One of the things that happens is the saints of God suffer and are persecuted. and are thrown in jail and are hated and are killed. That's one thing that happens. What's the other thing that happens as you read through the book of Acts? Parallel to that. Not a different storyline. Same storyline. The church grows and grows and grows. The gospel spreads and spreads and spreads. The kingdom advances in the midst of persecution. This is the way God's kingdom advances. Through suffering, through death. Just because people hate the Word of God doesn't mean the Word of God has failed or will fail. The word of God cannot fail. You know that. We know that. The word of God cannot fail. He accomplishes exactly what he purposes to accomplish, and he does it through his word and by the power of his spirit. I'm grateful just to be a part of it. Because I was one of the God haters. I was one of the Word of God rejectors. I was one of the Holy Spirit grievers. But by His grace, He has saved us We're glad just to have a part in it. The kingdom of God is the most important thing. Daniel the prophet, the prophecy or the dream, part one, these kingdoms. Now, oh my clock is not on today back there. Let me see. I have no clue what time it is. Oh man, 7. 54. Bummer. We fill up the sufferings of Christ because it's through our sufferings And through our death, the persecution that we would go through. I don't mean we just North Harvard Baptist Church. I mean the church, the saints of God, all those who do the will of God. It's part of God's plan for the way he advances. Listen, listen. Light cannot uh expand into and overtake and destroy the dark without con Conflict without the darkness lashing out and lashing back and fighting against the light. This is just the nature of the kingdom of God. It 's warfare. Think about the spiritual warfare in your heart, in my heart The spiritual warfare between the sinful flesh of me and the Holy Spirit of God that wants to sanctify me and conform me to the likeness of Christ. Now multiple take that and multiply it to the whole world. Two kingdoms, a kingdom of goodness and purity and holiness, and the kingdom of wickedness and darkness and God hating. So you're going to have conflict and you're going to have suffering. Well, we're not going to be able to get through this whole sheet, but let me at least introduce this sheet. And perhaps next week we'll just go through it. I was very careful to call the title of this sheet Some interpretive principles. Okay? Not all interpretive principles. So if it's somewhere on your heart to say, oh now you forgot this one Uh yes, okay, but there's certain ones I want to focus on. Hermeneutics, principles, and practice of interpreting scripture Number one inter uh is one interpretive principle. My timer on here. Unclear things do not cancel out clear things. There is some shock value, some In uh in debating things that are unclear and not known. And then we what happens is we'll get lost in speculation for the unclear Well, and they're forgetting, wait a second. Well, these things are clear. We know these things for sure. So if some details become unclear or unknown, and they will, in the prophecies of Daniel, Daniel 7 to 12, it does not erase the clarity of the prophecy of Daniel 2. What he's actually doing as the book goes on is giving us more detail and more insight. Into what some of these things are going to look like. Daniel's an intriguing book, and this to me, and to me, it's intriguing because As you get further along in the book , it gets more difficult in terms of the details and some of the specific fulfillment it gets more difficult. So I just tend to latch on to what's clear and what's obvious. And by the way, it's not like Daniel Daniel's the only book or the only doctrine where I apply that. We apply that in the doctrine of Christ, we apply that in the doctrine of Scripture, we apply that in the doctrine of God, the doctrine of the Trinity. The doctrine of true conversion, and you know how does so how does God's sovereignty relate to human responsibility? We don't have all the answers. If we had all the answers, we'd have the mind of God, and then we wouldn't need the Bible anyway. So we can't understand everything. Some things are unclear, but that doesn't cancel out clear things. And it's in light of the clear things that we deal with what's been called the cloudy things. Right. Number two. And this will be the last one. We'll start with number three next week, or at some point next week we'll get to Number three. Number two, the apostolic interpretation of the Old Testament, which is what I'm what I mean there is the way that the New Testament interprets the Old Testament. That's what I mean by that. In the New Testament, We see and we learn how God interprets the Old Testament and all the prophecies in the Old Testament. So the apostolic interpretation of the Old Testament, including Old Testament prophecy, is the authoritative interpretation. So we don't start with our own reasoning or our own logic or some system of theology that we heard. We begin with scripture. Now maybe that system of theology came from Scripture, but what I'm saying is for each one of us, we have a duty to begin with Scripture, the text of Scripture. And Scripture is the lens of interpretation. I'll give you one example. Paul interprets the true recipients of God's promises to Abraham in Galatians 3:16. Guys, I'm just cherry I'm cherry picking a verse here. I'm plucking a verse out. There's there's a lot of the whole New Testament is this. The whole New Testament is God interpreting the Old Testament. And telling us how he fulfilled it. Galatians 3. 16. Now the promises were made to Abraham and to his offspring. Does anyone disagree with that? Hopefully not, because that's I mean I'm reading from the Bible. He's reading from Galatians The promises were made to Abraham and his offspring. It does not say unto offsprings. Paul's just making an exegetical comment, an exegetical note. It does not say unto two to two and to offsprings referring to many. So it's not promises made to multiple offsprings. It's promises made to One. So he goes, referring to many, but referring to one and to your offspring. Now he interprets offspring. Who is Christ? Who is the recipient of the promises God made to Abraham? Abraham and Christ. And so the only way you and I can be heirs of the promises made to Abraham is if we are children of Abraham, which is very clearly taught in the New Testament. But Galatians and Romans may be the clearest, but not exclusively taught there. Children of Abraham by faith faith. Those justified by faith and Christ. Abraham and Christ. Christ is the heir. Christ is the recipient of the promises and the heir of what those promises Um guaranteed. So if we are going to be heirs, as I said earlier, we must be found in Christ. There's no other path to the inheritance of God. No other path to being a respect of Recipient of the promises of God, but through Christ. Christ. He is the way and the truth and the life. And no one can come to the Father but by Christ. Him. He's the recipient of the promises. Now, not everyone believes that, not everyone teaches that. That Christ is the recipient of those promises that were made to Abraham. And but that's Paul's interpretation of it. By the way, and I'll close on this, the New Testament begins With this statement, Matthew 1. 1, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of David, the son of Abraham. He 's the heir to the promises given to David. He's the heir to the promises given to Abraham. And then the whole rest of the New Testament just explains how and applies it to our lives. Let's pray.