We're in Ephesians this morning. Ephesians chapter 3, verses 13 to 21. So if you have a Bible or if you see one In the seat back in front of you, open to Ephesians 3, 13 to 21. The sermon today is this. How to not lose heart. How to not lose heart. If I were to ask you, what does it mean to lose heart? You would know what that means. You would be able to put that in your own words It would mean to get so discouraged that you give up. It would be like running a race, you get so tired, you're so out of breath, you maybe have stomach pains. That you've stopped running. You've lost heart. Your body is given out. Well, that's the metaphor, for that can happen spiritually. We can lose heart. I mean, even just that phrase is vivid and powerful, isn't it? To lose heart? Because think about that illustration. What happens in your body if you lose your heart? Right? Yeah, you die. So that's the metaphor. For this is going to happen spiritually, we can get so discouraged that we can lose heart. We can give up. And so the message is how to not lose heart. How can we avoid losing heart amid so much suffering And so much sin, and so much strife in the world, all the assaults of Satan against us. All the assaults of the sinful flesh within us, all the discouragements, all the battles. How can we avoid losing heart? How can we not lose heart amid so much suffering? And sin and strife. Well, I hope you're interested in that topic and in that question because that's what we're talking about today. Let's read Ephesians three thirteen to twenty-one. So I ask you Not to lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory. For this reason, I bow my knees before the Father From whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints. What is the breadth and length and height and depth? And to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. Now to him who is able to do far more abundantly than all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us. To him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. The idea of being filled with is the idea of coming under the influence of , being influenced by That's what it means to be filled with. Now go back to verse 19, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God, that God Would be the reigning influence within you, that your heart, your mind, your will, your words, everything would come under the influence of God. That's what it means to be filled with all the fullness of God. Now, if you want that in your life, would you say amen? Go back to verse 13. Our topic is how to not lose heart. Our question is: how can we avoid losing heart amidst so much suffering, sin, and strife within us in the world around us? Verse 13, transitioning from the previous section, Paul says, So I ask you to not lose heart. Over what he is suffering. Right, so but here's what he wants. He wants them to not lose heart. And then In verse 14, he says, For this reason I bow my knees before the Father. Now you can see what's happening there. I bow my knees before the Father is a way of saying he's giving himself over to prayer. I am praying for you. We say that to each other all the time. I'm praying for you. I'll pray for you. That's just another way of saying I bow my knees before the Father. But he says, for this reason I bow my knees before the Father. Now, what's the reason? That's verse 13. So that you would not lose heart. I don't want you to lose heart, and for this reason I'm praying. I don't want you to lose heart and therefore I bow my knees before the Father. I'm falling down before God in prayer so that you would not lose heart. Now I know you have a paragraph break there separating out that section. But those verses are linked You can't understand the prayer in verse 14 and following unless you understand the reason behind the prayer in verse 13. And so that you would not lose heart. And that's why this is our topic. And we all need this encouragement. I need this encouragement deeply, weekly, daily, so that I will not lose heart Some other verses in scripture about this topic of not losing heart. Hopefully, these will give us some insights just to help get the wheels turning a little bit. In Luke 18, 1, speaking of Jesus telling a parable, it says, he told them a parable to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart. Now you can go back and look at the parable in Luke 18. But that's the purpose of the parable. It's a lesson that we should be always praying so that we would not lose heart. So right off the bat here, Remember the connection between prayer and not losing heart. We've already seen it in the book of Ephesians. That's how this is getting started. Paul's saying So that you will not lose heart, I bow my knees before the Father. Luke 18, 1, Jesus tells the parable with this lesson, you should always pray and not lose heart. If you want to get to a place where you're just so overwhelmed that you just completely quit, give up your confession, stop growing. And just quit on the whole thing. If you want that, here's what you all you need to do is just stop praying. But if you don't, if you want to endure. Whatever trial comes your way. If you want to persevere, any suffering that comes your way, here's what you do. Start praying. The link between prayer and not losing heart. 2 Corinthians 4:1, having this ministry by the mercy of God, we do not lose heart. Second Corinthians 4 1, Paul's reflecting on his ministry. He's thinking about practical application of the gospel in different ways. And he he's remembering in this verse that we God has given us this ministry by his mercy, and that's one of the reasons that keeps us going. That's one of the reasons we don't lose heart. Because if he gave us this mercy this ministry by mercy, he'll sustain us in this ministry by his mercy. Now all of us can look back at our lives and you have evidence in your life Tell me if I'm wrong. I know I'm not wrong, by the way. You have evidence in your life and lots of it, God is merciful. Amen. And since he's merciful, we do not lose heart. Stay busy in prayer, do not lose heart. 2 Corinthians 4:16, that was from our reading earlier. The assembly. So we do not lose heart, though our outer self is wasting away. Our inner self is being renewed day by day. So that's another reason we don't lose heart, is because God is sanctifying us God is at work in our lives. And so we don't lose heart. Even though the outer self is wasting away, and we're aging and we're getting weaker, and we're every breath we breathe, we're one breath closer to the grave. But the inner self is becoming more and more like Christ. I'll take that deal. God is increasingly killing the sin that lives within us. I'll take that deal. I don't need the body forever. I need God forever. And I want to be conformed to the likeness of Christ. And so, yeah, don't lose heart. The outer self is wasting away. I mean, don't you feel that? But the inner self is being renewed day by day, so don't lose heart. Brethren, don't lose heart. Galatians 6. 9, last one here. Let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap if we do not give up. You know it's easy. One of the easiest things is to stop doing good to others. That's the easy thing to do. And to turn all my attention onto Matt and what makes me comfortable and my subjective preferences and what's good for me. But in the spirit, in the spirit, God points our hearts to others. That we do good to others. That's part of Christian living. To be rich in good deeds, to be rich in good works. And he says, let us not grow weary of that, for in due season we will reap if we do not give up, which is another way of saying do not lose heart. It's a big theme in the Bible. It's a big theme in Christian living. I hope it's a big theme in our life that we are crying out to God, praying that He would give us the strength to not lose heart. Now, this Passage in Ephesians 3, 13 to 21. I've broken it up into two major sections. What we need and how we get it. That's easy, right? John, is that easy? What we need and how we get it. And I'll tell you right now that what we need is 95% of the message. Alright? We're doing that first. How we get it , if we even get to this at all , Is is a short portion of this message, and so I'll give it to you now so that you can be thinking of it the whole time. So what we need and how we get it, the how we get it is this. Through prayer and faith. That's how you get everything that we'll talk about for the next several minutes. The only way you can access it is through prayer and through faith in Christ. If you try to get it some other way, you just run into a brick wall. So this is how you get it. And I want this stirring in our minds the whole time where we're preaching on what we need from God. How to get it through prayer, and you get it through faith. Now, through prayer, you can see verse 13 To 15. For this reason I bow my knees, or sorry, so I ask you to not lose heart over what I am suffering for you, which is your glory. And for this reason I bow my knees before the Father. from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be what That's what we need. That's coming. But he's going to God in prayer so that God would grant them what they need. That's exactly what he says. By the riches of his glory. He may grant you to be dot dot dot. So we're looking, we're going to be talking about things that only God can provide for us Now, also through faith, that is the other bookend, that's the other bracket, that's verses 20 and 21, where after this prayer. Paul just turns immediately to a doxology that expresses faith in God and worshiping God. It's basically looking to God. Which says our hearts always should be looking to God. Get up in the morning, look to God. Verse 20 and 21. Now to him who is able, right? He's able. He's able to do this. To him who is able to do far more abundantly. Then all that we ask or think, according to the power at work within us, to him be glory in the church and in Christ Jesus throughout all generations, forever and ever. Amen. Now, we've already seen the word strength or be strengthened. Now we see power at work within us So it begins with a prayer, but then it ends with this doxology. But the doxology is focused on what? It's focused on God's ability to do far more abundantly than what we ask, even what we think to ask. according to his power that's at work within us. And so through prayer and through faith, by the power of God at work within us, He alone can give us what we need so that we would not dry up in our faith and shipwreck our shipwreck our faith and so that we would not lose heart in this world of sin and suffering and strife. Only God can give us these things. So that's how you get it. Prayer and faith. Now let's back up to what we need. And I'll give you these three points ahead of time, and then we'll work through them as best we can. What we need, number one, we need strength from God. That'll be the first point. Number two, we need Christ-like love from God. That will be the second point. We need strength from him, access through prayer and faith. We need love from him, access through prayer and faith. And third, we need knowledge of Christ's love. That'll be the third point. Knowledge of Christ's love accessed through prayer and faith. That's the power source. And if you if you've been tuned out If you've been daydreaming, or if the person next to you has, just nudge them. This is the point you need to hear. That Christ 's love for you is the power source of not losing heart. You need to see his love. You need to rest in his love. So that you might be strengthened, so that you might be filled with the love of Christ, and so that you may have a knowledge of Christ such that keeps you going no matter what. That's what I want in my life. I want a knowledge of Christ. That keeps me going no matter what. I don't know what's coming in my future. I don't know the sufferings ahead. I don't know the trials ahead. But I do know this. Brother and sister, are you awake this morning? Would you say amen? I know that I need Christ for when they come. So, number one, we need strength from God. Now, this is verse 16. We need strength from God. Verse 16, that according to the riches of his glory He may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. Alright, he may grant you, which is another way of saying that he would give you, right? You know what that means. He would give it to you. He would grant you to what? To be strengthened with power. And that's what we need. And every Christian needs to know, every Christian needs, you need to feel this, right? You need to experience this in your heart. That you need God to strengthen you. Otherwise, you're living on your own strength, and you're not leaning on Christ. You can either live in your own strength or lean on Christ for his strength. And so that's what he's saying. I'm praying, I'm bowing my knees before the Father, that by his glory he may grant you to be strengthened. With power through his spirit in your inner being. Strength from God is the spiritual ability to do his will. I was hoping for one amen on that. I like summary definitions. I like to put things in a nutshell. And then I like to get amens after I put things in a nutshell. But that's what it is, right? Well you gotta slow down to do this during a sermon because I understand the sermon is like a fire hydrogen. It's a lot But that's this is the strength we're talking about. Not physical strength, the ability to lift this or or uh like the horsepower in an engine or towing capacity of a truck. That's all kinds of different power, all kinds of different strengths, solar power, different different kinds of strength. But spiritual strength is the ability, the ability to do God's will. For example, to stand firm in the faith. And not fall for the lies of Satan. For example, to battle against sin and to try to avoid temptation, rather than saying, eh, I don't care about that. the strength to persevere through suffering and pain. James 1. 12. Blessed is the man who remains steadfast under trial. For when he has stood the test, he will receive the crown of life which God has promised to those who love him. That's the path we want to be on. Now you could do two subpoints under this need for strength. Sub point A, it glorifies God to give strength to the weak. Did you know that about God? Did you know that he gets a lot of glory and honor and pleasure by giving strength to weak sinners? Isaiah forty twenty-nine. And I know some of you out there love this verse He gives power to the faint, and to him who has no might he increases strength. So, what do we do when we are faint? Go to God for power. What do we do when we have no might? We go to God for strength. It glorifies God to give strength to the weak, and that's what he says, verse 16a. 16a, according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened. So where does the strength come from? It comes from the treasure trove of God's glory. In other words, it's one of the ways God manifests his glory in the world is by giving strength to the weak. From the riches of his glory, he'll give you this strength. That's a good place to get strength. Subpoint B, he gives strength to the weak inwardly by the Spirit. Inwardly by the Spirit. So think about, well, let me give you this is 16B. This is the second part of verse 16. With power Through, right? He pictures this like a channel, like a conduit. He gives you this strength, he gives you this power through his spirit. Where? In your inner being. So if you want strength from God, but you don't want inner transformation, then you don't want strength from God. No way, Jose. If you want strength from God, you have to also want inner transformation. You have to have God at work within you. You have to hunger, thirst, be dying for God's work within you. And in that context, He'll strengthen you. Oh brother and sister, he will strengthen you at your lowest point. And he brings glory to his name by strengthening weak and pathetic and unable sinners. God takes dead things and he makes them alive. God takes things that do not exist and he calls them into existence. God takes the broken and he binds their wounds. God takes the weak. God takes the exhausted. God takes those who are on the verge of losing heart and he strengthens them so that we do not lose heart and he gets all the glory for it. I just got to tell you, God loves to do this. He loves to do it. And thank God that he does it. He gives strength to the weak. To glorify his name. And he gives strength to the weak inwardly by the Spirit. He gives us strength so that we can be patient in tribulation. That's Romans 12:12. That we would be patient in tribulation. He gives strength to the weak so that we would be constant in prayer. That also is Romans 12, 12. To be constant in prayer. In my flesh, you know what I do in prayer? Nothing. I don't want to pray at all in the flesh. In the spirit, we go to God in prayer. To be constant in prayer In fact, that itself would be an answer to prayer. Does that make sense? Does that sound like a riddle? It's good. I got the okay from John. Which good stamp of approval. We have to be praying that God will give us strength to be constant in prayer. God gives strength to the weak. So that we would be able to bless those who persecute us. That's Romans 12, 14. You're not going to do that in the flesh. In the flesh, what are you going to do to those who persecute you? You're going to curse them. You're going to persecute them right back. We need his strength so we bless those who persecute them. Bless them, not curse them. Pray for them. We need strength from God. He gives strength to the weak so that we would desire and pursue godliness. Are you doing that? Child of God, are you desiring godliness? Are you pursuing godliness? Will this happen on accident, John? No. I knew you would answer that one. We have to desire and we have to pursue godliness and we have to have a hatred for sin and we have to be diligent to kill sin by the Spirit. By the Spirit, not in our own strength. All these are things we need God's strength for. We have to hunger for God's word. We have to have an undying passion to worship God all by the strength of God. We need strength from God. Can I get one more amen on the strength? Number two. You ready for number two? Right. Vince Vince said. Number two, we need Christ-like love from God. We need Christ-like love for each other from God. If we are going to lay down our lives in service to each other, where is that going to come from? Is that going to come from principles out in the world? Is that going to come from within us and our natural selves? Brothers and sisters, this would come from the living God. This will come from the exalted Christ. This will come from the Holy Spirit alone can enable us to love each other the way that Christ has loved us. And that is our calling. That is a sacred duty. And it is a joyful privilege. We need Christ-like love from God. Now, this is verse 17. Verse 17. You notice verse 17 does not start with a capital letter. It starts with a lowercase letter. If you look behind before it you see a comma, it's because it's still within the things Paul is praying for. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love. Now that's a really nice metaphor, isn't it? I love passage where I don't have to provide a metaphor. The metaphor is already there. Rooted. Grounded in what? Love. Rooted and grounded in love. That's what the local church needs to be rooted and grounded in love. Christ-like love from God, accessed through prayer and faith, just like we need strength from God accessed through prayer and faith. Now, Christ-like love is A genuine affection for each other. It's a genuine affection toward each other. And it's also seeking the good of each other, even at cost to ourselves. Romans 12:9, Paul writes, Let love be genuine. Abhor what is evil. Hold fast to what is good. Love, this is verse 10. Love one another with brotherly affection. Outdo one another in getting your own way in church. Now you know that's not what it says. Outdo one another In showing honor, which is a way of showing respect toward each other. And you know what respect is. You know what it means to honor someone If we asked you to do a seminar for children, just teach them the basics of what it looks like to respect someone, you would be able to put some material together. On respecting your elders, on showing honor to your teacher, on having a respectable, honorable attitude at work or with your friends We are to outdo one another in showing honor. Now I'll just still still in that verse, Romans 12. 9 and then also Romans 12. 10. Romans 12. 9 had said this, hopefully you called this, let love be genuine. Let love be genuine. And then verse 10 said this: love one another with a brotherly affection. So love is not just doing things outwardly. Love will always lead to doing things outwardly. Don't say you love your wife if you're not willing to lay down your life to serve her and help her with doing things outwardly with your life. With your feet, with your hands, with your words, with your time, with your energy. But that's not where love starts. Love starts with an inner affection. With an inner affection, a sincere love, a genuine love, a sincere affection. Let love be genuine. Love one another with brotherly affection. As Christ has genuine affection for us, and he does, let us also have a genuine affection for each other. As Christ has laid down his life for us, let us lay down our lives for each other. We seek each other's good. We seek to bless. We strive for each other's blessing, even at cost to ourselves. That's Christian love. That's Christian love. Now be careful with your prayer life. Because if you're praying diligently for God to sanctify you, if you're praying seriously for God to do a work in your heart and make you more like Jesus, just be careful because what's going to happen is Over the weeks, over the months, over the years, you'll be living less and less for yourself and more and more loving others at great cost to yourself. But that's Christ-like love. That's what he's praying for. Loving each other flows from Christ dwelling within us. Loving each other flows from Christ dwelling within us. This is the first part of verse 17. So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith That you, see how it's connected? So that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love. It's a picture of Christ taking up residence in our hearts, where He is Active daily in our hearts, molding us, shaping us, sanctifying us. Disciplining us, making us more and more so that we could treat each other in love. You can't take the work of Christ within us out of the picture Because then everything degenerates to outward religion. And using outward religion in a self-serving way. We have to have Christ at work within us. That's my number one prayer for myself, for my family, and for you. The work of Christ within That's it. That's what we're about. The glory of God and the work of God within us to make us more into his image Loving each other flows through Christ dwelling within us. So then the question becomes, from a practical standpoint, are you living in daily communion with God? Are you a fruitful branch? Are you connected to the vine, Jesus Christ? Are you do you have vitality in your spiritual life? Are you living in fellowship, living fellowship with Christ through prayer and through the word. That's what it comes down to if we're going to be rooted and grounded in love. If you expect the balloons to go up But you haven't put helium in the balloons, you're in a very foolish and deluded place. If you want the car to start, but you haven't put gas in it. If somebody sees you Trying to start a campfire for your camp, and there's no firewood at all, it's just a bowl of dirt, you're gonna think you're foolish and deluded. And they would be right. And trying to love each other, trying to be Christians without daily communion with Christ is the same way. Just put it in that same series of foolish and deluded illustrations. Oh, cling to Christ. Cry out to Him daily Find rest in him daily. Ask him to sanctify you daily. Ask him to give you wisdom daily. Christ, our rock and our refuge. A very present help in our time of trouble Loving each other is absolutely essential for a biblical biblical church. Absolutely essential. This is not like the garnish you give your sh You have your steak, you have your side. What do you get with that, Dave? What's your side with the steak? Do you get the green beans or do you go mashed potatoes, twice baked potato, and then you have this little garnish that nobody cares about? Loving each other with the love of Christ is not like the garnish. It's like the steak and the potatoes. It's the meat and potatoes of local church life. Absolutely essential. Look at the end of verse 17. Rooted and grounded. Rooted and grounded in love. That's foundational stuff. So you have a tree, right? Do you have a picture of not just a tree, a forest. Do you have a whole forest? Now Take away the roots and take away the ground. What happens to the forest? It's just gone, you have nothing. Without the ground, without the roots grounded, there's nothing there. It all falls apart. That's the church without love. Yeah, but we're doing lots of things. We're doing lots of things. But if we don't love each other, it's all pretend. It's all a show. It happens all throughout Scripture. Old Testament, New Testament, you see this. We must be rooted and grounded in love. We cannot do that on our own. We need, just like we need strength from God, we need Christ-like love from God, that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you being rooted and grounded in love. What time is it? What? Why not clock back ten minutes? I don't like it. I don't like what it's saying. Turn it over. Just kidding, don't turn it over What is Christian love? What love should rule in our hearts? Now I've already summarized it. It's genuine affection. It's seeking the good of each other, even at cost to ourselves. But I wanna I'll give you some um Some other subheadings under that, and we won't have time to go to the verses, but I'll give you the verses, all right? So you can do these in your devotions tonight before you drift off to sleep. Number one, Christian love is tender and gracious. It's tender and gracious, opposite of harsh and unforgiving. That's actually in Ephesians also. Ephesians 4, 32 into chapter 5, verse 2. Be tenderhearted. Be gracious. We're all sinners and we all have hurts in our lives. And we need to be tender to one another And gracious to one another and compassionate to one another. You have hurts, right? Would you want people to be harsh and critical of you in the midst of all your hurts and sorrows? And troubles and afflictions, things you're trying to deal with. No, you need people to be compassionate and loving and gracious and tender, be tender-hearted. And that has to do with the way we think about each other, too. Christian love testifies to the presence of Christ among us. John 13, 34 and 35 Testifies to the real presence of Christ among us. Christian love absolutely is commanded and absolutely required by God. Romans 13 8. Romans 13 8 is nice it's a nice verse because it says we owe it to each other to love one another. It's like a debt that we always have. Oh, what day is it? Yeah, it's Wednesday. What time is it? It's 317. Okay, I owe it to love you And you owe it to love each other. We always owe it to love each other in the name of Christ. Love is of premier importance in the local church. Colossians 3 14. Above all these, put on love which binds everything together in perfect harmony Above all these, put on love, which binds everything together in perfect harmony. So we need strength from God. Pray daily for it. We need Christ-like love from God Pray daily for it. Finally, we need the knowledge of Christ's love. This is verse back to Ephesians 3. This is verses 18 and 19. We need a knowledge of Christ's love. We read about this four-dimensional love of Christ in verses 18-19. So that you may have strength to comprehend, to grasp. Internalize, comprehend with all the saints what is the breadth and length and height and depth. And to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. So the more you grasp the love of Christ, the more you Experience and internalize the love of Christ, the more you'll be under the influence of God within you. That's the connection. So how this is like a structure. It's an illustration. It's a structure. It's broad, it's it's breadth, it's It's length, its height, and its depth, how far how far down does it go? How far high does it go? How far does it go in this way? How far does it go this way? It's the love of Christ is being pictured there, going off in all directions. And it surpasses knowledge. You can't measure it. To know the love of Christ, to know the love of Christ. Tattoo that on your brain. Verse 19A. To know the love of Christ. That you may be filled with the fullness of God. That more and more God would have his way with you. That's what we want. It's more and more God to have his way with us. How has he loved us? What does his love do for you? And for me, number one, he's forgiven us. I picked seven of these. It's a nice biblical number that represents fullness. Fullness and completion. By the way, you can't number the blessings and benefits of Christ's love because they're infinite and immeasurable. But number one, he's forgiven us. He's erased the guilt of our sin. You understand there's no other way to get that done? To erase the guilt of our sin apart from the blood of Christ, Christ dying for us. Infinite treasure. Of infinite worth. Number two, because he's forgiven us, number two, he's reconciled us to God. Jesus has brought us into a relationship with God. The infinite God. The one true living God who made all things, who created us, gave us life. We now are in a right relationship with him because of Jesus. Number three, Jesus saved our soul. Because we're forgiven, because we're reconciled to God by the blood of Christ. Our soul is secure. We have a security for our future so that when the day of judgment comes, our soul will be saved. Number four, he did all this by dying in our place. That's the sacrificial love. That's the place. That's the model. If you want to model for, okay, now now what What teaches me how to love others? Jesus loving you by dying in your place. Number five, how has he loved me? He's changed your heart and he's changed your mind by the Holy Spirit. I'm glad my old heart is gone. I did not want to keep being a slave to sin my entire life. I don't want to keep being completely blind to my sin and dead to God my whole life. I am thankful that Jesus, by the Spirit, Gave me a new heart, gave me a new mind. Aren't you happy about that, Church? Would you say amen? Now why did he do that? He loves you He loves you. Number six, because he loves you, he instructs you and he guides you daily. Also by the Holy Spirit and by his word. He's the good shepherd. And he shepherds us because he loves us. Sometimes the shepherding is painful, isn't it? Because the shepherd wants to take our vices away from us. Things that that we're attached to but that are harmful. To us, and the good shepherd will come with a club just to beat it to death for our good, but it's painful sometimes. Number seven, he loves us. One of the ways we know he loves us is because he's promised to preserve us to the end. He's promised to guard us, to protect us, to be our rock. 1 Corinthians 1. 8 says, Jesus, here's a quote , will sustain you to the end. End quote. Because he loves you. What do we need? How do we get it? What do we need? We need strength from God so that we will not lose heart. We need a Christ-like love from God, loving each other, helping each other so that we would not lose heart. And we need a knowledge of Christ's love. We need an experience of Christ's love for us so that we do not lose heart. And how do we get it? We get it through prayer, and we get it through faith. Looking to Christ. Receiving Christ. Resting in Christ. And he will sustain us to the end. He has promised to do so. How can we avoid losing heart amidst so much suffering, so much sin, and so much strife through prayer to God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ? Let's pray. God, thank you for your word and your spirit and for your work within us. As we turn now to come to the supper. We pray that you would use the supper in the way that it's supposed to be used, as a way of visually preaching the gospel to us. Reminding us and showing us that Christ gave his body on the cross so that we could be saved, that he shed his blood on the cross, so that we could be forgiven, that he laid down his life so that we could have life in knowing you. It's in his name we pray. Amen.