Matthew 5, 31 to 32, Interpreting God's Law, Part 2. I guess really it's part three. Because we did a study last week on God's law, but that was not in Matthew. So in terms of Matthew chapter 5, this is going to be part two. And once we get there, the main point of interpreting God's law from verses thirty-one and thirty-two will be that the law is meant to protect others, not to harm or abuse them. It's not right to use God's law to rationalize the mistreatment of others or to rationalize um using God's word in a self-serving way, which is very common. It's very common. It's commonly called legalism or it could be called spiritual abuse to take God's word or God's commandments and use them in a self-serving way that harms others. It's using it's taking God's law, what's meant for the good of others, and it's using them to harm others. And if you've read the gospels, if you know anything about the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders, you know that's exactly what they were doing. Matthew 5, verse 31 through 32, just to get it out there, but then we are going to really, really back up. And do some review before we come back to it. Verse 31, it was also said, Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. But I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality, makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Alright, so we'll come back to that. But I want to do some review first. You can look on your outline, Roman numeral one, a critical reminder. that you are not under law, but under grace. I feel like that's such an important reminder. We've been talking about God's law, how to interpret it properly, how to use it properly. We already saw in Matthew five that being citizens in the kingdom of heaven we aim to do and to teach God's commandments. So all this talk about the law, but let's just remember that we're not under A law covenant where under grace. Romans 6 14, for sin will have no dominion over you, which means sin 's not going to be your master Sin will have no dominion over you since you are not under law, but under grace. Now in letter B, and I put this in italics, is this trying to make this as concise And emphatic as possible what it means to not be under law. It means that you're not legally obligated to obey God in order to be right with God. Now I want that to be shocking, but I also want you to understand that that's basic Christianity. That's the gospel. You are not obligated to obey God in order to be right with God or in order to stay right with God. How is the Christian made right with God? Really really asking. Jesus sacrifice is what you say? Yes. Jesus sacrifice and then being united to him through faith. So, the debt is paid, the penalty is paid, those who are in Christ stand before God justified, and that's irreversible Now, when that's taught clearly that will always be abused by some and will always be misrepresented by some and accused as being Anti-Nomian or something like that. But this really is the gospel. Israel was a nation under law. They were required to obey God as a nation in order to keep the covenant blessings of the old covenant, the land to be particular They were a nation under law. Christians, first of all, and the church is not a geopolitical nation, and we are not under law. The blessings we've received in Christ are blessings We are under grace, and they are unconditional, eternal, spiritual blessings that can never be taken away. That does not mean that we do not want to obey God. In fact, one of the promises and blessings of the new covenant is we have hearts that do want to obey God, which is different than if we were under law. Does that make sense? Being under the law does not create a heart That desires to obey God. Being under grace creates a heart that desires to obey God. Romans 6. 14 Sin will have no dominion over you since you are not under law, but under grace. If we were still under law, sin would have dominion over us. Cause the law doesn't justify and the law doesn't sanctify and the law doesn't change our hearts. So being under grace does not minimize Obedience, being under grace. Brothers and sisters, that's what makes obedience possible. That's what makes us want to obey Oh, we are not under law but under grace. Roman numeral two. Now we're getting into specific review in Matthew 5. Whatever else Jesus did in his first coming He did not abolish God's law. He did not abrogate or he did not nullify God 's law and the relevance of God's law, Matthew 5, 17 through 20. Jesus says, Do not think that I've come to abolish the law or the prophets. So if you're thinking it, stop thinking it, because that's what he says. Don't think. Don't think that I've come to abolish the law of the prophets. I have not come to abolish them, but to fulfill them, which is the opposite of abolish. Whatever fulfill means, it definitely is the opposite of abolish. I've come to fulfill them, for truly I say to you, until heaven and earth pass away. Have heaven and earth passed away yet? Alright. Not an iota, not a dot, will pass from the law until all is accomplished, until everything that God wants to accomplish In this creation, till heaven and earth pass away, the itty -biddiest, smallest parts of the law are still relevant And binding in some sense. Verse 19. Therefore, whoever relaxes one of the least of these commandments In modern parlance, we would say trivializes or minimizes, maybe at worst ignores One of the least of these commandments and teaches others to do so, to do the same, will be called least in the kingdom of heaven. In other words, it's not an honorable thing. in the kingdom of heaven to trivialize God's commandments and to teach others to trivialize God's commandments. It's uh a shameful thing That's an ungodly thing to do, least in the kingdom of heaven. But whoever does them and teaches them will be called great in the kingdom of heaven. That's where we want to be. For I tell you, unless your righteousness exceeds that of the scribes and the Pharisees, you'll never enter the kingdom of heaven. Jesus did not abolish God's law. Um that does not mean that we are still under the Mosaic Law Covenant. That's not what that means. We're not under the Mosaic Law Covenant. We are people under the covenant of grace, sealed in Christ's blood, with unconditional, eternal spiritual blessings, not conditional earthly blessings in a physical nation. But if Jesus did abolish the law, I wrote this in letter B under that point, if Jesus did abolish the law, then people would no longer be accountable to God for the lawbreaking. Think about that But this is why s this is why all of us outside of Christ, naturally speaking, all of us and everybody is accountable to God for the law breaking. So the law has not been abolished. It's been Fulfilled, it's been affirmed and established. Jesus did not teach against God's law, but against the Pharisees' misuse and abuse of God. God's law. When you see contrast that Jesus is making all throughout the gospels and his earthly ministry, he's uh exposing the Sinful, legalistic, self-serving interpretation and abuse of the law in the Pharisees. He's not against God's law. He is God The law is a reflection of God's character and God's revealed will for mankind. But that doesn't give the Pharisees free license to Misuse it and abuse it any way they want, and it doesn't give us the right to misuse God's law and abuse it. Um Roman number three, Roman numeral three Still on review. God's commands include requirements and prohibitions beyond the letter of the law. To understand God's law and apply it properly, we cannot be black and white, rigid thinker. We've got to see beyond the letter of the law. There's requirements and prohibitions underneath the commandments. Matthew 5, 21 through 30, on the 6th Commandment. You had uh 21 through uh twenty-six on the sixth commandment, rather. You have heard that it was said to those of old, you shall not murder And whoever murders will be liable to judgment. We can't rehash all of the cross references there. But the first part of that is the sixth commandment, and the second part of that is something else that's taught repeatedly in the Pentateuch. Whoever murders is liable to judgment. That's not a man-made addition to God's law. That is in every book of the law, every book of the Pentateuch Verse 22, but I say to you that everyone who is angry with his brother will be liable to judgment. So you don't have to commit the external act of murder to violate the sixth commandment. There's a sinful anger that also is a violation of that commandment. And then he says, whoever insults his brother will be liable to the council. So there's a verbal violation of the commandment as well. And whoever says you fool will be liable to the hell of fire. So there's what's prohibited. It's broadened, it's deepened, it's internalized. The external commandment, the letter of the law, represents a moral kernel so to speak, that lies behind it, and there's all kinds of ways to violate that moral law. Verse 23, now on requirements. So if you are offering your gift at the altar and there remember that your brother has something against you, leave your gift there before the altar And go. First be reconciled to your brother, and then come and offer your gift. Come to terms quickly with your accuser while you are going with him to court, lest your accuser hand you over to the judge, and the judge to the guard, and you be The sixth commandment requires the proactive, vigilant Even um effort toward personal reconciliation, which includ which will include a lot of other things. Being willing to forgive others, being willing to admit my need for forgiveness being able to get past hurts and to make up and move on, proactive reconciliation. The sixth commandment. There's requirements and prohibitions beyond the letter of the law. And then going to verse 27, which deals with the seventh commandment. You've heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. But I say to you that everyone who looks at a woman with lustful intent has already committed adultery with her in his heart. So here again, it's not the external act of adultery, but it's internalized, and here it's not with verbal, it's with the eyes. Violating that commandment with the eyes and violating that commandment in the heart. And then again, a requirement that goes beyond the letter of the law. If your right eye causes you to sin, tear it out and throw it away. For it's better that you lose one of your members. And if your right hand causes you to sin, cut it off and throw it away. For it is better that you lose one of your members than let your whole body go into hell. The requirement is the again proactive purging of our lives, of those things that would cause us to sin, those things that we know were going to lead us into temptation. And of course, it's metaphoric language. It's hyperbole. It's a symbolic exaggeration to get the point across. Maybe don't tear your eye out, but maybe cancel a subscription. Maybe sign up for some kind of filter. Maybe get rid of your laptop. There are things we can do in our lives to purge our lives of things that we know are going to drag us into sin. Sin against God. So requirements and prohibitions that are spiritual in nature, they're deeper and they're broader. And they go beyond the letter of the law. Think about the second commandment, Exodus 20, 4 and 5a. You shall not make for yourself a carved image Or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above, or that is on the earth below, or that is in the water under the earth It's talking about worshiping idols, treating things in creation as if they are God. You don't have to make a literal carved image of something in creation to violate this commandment People commit idolatry almost every well every moment of their lives before knowing Christ. And even as those in Christ, we still sin, right? Even though sin is not our master, we still treat things As if they're greater than God. We still pursue things as if they're more valuable than God. No one in here, I don't think, has made a carved image or um a molten image. But we've we've committed idolatry. We've loved things more than God. And praise God for his grace and praise God for the work of repentance. in our hearts. But it's just another example of the commandment is saying a whole lot more than just actual literal carved images of The law is spiritual. Letter C. Every commandment contains a moral kernel that exposes the corruption of the flesh. Romans 7:14, the law is spiritual. It's not designed just to show us external transgressions. It does do that. But the law is meant to expose the internal corruption. And very quickly, the three biblical uses of the law. This was last week's class. The law is used as a teacher that exposes sin and drives us to Christ. The law is used as a civil magistrate to restrain wickedness and to protect the innocent. Can you imagine society without any laws or penalties for crimes? It'd be it would Would and we would we would destroy each other and decimate the earth with our wickedness and greed and selfishness and oppression. And let us see the law is used as a guide for holy living for believers, not as the power of holiness. Not as the motivation for holiness, those have been internalized by the Spirit. In other words, Christians do not and shouldn't, they should not and they do not need The threat of penalty in order to want to obey. Right. We ob you obey the traffic laws because of the threat of penalty. Probably. But our motivation for obeying Jesus Is not threat of penalty. It can't be. Because if you're in Christ, there's no threat of penalty. So how can the threat of penalty be our motivation for serving Christ? It's a love for Christ, it's a gratitude for Christ that's our motivation, and that comes from the Spirit not the flesh. But the laws of practical guide and godly wisdom and and in ethics. Ah any questions on the review before we go to take this plunge to Matthew five, thirty one, thirty-two I feel like that was like fire hydrant in the face style review Tom 's hiding back there. You're looking up something, Tom. All right. Okay. Later. Alright, now you're on the hook for one. Make it a good one. Matthew 5, 31 and 32. Whoever divorces his wife, let him give her a certificate of divorce. We'll see that that comes from Mosaic law. That's not a Pharisaical Invention. That's not a man -made law. That comes from the law of Moses, and the law of Moses came from God, yes, good. I was hoping I was hoping we get that. Yes, he said that. That's right. Thank you. Um But I said God is always a good a good option to throw out there. God, heaven, something like that. Uh but I say to you that everyone who divorces his wife, except on the ground of sexual immorality make sure commit adultery and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. From all the commentaries I've looked at and all the research that's been done on this, it it's pretty clear it's pretty much the Consensus that the Pharisees um ha were using this law and men in Israel probably using this law too to justify any divorce for any reason and And f and frivolously sending their wives away with a certificate of divorce. So they were exploiting and abusing the law in a way that God never intended. The law is meant to protect others not be exploited for self-serving purposes. The law is not to be twisted to rationalize sinful behavior. Now when we go to the this law in Deuteronomy 24, we'll We'll see where it comes from. The Mosaic Law allowed for divorce. It did not command it. And it did not require it. But it required a certificate of divorce. And that certificate of divorce was Required to protect the woman from false accusations and from the penalty. So the husband wouldn't send his wife off and divorce her go go do his own thing and now leave her susceptible to uh accusation of leaving her husband or false accusation of adultery that what she could have been killed for It's meant to protect the woman so that there's some record that this is the husband's doing that she was sent out and given this certificate. Let's look at Deuteronomy 24. Verse one when a man takes a wife and marries her If then he finds no favor in his eyes, now that was the thing that was taken to mean whatever they wanted it to mean. And they just come up with any reason at all that they wanted to divorce their wives. Finds no favor in his eyes because he's found some indecency in her. And he writes her a certificate of divorce and puts it in her hand and sends her out of his house and she departs out of his house. So that's just stop there. What's happened? The man on the grounds of some legitimate indecency. Where the wife has forfeited the marriage bond, he writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand and sends her out, and she departs and goes out of the house. What's happened. Now, verse two, if she goes and becomes another man's wife, that's the second thing in view. So he divorced her on the grounds of some indecency, sent her out, gave her a certificate. So that she has proof that he's the one who sent her out. Now she goes out and becomes another man's wife. And the latter man, the latter man, that's the second husband. also hates her and writes her certificate of divorce. So some another some sort of indecency. He writes her a certificate of divorce, puts it in her hand, sends her out of his house, or if that latter man dies, who took her to be his wife. So now a third thing has happened. Let's go let's go through them again Because this is what's mapped out. First husband, on the grounds of some indecency, sends his wife away with a certificate of divorce. Now she marries another man. One of two things happen. Either that second husband dies, or that second husband, on the grounds of some indecency, also divorces her. And we're almost actually to the law. So far it's just been if this, if this, if this, if this, if this. Where's the law? Where's the command? Alright, verse 3. And the latter man hates her and writes her certificate of divorce. Puts it in her hand, sends her out of his house, or if the latter man dies, who took her to be his wife, then her former husband, that's the first husband, who sent her away May not take her again to be his wife after she's been defiled. So is the first husband commanded or required to marry the wife who is divorced? No, it's actually that's what the very thing is forbidden. The remarriage is the thing that's forbidden after she's been defiled, for that is an abomination before the Lord. And you shall not bring sin upon the land that the Lord your God is giving you for inheritance. A general principle you see is to guard against the frivolous and trivialized divorce, remarriage, divorce, remarriage, what's happened in our culture The trivializing of the marriage bond and therefore the trivializing of divorce, acting like marriage is not really a big thing, acting like divorce is not really a big thing, and and Just goes back and forth and back and forth and it's all over the place. But this has always been an issue, it's always been a problem because people are, it starts with an S, sinful. Alright? So there's nothing new under the sun. But the command is to remarry or to not remarry. To not remarry. It was a a merciful allowance, divorce was, a merciful allowance to Alleviate the effects and sufferings of sin for those held captive to Satan so that we just don't heap more sin Upon ourselves and more horrible consequences of that sin upon ourselves and upon society, upon the land. An abomination. God is holy and God is righteous, and he is a just judge, but God is also, have you forgotten this? Merciful And long-suffering in ways that we cannot even comprehend. We're not merciful to each other. God is merciful to sinners. We can be merciful. By the Spirit working in us. But God is the fountain of all mercy. His mercy is incomprehensible. If you've forgotten that, just read through the history of Israel. And reflect back on your own life. Matthew 19, 7 to 9. This is number 3 under letter A. Matthew 19, 7 through 9. And later on in this study, we'll we're actually going to turn to Matthew 19 and look at that whole paragraph. But just for right now, seven through nine, they said to him, Why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and to send her away? He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart Moses allowed. This is what Jesus said. Moses allowed. That's why I called it a merciful concession. Because of the sinfulness of the people, the hardness of heart, they were inwardly corrupt. Because of the hardness of heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives, but from the beginning it was not so. It was not so. It was an allowance that was put in place for Israel under the law because of their hardness of heart. Most of Israel were lost people. And verse 9, and I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except, that's why it's called an exception, because of this word that's in the Bible, except, except for sexual immorality, and marries another commits adultery. Another example, stepping away from the uh adultery and marriage and divorce thing Just look at another example of how Pharisees would misuse the law for their own ends. Turn to Matthew 15. And you see the other side of that coin frequently when the Pharisees Are um getting angry at Jesus. Jesus is doing good deeds, he's helping people. He's restoring health. He's restoring life. He's serving people, ministering to people. And the Pharisees would see that and accuse him of breaking the law. Breaking the Sabbath, or something like that. And uh, or not fasting properly, or not washing their hands properly. Seeing something that's good and lawful and holy and accusing it of being unlawful and in violation to God's will. So they just they had no clue The proper purpose and interpretation and pastoral application of God's law. And how could they? They were lost. Matthew 15 1 through 9. Man, this is a doozy. Try to track along with this, alright? You ready? Then Pharisees and scribes came to Jesus. From Jerusalem and said, Why do your disciples break the traditions of the elders? Well there you see their hearts, what they're worried about right there. The traditions of the elders, the church, the traditions, the man-made traditions. Have you ever seen me get fired up about that? Man -made traditions are not our authority, and they should not and do not bind our conscience. But this is what they're upset about. Why do you, Jesus, and your disciples break the traditions of the elders, for they do not wash their hands when they eat? He answered them. And why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? Well, that's um, what do they call it? A mic drop moment. That's a sledgehammer Moment, if there ever was one. Why? There's no good answer to this. Is there a good answer to this? Why do you break the commandment of God for the sake of your tradition? For God commanded, honor your father and your mother, and whoever reviles father or mother must surely die. That's the command. That's what they're commanded to do. And it's for the welfare of the father and mother. And for the welfare of the family, for the welfare of society, for the good of others. Honor your father and your mother, and whoever reviles father or mother will surely die. But you say, if anyone tells his father or mother What you would have gained from me, underline that, what you would have gained from me Is given to God. In other words, it's given to God instead. So you say if anyone tells his father or mother What would what you would have gained from me is given to God, then he need not to honor his father. So, for the sake of your tradition, you have made void the word of God. You hypocrites. Well did Isaiah prophesy of you when he said, This people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far from me. In vain do they worship me. There is a way to worship God that's in vain. In vain do they worship me, teaching as doctrines the commandments of men. So they used God's law and different priorities of God's law to rationalize breaking God's law. Because what's more important to serve your parents or God? You should know this. If you don't, you'll learn it Sunday when I preach on discipleship. Whoever does not hate father and mother, brother, sister, even his own life cannot be my disciple. What's more important to serve and honor? God or parents? God. Right. That's you guys know that. You thought it was a trick question. You always think I'm asking. But so they're using that principle And misusing it and abusing it to get out of honoring their father and their mother. That's what they're doing. So honor your father and mother And part of that is not just when you're kids, but in that culture and society, as they get older, you help them, you support them as they get into their elder years So now what they're doing is instead of giving to them, well, we're giving this money to God, and I'm sure they were not. I'm sure they were using it for themselves. themselves in some way. So they're using their rationalizations and their own traditions to get out of their responsibilities, their God-given duties to honor and help and support father and mother. And just call it a gift to God. Well, I'm not giving it to you, mom, dad, you're on your own, but it's okay. I'm giving it to God It's wicked. And three times, I mean all at the beginning, in the middle, and at the end, the issue is they are valuing their commandments above the Word of God. Their commandments have become their standard and their authority for what they do and how they do it. Their whole thinking, their whole paradigm on devotion is shaped by their traditions and commandments. And you cannot do that and also be faithful to God. It's either God's word is the authority, or in one way or another, man's word is the authority. And here they're using something of God's word and God's law as a rationalization for self-serving Mean-spirited, legalistic, law-breaking. It's uh, well, you've seen it in many different ways, using religion as a cover-up for wickedness. That's exactly what they're doing. Twisting the law to their own ends. Alright, now flip over. That's That's the common consensus pretty much on what was happening with divorce. The allowance, the allowance of divorce and the requirement for a certificate. It was being completely abused and misused to send women away for any reason whatsoever. And when we go back to That Matthew 19, we'll see that. We're actually, in the question that's asked by the Pharisees, it comes through that that's really what was going on. Matthew nineteen, but we'll get there. I think that's oh it's not too far away. Let's do a fuller biblical picture on Just marriage. Alright, marriage. First of all, the origin and design of marriage. Genesis two, twenty-three to twenty-five If Christians don't teach about the true origin and design of marriage, who in the world will? What direction is the world going to go? So this is one of those points of relevancy where you have to affirm and understand that Jesus did not come to abolish. The law and what's right and what's wrong and what he requires. The origin and design of marriage is found in the creation account. Genesis 2 23 to 25. And the Rib Oh, that's verse 22. I'll read it. Chapter 2, verse 22 to 25 And the rib that the Lord God had taken from the man, he made into a woman, and brought her to the man. Then the man said, This at last is bone of my bones, and flesh of my flesh. She shall be called a woman, because she was taken out of man. Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife. marriage, and they shall become one flesh. The man and his wife were both naked and were not ashamed. You know that's before the fall into sin. This is the origin of marriage. In the creation week on the sixth day , God made man out of the dust of the earth, and he breathed the life into man. And then he made ma he made woman from man. And there's a special bond, this marriage bond. Therefore, a man that looks forward Because at this point, it's just Adam and Eve. There's no fathers, mothers with children leaving their fathers and mothers to go marry. So verse 24, based on that creation of woman from man Is looking forward and is previewing marriage. Therefore, right, on the basis of that, therefore, a man will leave his father and his mother And hold fast to his wife. So the wife is the primary relationship now, not the father and mother. Leave father and mother Cling to your wife. That's your bond. That's your family. That's your new family. The marriage bond. Marriage is between a man and a woman. The origin and design of marriage. God designed marriage for God's purposes in God's world Letter B. Marriage is a covenantal bond. Malachi two, fourteen and sixteen, fourteen to sixteen Go from the uh first book of the Old Testament to the last book of the Old Testament. Pretty neat little bookend With marriage. Malachi 2, 14. In the midst of talking about how Judah has profaned violated their covenant with God, but in the midst of that he brings up marriage as an example of fair prof This is what did I say? Verse we'll start in verse 13. Malachi 2, verse 13. And the second thing you do, you cover the Lord's altar with tears with weeping and with groaning because he no longer regards the offering or accepts it with favor from your hand. It's not a true sorrow or a true repentance. They're just mad at they've lost some of the blessings of God. Verse 14, but you say, Why does he not? Here's the answer: Because the Lord was witness between you and the wife of your youth, to whom you have been faithless, though she is your companion and your wife by covenant. There was a widespread culture of divorce, leaving their wives. And this was one of the sins of Judah. Your companion and your wife by covenant. Marriage is a covenantal bond. Did he not make them one? With a portion of the spirit in their union? And what was the one God seeking? Godly offspring. So guard yourselves in your spirit, and let none of you be faithless to the wife of your youth For the man who does not love his wife but divorces her, says the Lord, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence, says the Lord of hosts. So guard yourselves in your speech. Spirit and do not be faithless, do not be faithless, do not violate your covenant bond with your wife. Um there is another translation in some translations that use the phrase in verse sixteen, God hates divorce, which is fine. My m God does hate divorce because because God loves marriage The man who verse sixteen, the man who does not love his wife but divorces her, says the Lord, the God of Israel, covers his garment with violence. It's a sinful thing to do. The origin and design of marriage is creation designed by God. Marriage is a covenantal bond. The Malachi verse And letter C, marriage is meant for life, but not for eternity. Matthew 22. There is a marriage that defines eternity. The marriage between the lamb and his bride. Marriage is meant for life, but not for eternity. Matthew 22, 28. Um, just for time's sake, we're not reading this whole section that which begins in verse twenty two. The Sadducees were trying to come up with some trick question shocker, right? Sadducees trying to trap Jesus. and a trick question about um about marriage to try to try to get Jesus in some kind of misunderstanding of the law, I imagine. But we'll just see how Jesus answers them on this question about marriage and eternity. Alright, that's really what it's about. Marriage and eternity. Verse 28. In the resurrection So eternity, right? In the resurrection, therefore, of the seven, whose wife will she be? For they all had her Um, 'cause she was married, one husband died, married the brother. Uh uh that husband died, married the brother, that husband died. She had seven in the resurrection, who will be her husband. Jesus answered them, You're wrong The whole premise of their thinking is wrong. You're wrong, because you know neither the scriptures nor the power of God. For in the resurrection they neither marry nor are given in marriage, but are like angels in heaven, which just means And as for the resurrection of the dead, have you not read what was said to you by God? I am the God of Abraham, and the God of Isaac, and the God of Jacob. He is not God of the dead, but of the living. When the crowd heard it, they were astonished at his teaching. So in the resurrection Neither married or given in married marriage, like angels in heaven, which is bringing the point home, unmarried. Um the origin and design of marriage marriage is not a man -made um Pragmatic societal thing. It's not for man to decide what marriage is. It's designed and created by God. It's a covenantal bond Uh and it's meant for all of life, but not for eternity. And letter D, it's a picture of redemption Marriage is a picture of something that's greater than marriage. That is redemption in Christ. That's Christ's marriage to his bride. Ephesians 5, 31 and 32. Verse 31. Therefore a man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Now we just read that. Where's that from? That's Genesis, right. That's quoted from Genesis, and that was about marriage And then verse 32 he says, this mystery is profound, and I'm saying that it refers to Christ and the church. Wait a minute, wait a minute, wait a minute How in the world does that refer to Christ in the church? That is about marriage. That verse is a verse where God institutes marriage. Well, it's a profound mystery. And that's what he says. This mystery is profound, and I'm saying it, it refers ultimately to Christ and the church. Ultimately, this is what marriage is meant to do. Gives us a picture of Christ and his bond with his redeemed bride, which is why anything at all exists. This is God's purpose. To redeem a people for himself, unite those people to his exalted son. However, let each one of you love his wife as himself, and let the wife see that she respects her husband Marriage is a picture of redemption. Marriage, letter E, can be upheld. Biblically, I should not say biblical, can be upheld biblically while allowing the biblical exception. Let's go to the Matthew 19, 3 through 9. Verses three through six, the design of marriage is explained. The Pharisees came up to him, that's Jesus. And tested him by asking, Is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? So that's the main verse where at least in the Bible you get a window into what the practice had become. Any cause. This just became completely subjective of what was a legitimate indecency as described in the law of Moses. So is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? He answered, Have you not read that he who created them from the beginning made them male and female, and said, Therefore a man shall leave his father and his mother, and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh, so they're no longer two but one flesh What therefore God has joined together, let not man separate. Let not man separate. Man doesn't have the authority to separate something that God has brought together. Man doesn't have the authority to do it. Again, you see that verse from the creation account used in reference to marriage. We saw it in Ephesians, and we see it here, Jesus using It. So when we go to Genesis 2 and say this is the origin and design of marriage, that's not an arbitrary thing. That's modeled in the Bible for us. That's where the Bible goes to talk about the origin and design of marriage. It's not a human invention or human institution. It's a divine invention and a divine institution, the covenant bond of marriage That's verses 3 through 6, the design of marriage explained. Verse 7 through 8, God's reason for the Mosaic allowance. So they asked him, verse 7, why then did Moses command one to give a certificate of divorce and send her away? Do you think that's an honest and genuine question? No, they're trying to trap him Because they think the answer is yes. To their question, is it lawful to divorce one's wife for any cause? They would answer yes and they would go to the Mosaic Law for their proof text that allows for a certificate of divorce. Do you find fault in her? There's some indecency in her. Well that became a subject subjective thing for any reason, sending your wife away. That's an abuse, an ungodly ab Abuse of the law. The law is meant to protect wives from this kind of thing. Not make it uh an easy an easy thing, a trivial thing for a man just to find any reason to divorce his wife and send her away. But that's what they say. Why well, why then did Moses command us to give a certificate of divorce and send her away? Well he said to them, because of your hardness of heart Because of the corruption of your hearts. It's the corruption of the heart that would lead you to want to be able to do that. To want to be able to send your wife away for any reason and give her a certificate of divorce is a sign of the corruption of your heart. It's because of the corruption of your heart, Moses allowed you to divorce your wives. But from the beginning it was not so Verse 9, an authorized exception. I say to you, which is better than what the Pharisees would have to say. Say. Pharisees say this, the Sadducees say this, the traditions of man say this. Jesus says, I say to you, whoever divorces his wife, except for sexual immorality, and marries another commits adultery. So there you have it. Um why now why the exception? Why the exception? And this is just going to be food for thought. Just trying to give us a deep and well-rounded picture from Scripture about these issues. I know these are difficult issues. One example to think about is Jeremiah 38. She saw The she there is the southern kingdom, Judah. Judah saw Did I say the verse? Or did I just start reading it? Did I say Jeremiah 3:8? She saw that for all the adulteries of that faithless one, Israel, that's the northern kingdom. So the southern kingdom saw that for all the what? Adulteries of the faithless one Israel, I Had sent her away with a decree of divorce. Let's just stop there. Just underline that. Who's the I? God sent who away? Israel with a what? With a decree of divorce. Okay. Did God sin? Yet her treacherous sister Judah did not fear, but she too went and played the whore, which is idolatry. That's the metaphor for us. Israel's whorings or her idolatries with other gods forsaking their covenantal bond, which is likened to a marriage bond with God divorced Israel and sent her away into captivity by the hand of Assyria, and the northern kingdom was not promised a restoration. Restoration, like the Southern Kingdom was. Yes, an ultimate restoration, an eschatological restoration. But it was only the Southern Kingdom. Judah who is promised that provisional restoration from Babylon, not from Assyria, back to the land with a rebuilt temple to become a nation once again. Kingdom. The northern kingdom was sent away with a certificate of divorce and God did not remarry her. Now they can anyone from that kingdom and in the lineage of that kingdom can still be saved and be right with God through faith in Christ. Of course. That's not what we're saying. We're talking about the nation as a nation under the old covenant. God divorced. And it was right For God to divorce because of her, what does it say? Adulteries. Adulteries and faithlessness that forfeited the marriage bond. Again, we're talking about why the exception. So just trying to get us to think about some of these some of these things. Um let us see. The penalty for adultery was death in the in the in the Mosaic covenant. Deuteronomy 22, 22, and Leviticus. And death dissolves the marriage bond. Romans 7, 1 through 3. So in principle When you commit adultery, you're forfeiting your right to that marriage bond. In principle, it dissolves the marriage bond. Not legally, but in principle, because the penalty for adultery is death. God has mercy for adulterers. John 8 three through eleven. I hope you know this. John has m God has m well John does too. John eight. But God has mercy toward sinners. God has mercy toward Idolaters and adulterers and murderers and thieves and arsonists and the greedy God has mercy for sinners. John eight, you know the story well. The scribes and Pharisees brought a woman who had been caught in adultery, placing her in the midst. They said to him, Teacher, this woman has been caught in the act of adultery. Now in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such women. Again, using the law and in their hearts w they're wanting the h to harm somebody. It's it's just mind-boggling. The wickedness of these pharisaical legalistic traditionalists And they're wanting to trap Jesus and make him look like a lawbreaker. Now in the law, Moses commanded us to stone such a woman. Then what do you say? Obviously what are they what are they wanting to happen? Well they're wanting Jesus to publicly disagree with the law of God. That's what they want. Can you imagine This they said to test him that they might have some charge to bring against him. Jesus bent down and wrote with his finger on the ground. And as they continued to ask him, he stood up and said to them, Let him who is without sin be the first to throw a stone at her. At once And once more he bent down and wrote on the ground. But when they heard it, they went away one by one, beginning with the older ones, and Jesus was left alone with the woman standing Before him, Jesus stood up and said to her, Woman, where are they? Has no one condemned you? She said, No one, Lord. Jesus said, Neither do I condemn you. Go, and from now on, sin no more. Did Jesus break the law? The law does say stone the adulterer. Did Jesus break the law? No, it's not unlawful to show m Mercy to sinners. It's not unlawful to forgive sins and forgive transgressions. It it does not violate the law of God to erase vengeance against sin. This is the heart of the gospel. God has mercy for sinners that spares them from the judgment they deserve and spares them and delivers them from the consequences not they that we deserve for our sin. Neither do I condemn you. Go and from now on sin no more. He also calls us away from a life of sin, doesn't he? James two thirteen. For judgment is without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. Mercy triumphs over judgment. Mercy, having mercy on others, doesn't mean that you don't care about justice. Mercy triumphs over judgment. For judgment, this is talking about God's judgment. For judgment is going to be without mercy to the one who has shown no mercy. Um and then verse F, just throwing this in here for one more one more food for thought, one more little morsel. I know we haven't talked about anything uh difficult tonight, have we? It's all been this kind of lighthearted stuff. Divorce is not an unforgivable sin. Whatever else you want to say about divorce in a particular case and a particular situation, and what do we do moving on, and what's the right decision is moving on, it's not an unforgivable sin. There is an unforgivable sin, the blasphemy of the spirit, but that's not divorce. And there are sins that lead to death. Epistles of John, sins that lead to death, which I think are capital crimes. So like if you if you commit capital murder. And you're convicted and you're on death robe and you're converted and become a Christian, you still have to face the death penalty. Um that s that the civil authority as God's uh minister of wrath That you deserve in the civil sphere. That doesn't mean you're not forgiven and not saved, but there are sins that lead to death, and there are sins that lead to jail, and there is a sin that's even unforgivable, the blasphemy of the Holy Spirit But divorce is none of those things. Now under the law of Moses it was a capital crime, many things were, but that doesn't mean that you don't show up Mercy. We want judges who know what's right and what's wrong. We want judges who will stand for justice and stand for mercy as well. The last thing we want is just judges without mercy. The second to last thing we want. I guess it's a two-way ties. We we want judges who will not be corrupt. They'll stand for justice, but they'll have mercy. We want merciful Judges. And we we should be merciful to each other as well. Merciful parents, merciful friends, merciful church members, uh merciful merciful spouses, and merciful to those who've committed adultery and merciful to those who All right, let's pray.