Let's take our Bibles and turn to 1 Peter chapter 4. Tonight we're looking at 1 Peter chapter 4 1 to 11. And the topic is living for Christ. It's one of should be one of our favorite topics, shouldn't it? Living for Christ? Because God's call upon our lives is not just to believe in things about Christ, but by his grace and by his spirit and according to his word, we're called to live for Christ Living for Christ from 1 Peter 4 1 to 11. As I'm looking out, I know that for the great majority of us here tonight, this is Not new. I know this is review. It's review for me. It's review for you. But my goal is to grow in these things Our goal is to grow in these things. And so reminders are so common in Scripture. God reviewing material with his people. God telling his people again what he already told them is such an important thing that happens in Scripture and it happens in our lives. 1 Peter 4 verses 1 through 11, living For Christ. You know, it's important we have things like business meetings and attend to the numbers, attend to the building, attend to the finances. But we're not trusting in those things. We're trusting in God. Trusting in those things would be like Israel trusting in the amount of soldiers they had, the amount of uh horses they had. and the amount of chariots they had. But true victory was experienced when they trusted in God, not in resources. Not in themselves. That just comes to mind whenever we have a business meeting. These things are important for logistics and for us to function. But let's make sure in our hearts, in our heart of hearts, that we're trusting in God, not in externals Let's pray, and then we will read the passage and enter into the message. Father, we pray that you would open our hearts once again to your life-changing word To your living word. Let your word be active within us to expose our sin that we might look to you for grace, that we might look to you and cry out to you in our hearts For forgiveness, that we might look to you and cry out to you in our hearts for purity, that by your word and spirit you would show us our sin and turn us to Christ for grace Also, by your word and spirit, that you would show us our weakness and inability, so that we would look to Christ for strength and for spiritual power. Pray that you would expose our folly, that we would look to Christ for wisdom Show us our need in every way possible that you would show us our need, that we would look to you and you alone as the provision. The all-sufficient, sufficient provision for this life and for the next. Show us just a little bit more, show us just a little bit deeper of what it means and what it looks like. To live for Christ for your glory. It's in his name we ask. Amen. 1 Peter 4, 1 through 11. Let's read the passage. Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. For the time that is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. Living in sensuality, passions. Drunkenness, orgies, drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. With respect to this, they're surprised When you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery. And they malign you. But they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead For this is why the gospel was preached even to those who are dead, that though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does The end of all things is at hand. Therefore, be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all. Keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks As one who speaks oracles of God, whoever serves as one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Living for Christ is all about the glory of God. And that idea comes at the very end. We just saw it there as the passage came to a close. In the middle of verse 11, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. That's comprehensive. That's our goal. That's our target. That's what we're aiming for. That's what we're striving for and crying out to God for. That in everything that we do, God would be glorified through Christ. In everything that we say, God would be glorified through Christ. This is an amazing thing. We know we can't make any progress in either of those apart from God's grace God's Spirit has to be at work within us. God's Word has to be at work within us for us to be dead set on the glory of God. But, brothers and sisters, that's what God has called us to To be about his glory. Let's cry out to God in our prayer closets, in our secret prayer. Let's be crying out to God that He would make us more and more about His glory through Jesus Christ. That's the note. That this passage ends on. Whatever we do, whatever we're about, let's be about the glory of Christ. Verse 11: in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. That's not how I lived before God saved me. Is that how you lived before God saved you? Before God changed our hearts? Is that how we live? that in everything God would be glorified through Jesus Christ. No, it was the opposite. God had to give us new hearts. God had to take out my old wicked heart and give me a new spirit-filled heart that I would care about this stuff. And the same's true about you We're recipients of grace. We're not working to win a trophy from God. We are the trophy. We are the trophy of grace won by Christ for the glory of God. So in all things, in everything, that God will be glorified through Jesus Christ. As we were reading through that passage, I know there are some phrases that maybe are unique, but Peter has a lot of phrases that are unique and can catch us off guard and maybe can confuse us. But if you can just see through Those strange phrases, isn't it true that in that passage there is just a lot of practical stuff about the way we should think About how we should be treating each other, about how we refrain from things that the world is giving itself over to. It's a very practical passage. And that's why I call this message living for Christ. Because at its heart, that's what this is about. It's mapping out living for Christ. It's a thing. Everything about living for Christ. We 'll know. It's one paragraph of a pretty big book on the will of God and what that means and what that looks like. But it's a really good overview. It's a really good overview. Our lives cannot be about the glory of self. Our lives, brothers and sisters, cannot be about earthly riches. And treasures. Our lives cannot be about earthly fame and acclaim. Our lives cannot be about temporary comforts and pleasures Personal comfort and pleasure is like the number one idol of our culture, yes? The world lives for these things, the flesh desires these things, the devil would love With would not would love nothing more than for us to give our hearts to to things other than God and his glory What we want to be about is living for Christ, for the glory of God. There's a fork in the road. If you start reading the book of Proverbs, you learn that very quickly. There's just a fork in the road for all of us Wisdom is over here for the glory of God, and foolishness is over here in rebellion to God. Wisdom, foolishness. Living for God, living for self. It's also the way of the righteous, a summary phrase for that, on this fork of the road. And the way of the wicked. There's a fork in the road for all of us. Brothers and sisters, let's go right. Let's go right to the glory of God. Well, I've tried to distill. Working through this passage down to five thoughts, five meditations, five whatever you want to call them. Andrew, you want to call them points? You call them points. Five points. Number one, the mind of Christ. This comes from verses one and two. Having the mind of Christ. Now, having the mind of Christ glorifies God Because it stands opposed to the mind of the fallen culture. And so it shines like a flashlight in the world. Having the mindset of Christ, the mind of Christ glorifies God because it stands opposed. to the wicked culture which has set itself against God. Verses 1 and 2. Therefore, since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh , Arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions but for the will of God. Did you catch that? No longer for human passions. That's talking about the natural fallen passions of man. And man is mankind, male and female, the natural fallen passions of the flesh, no longer for those, but for the will of God, for the will of God. And Peter sets forth Christ as the example. Christ suffered. You know that Christ suffered because you know what planet Christ lived on. Amen? You know why you suffer, because you live in a world that's under the curse of sin and death. So even if you were perfect Even if we truly were perfected and fully sanctified, we would still suffer in this world, because this world is full of evil and suffering. Jesus lived in this world, and he suffered greatly. But he says, looking to Christ in his example, since Christ suffered in the flesh Here's what he says. Arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. Arm yourselves with the same way of what? Thinking. That's why this first point is the mind of Christ. Because Peter said that. Arm yourselves. It's like the language you would use for Taking up a sword, arm yourself. Or grab your shield. Arm yourself. Get ready for battle. Arm yourself with a way of thinking. And that way of thinking is living for the will of God even in the midst of intense suffering. And suffering comes into all of our lives. And trials come into all of our lives. And temptations come into all of our lives. Maybe persecution has come into your life. Well, that's why we all need to have the mind of Christ, the mindset of Christ. In the midst of suffering, in the midst of persecution, we're living for the will of God. And that's what he means by arm yourself with the same way of thinking. The mind of Christ. And that brings glory to God. Did Christ suffer? Did Christ suffer on earth? Absolutely, he suffered on earth. And then he ultimately suffered in what's called his passion, the passion of Christ. When he was betrayed by one of his friends, by one of his disciples, he was betrayed. He was arrested. He was wrongfully tried, wrongfully convicted, he was publicly tortured, brutally brutally uh executed on a Roman cross. And then the spiritual component of that, because that's not just a a natural event Brothers and sisters, let's not forget Jesus dying on a cross is a supernatural event. It's a miracle. He bore our sins. He bore our sins. He bore our guilt. He's the sin-bearer. He suffered greatly. He suffered anguish of soul, is what the scripture says, and in body. He suffered greatly in his passion and death, but he also suffered in his life. He was persecuted. He was hated. He was maligned. He suffered temptation. The more you love people The more inner sorrow it brings you when you see people harmed and victimized by sin and sinners Now, who loves people more than Jesus? Nobody. He had a perfect love. He has an infinite love for people. And when he lived on earth, what did he see? Saw the same thing you see. People victimized and tormented by sin and by sinners. And he's the prophecy calls him a man of sorrows, well acquainted with grief. Because he loved people so much. That was just giving me part of his suffering. Also, the more you love God, the more you love God, the more inner sorrow, the more inner grief it gives you. When you see people rebelling against God, when you see people hating God, despising God, does something to you. It does something to you. So Jesus' inner anguish, his inner sort. This is why Jesus was always running up and hiding in the mountains to pray at like two in the morning. Praying all night, crying out to his God. Scripture says that too. He cried out in loud cries, loud groans. He cried out to God in prayer. So we need to arm ourselves with this mindset, brothers and sisters. Despite suffering , Despite temptations that bombard us every day, despite whatever trials, persecutions come into our lives, let's just purpose in our heart by God's grace to have this mind of Christ that we're living for the will of God Living for the will of God, God will use those sufferings to sanctify us. Now there's a it's going back to one of those The last point I said about the more you love people, the more inner sorrow it brings you when you see people victimized and tormented by sin. And then the more you love God The more inner grief and inner sorrow it brings you when you see people in rebelling against God. Well, there's a part of that sorrow that we experience that Jesus didn't. Because Jesus did not have sin living in him I have sin living in me. I can't get rid of it. Wouldn't that be great if you could get rid of the indwelling sin and that you are 100% led by the Holy Spirit in everything you think, everything you desire, everything you say, the way you say it, the things you do, the places you go? That will be true true one day, but not yet. Anyway, Jesus didn't have that. He didn't have sin living within him. We have sin living within us, so part of our inner anguish, part of our inner sorrow is being craved because of our own sin that we see. And the more we grow in our love for God, the more we'll be grieved by our own sin. And the more we're grieved by our own sin, the more we'll cry out to Christ for sanctification and forgiveness. So those things increase as we mature in Christ. If crying out to Christ, crying out to Christ for grace and for forgiveness and purity, brothers and sisters, that does not decrease as you mature That increases as you mature because you're seeing more of God, and you're knowing more of God, and you're growing in your love for God, and you're growing in your love for holiness, and you're gro Flowing in your desire for obedience and holiness And what do I see when I see inside my own heart? It's the opposite of those things. So we're crying out, we're crying out, we're crying out, oh, cultivate secret prayer, brothers and sisters. Be a gardener. Be a busy, sweaty gardener cultivating secret prayer, crying out to God. Number two, a light in the darkness. A light in the darkness, this comes from verses three and four. Now, having the mind of Christ glorifies God. Because it's set against the fallen culture that is opposing God. Being a light in the darkness Glorifies God because being a light in the darkness serves and advances God's kingdom. Please let's not forget that That God uses his people to advance his kingdom in this world of darkness and death. This comes from verses three and four. For the time That is past suffices for doing what the Gentiles want to do. That's just another way of saying You've had enough of that. You've had enough of that. That's in the past. It's done It's over. You've moved on. We're not going back. The time that has passed suffices. It's done. Let's move on. You've had enough of that. Living for the world, living like the world. Living in the he is actually pretty detailed on what that is, what that looks like. He says, living in sensuality Passions, drunkenness, orgies , drinking parties, and lawless idolatry. Now he's hitting the biggies. He's giving us a broad-sweeping view, a representative view. He's certainly not giving every sin, is he? He's not even giving every category of sin. He's not going through all the commandments of God. He's summarizing. He's hitting the big ones. You want to see a culture? You want to see a people? That's living in rebellion against God. There's going to be sexual immorality. There's going to be idolatry. There's going to be drunkenness. There's going to be just this. this uh pandemic of a lack of self-control, living however we want, pursuing whatever lust we feel like, pursuing And not just doing that, but celebrating that. And making that like the definition of a good life. This is what life is about. Follow your lusts. This is who you are, your inner lusts. God has plucked us up out of that. I know you're going to make fun of me for that motion tomorrow, first thing tomorrow This motion. But God truly has plucked us up out of this kingdom of darkness and he's transferred us into the kingdom of light, into the kingdom of his beloved son. And Peter says Enough. You've had enough. You've moved on. You've graduated from the darkness and you've inherited the light. Fellowship with Christ. Verse 4. With respect to this, they are surprised when you do not join them in the same flood of debauchery. And they malign you. They're shocked. What's wrong with you? Don't you want to have some fun? Don't you know the meaning of life? Don't you want to find your true self? Don't you want to be true to yourself? Don't you know that's where you'll find satisfaction? So they're surprised. They're surprised when you don't join in this flood. And also they'll they'll malign you. They'll malign you. A light in the darkness. Christians have such an important role in the world. Local churches, biblical local churches. have such an important role in the world. And it's not because we're better than anybody, because we're not. It's not because we're smarter than anybody. It's because we're not. It's because God has designed it this way. By His grace, by His wisdom, by His power, God uses sinners to advance His kingdom in the world And so we can be sure at the end God gets all the glory. We'll get none of the glory. We give all the glory to God. The mind of Christ, a light in the darkness, number three, the reality of judgment. The reality of judgment, proclaiming the coming judgment, It can be a difficult thing, it can be an awkward thing, it can be an uncomfortable thing. Amen? Right? That's un that's hard. That's uncomfortable. But proclaiming coming judgment glorifies God because, number one, What that's representative of is telling people the truth. The friends you have that are willing to tell you tough things, willing to tell you the truth Even when it's hard to hear, even when it's difficult to hear, but they know you need to hear, that's the kind of friends that we want. The church needs to be a friend of the world. We need to be the best friends of the world and telling them the truth, but also proclaiming the coming judgment glorifies God because that's the thing that will bring sinners to conviction If you haven't heard that word conviction before, that just means that's when inwardly we're convinced that we're guilty of sin and need to be saved. That's what conviction is. Inwardly we've got we become convinced. It's like we Take the stand against ourselves in the courtroom of God. That's what conviction is. And you can you imagine that? Someone taking the stand in the courtroom when they're on trial and saying, I'm guilty. I did it all. I deserve nothing. Judge, do not let me go free. I deserve to be punished. That's conviction And it's the proclamation of sin and judgment in God's holiness that brings that conviction. Well anyway, this comes from verse 5 and 6. Peter says, but they will give account to him who is ready to judge the living and the dead. That's the risen Christ. The ascended, glorified Christ, He's the one who's going to judge the living and the dead. For this is why the gospel is preached, even to those who are dead. That though judged in the flesh the way people are, they might live in the spirit the way God does And it's looking backward to even historically before the coming of Christ, where the gospel was preached. The gospel was first revealed in the Garden of Eden before Adam and Eve were even Ushered out of the garden in judgment, exiled from the glory of God, exiled from the presence of God, the promise of a coming redeemer And that promise of the gospel, the promise of a coming Savior that developed and grew gradually throughout history until the fulfillment of it, the coming of Christ. And his righteous life and sacrificial death, his glorious resurrection and ascension, and the giving of the Spirit, that's the fullness of the gospel. But the promise of the gospel has always been in history because of God's revelation. The gospel had always been preached. And it's so that people can go into the presence of God when their bodies die. And so For a lot of history, there would have been, just for an example, true believers in the nation of Israel. True believers in the nation of Israel. But as part of the nation of Israel They could have come under the judgment of God on earth, the historical judgment of God. For example, the Babylonian exile was a historical judgment from God against the southern kingdom of Judah. Well, you could have had believers who were a part of that historical judgment. They were judged in the flesh. Judged in the flesh the way people are. Verse 6. The first example that comes to mind is Daniel. Daniel was exiled under Nebuchadnezzar's rule into Babylon. That's Daniel, historically, historical judgment, Daniel suffered that. But, but, because of his faith. Because of the gospel promise that had come to him, he lives in the Spirit the way God does. Daniel's with God right now. Daniel's in heaven. Daniel's Suffering is behind him. And all believers are with God in heaven who've passed on physically. We have to understand The reality of coming judgment because one of the things that we'll do is increase within us a burden for sharing the true biblical gospel. There's a lot of messages out there that are called the gospel and are not the gospel There's one true gospel of salvation from the judgment of God. And it gets watered down and it gets twisted and it gets left off. It's buried in a filing cabinet somewhere because we're so afraid that's going to turn people off. Yeah, well, in the flesh, that turns all of us off. In the flesh, that turns me off. Only the Spirit of God, only the Spirit of God can bring conviction. God uses His truth to change hearts. We can't be afraid to speak the truth. We speak the truth in love, but we have to have a burden. We have to have an inner burden, a zeal for speaking the truth. The reality of judgment is part of that. And he keeps that theme going, the the urgency, the the weight of this going. In verses 7 to 9, but then he transitions real quickly into practical discipleship. That's point number four. Practical discipleship. So just to review quickly, number one, we need to have the mind of Christ. for the glory of God. Number two, we need to be a light in the darkness to the glory of God. Number three, we need to grasp and preach the reality of coming judgment to the glory of God. And number four, we need to pursue practical discipleship for the glory of God. Practical discipleship glorifies God Because it gives evidence of his grace. It gives evidence of his grace. It gives evidence of his power at work in our lives. This is verses 7 to 9. The end of all things is at hand. Therefore, therefore, be self-controlled. And sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. It will hinder our prayers if we're not living self-controlled, sober-minded lives. It will hinder our prayers. And hold back the fruitfulness of our prayers. So be self-controlled, be sober-minded for the sake of your prayers Above all, keep loving one another earnestly. Above that's an amazing thing in a in a book In a chapter and a paragraph about so many important things, you see this. Above all, that should get our attention. Above all. It's another way of saying, whatever else you do, make sure you do this. Here's what he says. Love one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. Love does cover a multitude of sins in relationships. It's love that will enable us to have the relationship, sustain the relationship, and build and grow that relationship over time. Because a relationship is going to be between two sinners. And then when you come into the church, it's multiple sinners. And the only way we'll be able to go on with each other is if we have grace and love toward each other, if we're able to forgive and cover a multitude of sins. You take all of us together. We're a big church. We're not a mega church, but relatively speaking, we're a bigger church There's a lot of people, there is a multitude of sins, but that's okay because the love of Christ in us can cover a multitude of sins. Where I can forgive you and you can forgive me. We can forgive each other A lot of things we just forgive in our hearts and move on. Some things we're not able to do that, so we need to speak with one another. And pray with one another and find reconciliation and find a way to move on for the glory of God. In this life, we're always going to be sinners. We're always going to have sin. And we need to be able to have love. He says, above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. If we don't have love that covers sins, man, we'll always be mad at each other. We'll always we'll always be slandering each other. We'll always be Passive, aggressive, silent treatment on each other. Well, if we're if we don't have love that covers sins, all we're having is being angry because of our sins. So we above all strive and keep loving earnestly because love covers a multitude of sins. Verse 9: Show hospitality to one another without grumbling Without grumbling, show hospitality to one another. Practical discipleship. It's just a little window into practical discipleship, isn't it? It doesn't say everything But it gives you a pretty good summary of body life discipleship. It gives you a pretty good summary of relationships in the local church discipleship. That's just one piece of the pie. Discipleship is a pie. One piece of that pie will be our relationships with each other, right? Because you have discipleship in the home, you have discipleship at work We have our discipleship as citizens of a nation and the way we live out our citizenship, the way we vote, the things we stand for. We have discipleship in these different spheres of life. Well, and then you have inner discipleship, the renewing of our mind, right, the sanctifying of our hearts. Growing and being purified in our speech. All these different areas of discipleship. This is just one area, but it's an important one This is very, very important because the church is the body of Christ, is a witness. Church is the temple of God. This is scripture says church is the temple of God. You're the dwelling place of God on earth. You represent God's kingdom on earth. The church, you. I'm not saying the church out there somewhere. You, us, the temple of God, the body of Christ. Ambassadors for the kingdom of God. We have to keep loving each other earnestly, covering a multitude of sins and showing hospitality without grumbling. And then Still in that same category of practical discipleship and even within the local church is verses 10 and 11. I gave this its own category just because I wanted to highlight the glory of God, and that's point number five, the glory of God. The glory of God, verses 10 through 11. Let's rehearse these one more time. Alright. We have the mind of Christ for the glory of God. We're to be a light in the darkness for the glory of God. We're to embrace. And be humbled by and preach the reality of judgment for the glory of God, were to pursue practical discipleship for the glory of God in all spheres of life And number five, just the glory of God, verses 10 to 11. As each has received a gift, let's talk about spiritual gifts, each has received a spiritual gift Use it to serve one another as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks Is one who speaks the oracles of God. Whoever serves is one who serves by the strength that God supplies, in order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To Him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Being centered on the glory of God in our hearts calibrates our lives It's like the a it's it's like the axle. It's like getting the alignment right. Have you ever driven a vehicle that's pulling to the right? Pulling to the right, and if you're if you're not careful, if you lose focus for five seconds, you're off in a ditch So you need to keep it aligned. You need to get your alignment fixed, first of all. Get your alignment fixed. And that's what we're talking about. Getting the alignment of our hearts fixed. So we're not veering towards self. We're not always veering towards sin. We're not veering toward pride and selfishness, but we're We're going straight for the glory of God. Our hearts are fixed on the glory of God. Get that alignment, that calibration of our hearts right. In order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. Now, what's the two overarching ways that Peter talks about this? It's easy because it's two S's. Speaking and serving. That's the bulk of what we all do in the church. Speaking and serving. Speaking and serving. Are you just I mean, there are different things that we do, right? We'll have a ministry over here. We'll have a men's breakfast on a Saturday. We have a worship service on a Sunday morning. We have a business meeting. But if you just think about rubber meets the road, what literally, actually, are we doing? We're speaking and we're serving. So that's going to cover most of what we're doing in the body life. And Peter's point is very simple: speak for the glory of God and serve for the glory of God. It's easy to serve in the flesh. It's easy to serve in the flesh. It's easy to serve with a heart that's fixated on people seeing me serving. It's easy to serve with a heart fixated on, boy, this really makes me feel good. But you see, the Spirit will lead us to stop thinking about that. Stop thinking about our feelings. Stop thinking about what other people think of us, and just and just be concerned with the glory of God. Be concerned. With God being known. Be concerned with God being loved. Be concerned with God's character being reflected That's what it means to be concerned about the glory of God. That He would be known, that He would be loved, that His character would be reflected, that His name would be praised That his mighty deeds would be proclaimed, that people would know that they would know that God is good, that they would know that God is gracious. This is the thing the kinds of things that our hearts are Just fixated on, always fixated on, when we're calibrated for the glory of God. And when the heart gets right, then the speaking can get right and the serving can get right. But that's Peter's point. Whoever speaks as one who speaks the oracles of God. It just means see yourself as God's mouthpiece. When we see ourselves as God's mouthpiece, that changes the way we talk Then he says, serve by the strength that God supplies. That changes things. That's different than serving in our own strength. It's easy to serve in our own strength. It's easy to do External religion in the flesh. It's easy to do religion without God. Easy. Anybody can do it. Billions of people do it Trillions of people have done it throughout history to do religion in the flesh without God for self and the strength in the str in my own strength. That's easy. But we're called to serve In the strength that God supplies. That's serving in the strength of the Holy Spirit. And that brings a humility, that brings a gentleness, that brings a patience The glory of God is everything. It is everything. So let's strive to live for Christ and be all about the glory of God. I'm going to pray for us and then we'll transition to the Lord's Supper. Father, we thank you for your love and for your grace. Thank you for making yourself known to us. Thank you for providing Jesus. So that we could know you and have a relationship with you. It's in his name we pray. Amen.