Let's take our Bibles and go to the book of 1 John. We're returning to our series in the book of 1 John. Remember the main topic for that series is our confidence in Christ. And I'll I have one little passage just to catch us up and remind us. of that topic of our confidence in Christ. But for now, 1 John chapter 3, we'll be fine. 1 John 3, 4 through 10 is our passage this morning. The title is Living in Sin. And the message is basically that children of God do not live in habitual, hardened, and unrepentant Sin, children of God, born of the Spirit, through faith in Christ, by no merit of our own, and by no strength of our own, children of God do not live in habitual, hardened and unrepentant sin. First John three four through ten Well the flipping of the pages has stopped, so I assume you're all there. Which is good. Uh this passage Is not in 1 John to scare believers and make them feel like they might not be saved. This passage is not in 1 John to diminish your confidence in Christ, lest we forget chapter 2, verses 12 through 14. Reviewing and summarizing confidence in Christ. I'm writing to you little children because your sins Are forgiven for his name's sake. I'm writing to you, fathers, because you know him who is from the beginning I'm writing to you, young men, because you have overcome the evil one. I write to you, children, because you know the Father. I'm writing to you fathers because you know him who is from the beginning, and I write to you, young men, because you are strong, and the word of God abides in you, and you have overcome the evil one. God wants you, child of God, to have confidence. Confidence that through faith in Christ and based on his death Confidence that your sins have all been forgiven. And God wants you to have confidence through faith in Christ and based on his death that you've been reconciled to God for all eternity and that nothing can reverse that. And God wants you to have confidence that through faith in Christ, you have received the gift of eternal life And you can go way back into the spring when I talked about this that we receive eternal life in two stages In this life, we've already received the gifts of eternal life by virtue of the Holy Spirit that God has given us. But in the age to come, we'll receive that final phase of eternal life, life in a resurrection body in the full presence and the full glory of God. But in Christ, and through faith in Christ, we have confidence that our sins have been forgiven. We have confidence that we've been reconciled to God. We have confidence that we've received the gift of eternal life, and we have confidence that we have overcome the evil one. Did you see that phrase? Confidence that we have victory over the lies And the schemes of Satan and the ruling power of Satan. So, let's get our hearts. I know we've got to do this quickly. Let's get our hearts grounded again in our assurance before the throne of God and our confidence that we have in Christ as we're coming into this passage. This passage is not meant to scare us or diminish our confidence, but rather this passage is meant to raise our discernment level when it comes to false Christianity in the world. That's the overarching purpose of passages like this, to raise our discernment level or discernment levels when it comes to dealing with false Christianity in the world. Beginning in verse four, First John chapter three Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. You know that he appeared in order to take away sins, and in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous as he is righteous. Whoever makes a practice of sinning is of the devil. For the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. No one born of God makes the practice of sinning. For God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God. By this it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness Is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. Let's pray together. Father, apart from my weaknesses and blunders and the weaknesses and blunders of the hearers. Still, your word continues to bear spiritual fruit, and God, we are so thankful for that. We pray once again that this preaching would be done in faith. Trusting in you, focused on your name and glory. And Father, we also pray that the hearing of the word would be done in faith. Focused on you and for your name and glory. We join our hearts and in faith we cry out to you, God, that you would reach forth in the mercy, that you would reach forth in power. Conform us to the likeness of Christ, we pray, for the lost that your gospel would get through, and birth salvation this very morning Father, show us Christ. Transform us by your Spirit. It's in His name we pray. Amen. Well, I hope that you've linked onto and will keep into your back pocket that this passage is not meant to scare you. I implore you this morning. Don't let the devil use this passage to mess with your mind and to diminish your confidence in Christ. If you have Christ, you have everything that you need. If you have come to faith in Christ, your sins are forgiven. If you have come to faith in Christ, you've been reconciled to God for all eternity, and nothing can change that. You have the gift of eternal life. You have overcome the evil one. You've been given spiritual victory over the evil one. So don't let the evil one use this passage. And warp it and manipulate it and trick you and diminish your assurance in Christ Christians are a people of hope. Christians are a people of joy. Christians are a people who are confident about our eternal destiny because God has saved us in Christ. This passage is about how children of God do not live in habitual, hardened, and unrepentant sin. Now the key verses are verses 9 and 10. Look at those again with me. Verse nine and then verse ten. No one born of God That's where I got that phrase, children of God, okay? Children of God. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning. And that's where I got that phrase, do not live in habitual, hardened, and unrepentant sin. I'm just taking the first part of verse nine and putting it into my own words. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning. In other words, children of God do not live in habitual, hardened, and unrepentant sin. No one born of God makes the practice of sinning. Going on in verse 9 gives us the reason why, for God's seed abides in him. Which is a shorthand way, it's a metaphoric way, of talking about the Holy Spirit has taken up residence in our hearts The gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ has been poured out into our hearts, and through faith we've received the Holy Spirit, the seed of God, the Spirit of God. Abides in us. Going on in verse 9, and he cannot keep on sinning because he's been born of God Verse 10, by this it is evident who are the children of God. So whatever he's talking about here, he's talking about something that makes it evident that these are the children of God and these are not. This it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness Is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. Practicing righteousness is just one of the Bible's ways for talking about obedient Christian living. Not perfect obedience, not perfect Christian living, but true spirit-born obedient living. You can live a life in obedience to God. Not perfect obedience, but true obedience. Through faith in Christ, by the power of the Spirit, in accordance with the word. You can obey God No one born of God makes a practice of sinning. Verses 9 and 10 are going to be your key verses for this. So just to clarify, I'm giving a lot of clarifications before we get to the main outline, or at least the subpoints of the main outline, because I've heard this verse preached in so many different ways that Almost as if God wants to make you doubt your salvation. This passage is not meant to scare Christians, it's not meant to diminish our confidence in Christ. First of all, notice this passage is not about believers who sin. Let me ask you the easiest pop quiz question. Hopefully, this is the easiest pop quiz question you'll ever get in church. What percentage of true children of God still sin? 100%. Give yourselves a round of applause. Yes. I told you it was the easiest question. This passage is not about Christians who sin. And this passage is not about how Christians fight against sin. Hopefully that's the same percentage. that 100% of Christians are day-to-day battling against sin by the Spirit's power. This passage is not even about, it's not even about Christians who have slipped into a season of habitual sin. As a true child of God, you can let your guard down and you can slip into a season of habitual unrepentant sin. But God is faithful and he will restore his children to obedience at at his appointed time. But that's not what this is about. This is not about Christians and their sin, Christians fighting against sin, Christians who slipped into a pattern of sin. This passage rather is about unbelievers who think they're believers but their lifestyle proves they are deceived. I'll repeat that This passage is about unbelievers who think they are believers, yet their life and their doctrine prove that they are deceived. John deals with this idea throughout 1 John. He wants believers to have a strong confidence in their salvation. And he does not want unbelievers to have a false confidence in salvation. No matter what they say, think or feel about themselves spiritually, their lives are characterized by habitual hardened and unrepentant sin. Now you've caught on, I said that that phrase. Several times already. Habitual. This means that sin is an ongoing pattern in their lives, and they give hearty approval to it. That's what habitual means. Sin has become an ongoing pattern in their lives and they're completely fine with it. They give hearty approval. They're okay with it. This is what they want. Habitual hardened. Hardened means they're completely oblivious to the fact that their sin is grievous to a holy God. They're completely blind to the fact that their sin is a moment-to-moment spiritual crime and rebellion against God. Habitual, ongoing pattern. you give agreement with, that you're okay with, hardened, oblivious to the grotesque nature of rebellion, and then unrepentant. Habitual hardened unrepentant. This is what practice of sin means. Unrepentant means it's nowhere on their radar. To turn from sin in order to live for God. That's unrepentant. It's nowhere on your radar. Matthew 12, 33, either make the tree good and its fruit good. Or make the tree bad and its fruit bad, for the tree is known by its fruit. Good tree, good fruit, bad tree, bad fruit. Believer, true obedience. Unbeliever, no obedience. No matter what they think, feel, or say about themselves. Look again at verse seven. Little children, let no one deceive you. We do need to be on guard. We do need to have our discernment level up. Because in every age There are counterfeit Christians and false teaching. We don't want to be sucked in and led astray by these things. Now I have a simple, simple, well I think it's simple. You have to tell me afterwards. Dave, let me know afterwards if this is simple. Simple outline or a complicated outline. A simple outline to work through this passage, asking the question why? Why is it that children of God do not live in habitual, hardened, and unrepentant sin? First of all, because Christ delivers from sin. That's number one, and that's got to be number one. Christians, true believers, do not live in habitual, hardened, and unrepentant sin because number one, Christ delivers from sin. Number two, because Christ destroys the works of the devil. If the works of the devil are abounding in my life , And I'm perfectly fine with it that I do not have a relationship with Christ because Christ destroys the works of the devil. Are you with me, brethren? Christ. Delivers from sin. Christ destroys the works of the devil. And number three, Christ has given us a new life. He's given us a new life. If my present life still looks like my old life I'm still in the old life. Well, that's not rocket science. If my life hasn't been changed, my life hasn't been changed, and I'm still the old me enslaved to sin rather than delivered. Number one, Christ delivers from sin There's not a point. There's a point that calls for rejoicing in the church. Oh my goodness, this is it. That Christ delivers from sin. And this comes from verses four through six. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning. Also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. Now you know He appeared in order to take away sins. And in him there is no sin. No one who abides in him keeps on sinning. No one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. Christ delivers from sin. And those who've been saved by Christ do not live lives of habitual hardened and unrepentant sin. Because Christ has saved us. He has delivered us. Right in the middle of verse five, this phrase is really captivating in order to take away sins. It made me think of John the Baptist praise. Behold, say it with me if you know it, behold, the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Isn't it good news, church But he takes away the guilt of our sin. And in our lives now, he takes away the reigning power of sin in our hearts. In the age to come, he'll take away the presence of sin. And in the new heavens and in the new earth he'll take away all causes of sin that surround us and penetrate our very being, and all effects of sin that also surround us and penetrate our very being. Christ delivers from sin. Now you can pick your own four words to summarize what the Bible's about and what Christianity's about and what the church is about, but those are that's a good choice. Those four words. This is what we're about, friends. That Christ delivers from sin, aka Christ saves from sin Now, if Christ delivers from sin, but I am still enslaved to sin Then I do not have Christ. And that's where you see this relationship language in verse six. No one who abides in him No one who abides in him. That means you've been spiritually united to Christ, and now you're walking in fellowship with Christ. And he says, no one who abides in him keeps on sinning. And then he says just the same thing from the other side of the spectrum, the other side of the coin rather, no one who keeps on sinning has either seen him or known him. So if you see him and you know him, you will not be living in habitual, hardened, unrepentant sin. But if you are abiding in him. You'll be holy as he is holy. Pursuing that. At least look at verse 3, too. Verse 4 It's set in contrast to verse 3. Look, I know verse 3 is not in our passage, but look at verse 3. And everyone Who thus hopes in him purifies himself as he is pure. That's Christian living. That's one way of summarizing Christian living. Purifying ourselves as he is pure. And then verse four is set in contrast with that. Everyone who makes a practice of sinning also practices lawlessness. Sin is lawlessness. Not pursuing purity, pursuing sin. Not pursuing obedience, pursuing lawlessness. Two different kinds. of life. The word look at the word lawlessness. It says sin Is lawlessness. The Greek word behind that is anomia, which literally means anti -law or against Law, namely against God's law. You set yourself against what God says is right. You set yourself against the life that God says to live. God is the creator. He's therefore the king over this world. He's the judge. He's the lawgiver. He's the judge. And we are accountable to God no matter what we feel in our hearts, no matter what the culture says to us. Because we get this message all day, every day from out the world around us that God is not our king, God is not the lawgiver, and God is not judge, therefore you're not accountable to him. Well, the Bible teaches the opposite worldview. God is the creator, he is the king, he is the lawgiver, he is the judge. We are accountable to him. And to live life in rebellion against God is this word, lawlessness Sometimes it's translated iniquity. Sometimes it's translated wickedness. It's really just our spiritual rebellion against God. Christ delivers from that way of life. The child of God is different. God's grace does not set us free to sin as much as we want and not worry about it. That would be an unbiblical picture of God's grace. God's grace is not a license to sin. The biblical picture of God's grace is that God's grace is a power at work within us that puts sin to death. God's grace is not a license that sends us on our way and says, live however you want, it'll all work out in the end. God's grace By the work of His Spirit, which is the Spirit sent to us by the exalted Christ, God's grace is a power at work within us that puts sin to death. Let me ask you, child of God, this morning, are you pursuing that work in your life? Are you going to God and crying out to God that in your life he would put Sin to death? When is the last time you cried out to Jesus that in your heart he would put sin to death to diminish the power of sin and to diminish the effects of sin in your heart, in your mind, in your words, in your actions, in your whole life. The greatest ministry, the most important ministry of our lives is the ministry of the Holy Spirit within us By the grace of Christ, by the love of Christ, for the glory of God, killing sin, not letting sin have its way and have its day. A few verses on this and then we'll move on. Romans 6 , 6 through 7. We know that our old self was crucified with him. in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin. For one who has died has been set free from sin. And then also in Romans 6, going down to verse 17, thanks be to God. That you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed In other words, the gospel came into your heart, and the gospel changed your heart, changed our hearts And made us new, set us free from slavery to sin, made us new creatures that we would love, cherish, and obey Christ, not our fleshly passions. Romans 6, our old self was crucified, we're no longer enslaved to sin. But also Titus II. Titus II, picking it up at the end of verse 13, talking about our great God and Savior, Jesus Christ. Who gave himself for us to redeem us from all lawlessness and to purify for himself a people for his own possession who are zealous for good works. Now that should describe us. That does describe the true church. That does describe the life of true believers. Redeemed from lawlessness. And Jesus Christ is, quote, to purify for himself a people. Brethren, that's what God is doing with us. That's what God is doing in us. He's purifying for himself a people. For his own possession, who are zealous for good works, Christ delivers from sin So if I'm still living enslaved to sin, habitual, hardened, unrepentant sin, I do not know Christ. And there's a there's a message of good news for that person even this morning. You can know Christ if you put your faith in him. As someone who died on a cross in your place for your sins to erase the guilt of your sins and bring you to God, you can in your heart Trust in Jesus and you come into a relationship with God that can never end. That's the way of salvation. It's one step of faith. One step of faith. The metaphor for a sinner finding salvation is not that the sinner has to go out and travel the world. and climb up the tallest mountain and through all of his strength and all of his effort and all of his seeking. And then at the end he he's earned the right to know God. The biblical picture of salvation is realize you're a sinner and take one step of embracing Christ through faith, and you're saved for all eternity. This is the message. This is our anthem. First of all, Christ delivers from sin. Second of all, Christ destroys the works of Satan. And this comes from verses 7 and 8. Little children, let no one deceive you. Whoever practices righteousness is righteous, as he is righteous. Whoever makes the practice of sinning is of the devil, for the devil has been sinning from the beginning. The reason the Son of God appeared was to destroy the works of the devil. Now, if Christ destroys the works of Satan, But the works of Satan still characterize my life, then I don't have Christ. It's pretty simple math here. If these chemicals Will clean this disgusting green sludgy pool, and yet the pool is still filled with disgusting green slime and sludge. Therefore, the chemicals have not been put in the pool yet. If Christ comes into the life of a person and destroys the works of the devil, so that the works of the devil do not characterize that person's life. What's the conclusion if you look at a life and it's still characterized by the works of the devil and they're not being destroyed? Well, they don't have the destroyer of the works of the devil. And that's who we need We need the one who destroys the works of the devil, the one who can overcome the power of the devil, the one who can clue us into the schemes of the devil, the one who corrects the lies of the devil, the one who can get us on the right road, the road of faith in Christ. To pursue purity, to pursue holiness through faith by the work of the Spirit. If Christ destroys the works of Satan Which basically everything God wants, what are the works of Satan? The opposite. God wants us to humble ourselves under His word. What's the works of Satan? To exalt ourselves over God's word and ignore God's word and reject God's word. God wants us to be rich in good works, self-giving, self-sacrificing, good works of loving and caring for each other and for others. What's a Satan one? He wants selfishness. He wants hatred. He wants division. And we could go on and on and on, but the works of the devil is basically just opposing what God does. This is the impulse. This is the heart of hearts of the devil. And it's the impulse of the human heart when we're enslaved to sin. It's simply to work against God. God's running this way. We want to push everything the other way. God's calling people to come over here. We're pointing people to go over there. God wants us to treat others this way. The devil wants us to treat people the opposite way. Everything God is working for, essentially his name and glory manifest through Christ, the devil's working against Christ delivers from sin. Brothers and sisters, please do not ever, ever forget that Christ Destroys the works of the devil. You have overcome the evil one. The devil wants to keep us as slaves to sin. God wants to free us from sin so that we would know him and love him and have have a taste of true enjoyment and true peace in knowing the God of the universe. The devil wants to keep us oblivious to our accountability before God, which in biblical language is basic is uh is this have no fear of God before our eyes. We're oblivious to the fact that we're accountable to God. God wants us to know that we are accountable to Him. And He wants us to know that because He loves us and He cares about us and He wants to forgive us our sins. And one of the first steps is just to see that we're accountable to God. And then once we see we're accountable to God, we see that we've rebelled against Him. We're guilty of sin against God. And then God brings into our hearts, brings into our lives. The message of good news is that there is free forgiveness for sinners who've rebelled against God. If they would take one step of faith and embrace Jesus Christ by faith. Still be sinners, but they'll be saved sinners. They'll still be sinners and we are still sinners. I am still a sinner, but praise God, glory, hallelujah. I am a sinner who has received God's grace through Jesus Christ The devil wants to keep us blind to the beauty and the goodness of God. God is good. God is wonderful. God is beautiful. The very definition of radiant glory and beauty. The only source of true and lasting joy and fulfillment in this life and in the next. And the devil wants to put a thick veil over the eyes of our hearts so that we do not See the goodness and the beauty of God. It's another another reason Christians should be marked with a contentment and a peace that the world knows nothing of Because no matter what we have or don't have in this world, no matter what our situation, no matter what trial we are suffering through and struggling through, we know at the end of the day, when we lay our head on that pillow, I'm just assuming you sleep on a pillow. At the end of the day, before we close our eyes, we know that God has made himself known to us. And we know that he is good, and we know that he is most beautiful, the fountain of all joy, in this age and in the age to come. And in that we can find contentment. And in that we can find peace. And in that we can go to sleep with faith and hope, not negativity or discontent or slavery to anxiety and worry. A few more things in the works of the devil here. Devil wants the devil it's not strong enough. The devil is working along with all the forces of darkness. The devil is working to deceive believers. He's working to deceive believers to make us as fruitless in our lives as he possibly can. Because spiritual fruit brings glory and honor to God. The devil doesn't want glory and honor to God. He wants us to live for Glory and honor for ourselves and attention for ourselves that people would see us and see how great we are and think we're great and talk about us And and posts about us and like our postings. It's all about this story of personal glory that the devil wants us to live out. Works of the devil to deceive believers and make us as fruitless as possible in our Christian lives. He wants to drag you back into a life of sin. He wants to dull our hearts to the word. He wants to dull our hearts in the practice of prayer. Are you awake, Church? He wants to dull our hearts in the joys of congregational worship. And see this as a drudgery or a toy or some mechanical religion. When we really come here to gather to celebrate God's grace in Christ, where we have the freedom to celebrate, to lift our voices. Join our hearts to worship God through Jesus Christ and by the power of the Spirit. The devil wants to dull our hearts to that. It's church already. I feel like we were just there. The devil wants to cause Unity in the church? He wants to do the opposite of what God wants to do. He wants to cause division. The devil works to cultivate grumbling. The devil works to cultivate complaining. The devil works to cultivate a consumer mindset. Where we're just always thinking about what we want to what we can get and have it our way. God wants this, the devil wants the opposite. Works of the devil. Well, Christ destroys the works of the devil. Now let me say a word to those who are unbelievers and have not come to faith in Christ yet. The devil wants to keep you blinded to the mercy of God in the gospel. The gospel means good news. It's the good news of God's merciful and gracious forgiveness in Christ. God forgives sinners. Psalm 34:8. O taste and see that the Lord is good. And blessed is the man who takes refuge in him The gospel is the good news of God's forgiveness. I want to say three things about the gospel. For those who've not yet believed in it. First of all, Jesus came looking for sinners who need forgiveness. Luke 5, 32. The Lord Jesus said, I came not to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. The righteous here in this context is talking about the self-righteous who do not think that they need a Savior. Jesus came looking for sinners who need forgiveness. Who come to this point in their lives where we realize we do need forgiveness? Jesus came to call sinners to repentance. What's repentance? It's attorney. I'm living for myself. I'm living for myself. I'm blind to the goodness of God. The gospel comes into my heart and we turn to God. That's what repentance is. Number two, Jesus died on a cross. Jesus died on a cross to forgive your sin and to bring you to God Jesus died on a cross to forgive your sin and to bring you to God. 1 Peter 3:18. Christ also suffered once for sins. The righteous For the unrighteous. You see the picture of substitution right there. The righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God. Being put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Number one, Jesus came looking for sinners, not the self-righteous. He came looking for sinners who see their need for a Savior and would turn to Him. Number two, he died on the cross to forgive our sin and to bring us to God. So here's God over here. Here's where we were in our sin, alienated from God. Jesus died on the cross to bring us to God. It's called a reconciliation. Number three. Number three. You can receive this forgiveness today by trusting in Jesus alone for salvation. You can receive it today. Today is the day of salvation. Tomorrow will be the day of salvation too, if tomorrow comes, but today is not tomorrow. Today is today, and you can come to Jesus today and be saved. Ephesians 2, 8 and 9. For by grace you've been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing, it's the gift of God, not a result of works, so that no one may boast. I urge you to come to faith in Christ. I plead with you to come to faith in Christ. Eternity is at stake. Your soul is at stake. God will freely wash away the guilt of all of your sin. And he will give you victory over sin in your life, sparing you from the judgment against sin when Christ returns. But you must come to Christ through faith to be saved. Well, let's conclude the outline. We've talked about Christ delivering from sin, and we've talked about Christ destroying the works of Satan And number three, Christ gives new life. And this comes from verses nine and ten. No one born of God. That's new life. No one born of God makes a practice of sinning, for God's seed abides in him, and he cannot keep on sinning because he has been born of God By this it is evident who are the children of God and who are the children of devil. Hopefully that's been made clear this morning. It is evident. These children of God Delivered from sin, the works of Satan being destroyed, and children of the devil, habitual, hardened, unrepentant sin. It's evident who are the children of God and who are the children of the devil. Whoever does not practice righteousness is not of God, nor is the one who does not love his brother. Since we have received spiritual growth. Therefore, spiritual health, spiritual life rather, since we have received spiritual life Therefore, our spiritual health and our spiritual growth is an ongoing priority in life. Since I stumbled on the words the first time I said it, I'll say it again, alright? So you get two for one. Since we have received spiritual life by the power of Christ, our spiritual health and our spiritual growth is an ongoing priority in our lives. We have been born again. What does that look like? Spiritual health and spiritual growth. Well, it all centers on one word. It all centers on one word. Look at the last phrase. Nor is the one who does not love his brother love. If we're just to start in that discussion, it would it what does it look like? To pursue these things, it would start with this. It looks like love. And that'll be the next message. Let's pray. Father, thank you for delivering us from sin through Christ. Father, we thank you for destroying the works of Satan gradually in our lives through Christ. Father, we thank you for the thing that caused all of that. For giving us new life through Jesus Christ. I pray that your word has gotten through. I pray that your spirit has driven it into our minds and into our hearts and that it would have an impact in our lives. It's in Christ we say thank you, Lord, and we praise your name. Amen.