Let me invite you to turn with me to Galatians chapter five, Galatians five, and we will be looking at verses sixteen through twenty six five sixteen through twenty six, give you a moment to turn there. Listen to the word of the Lord. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality. Impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness Orgies, and things like these. I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, self-control. Against such things there is no law. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. This is the word of the Lord. Freedom often leads to crisis. Whatever freedom is gained or won There's always kind of an inevitable question that eventually comes up. Now what? How do we now live as free people? You can kind of think about our own history as a nation. We rightly celebrate the events of 1776. We declared ourselves to be a free people. Uh we remember the the victory 1781 at Yorktown, the Treaty of Paris in 1783, where you know once and for all we told those tea-drinking Brits, you guys get off our lawn. What we don't kind of spend nearly as much time thinking about though is the the years and the decades that followed those events. Where are the American founders just debated and deliberated, what in the world is it going to look like to live as a free nation? How is this new nation going to operate? What rights should or shouldn't be enshrined in our Constitution? What authority are the states gonna have and and what authority will the federal government have? Uh debates over these kinds of questions just raged in that time after the revolution, and in some ways we still deal with some of those questions. But after all the dust of war was settled, and after these newly freed people finally emerged as a free people, the the question they eventually had to face was, now what? Freedom led to this crisis of what do we do next? As we come to this text in Galatians this evening, we're faced with a similar question, and really a similar crisis. Paul has been laboring in this letter to make it clear to the Galatian believers that if your faith is in Christ Jesus, you are free You are no longer enslaved to your sin, and you are no longer obligated to keep the law of Moses as a way either to receive or to maintain your salvation. No, he's been laboring to make clear that you are justified by faith in Christ Jesus Not by works of the law. He said that the law was our guardian, but we've now been redeemed and adopted into God's household. By faith, Christian, you are ch a child of the free woman. In chapter 5, verse 1, he has these wonderfully comforting words: For freedom, Christ has set us free. And so his point has been, Galatian Christians, don't put yourselves, don't attempt to put yourselves back under the yoke of slavery by trying to earn or trying to sustain God's favor through your law-keeping. Because you're free. But that freedom leads to a question. Now what? How then are we supposed to live? How do we fight our sin and how do we pursue righteousness if we're no longer under the law? I mean, y yes, we're free in Christ, but God's still holy, right? And God still wants his people to be holy. And we know that by experience we're still tempted to sin. We can even see that in the verses just before our passage in chapter 5, verse 13. He says, For you were called to freedom, brothers. Only do not use your freedom as an opportunity to the f for the flesh. So so it sure seems like there's still this battle against our sin that rages. So how are we to stop sinning and pursue righteousness if we're no longer under the law? And by the way, this is why I believe the message of the Judaizers was so very appealing. The thing is that legalism offers a very simple and very straightforward answer. to the question of how to know if we're living rightly. You can look at our lives and say, are you keeping these laws? Okay, great. You're good. Are you not? Well, the law tells you exactly what you need to do to get back under God's good graces. See, legalism, which is what these Galatian Christians were facing. It plays to our desire for control. And you know, while we're at it, we can just kind of construct some extra laws around the law just to make sure that we're not even close to the edge of sin. But Paul has been laboring to make clear in this letter that works of the law cannot justify you before God. They cannot make you more righteous before God. They were never meant to. Okay, fine, Paul. How then are we supposed to live? How are we supposed to not sin and live righteously if we're no longer under the law? The answer that we're going to see in this passage is that God has given us a better guide for living. God has given us a better guard against our sinful desires. God has given us a better helper by whom we live. Who produces in us a true spiritual fruit in our hearts and in our lives? God has given us his Holy Spirit Who dwells in us and who empowers us to walk in holiness and who molds us together into the likeness of Jesus Christ. So the freedom we have as those who are no longer under the yoke of the law, it creates what feels like this crisis of how in the world are we to live. What we're going to see, though, is that God Himself has provided the solution by giving us His Spirit. We're going to consider tonight this question. You see it there on your outline of how do we live as free people in Christ. And I want us to think about four answers from this passage. Number one, we must know who our guide is. We must know where the battle is being fought. We must know what fruit to expect. And then finally, we must know why the battle's already won. Number one, we must know who our guide is. Who is our guide for righteous living as free people in Christ? The Holy Spirit, the third person of the triune God. He sees this throughout our passage. First in verse 16, he says, Walk by the Spirit. Then again in verse 18, if you are led by the Spirit, then down in verse 25, if we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. So our guide for living as Christians is the Spirit of the living God who dwells inside of us. And whom we received the very moment our eyes were open and we came to faith in Christ Jesus. In fact, it's by the Holy Spirit that we were brought from death in our sin to life in Christ in the first place. The Spirit of God made us alive. And Paul, in this letter to the Galatians, has already been laboring to make this point clear. Back in chapter 3, verse 2, he asks this rhetorical question of the Galatians. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Well, the obvious answer is through faith. In chapter 3, verse 14, he makes the point that our possession of the Spirit as Christians , it's evidence that the fulfillment of God's promises to Abraham Has come to us. God has blessed all nations through the seed of Abraham, and our possession of the Spirit is in fact evidence that that's true. In chapter 4, verses 1 through 7, Paul uses this metaphor of an heir and of a guardian to make this point that because the fulfillment of God's promises has arrived in Christ Jesus. We're no longer under the law. We're no um no longer obligated to keep the law to maintain our standing before God. No, the the guardian has been taken away. We've been adopted as sons, and he says that because we are sons God has sent the Spirit of His Son into our hearts, by whom we cry, Abba, Father. So here that language, we have this new intimacy, this new access to God through the work of Christ. And Paul is saying that our possession of the Holy Spirit is evidence of what has taken place. It's evidence that we really have been redeemed by Christ. It's evidence of our access to God and our reconciliation with God. It's evidence that we are no longer under the law of Moses. So our guide for living as free people is no longer the law that condemns us, but it's the Spirit who gives us life. Brothers and sisters, we have a better God, one who empowers us to live as God would have us live, one who gives us victory over our sin, and one who makes us more like Jesus And so in verse 16, we have this call to walk by the Spirit. That kind of prompts another question, though. What does that actually mean? What does it mean to walk by the Spirit? If this is my guide, how do I follow this guide? And what we have here is honestly just this profound, mysterious truth. Because what this means is that our lives as Christians Are carried out in the power of another. We live and we will and we battle sin and we pursue righteousness by the power, not of our own origin. But by the power of the Spirit of God Himself. But again, like what does that look like when the alarm clock goes off tomorrow at six AM on a Monday morning and there's like another week of trials to face? And honestly, this is a challenging question because as we look down in this passage, what we see is that Paul describes the fruit of walking by the Spirit. He describes what the result is. But he doesn't give us some kind of neat punch list of how exactly we do this. He says what's going to happen, but he doesn't say, and here's how these things exactly operate. So where does that leave us? Let me direct you to look up just a few verses to chapter 5, verse 5. Chapter 5, verse 5 in Galatians, he says here, through the Spirit, by faith, we ourselves eagerly wait for the I want just want you to see those all important words by faith. Brothers and sisters, to walk by the Spirit. To live our lives as Christians by the power of another, the foundation is faith. Faith in all that God has provided for us in Christ Jesus. We must rest in his promises. We must trust what he tells us in his word. We must trust that the Spirit of God truly does dwell inside us. And by faith, as we look to Christ and as we rest in Christ, we really can say no to our sin, and we really can obey Jesus. Because we possess the Spirit of God, and He empowers us to live righteously. Brothers and sisters, to walk by the Spirit is to live our lives looking to Jesus in faith. To live our lives seeing all that we have in Him. And as we do this, the Spirit of God empowers us to live like Jesus, and the Spirit of God makes us more like Jesus. So, if as a church we want to be a spirit-led, a spirit-walking, a spirit-filled people, we need to be a Christ-centered, word -saturated people. We need to be a people who set the reality of the gospel before our hearts regularly and look to our Savior in faith. So Christian, when you wake up tomorrow and you want to walk by the Spirit, set the truth of the gospel before your heart. Start there. Start by being reminded of who you are and of all that belongs to you in Christ Jesus. Start by immersing your mind in God's word. Pray for the Spirit of God to guide you, to give you wisdom, to equip you to live by faith. And know that in all these things he truly does empower you to obey King Jesus. And to say no to your sin. And all of this comes not by the law, not by law-keeping, but through faith in what God has provided. That's what we see in verse 18. If you're led by the Spirit, you're not under the law. The operating principle is no longer law-keeping, it's faith. Faith in Christ. So, how do we live as free people? First, we know who our guide is, and we walk by the power of our guide as we look to him in faith. But what this doesn't mean, and we need to be clear on this, what this doesn't mean is that life in the spirit is some kind of like automatic process. So this text makes very clear that on this side of eternity A war is being waged. A war is being waged every single day between our spirit and between our flesh. This brings us to point number two. How do we live as free people? We need to know where the battle is being fought. Know where the battle is being fought. All throughout this passage, we see this language of conflict. It's a language of conflict between the spirit and the flesh. You see it especially in verse seventeen. You've got these two, the spirit of the living God, and the flesh, the old man of sin, and we see that these two are opposed to one another. In each of our lives and in our life together as a church, there's this battle being waged against the spirit and against the flesh. And I'm sure like me, you know, you can attest to this just by your own life and your experience. I think about my own life. I know that I have faith in Christ. I know that I am a new creation. I know that I am redeemed. I know that the Spirit of God dwells inside of me. But when I stub my toe because my kids didn't put their toys away correctly, suddenly my flesh has quite a bit to say. We know by experience that the battle rages. And what I want us to see on this point is that it's essential for us to know where that battle is being waged. Because just like any battle, where it's being fought Is going to dictate how we engage in the conflict. That the terrain shapes the tactics I don't have any military experience, but I'm sure that Staff Sergeant Anthony Wilson could tell us that that's true. You're gonna fight differently if you're in the middle of the Pacific Ocean or if you're in the desert. Again, I assume. But what we need to see here is that the battle between our spirit or between the spirit of God and our flesh is waged at the level of the heart. See that it's the affections, the desires that are engaged in this conflict. You see that language of desires just permeate this entire passage. It's there at the end of verse 16, walk by the Spirit and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. Then especially verse 17. For the desires of the flesh are against the Spirit, and the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do. You see also there at the end of verse 17 that it's it's the desires that lead to the doing. You see that these desires are opposed to each other. To keep you from doing what you want to do. It 's desires that give way to actions, whether those are sinful or spirit-led actions. So, as Christians, our battle against the flesh, our battle against sin is fundamentally a battle that's waged at the level of our desires. It's waged in our hearts. It's about what we want, what we think will satisfy us, what we believe will make us happy. Brothers and sisters, it's just so essential that we understand this and that we understand the implications of it for our lives. Because what this means is that our fight against sin on a daily basis is not fundamentally a fight against things that threaten us kind of from the outside. No, our battle against sin is internal. It's waged against our own flesh. Jesus teaches us this same thing in Matthew chapter 15. Verses ten through twenty. It's where he says that it's not what goes into a person that defiles him, it's what comes out of him. Because what comes out of a person originates in the heart. See, sometimes I think we can wrongly assume that avoiding sin is just kind of a matter of avoiding, you know, stuff that tempts us from the outside. Sometimes we can get the wrong impression that like if I can just cut off these influences, if I can avoid these things, if I can not watch these shows, not listen to this music, not talk to these people, then I'll be good. And and sin won't be able to get me. Let's be honest, as parents, sometimes we think about we think this way about our own kids, don't we? Like if I could just cut off all the bad influences from their life, then they'll be golden. There's certainly wisdom to thinking well about what we watch and what we listen to and what we set before our eyes and our hearts. But you need to understand that even if you were to lock yourself in a dark room with nothing from the scary, sinful world that could have possibly come in, you would still find a way to sin because you're bringing your heart in there with you. The fundamental problem of our sin and our battle against sin, it's a matter of our hearts and our desires. And that's not something that we can escape through isolation because it's inside of us. This battle is an internal battle. And we see this reflected in the text in this list of works of the flesh that Paul outlines in verses 19 through 21. He gives this kind of summary list, and many of these things will have some sort of external manifestation, but they're all things that originate in the heart. You can be envious or an idolater without anyone else knowing about it whatsoever. Because it takes place here. So this battle against the flesh and the spirit, your battle against your own sin nature, your old sin nature. It's not just about what you do externally, though that does matter to God. No, it's about what your heart and your affections are set on. So you need to understand that as a Christian, God is after more than mere behavior modification. He doesn't just want you to sit up straight and behave. No, he intends to reshape your desires and align them with what he defines as good and right and true. And he does that by the work of his spirit within us. And knowing this, it helps us in a lot of different ways. I think, first of all, it helps us to know how to take stock of our lives as followers of Jesus. Helps us to know how to rightly assess our growth in our discipleship. We can't stop at asking ourselves, you know, looking back on our week, we can't stop at asking like, okay, did I behave this week? No, we have to ask better questions than that. We have to ask, what am I wanting? What is my heart set on? What do my desires reveal about what's motivating my life? What do I really honestly think in this moment is going to make my life better? Is it some, you know, trinket? Or is it for me to love what Jesus loves? Because here's the thing. We could kind of look back on the end of a week and we could kind of say, well You know, I didn't cuss, I didn't punch anybody, I was nice to my spouse, spent time with my kids. I'm all good, right? But the question is, did those actions, did those outward things come out of a spirit born love for Jesus? Or did they just arise because we like to feel like good people? Which is really just a work of the flesh. This passage This language of desires, I think it calls us to interrogate our desires, to interrogate the things we want as we take stock of our lives as followers of Jesus. Knowing where this battle is being waged, it also helps us to know how we engage in this battle. See, if the war against the flesh is waged at the level of desires, then what we need to know is that we fight one desire with a stronger desire. We fight desire for sin with a stronger desire for Christ Jesus. I believe that's the implication of the imagery and the language of verse 17, especially. So if we identify a sinful desire in our hearts, we don't fight it by just really, really trying hard not to want it anymore. That's a foolish way to fight our sin. No, we choke out the desires of the flesh by fanning the flames of the desires of the spirit. We fight our sin by fighting to enjoy Jesus more. Because he's truly greater. We fight our sin by tasting and seeing the goodness of God, which is ours in full as children of God. Again, we do this by looking to Christ in faith. We do this by setting the gospel before our hearts. We do this by spending time immersing our minds and our hearts in the Word of God. We do this by praying to God. We do this by spending time in fellowship with other believers. As we fight this battle, we fight one desire with a stronger desire that will truly satisfy our souls. Finally, knowing where this war is waged, it helps us to know how to counsel and how to walk alongside one another. As we engage in this battle, as we fight the desires of the flesh by the power of the Spirit, we need to remember that this is a community project. We need to remember that we bear the responsibility and the privilege to walk alongside one another and to point one another to Jesus. And one way that we do this is by asking those awkward heart-level questions of one another. We we do this by coming alongside one another and asking, you know, what's been motivating you this week? What have you been desiring? Have you been fighting and struggling with desire for sinful things? Are you putting those things to death by the power of the spirits? To live as free people, we must know where this battle is being waged. It's in the heart. It's being fought at the level of our desires. And as we walk by the Spirit, and as we see the desires of the Spirit reshape our hearts, we see thirdly that this will bear fruit. This brings us to point number three. How do we live as free people? Well, we need to know what fruit to expect. Know what fruit to expect. So we've seen thus far these two opposing roots, the desires of the spirit and the desires of the flesh. And we see next that they yield distinctive fruits, different results. In verses 19 through 23 of our text, you have these two kind of contrasting lists. Give the works of the flesh and the fruit of the spirit. What Paul is saying is if you feed the desires of the flesh, this is what will result in your life. But if you walk by the Spirit, then this is what God's Spirit will produce in you. You look down at chapter 6, verse 8, and he kind of summarizes the same point. He says, For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. So the person under the controlling power of the flesh has one trajectory and destiny, and the person living by the Spirit has another. We could spend a lot of time on these two lists and examine every single thing in them. But I just want us to see broadly, first of all, that for both of these lists The works or the fruit that are listed are interconnected and all-encompassing. They're interconnected and they're all encompassing. That is, they involve the whole person and they play off of one another. So you see in this list, verses 19 through 21, the works of the flesh. Consider that the sexually immoral person, the first thing Paul lists there in verse 19, is by definition impure. By definition, they are an idolater, bowing down at the altar of their own pleasure. And if you have no problem, you know, satisfying and feeding one sinful appetite, then suddenly it becomes a lot easier to justify satisfying another. You know, drunkenness seems a lot more plausible if you're already feeding other sinful desires. Fits of anger, you see that in verse 20. It's just one more release valve, just one more way to make yourself feel better, at least for a second. The point I think we need to see here is that sin never just stays locked in its pen. It never kind of stays neatly in one area of our lives. No, if if we let it, it spreads and it consumes every area of our life. Which is why we must be fervent in battling against our sin and putting to death the desires of the flesh. On the other hand, see that the same thing is true about the fruit of the Spirit. The fruit of the Spirit is interconnected and all-encompassing. It involves the whole person. Being molded into the likeness of Jesus and that fruit being borne out in the life of the person who lives by faith. I'll miss many things about this church. I will not miss these microphones. The fruit of the Spirit is interconnected and all-encompassing. The person who is growing in love will be a person of peace and a person of joy. The patient person will be a kind and gentle person. Even more to the point, see that in verse 22, it's the fruit singular, not plural, of the Spirit. Not fruits. This list is a unit of what the Spirit of God produces in the one who is walking by faith and walking by the Spirit. So we can't decide like, yeah, I'm gonna be one of those joyful Christians, but man, self-control just ain't for me. I'll let other people do the self-control thing. No, these are all things. This is this interconnected web of what God's Spirit produces in the hearts of God's people. At uh at the school that I went to as a young lad we had uh at the end of the year Fruit of the Spirit Awards, which is It's just a way of like making sure that everybody got a trophy basically. And the one for joy always just went for the person who would disrupt the class the most because apparently that equals joy and I never understood it. But that's not how we should think about the fruit of the Spirit. It's singular. It's what the Spirit of God, all of it, all of what the Spirit of God produces in us. And some will excel and shine more in one way than another, but these are all things that God's Spirit produces in us. I want us to see further that as Paul gives us these two contrasting lists, he's really clear that the stakes are very high. Look at what he says at the end of verse 21. It says, I warn you, as I warned you before, that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. So see this, brothers and sisters See that eternity hangs in the balance. Paul is saying that if your life is consistently characterized by the works of the flesh, it indicates you're still enslaved to your flesh. It indicates that you're still under the ruling power of sin and therefore under God's wrath. So hear this: the way you live, it matters not because it earns you favor before God. But because it indicates who is ruling in your heart. It indicates whether the spirit or the flesh is ruling in your heart. It's a strong warning that he gives. When we encounter a strong warning like this, it can kind of cause us to tremble. Because let's be honest, if we measure our lives against this list in verses 19 through 21. None of us come out with a clean record. Not even for this past week. So we can tremble and we can be like, man, am I cut off from the kingdom of God? As we encounter this warning, though, I want us to remember two things. Number one, we need to read this warning rightly in light of this whole letter, which could not be clearer, that we are justified before God not by our works. But through faith in Christ alone? So that's your assurance, Christian. If your faith is in Christ, then you are his. If your faith is in Christ, then all your sins have been forgiven. You are clothed in his righteousness. And nothing and no one can take that from you. So read this strong warning in light of what Paul has said entirely in this letter to the Galatians. And secondly, when we encounter a warning like this, rather than it kind of pushing us to just like endless introspection and doubting our salvation. When we encounter this kind of a warning, we need to let it have the effect that God intends it for it to have in our lives, which is to spur us and to compel us and to encourage us with an even greater urgency. To walk by the Spirit of God as people of faith. The warnings of Scripture are there, not to cause us to doubt our salvation, the warnings of Scripture are there to push us toward faithfulness. The warnings of Scripture always have the effect that God intends for them to have. And God intends to push us toward faithfulness. So therefore, brothers and sisters, let us live lives that show forth the fruit of the Spirit, as He does his work of making us more like Christ Jesus But notice here that even as I'm speaking that sentence , it's kind of a tightrope that we walk. There's something that feels almost like a paradox, I think. Because on the one hand, it couldn't be clearer that these fruits, these things, are things that only the Spirit of God can produce in us. It's his fruit, it's not ours. And yet these are things that we really are called and commanded to exhibit in our lives. Paul wants these Galatian Christians to be loving, to be joyful, to be peaceable, and all the rest. Yet these are things that only the Spirit of God can produce in them. There's this tension here. And I want us to feel that tension. Because that tension is exactly where we are called to live our lives as Christians. As disciples of Jesus. God calls us to a real obedience. God's commands are not hypothetical. God's commands are not just like this ethereal thing floating out in space. They're real. We are called to real obedience. And yet we can only obey by the power of the Spirit of God at work in us. We can't manufacture these things. We can't manufacture gentleness or self-control by our own power. No, only God's Spirit can do that in us. And this is the tension that we experience as followers of Jesus. We are called to follow, we are called to obey, and yet we're only able to obey by the power of another, by the power of God's Spirit. So that leaves us once again looking to him in faith. That leaves us once again called to rest in all that Christ has secured. That leaves us relying utterly on the Spirit of God. What this passage teaches us is that as we do this, as we rest in Christ, as we rely on the Spirit, God's Spirit will produce in us a true righteousness. I think that's what Paul is getting at in verse 23 at the end where he says, against such things there is no law. So we couldn't have been cle he 's been so clear in this letter, you're not under the law of Moses, Christian. But I think the point here is that walking by the Spirit will not lead to lawlessness. It will not lead to just a life of anything goes. No, it will lead to a better righteousness. Than you could ever hope for under the law. It will lead to a true righteousness accomplished by the Spirit of God through faith. So as free people in Christ, we need to ask what fruit is evident in our lives. Because that's going to tell us what desires we are feeding. Which is going to tell us who is ultimately guiding the trajectory of our lives. There's one final thing I want to see in I want us to see in this text. It's just a a glorious, wonderful promise. Because as we walk by the Spirit, as we battle against our flesh, we need to see finally that we are fighting an enemy that's already been defeated. This brings us to point number four. Point number four, how do we live as free people? We need to know why the battles already won. Verse twenty-four. And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. So Paul is exhorting these Galatian Christians, walk by the Spirit, wage war against your sinful flesh. And as he does so, he concludes here by saying that your flesh. Is already defeated. Because see this, it, along with its passions and desires, has been crucified. Past tense If we belong to Jesus, then our flesh was nailed to the cross with him. If we belong to Jesus, then the moment we came to faith. The old man of sin was crucified and was buried with Christ. And what came out of the grave was a new creation with new desires. Your sinful flesh, Christian, is already dead and buried if you belong to Jesus. That doesn't mean that Christians never sin. Uh we 've seen clearly that that isn't the case. All of Scripture and all of our experience attests to that. It doesn't mean that we can attain sinless perfection in this life. What it does mean, though, is that the ruling power of sin in your life has been done away with. Christian, you are no longer enslaved to your sin. You are no longer obligated to obey every whim and every desire of your sinful flesh. And before faith in Christ, that was your state. Before faith in Christ. You couldn't help but sin. It was your master. But now it's a new creation made alive by the Spirit of God. You can say no to your sin, because your sin and its desires have been crucified. By faith, Christian, you can walk by the Spirit. You cannot gratify the desires of your flesh. You can overcome temptation because you belong to Jesus and because his spirit dwells in you Your flesh has been crucified, all by God's grace. So this week, as you battle against the desires of your flesh, Recognize and be encouraged and be emboldened that you're waging war against an enemy that's already dead. Those are the easiest kinds of fights in one way. One of my professors at Voice used to tell us and encourage us, you know, at any moment in your life as a Christian, you can, when you're faced with temptation, you can say to your sin Shut up, you're dead. You can say that to your sinful flesh. When you face temptation, you can say to that temptation, shut up, you're dead. I belong to Christ Jesus. I'm a new creation in him. And I can say no to sin by God's grace in Christ. Well be encouraged, brothers and sisters. This enemy has already been slain. By God's grace, you can resist sinful desires, and you can run after things that will truly truly satisfy your heart. And not only this But be encouraged that a day is coming. A day is coming when you are going to stand face to face with your Savior and you won't be capable of sinning. A day is coming when you won't even want sin the tiniest bit. Can you imagine that? Can you imagine friendships and relationships? With with no remnant of sin whatsoever. That's your destiny, Christian. That's Truly what you were made for. That's your most real, most true self is who you will be in the new creation. That day is coming. And until it does, we live by faith. We rest in the promises of God. And therefore we walk by the power of his spirit. As a body of believers living together. So may we look to him. May we look to him. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you for the work of Christ Jesus that has redeemed us. We thank you for the Spirit of God who dwells inside of us and who equips us to Battle against sin and battle against temptation. God, I pray for these saints this week that they would walk by the Spirit, that they would rest in all that is theirs through Christ. That they would say no to sin by the power of your spirit, and that they would exhibit the fruit that your spirit produces in their hearts and in their lives. All for your glory and for your honor, for the advance of your kingdom. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.