This week we're in Ephesians chapter 4, verses 1 to 3. So if you have a Bible Please take your Bible and open with me to Ephesians 4, 1 to 3. This morning we're talking about Christian character. Christian character, the character traits of a Christian. Specifically, five character traits of children of God that we'll see in Ephesians 4, 1 to 3. As I studied and prepared this message from this passage, there was a lot of conviction happening in my heart Which was leading to a lot of prayer and was leading to a lot of repentance, was leading to a lot of Pastor Matt looking to Jesus Christ for help and for repentance. And I pray that as you hear this message from this passage, that the same things would happen in your heart, that there would be a lot of conviction that would lead to a lot of prayer and a lot of repentance And would lead to a lot of you drawing near to Christ and crying out to Christ for help. Ephesians 4, 1-3, Christian character, specifically five character traits of children of God. Here's the passage. I therefore, a prisoner for the Lord, urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called, with all humility. And gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Where does the idea of Christian character come from? It comes from verse 1. I urge you to what? To walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. Walk, which means live. Which means conduct yourself. Walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you have been called. You've been called into fellowship with Christ. You've been called as a child of God. Now walk in a manner that lines up with that. Live in a way. Conduct yourself in a way that matches this. You are a child of God through faith in Jesus Christ. This is where the idea of Christian character comes from. Verse 1. That's the call to me. That's the call to you, because that's the call to the Ephesians. Walk, brothers and sisters. In a manner worthy of your calling. And just to highlight how Ephesians 4, 5, and 6 is focused on practical Christian living. I want to share with you some other verses. Chapter 4, verse 17. Now this I say and testify in the Lord that you must. No longer walk as the Gentiles do in the futility of their minds. Why? Because you're in Christ. Because you've been born again. Because you know the truth of God. Therefore no longer walk like unbelievers. No longer conduct ourselves like the unbelieving world. Also, chapter 5, verses 1 and 2, therefore be imitators of God as beloved children. And walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us, a fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Now, if those verses do not wake us up, nothing will. The imitators of God, is there a higher calling? Could there be a greater, more transcendent calling upon our lives than to be imitators of God? The answer is no. And then he says this, as beloved children Is there a better identity? Is there a higher identity? Is there a greater identity than being a child of God? Again, the answer is no. And therefore, as beloved children of God , Imitate him. And then in verse 2, walk in love. As Christ loved us and gave himself up for us. Now, what's the implication? Well, Christ loved us. Christ gave himself up for us, but the command is that we're to walk in love in relationship with each other, which means the way Christ loved us. We're to love each other. The way Christ gave Himself up for us, we're to give ourselves up for each other. That's the mindset That we need to have if we're to model the heart of Christ to one another and beloved of God, we are commanded to model the love of Christ to one another. It is essential for a spirit-filled church. It is essential. It's an earmark. It is a hallmark of a biblical church, is Christ-like love for one another. Chapter 5, verse 15. Look carefully then how you walk, not as unwise, but as wise. You see, this is all throughout this section. This emphasis on practical Christian living. Your children of God. Now here's what that looks like in your lives. That's the essence. Of Ephesians 3, 4, and 5, or 4, 5, and 6 rather. Chapters, last one, chapter 6, verse 18. Praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication, to that end, keep alert with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints. Which is a fancy way of saying, be devoted to prayer. If nothing else, give yourselves to prayer. And keep alert and persevere and be given over to prayer To the degree that we're trusting the power of God, to that same degree will be given over to prayer. If we're trusting in ourselves, we won't be given over to prayer. We'll be given over to more to doing, to doing things and strategizing. So just some highlights. We can go back to chapter 4. Just some highlights of what this section is all about. You have chapters 1, 2, and 3 getting us grounded in doctrine. grounded in the great truths of the gospel, grounded in the great truths of redemption and Jew and Gentile being brought together in the church. brought together as one in Christ. Now heavy application. Here's how you go. Live that out at home, at work, at school, at play, in relation to each other. Here's how you imitate God as His beloved Now, three keys to hear this sermon in a Christian way. Before we get into the five points, the five character traits of Christian living, five character traits of children of God. There's three keys to hear this in a Christian way, to hear this as children of God. Number one, salvation. All right. Salvation. In other words, don't think about character traits apart from a relationship with Jesus The main thing is you have to get right with God through faith in Jesus. The main thing is you have to be born again. The main thing is you need to be saved and reconciled to God. And then in that context We develop and cultivate biblical character traits. But if you don't have the salvation, you'll just be a moralist. If you're not born again If you're not united to Christ by faith and you're focused on building character traits, the best you can do, for example, the first one, which is humility. But if you're not saved, you're not born again, you don't have a relationship with God through Christ, you can spend your whole life trying to cultivate humility, that character trait. But the best you can do is grow in humility horizontally toward others, but you won't grow a millimeter and true humility vertically in relation to God. And that's the humility that is the most important kind of humility. So, first, salvation. You must be born again. Second, sanctification. Sanctification, to hear about these character traits and to think about these character traits in a way that's actually going to help you. Bear in mind your sanctification. And by this I mean don't strive for these character traits apart from the Holy Spirit. It won't work. Don't try to cultivate these character traits on your own, apart from prayer. Apart from God's word, apart from faithfully observing the Lord's Supper, don't strive in your own strength to cultivate the character of Christ in your life. You cannot do it. It will be like trying to run a sprint, a hundred-yard sprint, trying to run it with skis on. You're going to fall flat on your face and get horribly injured in about a half of a second. Spiritually, that's what it would be like to strive to cultivate these character traits apart from the work and the help of the Holy Spirit. So remember salvation. You must be born again. Remember sanctification. Don't strive for these apart from the Spirit. And number three, motivation. The motive for cultivating these character traits is a love for God and a desire to glorify Him. The motive is not so that others would think more highly of us. The motive is not to look good. The motive is not to feel better about ourselves. The motive is we love God and want to honor Him. We love Him. We want to glorify Him. We want. Are you awake this morning? Would you say Amen? We want To reflect God's character in the world. Because the most important thing that can happen in the world is for God's character to be known and reflected in the world so that God would get the glory. The motive for these character traits is not just to be a better person. The motive is we love God, we want to glorify God, we want Him to be known, we want His glorious character to be put on display in the world. That's the motive. Remember salvation. You must be born again. You need a relationship with Jesus. Remember sanctification. We cannot do this on our own. We cannot do any of the things of God on our own. Only the Spirit within us can bring these things about. And number three, motivation: love God and glorify Him. Now the character traits on your outline. Number one, children of God are humble. Number two, children of God are gentle. Number three, children of God are patient. Number four, children of God are loving. Number five, children of God are peaceable. You can put peacemakers if you don't know how to spell peaceable. Children of God are gentle. They're humble, gentle, patient, loving, and peaceable. These all come from verses 2 and 3. With all humility and gentleness, with patience, bearing with one another in love, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Now that's the first Thing Paul writes. That's his first putting it in a nutshell of when he wants to show us how to walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which we've been called. And he makes a beeline for this. It's instructive, Church of God, that humility is first The first thing that needs to be put to death by the Holy Spirit within us is what? Pride. That needs to happen first. So, children of God are humble. Verse 2, with all humility. With all humility. To be humble. Is to lower oneself so that you might honor and serve others. That's what it means to be humble To lower oneself, to willfully, joyfully lower ourselves In order to honor and esteem and serve each other. Humble is the husband who goes home not to be served. Like an emperor of Rome, but to serve like our Savior Jesus Christ. Who came not to be served, but to serve and to give his life as a ransom for many. And husbands are commanded to imitate that That's first order of business. That is discipleship 101 for husbands. To love our brides the way Christ has loved his church. Gave his life for her, laid down his life to serve her. But it takes humility. Humble is the wife who seeks not for her own honor, but to honor and respect her husband, which is her calling in the way She imitates Christ for the glory of God. Humble is the child who seeks not to be Lord and Master of the house, always getting their own way, but seeks to be obedient. Which also models Christ in his obedience to his heavenly Father. Humble is the pastor who's working not to be known, not to be popular, not for cash flow. but for Christ to be known, for Christ to be exalted, for Christ to be loved, and Christ to be worshipped, in Christ to be lived for. Humble is the church member whose mind is set not on their way, not on their preference, not what they like, but on God's way, on God's preference, on God's word, on what God likes. Humble is the prerequisite character trait for all of these things. In Philippians 2 , Christians are commanded to have the mind of Christ. And then the mind of Christ is illustrated by the work of Christ in that he lowered himself. for the good of others. In Philippians 2, verses 7 to 8, Christ emptied himself by taking the form of a servant Being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. He emptied himself. He became a servant. He humbled himself. He obeyed his father. That's humility. He served others. Are we lowering ourselves? Are we emptying ourselves? Are we humbling ourselves for the express purpose of esteeming and serving each other? Pride is a fool. The wise man is humility Humility is when we see ourselves in the spotlight of God's greatness and God's holiness And in the light of who God is, we get a proper estimation of who we are. And that is, we are sinners. And we are weak. And we are not in control. And we are not Lord of the universe. We're not Lord of anything. Pride is a know-it-all. Humility listens. Humility learns. Humility is willing to change his mind. Pride is brash. Pride is conceited. Pride is my way or the highway. But humility is gentle, which is why in this passage it leads right into gentleness. Humility thinks highly of the other party. Humility is able to find a middle ground for the sake of peace. Did you know that pride reflects Satan's character to others? Our pride, my pride, when it rears its ugly head, is a manifestation of Satan's character to those around me. Now you just tell me a pride is the good thing or a bad thing. Humility is what reflects the character of Christ onto others for the glory of God and for the good of the other party. Pride is what keeps the sinner away from Christ. It's humility, it's a spirit-wrought humility that brings us near to Christ. 1 Peter 5, 5 and 6, Scripture says, clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another. Because God opposes the proud, but he gives grace to the humble. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. The implication is stop exalting yourself. Matt, stop exalting yourself. Humble yourself. At the proper time, in the proper way, God will exalt you, which means He'll bring you to heaven. That's the way we would want to be exalted by being brought to heaven to be with Christ, not trying to seek a worldly exhortation exaltation or a worldly self-glorifying. Well, are you saved? Are you born again so that you can cultivate true humility? Are you being sanctified? Crying out to the Spirit every morning for true humility? Are you motivated by a love for God and the glory of God reflected in the world so that you would strive for humility for the right reasons? Brothers and sisters, children of God are humble, not perfectly humble, but truly humble, and we should be humble in an increasing manner as the Spirit grows us. Verse 2 with all humility. And then secondly, in verse 2, with all humility, and then he says this, and gentleness. Second point, children of God are gentle. He says, gentleness. Meekness. If humility is lowering ourselves to honor and serve others, what is Gentleness. What does it mean to be gentle? It means to be under control so that we can deal kindly and tenderly with others You can't have gentleness unless you have self-control. It's to have a self-control, it's to be under control, it's to be under the influence of the Holy Spirit. So that we can be kind and tender toward one another, to be tender-hearted, not critical, to be kind, not harsh. But we need self-control. We need self-control from the Holy Spirit so that we can be under control to deal kindly and tenderly with others. Gentleness is a fruit of the Spirit. Galatians 5, 23. Gentleness is a. requirement. It is a biblical requirement for leaders and teachers. 2 Timothy 2, 25. Gentleness or meekness is a character trait of Jesus Christ. Did you know that? Did you know that gentleness in dealing with others Is a character trait of Jesus Christ, Matthew 11, 29. He says, I am gentle and lowly in heart. So if you want to reflect Christ , here's one of the things you could do. Be gentle and lowly in heart. Don't be harsh. Don't be critical. Don't be like the Pharisees, who are proud of heart and exalt themselves over others. Being harsh, being overbearing, does not honor God and it does not serve others. Yelling, I'm going to just give you some opposite things of gentleness. Is that okay? Yes. Yelling, screaming, slamming, banging, cursing, storming out. Never honors God and never, ever, ever blesses the other person. Foul language. Insults. Getting in someone's face. Being tough. Threats, intimidation, physical violence never honors God, or serves, or blesses, or helps the other party. You have those things where there's no gentleness and lowly of heart. I told you at the beginning, the purpose of this passage should be to convict us and drive us to prayer and drive us to repentance and drive us to Jesus Christ to help us. Proverbs 15. 1. A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. A gentle answer, this proverb will help you greatly in your relationships, especially some relationships that just are given over to attention or contentiousness A gentle answer turns away wrath, but a harsh word stirs up anger. You don't have to keep one -upping the person and just throwing logs on the fire. Be the one, be a leader, which just means go first. So go first in gentleness and grace Go first in listening and bringing the volume down. Go first. Proverbs 15:4. A gentle tongue is a tree of life. But perverseness or uh or wickedness on the tongue breaks the spirit. That's something of the power of the tongue. A gentle tongue is a tree of life. Now, the tree of life is one of the most important symbols. In all of Scripture. It symbolizes the the life that comes from God. The glorious blessedness of life that can come from God and nowhere else. And here a gentle tongue is like that. That's the power of a gentle tongue. And we and we know brothers and sisters, we know by experience the power of a harsh tongue. A harsh word stirs up anger. Perverseness on the tongue breaks the spirit. Proverbs 17, 27. Whoever restrains his words has knowledge. Are you a person who's known for restraining your words or the opposite? Whoever restrains his words has knowledge, and he who has a cool spirit is a man of understanding. Guys, be the cool spirit guy. Be the cool spirit guy. Are you saved? Are you born again? So that you can cultivate humility and gentleness? Are you being sanctified? Are you going to the Holy Spirit? Are you going to God in prayer? that he may cultivate humility and gentleness in your heart. Are you motivate motivated? Are you stirred up for the right reasons? Because you love God And you want to see God honored, you want to see God glorified, you want to see God's character reflected through you to the people around you, saved, sanctified, motivated for humility and gentleness. I hope there's a weight to the preaching of this passage. Let me know. Is there a weight to what's being preached right now? We are not called just to know things and do things. We are called to be transformed into the likeness of Christ in all areas of life. And we'll never get there if if we um cordon ourselves off and don't allow ourselves to be convicted by the Word of God, we'll never get there. Because step one is conviction. Because conviction of our sin and our shortcomings and our weakness is what drives us to prayer, drives us to repentance, drives us to Christ, and Christ is the only one who can change us. But if we're never going to Christ to be changed, we'll never be changed. Number three, children of God are patient. And like all of these, not perfectly patient, but truly patient by the work of the Spirit, this morning, you might only you might be recently saved. You might be in a season of apathy. For whatever reason, you might only have a tiny itty-bitty mustard seed of these character traits But that's all we're looking for, really. That's all you need. If you're saved and you have the Holy Spirit, you're in the right place Children of God are patient. This also is in verse 2. With all humility and gentleness, with patience. With patience. Now, patience You need to be patient in many situations in different ways. The two of the main ways where Christians need to be patient is enduring hardship. Enduring suffering without becoming bitter, without giving up our profession of faith. That's one way Christians are called to be patient. But in this context, it's about being patient with each other. Does that make sense? It's about being patient with each other, like the way parents should be patient With their children. We need to be patient with each other. So here, patience is enduring wrongdoing, enduring offenses. without becoming rash or bitter or filled with a hot anger toward each other. To endure wrongdoing, to endure offense, and not turn against each other. Satan would love that in his church. In the church. If we were not able to endure each other's shortcomings, if we were not able to endure unintentional offenses. And we just became filled with a root of bitterness toward each other and started turning against each other. Satan would love that to happen in the church of Christ. And the way we avoid that is by walking in genuine fellowship with Christ. Walking in genuine fellowship with Christ and the Spirit and the Word, keeping us from that horrible sin. Impatience. Toward others is what holds grudges. But you see, what patience will do is overlook the offense and move on with life for the glory of God. Amen? Patience will forgive the offense and move along. Now, sometimes you can't, and when you can't, you need to go to that person for reconciliation, have a discussion, and most of the time The Spirit will show up and Christ will show up and bring reconciliation and peace. That doesn't always happen. The world is not that neat and clean. But the impulse would be to overlook and to forgive and to seek restoration and forgiveness. Impatience with each other is when we assume the worst of others. We assume ill motive. We assume some kind of malice. We assume some kind of bad intent intent or intention rather than assuming the best. That this was unintentional. That they just didn't know this would hurt your feelings. It's not out of malice. They just made a mistake. That see, patience assumes the best. And will lead to overlooking and will lead to forgiveness instead of impatience, which assumes the worst, and you start to see others as like little devils. And you start to see only the bad. That's an impatience. We're impatient with others. We see only the bad. Patience, we look at each other through the lens of grace. And when we're patient with each other, we're not seeing only the bad. We're not focusing on the bad. What we're seeing in each other is the work of God in each other's lives. We're seeing the good. We're seeing the fruit of the Spirit. We're seeing the good intention. Other people have good intentions, just like you do. And just like you, other people's good intentions are imperfect. Just like yours are imperfect. So that's why we need to have patience with each other. Overlook offenses, forgive offenses, seek reconciliation. Think the best. 1 Corinthians 13. Love believes all things. Believe the best. Hope for the best. Think the best. And it doesn't always turn out that way, but be a leader in cultivating the godly patience, just as Be a leader in cultivating godly humility and godly gentleness. Impatience is the father who loses his temper instead of remaining calm. By the Holy Spirit. Impatience is the son or daughter who rebels in anger with bursts of anger because they don't get their way. Impatience is the cold wife. Impatience is the passive aggressive husband. Impatience is the grumbling and complaining church member or the grumbling and complaining pastor. Impatience is a poison. It is a poison. What we need is patience. Now, why are all of those practical examples Filed under this tab. They're put in this folder and the tab says impatience. Why are all those practical examples filed under impatience? I'll tell you why Because they're all examples of not being able to endure wrongdoing and deal with it in a godly way. I'll repeat that. Because this is huge for the way we live our lives and interact with others. All of those examples are examples of the person 's not able to endure offense, they're not able to endure wrongdoing and deal with it in a godly way. Rather, what do they do? They deal with it in a carnal way. rather than modeling the patience of Christ. All of those examples show an inability to endure offense and respond with the character of Christ. They're all outward manifestations of rashness. They're all outward manifestations of bitterness. Exodus 34, 6, Psalm 86, 15, Psalm 103. 8, and many other passages have this exact phrase I'm about to read to you about God's character. The Lord is Slow to anger and abounding in steadfast love. That's why Christ, the full and perfect revelation of God, that's why he's able to be patient with sinners like us. That's why he's able to endure our wrongdoing and not turn against us. That's why he's able to endure our sins and our offenses and not kick us out of the kingdom of God, but welcome us and embrace us and love us with all the warmth and joy as our Savior. Why? Because He is God and God is slow to anger and abounding in love. Now, are you a reflection of that? The more and more we're conformed to the likeness of Christ, you will be. You will be more and more a reflection of a God who is slow to anger and he's abundant in steadfast love. So that when you sin against him, he doesn't immediately squash you. Why? Why is he able to endure our sin? Why is he able to put up with us and not turn against us and not squash us like a bug? He's slow to anger, and he's abounding in steadfast love. God 's patience, brothers and sisters, is an example of God's kindness. And the purpose of God's kindness is to change us. His patience is an example of his kindness, and the purpose of his kindness is to change us. Romans 2, 4 Or do you presume upon the riches of his kindness and of his forbearance and his patience, not knowing that God's kindness is meant to lead you to repentance? His kindness is meant to lead you to repentance. His kindness is meant to lead me to repentance. His patience is an example of his kindness, and his kindness is meant to change us. This kindness, this forbearance, this patience is meant to lead us to repentance. Well, are you saved? Are you born again so that you can cultivate humility and gentleness and patience? Are you being sanctified? Are you going to the Spirit? Are you crying out in prayer? That God would give you humility and gentleness and patience? Are you motivated by the right reasons? Are your heart stirred for the right goal? Because you love God. You want to glorify God. You want his character to be manifest in your life. Now, number four and number five, we'll take together. Number four, children of God are loving. And number five, children of God are peaceable. Loving comes from verse 2. Bearing with one another in love. Do you see this nice Smooth transition from the patience into the love. Patience and then Bearing with one another, which really is just another way of saying patience, bearing with one another in love. You see, the patience with each other is just one of the expressions of love toward each other. Bearing with one another in love, and then Peaceable is verse 3. Eager to maintain the unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. The unity of the spirit and the bond of peace. Children of God are loving, which means we have a genuine affection for each other and we're actively striving for the well-being of each other. Not just physical well-being, but spiritual well-being, primarily the spiritual well-being of each other, but also caring for each other and physical things. Children of God are humble and gentle and patient and loving. They bear with one another in love. They don't give up on each other. They don't turn against each other. They don't abandon one another. Children of God are loving, and children of God are peaceable. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. So what does that mean for the troublemakers? I'll tell you it means cursed are the troublemakers. They're be called sons of Satan Blessed are the peacemakers, for they'll be called sons of God. Peacemakers seek harmony with each other. Peacemakers Seek harmony between others instead of turning people against each other through gossip and slander and murmuring. Peacemakers seek harmony with others through forgiveness, through the confession of sin, and humbling oneself to admit I was wrong. Through biblical reconciliation, we seek harmony. That's peacemaking. You need to have peacemakers in a church. Church should be filled with peacemakers. Not contentious, not instigators, not gossipers, not slanderers, not grumblers, not complainers, but peacemakers, those who forgive Those who encourage and speak a kind word and build up and admit they're wrong and say I'm sorry and ask for forgiveness and seek restoration and reconciliation, peacemakers for the glory of God. You know the more peace the church has, the more fruitful it will be in ministry. Contentious spirit in the church. Divisions in the church Troublemakers in the church hinder the work of the gospel. Well, are you saved? Are you born again so that you can cultivate true humility? And gentleness and patience and love and a peaceable spirit. Are you being sanctified? Are you diligent in your sanctification? Are you praying? Are you crying out for the work of the Spirit to cultivate within you humility and gentleness and patience and love and a peaceable spirit? Are you motivated in the right way? Are your goals the right goals? Are you motivated by a love for God Are you fixated on the glory of God manifest in the world, and therefore also the glory of God manifest in your speech and conduct and relationships? Christian character. Now there's a lifetime of prayer and repentance for me in verses 1 to 3. We've got three more chapters of this. So, brothers and sisters, all I can say is buckle up. Come seeking the Word of God. Come seeking the work of God in your heart, that he might conform you, conform us as a whole more and more into the likeness of Christ For his glory and for his honor in the world. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Christ and for all that he is. All that he's done, all that he's given, all that he's promised. We lift his name on high. We thank you for Jesus Christ. Thank you for the Holy Spirit. Thank you for your inspired word, the Bible. I thank you for the forgiveness of sins, the gift of eternal life, the hope of heaven, the hope of resurrection. So many good things you've given us by your free grace. Father, we worship you, we praise you, we lift your name on high, we love you, Lord. Because you first loved us. To Christ we lift these praise and prayers. Amen.