Well, good evening to all of you here, and uh more might be coming. Good evening to you online. We are going to have a study tonight. Thank you for the microphone. That's good We're going to have a study tonight continuing in Hebrews chapter 6. So let's go ahead and turn in our Bibles to Hebrews chapter 6, and we will walk through this passage together. I'm going to begin with prayer, and during our prayer time we were praying especially for our nation. I want to do that again just with the difficulties going on at the Capitol building and ground. So let's join together in prayer. Father, we thank you. You prescribe law and order through government officials. And so we We pray for their safety and effective work, and Lord, we don't know all the ins and outs, only what we see. But many of us are distressed by what we've seen today, and we do pray that um law and order could resume and uh and and this nation could go in a better direction than what has taken place place uh today. We know that that would only be with cooler heads prevailing. We know the sin nature was on display. We understand that. understand that could happen again any time and does happen. But we do pray that um that law and order, the way you've raised up leaders, that they would uh Be wise and proceed in a good direction. So we pray for wisdom for them. And we pray, Father, that uh that peace would be restored not only for the sake of peace, but just that this would be a nation. that is peaceful, that we can live out quiet, righteous lives in the midst of it and proclaim the gospel freely. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. All right, tonight we come to a difficult passage of Scripture in that there are different interpretations of it, and I just want you to know that at the outset, and I want you to remember at the outset. that uh you need to keep the context of scripture in mind as you come to difficult places in the scripture. The context of Scripture in this case would teach us that salvation is an eternal work by the grace of God. It is not up to man to save himself or to keep him saved himself saved. We'll read about that a little bit later, but just keep in mind what we learn, that we are saved by grace, and that's God's grace. uh through faith and there is no there there are verses that are difficult to interpret but when we put all of Scripture together what we uh say as Baptists that salvation is an eternal work, not just as Baptist, but but as Bible-believing people, that salvation is an eternal work begun by God and completed by God, and that one who is saved and born again will indeed be with Christ. So keep that context in mind as we come to that part of the passage. I've called the the um and did you get the sheet on the way in? Does everyone have it? Okay, that's okay. No, no, I I'm gonna I'm gonna leave the stool and serve my brother. Anybody else need one? And this gives me a chance to say that folks online there is a Oh, you can't see, but my son was sheepishly raising his hand. That's fine. Anybody else? It's helpful to have it because I've put the passage in somewhat of a uh uh making an outline of the scripture, at least a thought outline, not so much a grammatical one, but it helps me to think through s uh passages by doing that. But anyway, if you are online and you want to see what I've handed out. There is a PDF on the the website and you can find that if you have time to print that. But it's it'll be available for a few days anyway. I've called the study Full Assurance of Hope, and that comes from verse 11. We'll get there in a little bit. Hope we learn in Chapter eleven, a good definition would be confident expectation. confident expectation. In other words, it's not I wish, it's I know this will take place. It is confident. expectation. Full assurance of hope means I'm confident I will receive the eternal blessings I look forward to in Christ. Let me say that again. Think about it with me. Full assurance of hope, that phrase, and that's the the practical takeaway I want you to have. I want you to have full assurance of hope if you are a born-again Christian. It means that you are confident you will receive the eternal blessings that you look forward to that are promised in Christ. All right, the context of chapter 6. I know some of you have been here every week, some of you have tuned in every week, and not everybody has, and we are a forgetful people. And today, if anything could take your mind off of where we were last week, the events of today might have just the current events. So the context, after describing the faithful obedience of Jesus, that's earlier in chapter 5, 5 through 10, and that he is, Jesus is forever our high priest. The author of Hebrews then exhorts the church to not be dull of hearing. That's where we were last week, chapter 5, verse 11, and following. The idea is Be like Jesus and press on to greater knowledge of Jesus. And one of the problems facing the audience of the writer. uh the church that he part of the church that he's writing to is is persecution for their faith. Now that was common in the day. But particularly Jewish Christians that he is writing to were tempted to go back to Judaism that they had practiced before being born again to avoid persecution. Okay, so Jewish believers tempted to just go back to being Jews. And not Jewish Christians. And the warning we find in chapter six was for them, but remember, this is God's word for the church. It is for any who would be tempted to go back, to stop following Christ after being a professing Christian. Now, in chapter 5, the author made the point that Jesus is the only priest you need. So let's go to the immediate context and look at chapter 5, verse 10. There he said that Jesus is designated by God as high priest according to the order of Melchizedek. And before going into this more, the author pauses to stir up the attention of his readers. Uh look at it. Concerning him, verse 11, we have much to say, and it's hard to explain since you have become dull of hearing. Okay, you have my attention, writer of Hebrews. They might For though by this time you ought to be teachers, you have need again. Need again. They didn't retain it the first time, so you have need again for someone to teach you. the elementary principles of the oracles or the word of God. And you come, you have come to need milk and not solid food. We talked about that last week. Everyone who partakes only of milk is not accustomed to the word. of righteousness. In the word of righteousness, deeper truths concerning Christ, which the author will pick up in chapter 7. And the reason you're not ready is you are still an infant. He is an infant. infant. But solid food is for the mature. Notice the definition of maturity here, who because of practice Practice of what? Well practice of what they've already understood. The word of milk certainly would be a part of that, who because of practice have their senses trained to discern good and evil. So here's a we didn't talk about it. Well we I didn't raise my hand and say it last week uh with when Pastor Nat was was teaching. But if you want a good understanding of maturity, there's one here in verse 14. Put into practice the truth you learn. That's growing in maturity. Put into practice what you are learning in the scripture. And that's why uh application Uh Pastor Matt will call it implications, I'll call it, but both are extremely important as we go through the scripture, not just to hear them and to think, oh yeah, that makes sense, but to to grow in that. Alright, full assurance of hope. I want you to see three things that are connected to that. And you you have uh one, two, three Roman numerals on the page. You can see that, and in between the text is there for you For you from the New American Standard and in sort of an outline form. So the first thing is spiritual growth. That is spiritual growth um will be seen in a true believer. Living things show growth. Right, Patty Lynn? Perfect illustration right in front of me. And we pray for her and Colleen as well as as they are due to have their children soon. uh see their children. They have 'em. They know they have 'em. Alright, chapter six, verse one, thinking of growth. Therefore leaving the elementary, and and that is uh a word that has beginning as its root meaning. So leaving the beginning or elementary teaching about the Christ, the milk that he that's how he called what he called it in Verse 12, let us press on to maturity, deeper understanding, deeper trust, greater obedience. Not laying again, here's how we're going to press on, not laying again a foundation of, and there are five things he mentions. We looked at this last, well no, we we he introduced this last week. That's right. Repentance from dead works. I interpret that as Trusting in for these Hebrew believers, don't go back to trusting that the Old Testament law, obedience to the Old Testament law is what will save you. Repentance from dead works. For us today it would be to say works do not save. Coming to church is a physical activity. It does not save. It's evidence of a heart that loves God, but it could also be evidence of somebody who just has that habit and wants to continue that habit. So repentance from dead works. Works don't save. and of faith toward God. Here's another elementary beginning belief. That is probably belief in the gospel. faith toward God. How do we please Him? How do we be a son of Abraham? By believing in the gospel. of Jesus Christ. Thirdly, of instruction about washings and laying on of hands. Pastor Matt identified those as baptism and ordination. I tend to agree with that. Some commentators will say perhaps this has to do with Christ's fulfillment of Old Testament rituals, rituals we don't need anymore, so that's another interpretation I lean toward. Uh washings being baptism and laying on of hands, that's how we see it used in the New Testament ordaining folks uh to either uh the the the pastoral office or we do see it when Paul and uh Barnabas go out as missionaries from Antioch. Fourthly, and the resurrection of the dead, the elementary truth that Christ was raised, and when he returns all will be raised And the elementary truth of eternal judgment. So those five things on the day of Christ's return, the day of resurrection, all will be judged. Alright, so leaving the elementary teachings about the Christ, let us press on maturity, not laying again the foundation of these things. And this we will do, verse 3, if God permits. And indeed, God does permit, because that's where he goes in chapter 7. But first. There's something God inspires him to write about. What about those who never go beyond the elementary teachings? More importantly, He's going to get to in the next verses. What of those who instead of building on them desert them and go back to their former way of thinking and living? Well, another aspect of full assurance of hope, not only is it spiritual growth and not staying with elementary things, but continuing to grow and understand. Secondly, it is steadfast faith. So those who would desert truth and go back to former thinking, they are not steadfast. Full assurance of hope. w will is based on will show someone who has assurance will show a steadfast faith. They they're connected. You cannot have assurance if you are Not certain about these elementary truths. Verse 4. For in the case of those, now I'm going to stop there and say One of the key things is to ask the question, and as you do Bible study, just look at words, and here we should be asking in asking the question, who are those? In the case of those, he's going to describe them, but we need to be thinking, who are these people? Alright? He gives five descriptions of them. For in the case of those, first of all, who have been enlightened, that's an interesting word. To be enlightened is to hear and understand that Jesus, and for these believers, or for these, this audience particularly, Jesus and not the law is the hope of salvation So today it would be to be enlightened is to believe that Jesus and nothing else is our hope for salvation, not my works, not what um some other religion would tell me is a possible way to God? No, it is Jesus alone. So to be enlightened is to hear and understand that Jesus is not the law. And publicly confess that understanding in baptism. That that's a part of uh those who've been enlightened that they've they've shown that. They've become a part of the church. So right away we need to realize the context of scripture We know there were some in the early church who ended up not being believers, who were thought to be true believers. We know that's true today in the church. So when we look at this verse, some Came to understand that Jesus and not the law was the hope of salvation. Some came to profess it, but some The writer is going to say, don't possess it. So there is an understanding, an assent, mental assent to it. There's even a a profession of that mental ascent, but there's not a heart change that's taking place. Does that make sense? Because this is important to the text. Any questions so far? We good? Please feel free. The word enlightened, I want you to realize, I think it's fair to Bible study to say this, it is used by the author for true believers in chapter 10. Turn over to chapter 10, verse 32. If you came on late, let me just mention to those online we're using a sheet, kind of an outline. of the scripture put in out an out sort of an outline form and that is available on the website as a PDF if you want to go there and print that out. So Hebrews 10. 32 uses that word. Remember the former days when after being enlightened you endured a great conflict of sufferings. And by the way, that's the sufferings that some of some are responding to and not holding to Christ. You endured a great conflict of sufferings, partly by being made a public spectacle through reproaches and tribulations. and partly by becoming sharers with those who were so treated. For you showed sympathy to the prisoners, and accepted joyfully the seizure of your property, knowing that you have for yourselves a better possession and a lasting one. Therefore, do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of endurance, so that when you have done the will of God you may receive what was promised. For yet in a very little while he who is coming will come and will not delay. But my righteous one shall live by faith, and if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him That's from Habakkuk chapter two. But we are not of those who shrink back to destruction, but of those who have faith to the preserving of the soul. So there are some who shrink back. And the word enlightened is used in chapter 10 of those who don't. But it's used here in chapter 6 of those who do. So they heard, they understood the gospel enough to understand that it meant not trusting in the law. They even publicly confessed that understanding, but they're going to shrink back. Jesus spoke of these. would remember as I read this passage in Mark chapter four, the parable of the soils. Remember when he describes some of the soils? In a similar way, those who fell on the rocky soil are like Uh uh let me just read it instead of going off on the tangent in my head there. In a similar way, these are the ones on whom seed was sown on the rocky places. Who, when they hear the word, immediately receive it with joy, and they have no firm root in themselves, but they did receive the word, remember? They have no firm root in themselves. There's nothing going on in the heart, but are only temporary. Then when affliction or persecution arises because of the word, immediately they fall away They're not saved. The next group is a little more difficult for folks because we do see it in our Christian lives. Others are the ones on whom seed was sown among the thorns. These are the ones who have heard the word. Again, there's a reception of it, at least a hearing of it is described. But the worries of the world and the deceitfulness of riches and the desires for other things. Enter in and choke the word and it becomes unfruitful. I I think there can be application to struggles in the Christian life and growth in the Christian life, but I do think Jesus is not describing the saved here. It's another aspect of seed that does not produce true salvation. In both of these cases, enlightening we would say took place, but there was not a born-again experience because that would be an eternal experience, and in both of these cases uh there is no eternal fruit. So Jesus spoke of of this that we are seeing in chapter six in uh in Hebrews. So that's the first thing. Now you know we we were looking at, let me go back to what you're looking at, for in the case of those, we're describing those who were enlightened, secondly, and have tasted of the heavenly gift. What do you think the heavenly gift is? Salvation. They saw and understood the peace and joy the gift brings. I said that carefully. They tasted of it. Doesn't mean they possessed it in heart, but I think they saw and understood the peace and joy that the gift brings. I mean when you're in in the presence of people that have true peace and joy, it's going to have some effect on you emotionally. So they're tasting of it in the fellowship of the church. It gave them joy maybe to think about it the truth of God, that He would love us so. But you know, they're kind of like, an illustration I thought of, they're kind of like the spies. who came back from the promised land saying, it certainly is a great land, but, and they shrank back from trusting God. And going in. So they've tasted of the heavenly gift. Certainly it is great. Thirdly, and have been made partakers of the Holy Spirit. What does that mean? I don't think it means they were indwelt for a time, because that would mean they were born again and then unborn again. But partakers of the Holy Spirit, they saw, they benefited from the work of the Spirit in their midst as they were a part of the church. The author mentioned such work through the apostles back in chapter 2 verse 4. Uh God testified with them, the apostles, by signs and wonders, by various miracles and by gifts of the Holy Spirit according to his own will. Gifts of the Spirit in wonderful ways were a part of the early church. Paul speaks of them in 1 Corinthians chapter 12 particularly and other places 14 So they witnessed and partook of the manifestation of the Spirit in the congregation. That's the way I would understand that phrase. Fourthly, and have tasted the good word of God and the powers of the age to come. So they sat under the influence of the word of God, confessed it to be good. Learned from it, maybe got excited about it at times. And the powers of the age to come. The age to come would be the earthly reign of Christ at his return. They certainly witnessed manifestations of kingdom power in the early church. And I think it's good to remember some other words of Jesus that we just saw a few Sundays ago. Out of Matthew 7, verse 22 and 23, many will say to me on that day, Lord, Lord, did we not prophesy in your name? And in your name cast out demons, and in your name perform many miracles? And then I will declare to them, I never knew you, depart from me, you who practice lawlessness. If it's right to connect that passage to this, that's a matter of interpretation. Because some have different views on how that could happen, how someone could do these things in Jesus' name. But the fact is, Jesus said, You're going to say that, but I will say that I never knew you. So just because they've tasted of the powers of the age to come does not mean they were saved. Okay? That's my point. Does that make sense? All right. And here's the last, yeah, Maria. I'm saying that my interpretation of the passage is that they were not saved to begin with. These are Yeah, I th I think likely they were part of the church, but they they fell away. But I don't believe they lost their salvation. I believe that they were mentally ascent uh mental assenters to Christ, but I do not believe they were born again and lost their salvation. Because I believe that the new birth is an eternal work that God begins and completes. Okay, so the context of Scripture, now if this is all we had, we we might come to the conclusion that you're speaking of. But I uh now some will take the passage that this is simply a warning to believers. Uh and so and so it's a warning that this could happen to believers. You know, but I I d I don't see it that way because of the context of Scripture. And so I take these things to be well we c we could probably all think of somebody in our head right now that we really thought was saved, but they've left the faith I mean that's the only way to say it. They've left what their understanding of the faith was. And my understanding of that, and we'll get to it in some passages, is that they were never saved in the first place. But these things were true of them. Well Yes, and so that's why I'm careful about these phrases and and saying that they don't necessarily mean like ta uh A partaker of the Holy Spirit cannot mean in my mind indwelling spirit. Okay? Cannot mean that, because that's what happens at salvation. So I'm interpreting scripture with other scripture that a born-again person is indwelt by the Spirit. I don't take partaker of the Spirit meaning that here. I believe they were involved in the church life and saw evidence of the Spirit, were blessed by that, perhaps. Could they have spoken in tongues? Well, apparently so. You know, there 's things that took place that we might not completely understand, but we do understand pretty clearly the nature of salvation being an eternal work. We'll get to that The fifth description of them, and then have fallen away. Okay? And then have fallen away. That is, they've stopped believing in Jesus alone for salvation. They've stopped affirming the Lordship of Christ. They probably went back in their hearts to the Old Testament law just because that's who he's talking to, Hebrew believers. And I think a good illustration of this, not a New Testament illustration, but an Old Testament picture of it, would be Israel in the wilderness. So if you want to turn to 1 Corinthians 10, you can see this illustration. Or read it along with me. 1 Corinthians 10, verse 1. For I do not want you to be unaware, brethren. That our fathers were all under the cloud and all passed through the sea. So see the things that they shared together And all were baptized into Moses in the cloud and in the sea, and all ate the same spiritual food, and all drank the same spiritual drink, for they were drinking from a spiritual rock which followed them. The rock was Christ. They were all benefiting from the miracles taking place. Nevertheless, with most of them God was not well pleased, for they were laid low in the wilderness. They were not. True believers. Now, I'm not saying that, I mean, I believe Moses was. He didn't go to the promised land either, but that was discipline, we would say. But these were being judged and laid low in the wilderness. You will not go. You've shown your your unbelief, and you will die in the wilderness. Because when it came time to enter Canaan, uh they believed the ten out of twelve spies, not the two out of twelve, who were saying, By all means, let us go in, Joshua. Joshua and Caleb. Alright. So those in verse four are real people. And verse 6 tells us something very sobering. It goes on to say, it is impossible to renew them again to repentance. Now that's a sad statement. They had understanding sufficient to repent and believe to be saved. But they did not in their heart repent and believe. If they had been born again, they would not fall away. So God did not do that eternal work. Where do we see that in Scripture? Well, uh that it is an eternal work. Um John chapter ten 27 through 29, if you want to jot that down. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me. I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. My Father who has given them to me is greater than all, and no one is able to snatch them out of the Father's hand. Jesus speaks of the security of those who are his. True disciples, true believers. Romans 8, 29 and 30 is another passage. For those whom he God foreknew, he also predestined. To become conformed to the image of his son, so that he, Jesus, would be the firstborn among many brethren. And these whom he predestined He also called, and these whom he called, he also justified, and these whom he justified, he also glorified. Paul is giving there, showing there the eternal nature of salvation. that long before my history began or what took place when I was ten years old, God predestined my call and uh through uh pastor jack it was not jack beck That's who we would think of perhaps here, but um Jack Grady was his name. Through his sermon at the end of vacation Bible school to the kids, my heart was touched and he counseled me and I repented and believed and I was justified and I will be glorified. See these things are like, you've heard me say it before, like links in a chain that can't be broken. So that's some of the context that I bring to Hebrews chapter six. I believe those things to be true, that salvation is an eternal work that is Begun by God, we respond in real repentance and faith, but apart from God's grace, we would not. And God's grace uh not only justifies but Keeps me. I don't fall out of the hand. I don't take myself out of the hand. No one snatches me out of the hand. Jesus keeps me unto Glorification. Remember he said to the disciples that I've lost, or he said, maybe it was in prayer to God, that I've lost none of them except uh The one marked out son of perdition. So that's another word concerning our eternal salvation. Jesus won't lose us. Any questions there? You may. I get tempted. I get tempted sometimes to tell and say I'm one of I always I'll kind of pass right. So I keep thinking I'm one of those I'm obviously one of the guys. But then I actually think um struggling its habits of faithful people who serve an all those I think I think of Abraham where he chickened up and said that to my sister and I think of Jonah. I should have said it that way on Sun No, go ahead. Go ahead. I think of Jonah By the way, I think of um um Elijah who was really despondent and the body hung up and got the body and So I think this passage can tend to discourage us, but if we really repented it I I believe that these people never repented of their sins. It doesn't say it here necessarily, but it's got to be because if they actually at least I think if somebody repented of their sins and said, I'm sorry that I'm rock and I need your salvation. Be my Lord and Savior. I believe that God um at that point made that habit and save us. But um for me just uh it my testimony that 's I start to think, you know, I wasn't very faithful last week thinking about that job opportunity. I kind of just uh was in a rotten wood film. I wasn't very I was totally faithful thing. But it's a str for us that are saved, it's a struggle. For these people, apparently they in struggle to stay warning. They weren't in an internal struggle. They were checked out, never worse. Yeah. I think this passage is here so that we will examine ourselves. Okay. Yeah, but I think the those and his description of them is not true believers. And so yes, we examine ourselves in a very helpful phrase and I'll probably say it again. But we look at we look not for perfection because on those days that we are not perfect, those moments that we are not perfect, uh we're gonna feel like we're part of those, you know, that we look at looked at but direction of of life. These people, their direction was the opposite way. They fell back and stayed back. Okay. So that would be a difference between what you're describing in your life then the struggles you have. You wake up the next day or the whatever, the next week, and you you're going to go toward Christ even after a step back or a falter. You see what I'm saying? Our our our sanctification might look be a jagged graph, but it's direction, not perfection. I think that's helpful. You think that's helpful Jordan? Did I see your head going up and down? Uh oh, it was going side to side. I think that is very serious. It is a difficult phrase. Yes, I meant to say that. That's a difficult phrase. And and the way to to understand that is They understood the gospel. They would have understood, they would have heard about repentance and faith. Jesus, that's the first word of the gospel, repent. And they would have In some way express that, but falling short of it on the heart level. Yeah, so Jordan that for those online is just expressing how importance it is that the church deal carefully And that we think carefully through conversion. It might be speaking to a child and wanting to make sure they have understanding. But it is not simply an emotional event. It is something that we work through with individuals and and ask them about uh making sure they understand sin. All right, one more quickly. Yes. And that's the case. Yeah. And so I think that is an an internal evidence of salvation, that prodding that you're speaking of. You know, that that would really be a part of God's disciplining us, prodding us back toward toward obedience. John is helpful in thinking through this. Let me just give you the reference, 1 John 2. 18 through 19. It's where he says, they went out from us, but they were not really of us. I think that's a very helpful phrase. He's talking about those who are like the Antichrist, those who go and speak against Christ in in his day. But still they were a part of the church and looked like believers and then they left. And so his phrase there, they went out from us but were not really of us, can be helpful as we think about people who were a part of the church and then left. Well, they were not really of us on the heart level. from God's point of view. Peter is also helpful. 2 Peter 2, 20 through 22 would be the reference. That's where he says a dog returns to its own vomit and a sow after washing returns to wallowing in its mire. The reason I think that's interesting is because. a a pig is still a pig, you know, and and it can get cleaned up so a person who's unregenerate can look like a believer, but they're going to go back to what their nature uh would be driving them toward. Where they're not going to feel the prodding. You know, they're going to feel the flesh. All right. Verse 6 continues. Impossible to renew them again to repentance since They again crucify to themselves the Son of God and put him to open shame. They're rejecting him. As Israel rejected the Messiah, coming in on the triumphal entry, but By that Thursday and Friday, well, already rejected by the chief priests, Pharisees, and scribes, but rejected even by the people on Friday as they shouted, Crucify Him. Hebrews 10, 29 should be connected to this. How much severe punishment do you think he will deserve who has trampled underfoot the Son of God? and has regarded as unclean the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has insulted the spirit of grace. So to understand it, to um be a part of it and and even confess it, but not really believe it. Uh God describes that as, again, they reject Jesus. They crucify to themselves a personal rejection of that truth that they've come to understand, but not uh receive on a heart level with repentance. repentance and faith. Alright, the internal, the eternal importance of this is underscored by the illustration in 7 and 8. Ground that drinks the rain, which often falls on it and brings forth vegetation useful to those for whose sake it is also tilled, receives a blessing From God. But if it yields thorns and thistles, it is worthless and close to being cursed, and it ends up being burned And so the danger is real. The second type of ground, or the kind of ground that yields thorns and thistles, would be what these people, those, uh, are that's the fruit of their life and judgment is pictured here. So the danger is is very real for these who Did these five things, but yet weren't saved, uh, because lostness means eternal damnation I think that's what the illustration is pointing out. Not blessing, but burning. Eternal judgment. Now, let me ask you, can you think of a real-life example from the New Testament, not a person that you know today? I said a minute ago we could probably think of those. But can you think of a real life example from the New Testament of falling away? Hy Hymeneus and Alexander are the two that he mentions there. And that's probab those are probably examples of of Hebrews 6. Because they were a part of the church and then not. The other one that some would include would be who? Judas, which I already alluded to, you know, as being the one that was and and who did someone else say? Now see, I would say that that's discipline, but whether they were saved or not, we could argue about that. I I think that was God saying lying will not be a you know, I'm a god of truth and I'm gonna just like those who take the Lord's Supper in an unworthy manner, some of them died. I'm not gonna say all I don't know to say that all of those were lost. I just think they they were disciplined with death. Yeah, so interesting that you would bring them up. But uh yeah, it it's those are two we would think of. For sure. There there are some other names, but Judas and the ones uh that that um Vince thought of. Hymeneus, maybe I'm saying that right, and Alexander Paul mentions those to come, there will be more. First Timothy four one. The Spirit explicitly says that in latter times Some will fall away from the faith, paying attention to deceitful spirits and doctrines of demons. And what I'm saying to you is that In this church's and my personal context of understanding Scripture, we do not say that they are losing their salvation. We are saying they went out from us because they were not of us. They were not saved. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2 verse 3. Let no one in any way deceive you, for it will not come. the Lord's coming, unless the apostasy comes first. That's talking about people falling away. And the man of lawlessness is revealed, the son of destruction. It's very probably the case that the man of lawlessness, the Antichrist, will at one point look like a believer, but will not be. Look at the earlier exhortation in Hebrews chapter 3 verse 14, because this fits with what we are looking at in chapter 6. Chapter 3 verse 14. Are your eyes glazing over? I hope not. I know this is a big chapter, but For we have become partakers of Christ if we hold fast. The beginning of our assurance firm until the end. So there is the same thought that we will hold fast if we are true believers. That's how I would understand that. And if we don't, it is showing that we are not. Okay? But the warning is giving there, given there. The exhortation is given there to hold fast. If you're a true believer, I believe you will hold fast, but it's good for us to hear that exhortation. Because one of the ways that God has chosen to keep us from falling is by sobering us with warnings. That's part of our sanctification. The warnings of Scripture. are used by God to keep us examining ourselves to keep going forward on that path, that direction toward Christ. So such warnings cause true believers to examine our hearts and disengage our affections from the things of the world. They sober us as they should They go over the head of the lost person. They don't think about them much. But we do think about them. And they should not cause us to despair. They should cause us to examine. Okay? There's a difference. The third thing I want to say about full assurance of hope it's connected to works of love. Verse nine and following. But beloved And after saying they're dull of hearing, you know, and that they're babies stuck on milk. And then warning of those who have great religious experience yet aren't saved. Warning of those who are like fields that drink rain and never produce fruit. He calls. The recipients of the letter, who are different than those, those were a group of people he just described, but beloved. The ones he's writing to are beloved. And notice what he says. We are convinced of better things concerning you. Is that not a word of encouragement? We don't believe you will fall away, is what the writer is saying. We are convinced of better things concerning you and things that accompany salvation. In other words, we believe you are born again. We believe you will keep trusting and obeying. Though The verse continues, we are speaking in this way, though we are warning you of the consequences of not doing so. So, yes, warnings are a part of What God uses to keep us going in the right direction, but the author is not throwing them into that category of those with those five descriptors For, and this goes back to the word why we're convinced, we're convinced of better things, for God Is not unjust so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward his name in having ministered. Here's the love, in having ministered and in still ministering. To the saints. So works of love, ministry of love, is a reason why they're convinced that. The recipients of the letter, it's evidence that they are true believers. To say it this way, one of the telltale evidences of Christianity is a love for God that shows itself. In a love for the brethren, ministry to the brethren. It's why you would care about Camp Lomitu, why you would give to the Lottie Moon Christmas offering. It's why some who are able to make a meal for the citrus or for Anne Schriver. You could just fill in the blank of all the different ways and other ways that people minister. week by week. The fruit of the Spirit is love. Jesus said, all men will know that you're my disciples if you have love for one another. God sees this is what verse 10 is saying. Notice it, the way it's written. God sees this, and it says to him that you love him. God is not unjust so as to forget your work and the love which you have shown toward his name. So when Christians minister to one another, we do it unto Christ, and God notices. God remembers what you do for others in the body, in his name, for his glory. It's a fitting, just response for him as our Father to honor those who are honoring him with this loving ministry. But notice the way it's worded, it's very interesting. God is not unjust. Normally, when we think of God's justice, we're thinking of what? Not reward, but punishment. But here we see God's justice means he will remember your love to others in his name. So what he says about reward, he's going to carry through. He's going to be a God of his word. So if you're saved and you love the brethren, brethren, the brethren and the sister. And God remembers uh all uh if you if you are saved, you love the brethren, and God, the the author is saying, remembers all those acts of ministry and we're So just a an amazing verse. And I think I'm understanding it correctly, interpreting it correctly. The authors point to the Jewish believers that he's writing to. Have hope in God's just reward. Even in the face of persecution for your faith, He won't forget you. Verse 11. And we desire that each of you show the same diligence, same love for God that shows itself in love for the brethren. Show the same diligence so as to realize the full assurance of hope until the end. That's the confidence that you will receive, the eternal blessings you look forward to in Christ. So, what we're seeing here is we see it many times in Scripture, our works don't save us, but they encourage our assurance of salvation. And I would also say assurance encourages our works. That's what verse 12 is saying. So that you will not be sluggish. Full assurance of hope until the end, so that you will not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises. Because Abraham believed in a city that uh was a heavenly city, he continued to believe and follow God. Because he believed God could raise the dead. He was willing to slay his son in chapter 17. We'll get there in the morning. So us, um imitators of those who through faith and patience inherit the promises, we're looking toward eternal life, a place of a place in heaven, a place with Christ. A part of the kingdom to come. And because of all that, it encourages us to keep doing these works of love, these ministries. In chapter 11, it tells us that faith is the assurance of things hoped for and patience. Did I read verse 12? Yeah, let me read it. Yeah, I did. So that you will not be sluggish, but imitators of those who through faith and patience, and that's what I'm describing now. Faith is the assurance of things hoped for. Patience is the mindset that I can and will wait on his blessing, trusting God to fulfill his will in his time. Faith and patience characterize Abraham and others in the faith chapter, but they characterize all who are born again. So let me give a summary and then we'll see if there's a question or two. Being born again is an eternal work of God. That's the context that I come to this passage. Those who appear to be born again but fall away were never born again and will not be. That's the sad part of this passage. They crucify again the Son of God. They will not be renewed. They will not come to that place of repentance. And then thirdly, spiritual growth, this is the outline you have, spiritual growth, steadfast faith, and works of love are evidence. Direction, not perfection evidence, okay? Evidence of true believers. All right. Mike Christ comes next week. Now I don't know if he's going to try to go back and tie things to that, but hopefully we'll be saying the same things about this passage. Now I look forward to what Mike has to say about the second half of chapter six. Any comments or questions before we close? Yeah. Yeah, I a and yes, I know. Yes. So Should we characterize people as those? You know, I I I think I think the warning is there that we not be those. We're gonna see people that might be those. And uh yeah, you can you can always fall upon God's grace and uh this is the word we have here, and it's a difficult word. What verse was that? Um anyway Verse six, yeah, it's a difficult verse. But I don't think I don't think you're at fault for because Yeah. Yeah, I I know I I know I do. Certainly pray for for everyone that I'm concerned about. But at the same time, I Paul holds them up as examples. and says that they've been delivered over to Satan. You know, so I know people have different interpretations of that. But we're not to think that Judas was saved just because we feel sorry for him, you know. or someone like that. We need to speak clearly. So if I was speaking to someone, I would show them this passage and if it had no effect on them, I would probably think, yeah, that's exactly where they are. Does that make sense? But I understand your heart to pray for them because you care, you love them. So it should cause us to love those who we might suspect. or or needing a real salvation, maybe don't have it. Maybe praying for opportunity to speak to such. Any any other questions? That's a difficult one, but a or comment. It's a difficult but good comment. Let's pray. Father, thank you for our opportunity to walk through this tonight. I pray, Lord, that it's been helpful. I pray that you would use it to our sanctification. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.