The words we'll examine tonight come out of 1 Peter 4, verses 12 through 19 1 Peter 4 verses 9 excuse me verses 12 through 19. Rejoice, beloved. Even in suffering, the fiery trials rejoice. This has been the theme of Peter's letter for a few chapters or a few sections. over really the months that we've been studying it. Recognizing that we still live here in this earth. These corrupted bodies that are being sanctified by the work of God. We know that there's a fallen world around us. We know that there's trials around us. And we know that we will face suffering. There's no there's no escaping it. There's no well, you know, maybe maybe if we just get in a commune, we lock the doors and We never go in the outside world, we won't face any suffering. Lord, trust me, if you spend too much time with me, you're gonna suffer. She did not, she would never Right? We think, oh, we this suffering, this must mean we're not good. This must mean there's a problem. There's something wrong if we're suffering. But we've seen, and this is what Peter has been hammering home for us. That suffering is part of life for everyone. And if suffering is part of life for everyone, then we must think about how we can suffer well And righteous to the glory of God. And to do that, we learn in Peter to suffer well, to suffer for the glory of Christ, is that we rejoice in our suffering. We don't rejoice because, oh, this is painful. We don't rejoice and say, oh, this is this is what we want. We like the pain. We like the idea of being attacked. We like the idea of fighting against this. No, that's not what we're rejoicing in. We rejoice that we are suffering because we are walking in the likeness of Christ. We rejoice because we see that Christ is our example. We rejoice because the Spirit has given us the ability to suffer to the glory of God. John Owen said this, and so in your hand up there, to suffer as a Christian is to suffer for Christ, for the name of Christ, for the truths of Christ, for the ways of Christ, for the worship of Christ We suffer for Christ. We suffer for his glory. For his name. Are we ready to proclaim our identity as Christians? Those that believe that Christ died for us, those that believe that we are walking in obedience to Christ, and we want to proclaim his name. Are we ready to suffer for that? Are we ready to suffer as we speak the truth of Christ that he has come to save sinners? That he has said to believe and repent. You will be saved, but if you do not believe, you will be condemned. Are we ready to suffer for the ways of Christ? Walking in obedience to Christ. We're really going to hammer this one home tonight. As we think about this fighting against sin and living righteous lives, are you ready to suffer for that? To walk in the ways of Christ? And are we ready to suffer to the worship of Christ? That we would say, we would give all we have. We would give up everything if it means that we get to worship our Lord and Savior. This is what we're called to do as Christians is to suffer for Christ. But we are not to do it looking like Eeyore, the donkey from Winnie Pooh. We are to suffer with Joy with happiness, rejoicing that we are honored to walk in the likeness of Christ, that we have been strengthened to suffer the way that Christ has suffered. I just realized it's Winnie the Pooh. That's my Dutch coming out that we shorten. It's Winnie the Pooh, I'm sorry. You were that's Jonna says a lot about you, just so you know. And if you're a big Tigger fan, that says a lot about you too. Alright, let's let us dive into the Word of God. Let us read what First Peter chapter four, verses twelve through nineteen has to be. Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you as though something strange were happening to you. But rejoice in so far as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. Because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief , or an evildoer, or a meddler. Yet if any one suffers as a Christian, let him not be a Shamed. But let him glorify God in that name. For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and the sinner? Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will Entrust their souls to a faithful Creator while doing good. Some challenging things to hear in this passage Some hard truths that we must think about to wrestle with. But let's start with this question. Let me do a little apologetics tonight. Let me ask a question and then let's have an answer from the Word of God What is the fiery trial that Peter's speaking of? Look at me in verse twelve, it says, Beloved, do not be surprised at the fiery trial when it comes upon you to test you as though something strange were happening to you. You. What Peter's doing is he's getting the Christian ready for whatever they're about to face, the trial that they're about to face. And what he wants them to be thinking about is that this should be expected in the life of a Christian. I love this language. He says, don't be surprised and don't think that it's though it's something strange that was happening. Don't be surprised and don't think it's something strange. This is one of the problems with the health and wealth and prosperity gospel that's preached throughout the world is that if you come to Christ, then you become rich. If you come to Christ, then all your ailments are healed, and all your sicknesses are gone, and all your suffering is taken away. Well, that's contrary to what Scripture is telling us. What we're being told here is do not be surprised. Don't be surprised by the fiery trials. Don't think it's something strange. It's the natural result of being a Christian. So, what is the fiery trial? I believe there's two aspects of this. And those two aspects is one is It 's the attack of the enemy. It's the attack or the attacks of the enemy. And the second fiery trial that we will face is the temptation of sin. So the two trials that we face as Christians is the tax of the enemy and temptation of sin. I think if you go through and any kind of suffering you face, or any kind of trial you face and some aspect will fit in these two categories, maybe not perfectly, but I think these two cover a lot. The first one that often comes to mind when we think about suffering and we think about the fiery trials is the attack of of the enemy, right? We this is when our mind goes to suffering. Our mind goes immediately to the enemy attacking us. Or our minds go immediately to the Christians around the world that are being persecuted for their faith. We think about the churches underground in China, the churches in Afghanistan where where Christians are slaughtered in the street for professing faith in Christ. And I do believe, I do believe that's part of what Peter is talking about here. In Peter's time, the church would have been persecuted for their faith. It wasn't an option for them to be Christians and to profess faith in Christ alone. That's where the problem arose. Uh within Rome, Rome was okay with whatever ri religion you wanted to have. They really were. They were okay. You go and you worship whatever gods you want to worship. as long as you are paying incense to Caesar and recognizing Caesar as God. You go worship anyone else As long as Caesar is one of those gods, is the God, and you're paying your tithes and you're paying incense to him. And the Jews at that time had a special uh exemption given to them was that they didn't have to acknowledge Caesar as God, but they still had to pay and give some kind of uh dowry or some kind of payment to Rome So they were exempted. They didn't have to say, yes, Caesar is God, but they were required to pay into the incense and pay money to Caesar. Well, here comes these Christians, and at that time Christians were considered a radical sect of Judaism. They were considered Jewish. And the Pharisees and the Jewish leaders at the time went to Rome, went to the civil leaders, and say, absolutely not. These Christians are not part of us. They're a foreign group. They're not part of us. Don't give them any treatment as you do to us the Jews. And so as that started to unravel within the lives of the Christians, they started to lose the exemption status that the Jews Jewish people had, which then brought persecution from the Roman government. And this is where we see uh the beginning martyrdom of the Jew uh of the Christians is by the hands of the Romans was because they weren't considered Romans anymore or s Jews anymore and they denied to recognize Caesar as God and they were persecuted for it. Along with that persecution was the persecution that was coming out of the Jewish leadership. You've got to think about this, the hardship that some of these Christians were facing. They grew up in a Jewish home. They they did all the Jewish festivals and then they came to faith in Christ and they still had these family members and this family that was Jewish. that they then were outcasted. They were shunned out of their family, said you're not part of us. You're not Jewish. You're following this Jesus guy. You're not part of us. And then the persecution from the Jewish leadership was coming down. The persecution That the early church faced was really from every angle. From the synagogue and from the temple, so that's the Jewish religion, and from the civil realm. And then the conspiracies and the lies that were spoken about the early Christians. You know one of the earliest lies about the Christians were that they were cannibals? They're cannibals. Think about if your neighbor heard. Okay, I'm gonna pick on John. John announces he's a Christian. He's not ashamed of it. We all know John, that's true. But then his neighbor that hates him and thinks that he's accountable starts telling the other neighbors that he's accountable. You think John's going to be invited over for dinner anytime soon? I I'm not inviting you if I think you're accountable. The reason is because of the Lord's Supper. This lie of cannibalism came from uh the Lord's Supper There's also lies that uh they were radicals, that they were going to start a militia and overthrow the government, take the take Caesar by force. How do you think Caesar's gonna think about that? How do you think the soldiers are gonna think about that? It's one of the reasons Paul writes Romans chapter 13 and writes about how we submit, and Peter writes how we submit to authorities So we see the attacks that Peter's talking about for this early church. That yes, absolutely, there's going to be attacks from the enemies of God. But there's also spiritual attacks from the enemies of God. Right? There's uh these attacks from from the enemy that wants to distract us, to pull us away, to cause us to stumble, and that's what leads us into uh the second aspect of the fiery trial is the temptation of sin. I quickly get through the attacks of the enemy because in our culture today, we don't often face uh a physical attack, you know, someone insulting us. It does happen. It it absolutely happens. Um I now have a new friend that every Saturday when I'm street evangelizing she likes to call me a loser and put her thumb down at me. It's very funny to me. But so that's an attack, but let's be honest, like, I laugh. It doesn't hurt. It doesn't bother me. And in our American context, we don't have a lot of instances where we have those kind of attacks. They're there, and it's possible, but I think the the more common fiery trial that you and I will face in our lives is temptational sin. That battle that we have laid out before us that we are faced with sin and here's this struggle that we have is to fight against it. And they're going, well Anthony, how's that a struggle? Have you ever fought against sin? Have you ever been tempted by a sin that you really, really loved before Christ? Have you had one of those sins that was just your identity and now your new identity in Christ? You know it's wrong, but man, it just shows up every day. It's just right in front of you. And it still feels good when you participate in it. It's still in the moment it still it brings you some kind of little pleasure and joy Well, the fight against that is a trial. The struggle that we face is quite brutal. And this is why I read Hebrews chapter 12 Is that that battle seems so so fierce at times. And take a moment, think about that temptation in your life. That temptation that when you face it, you've either given into it a lot Or it brings you great pain and and sorrow, the battle that it is of fighting against that temptation. For some, it may be that you just have this lying spirit within you. And whenever the opportunity to lie is in front of you, you are really tempted to lie. Or it's really easy that you commit the sin of lying. For others, it may be that you have a sharp tongue. And whenever you get around the table with that one cousin, that one relative that just knows how to push your buttons just right. What are you gonna do? You're gonna come back with a real sharp cont uh uh comment, a real good insult Right? Or you you gotta fight against that. That insult coming from your your friend or your family member and it's just it's grinding against you and it takes all you have to bite your tongue and not snap back. The lust of the flesh and the eye, the battle of fighting against uh pornography and other sexual sins that's right in front of you. And it's so tempting. It's so easy to dive in. Do you feel the trial? The pain of either fighting against it or the pain that you have not been able to fight against that sin for years now. You've just participated and you the guilt and the shame is laid up in front of you. Beloved, these are fiery trials Fighting against sin and temptation is a trial. That's why Hebrews 12 it says, let me just remind you we already read it, consider him who endured from sinners such hostility against himself. so that you may not grow weary or faint hearted. Alright, so here he's talking about Jesus receiving uh hostility, attacks from the the enemies, those that crucified him. But listen how then he connects it in verse 4. He says, In your struggle against sin, you have not yet resisted to the point of shedding your blood. Beloved, let's be honest. That struggle, that fight against sin and temptation is painful. And there's days, there's moments where you say , I just can't do it. Or Anthony, I've given the fight. I've given it all I have. I can't keep fighting this. And the author of Hebrews is saying, you're not dead yet. Keep fighting. Keep going. Don't allow the enemy to lie to you that you can't do it. We are born again of the Spirit. We have the ability to fight against sin and temptation. But let's be honest that that trial is hard. And when we fight against sin, when we fight against sin , We rejoice in that trial, in that suffering. Let me use just a really easy example that maybe will help us think about the fiery trial and how we are able to rejoice in that fiery trial of temptation. Let's say uh uh you're in the workplace and and you made a huge mistake. I know none of you would do that. Use me as the example. I made a huge mistake, I either lost something or My math was wrong and the budget is all messed up. And the temptation there is to lie. Okay, you know, I can I I can add in this magic zero in my my mathematics that will appear on the spreadsheet as though everything's good. But I know that I've messed up, I have failed, I have I have uh ruined the account and there's There's a huge issues for the company if that happens. Or I can fight against that temptation of trying to cover it up and appear good and go and be honest before my boss and say, Hey s hey, I I lost. This money. I messed this up, and here's the problem. There's going to be problems there, right? There's going to be like there's gonna be repercussions if you have a good boss. There's gonna be some kind of repercussions Maybe it's firing. Or maybe it's, well, now you're going to have to spend some long nights trying to solve this problem and resolve the issue. But the fight against the sin of lying and resisting that did bring a trial into my life. It does bring in some form of suffering. And and not to over-spiritualize it, but when we're walking in obedience with such things, when we fight against sin. And temptation. And it brings in these types of trials and these hard times in our lives. We don't say, well, this is too hard. This is too No, rather, we walk in obedience to Christ. We fight against the temptation of sin and we endure whatever trial and suffering that is brought upon us. This is what the fiery trial is, is that it's the attacks of the enemy, but it's also the fight against the temptation of sin In our lives. So the question is, why do we rejoice in these trials? Why do we rejoice when someone insults us for being Christians? Why do we rejoice when we are enduring pain and going through sorrow in the fight against sin and temptation? Well, let's look at verses 13 and 14. But rejoice in so far as you share Christ's sufferings, that you may also rejoice and be glad. When his glory is revealed. If you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed because the Spirit of glory and of God rests upon you. So why do we rejoice in our suffering through the fiery trials? We rejoice because we are walking in our in the likeness of Christ. suffering So verse 13. But rejoice in so far as you share Christ's sufferings. We'll talk about that in the question number three, but there's unrighteous suffering, but there's righteous suffering. And when we are suffering rightly, that means we're walking in the likeness of Christ. We see that he was persecuted, that he was tempted. Sometimes we forget Jesus was tempted Right? It's like we we go from his baptism and we get excited to see his baptism, and then we just s jump over his time in the wilderness, and then he's starting his earthly ministry. But we forget that he spent time in the wilderness where Satan himself stood before Jesus and promised him everything. Tempted him with things that you and I would have jumped on immediately. We forget that Jesus was tempted, and in his temptation and his resisting of that temptation in his resisting of that sin, he surely endured suffering. Of course he endured trials in the wilderness Not only that, but he endured trials and suffering in the resisting of sin as he hung on the cross. Could have Christ lashed out in anger And the insults against the Romans that were hanging him on the cross. And you know, we can wrestle with well whether he'd been righteous and that. But if he would have done that out of sin, out of malice of his heart Sure he could have done that. But no, what did he do? He hung on the cross. He went to the slaughter like a silent lamb Friends, we must see that he was tempted by sin as well. And his resistance of it, he was able to resist it. He did resist it. And he endured the trials of the fighting against that temptation. We too must walk in that likeness. When we face trials, when we face temptation, when we face sin, are we resisting it? Are we fighting against it? When we fail to do it, are we confessing our sins? Are we recognizing His forgiveness? We can rejoice in those trials. When you've resisted sin and that temptation's in front of you and there's pain in the battle against it, when you are fighting against that sin, beloved, you can rejoice because you are acting and living like Christ did. When we are attacked by the enemies. When we are attacked by insults and the world claiming that we are fools for following after Christ, we can rejoice because we are walking in the likeness. of Christ. That's what first Peter chapter three, verse eighteen, is all about. For Christ also suffered once for sins, the righteous for the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh. but made alive in the spirit, in which he went and proclaimed to the spirits in prison. And it ends in verse uh twenty two, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels, authorities, and powers having been submissiv Subjected to him. Do you hear his suffering on the cross? The trial he faced on the cross, the persecution of the enemy he faced. A few weeks ago on uh in youth on Wednesday night, we were finishing up uh Mark and the Gospel of Mark, and we saw the persecution of Jesus, that he was insulted by by every aspect of society. Then he was physically beaten. His back was ripped open. He was insulted, his back was ripped open, he was mocked, falsely worshipped, and then his he was hung on the cross and died on the cross. Beloved, we haven't faced any kind of persecution near that. And when we walk through and we endure the insults, that's what 14 says, if you are insulted for the name of Christ, when we endure the insults, we can rejoice Because we are walking in the likeness of Christ. Walking in the likeness of Christ. Verse 14 tells us that in chapter 4, if you are insulted for the name of Christ, you are blessed. Because the Spirit of glory and of God rest upon you. Think about how much it takes for you to be insulted for being a Christian. Right? Process that. Especially in America. It will take a lot of public proclamation of your identity as a Christian. And it will take a lot of preaching of the gospel for insults to be hurled at you. Right? If they don't know you're a Christian, they're not going to insult you for being a Christian Christian. News flash. They won't insult you for something they don't believe you actually are. Right? So the insults can only come when you are truly a Christian and truly living life like a Christian and proclaiming the name of Christ And you are just being persecuted like Christ did. So we recognize that we're actually blessed in that, that God has given us the strength to live that life. And we are to glorify him and rejoice in it. But the second reason that we should rejoice in the fiery trial is that God uses it to mature us. God uses these trials to mature us. Beloved, if you are being insulted for the name of Christ and you endure that, you battle through that, it's not going to last forever, you will be strengthened. in who God is. You will be motivated in the proclamation of the gospel. When you face the fiery trial of sin and temptation in your life, and you resist it through the Spirit, you fight against it, you will be strengthened. The next time that same trial comes before you, the next time that same sin comes to the before you, you will be a little bit quicker to resist it, you will be a little bit quicker to laugh at it and mock it for the foolishness it is and to turn to Christ. See how mighty he is. That's what first Peter chapter 1 verses 6 through 9 is telling us. That's why we read that section In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith More precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. The tested by fire. We know that gold is put into the refinery, it's heated up, it's melted down, the imperfections float to the top, and they're scooped off so that what's left is the purest gold How much more is God doing that to his gem, you and I? Putting us through the fire, allowing the imperfections to float to the top. May we see the nastiness that comes out when we're insulted. May we see our weakness in fighting against sin. And may, through that trial, may we scoop it all. May we scoop it off. May we get rid of it and be purified little by little. May we rejoice that God is doing such maturing and sanctifying work in our lives. So, what is the fiery trial? It's the attacks of the enemy. It's the fight against the temptation of sin. Why do we rejoice in these trials? It's because we're walking in the likeness of Christ. And we know that he is maturing us through these trials. Third question: Are there good and bad sufferings? This is a very important one for us to ask. Because we can go, let's all get in the car and let's go to Walmart. I don't know why Walmart, but let's go there And let's find someone that says they're an atheist, denies God, and then ask them if they have ever suffered or faced a trial. Who are they going to say? Yeah, talking to you right now, right? That's what they're gonna that's that reaction. Everyone, the whole world, every human has faced some kind of trial in their life. Every human faces suffering So, trials and suffering are not unique to Christians. The uniqueness is that our suffering comes because of our obedience to Christ, because of walking in the likeness of Christ. And what we're warned here is that we should not allow our sufferings, we do not rejoice in the sufferings that come from our sin. Look with me in verses 15 and 16, but and back in 1 Peter 4, verse 15. But let none of you suffer as a murderer, or a thief, or an evildoer, or as a meddler. These categories of an unrighteous person is being laid out here, and they don't cover every sin, right? So don't say, well, I'm not any of these, even though I think the evildoer kind of covers them all. But don't say, well, you know, I I do this sin, it wasn't listed by Peter, I'm good. No. But what he's warning is that if these sins are the reason that you are facing a trial, A third of the reason you are going through suffering, do not rejoice in it. Don't think, oh, this is from God. I murdered my whole family, and now everyone's mad at me Everyone's so upset at me, and now I have to go to prison, and I might receive the death penalty, but to the glory of God, I'm going to suffer. Don't be so foolish. Don't don't be so foolish. Now for murder that's real easy. You go, yeah, come on. But we do that. Oh, I got caught up in this lie. I got caught in the lie. I got caught in a lie. I got found out. I couldn't keep the web of lies all linked up. And now my boss is mad, my spouse is mad at me. I lost my job. My bank accounts all jacked up But praise be to God, I'm rejoicing in this trial God's putting me through. No, you fool, you have sinned. Confess your sin. Take the punishment that you deserve for your sin Know that you're forgiven when you confess your sin, but don't say, Oh, this is this is God growing me. This is this is what God has called me to do as a Christian. Now will He grow you in that? Yeah, if you if you repent of it, absolutely He grows. Absolutely. When we sin and make mistakes and we receive the the discipline of the Lord, oh absolutely. There's so many, I bet Many of us, if not all of us, have some kind of testimony of how God used uh a sinful action that we committed in our lives and grew us a lot of that. Absolutely. But don't lie and say that's that we rejoice in the suffering, that trial, because God said it to us. No, God didn't make you sin. God 's not rejoicing in your sin. Don't fall for that lie. There is unrighteous or bad suffering. So he uses this idea of being a murderer. And then he goes into being a thief. And that's kind of the lying, oh I got caught and arrested for for stealing a car and now I gotta pay back the car and my bank account's all messed up, I don't have the money to do it. Don't rejoice in that That's your sin. That's the consequences of sin. Then he has this evildoer. He uses just this kind of overarching evildoer. If you're just going around doing evil things. Don't rejoice in the suffering. Don't be surprised by the sufferings, but don't rejoice in them saying, oh, this is what God has called us to do. The whole world suffers. And then this last one , but don't let none of you suffer as a meddler or a conniver. A little schemer. I I added little there. Don't be a schemer. Oh, you're you're always the guy behind the scene. You're making things happen You're stealing a little bit here. You're making, you know, you're you're deceiving a little bit here so that it looks really good over here, and then you win the the approval of this group of people so that then you can sneak your way in and get the promo stop it. Don't think that's good. Don't be a meddler. Don't get your your fingers mixed up in everything and then when you're caught And everyone's mad with at you. You go, Oh, now my family doesn't like me. My coworkers don't hang out with me anymore. Uh the the the people that came into our business don't like us and oh, woe is me, I'm just rejoicing in the trial God's putting me through. No, you're going through the discipline of the Lord. He's disciplining you for your sin, for your meddling in, the activity. So there is bad suffering. We gotta we gotta understand that. There's bad suffering. Meaning you got yourself in that situation because of sin, not because of righteousness. The good suffering is when you are facing a trial when you have gotten yourself into a situation Because you are walking in obedience to Christ, because you are living a righteous life and the attacks and the trials come in. That's when we rejoice. And that's what verse 16 tells us. Yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, let him not be ashamed, but let him glorify God in the name. The beginning yet if anyone suffers as a Christian, it's not just a title. If you suffer as a murderer that professes faith in Christ, Rejoicing. That's not what's happening here. It's not just this title, Christian, that as long as you're a Christian, you can rejoice in any kind of suffering, even if you're the cause of it because of sin. No, this identity is very personal It's the child of God. It's those that are walking in the likeness of God. Now, as Christians, we still sin. We still make mistakes. So that's don't don't say, well, as soon as I sin, then I lose this identity. But this isn't just the title that Peter's using. It's a very intentional. If you're walking as a Christian, if you're living the life of a Christian, Meaning you're walking in obedience to Christ. You've been forgiven of your sins through the blood of Christ. You believe in Him as the Lord and Savior. If you're suffering in that, do not be ashamed. Don't be ashamed. There's no guilt in that. There's no shame in suffering for the name of Christ. There's no shame when there's a tax being hurled at you for being a Christian. Christian. There's no shame when you are fighting against sin and temptation and your friends are mocking you. Oh, just come out and get drunk with us. Just just join us. It's not a big deal. And you go, you know, I don't do that. Ah, come on, don't be such a wuss. Don't be so weak. I'm just reliving my army days, just so you know. Right? This isn't that's not that foreign, right Danny? There's a few businesses that are right outside of uh uh military bases and it's not churches just Let's just say that. Right? But when you take those insults when you are mocked for being a Christian, you don't have to be ashamed of that. You can rejoice in it You can glorify God in that. And we see that, so we're not ashamed, but then it ends, verse 16 ends with, but let him glorify God in that name. Oh beloved, I need to be strengthened in this. I need to be strengthened in this. When I face the trial and I'm in the suffering. Maybe it's the insults of being a Christian. Maybe it's the the fighting against sin and temptation. I need to be strengthened that as I'm in that situation, I am looking to God and I'm glorifying him because he has put me in that position I'm not perfect. I'm not even decent at that. When someone's mocking me for being a Christian, when someone's insulting and saying you're a fool. I don't think in this moment, oh, praise be to God, that he is glorified in this fool preaching the gospel. I have a lot of other thoughts going through my mind and and the Spirit's working there and has strengthened me to just love and to preach but Uh the glory of God's not at the forefront of my mind. When I'm fighting against sin and temptation, and my is my immediate thought, oh, let me glorify God in this fight against this lie. No, it's often Ah man, this this is hard. I don't like this. I wish I wasn't in this situation. Get me out of this as quick as possible. But here, Peter's telling us that we should not be ashamed, but let him, let the Christian, glorify God in That name. Or glorify God in that insult. When you are known to be a Christian, glorify God in that. When you are known to be a Christian as you fight against sin, glorify God in that. So there are both good and bad suffering and trials that we face. Question number four: the last question: how does God strengthen us through suffering? We saw in question number two, why do we rejoice? And the second reason we rejoice is because he is maturing us. So the question is, how is he maturing us? How'll see he's doing this? Well the first thing is that the fiery trials reveal the work of the Spirit The fiery trials reveal the work of the Spirit. And let me also give the negative. Fiery trials can often reveal that the Spirit is not present. That one's hard for us to hear, and we don't like that one. But that's what Peter's pointing out here. Look with me in verses 17 and 18. He says, For it is time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? And if the righteous is scarcely saved, what will become of the ungodly and sinner? That that little paraphrase there is causing us to think about how hard it is to walk in obedience to Christ, how hard it is to be a righteous man or woman in this earth And that the salvation is so limited. Salvation isn't just anyone, just any way can be saved, but salvation is in Christ alone. But verse 17: that the time for judgment to begin at the household of God. And if it begins with us, what will be the outcome for those who do not obey the gospel of God? So think about this. If you are in the early church that Peter's writing to and you are starting to be persecuted, you start to see members of your church being drug away and burned at the stake for their faith. You really start to question your own faith in Christ, right? You really start to think , do I actually believe this enough that I'm willing to go die for it? Do I believe this to a point that I'll be tied to the stake and lit on fire? Or the moment that that the I hear the guards coming to my home, I'm gonna say, Yeah, I I'm not really a Christian. They just had good meals so joined them. Love it. This is what's happening here. We can start to see that as the trials that we face start to pop up, it starts to reveal either the work of the Spirit or the absence of the Spirit. The spirit was never at work. And those that maybe at one moment profession, they're all in, they're part of the community, they're worshiping with the saints. But the moment they're insulted, the moment the attacks of the enemy come, the moment they have to fight against sin and temptation, they crumble, they deny Christ, and they flee from the trial. That reveals to us that the Spirit was not in Work in that in work, at work in that person. the They put on a good show. They put on a great show. The church needs these types of trials. Throughout history, the Lord has used these types of trials. To purify the church, to reveal who are truly redeemed by the blood of Christ, and who has said that they are, but the Spirit has never regenerated their hearts. It also reveals when the spirit is at work. If you're drug off and and pinned to the stake and lit on fire for the name of Christ. And you endure that until you die and enter glory. It's not because of you Your strength is not because you are so mighty and so courageous. It's because the Spirit of God is at work in you When you fight against sin and temptation and you endure that suffering , you fight against it. Or when you sin and you are quick to confess your sin, repent of your sin, it's not because you're so smart and you have it all figured out. It's because the Spirit of God is at work within you. Rejoice in this, beloved. May we see the negative? Uh beloved, we may someday face true attacks of the enemy against the church. I don't see that right now in America. I don't foresee it anytime soon. I I'm optimistic and believe that the church is growing and strengthening. It's hard to see that sometimes, but I believe it's happening. But if that day would come, we would rejoice in it because it would purify our church. We would know who is regenerated, who is the Spirit at work in. So, how does God strengthen us through suffering? Is that it reveals the work of the Spirit? But it also forces us to trust the Lord more. When we endure the fiery trials, when we are faced with trials and suffering It , draws us to cling to the cross of Christ. It bends our knees before the Holy God. It causes us to recognize our weakness and his Verse 19 says, Therefore, let those who suffer according to God's will entrust their souls to a faithful creator while doing good. It's interesting Peter uses this title for God, Creator. It's the only time he uses it in this letter. That when we are enduring suffering and trials We suffer according to God's will. So the first thing we must recognize is that in our trials, in our suffering, God's not absent. God doesn't all of a sudden like he's doing something else up in heaven, and then he looks down and he goes, Oh my goodness, there's my saint that's going through this trial. I didn't know about it. Let me solve this problem and get him out. No. God's well aware. When you are living a righteous life and you are enduring trials and suffering, God is well aware. He is active in that work. It's hard for us to see that and accept it, but we know he's active in that. He's sovereign over that. And when we entrust ourselves to this, we see that he is the creator. We're faithful to the creator. Why is this title so important for Peter to use here? Is that who do we often see as the enemy? Who do we often endure or fight against in the trials is other creatures. Other aspects of God's creation. Either physical, maybe it's it's people that are insulting us for the name of Christ, or it's a spiritual battle, it's the spiritual enemy attacking us. Either way, we can fight against it because we worship the creator of both those spirits and those people. We worship the Creator that is able to endure us and get us through those trials. Because He is over all of this. He's over you and I. He's over the fiery trial. He's over the enemies. They will bow before him. They will be made his footstools. And we entrust him, and we look to him and we know that he is doing good. It's hard. Don't let me try to smooth this over and say, oh, the fiery trials, next time you're enduring some suffering, you're going to be clapping and hooting and hollering. No, it's it's hard. But you can rejoice in it. Because you know that your God is good and He's growing you and strengthening you in that. Beloved, I hope you see that He is drawing you to trust Him more. You think about, oh God, you got me through this trial. You got me through this suffering. I know you are good. I cling to you more for the next trial I face Oh God, you gave me an understanding of who you are through this insult of the world that I never knew. I know that I can bear another insult. Oh God, you've given me the strength to resist this temptation. I never thought I could resist. I know you are good, and you will give me strength to fight another day. Look to your God and be strengthened by Him. Recognize that He is growing us, He is maturing us, and that we can trust Him more and more through the fiery trials. So what are the fiery trials? It's the attacks of the enemy. It's the fight against temptation of sin. Why should we rejoice? Why do we rejoice? Is that we follow in the example of Christ. We're walking in the likeness of Christ, and He is maturing us through these trials. We saw that there's both good and bad suffering. Don't rejoice in you being a meddler. Rejoice in you being a Christian and enduring the suffering. And then lastly, God strengthen us through the fiery trials to reveal the work of the Spirit. And to draw us to trust him more and more. Beloved, I pray that this is who we are as Christians, that we are matured In these trials, and that tomorrow, tonight, we can face the trials with strength and hope in our Lord and Savior. Let's go before Him in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for your word. And it's hard to say, but we thank you for the trials we face as Christians. Walking in obedience to you. Walking in the likeness of Christ. And Lord, I pray for all of us you give us the strength to face You give us the ability to endure the suffering. You give us the wisdom to see how you are at work in these trials. And you give us the ability, the words, and the voice to cry out your glory in these trials. We thank you. We praise you. We worship your love and your grace and your goodness that you've poured out upon us. And we walk in obedience to you. We pray this in the name of Jesus. Amen.