So , probably gonna at some point have to go back and do Matthew 5, 21 to 32 again. The only way or the primary way that I've learned how to interpret this section of the uh Sermon on the Mount, which is by far today the most common interpretation. Is to see Jesus as being the best interpreter of Moses. So the Pharisees had a wrong interpretation. Jesus has the right interpretation. And the main function of Jesus in this section is to be the interpreter of the law. As the more and more I read the text of this section, and the more and more I look at the Old Testament background to this section. I'm convinced more and more that Christ is not just the interpreter of the Mosaic Law, but he's the law giver of the new covenant. Um he's not quoting Pharisees and then correcting the Pharisees. He's quoting and referencing Teachings and verses from Mosaic Law, from the book of the covenant. And then he says, But I say to you, and One of the ones that really puts me over the edge to this view of Jesus as lawgiver, not merely interpreter of Moses. We'll get to tonight. So I'm calling this study Christ the Lawgiver, His Code of Conduct for the Covenant Community of God. So real quickly, just understanding the differences Some of the differences, at least the main ones, between Israel and the church. Israel, the covenant community of God in the old covenant, and the church, the covenant community of God The law of Moses was for Israel, the law of Moses, and it was civil legislation for a nation. In a covenant of law. The Mosaic covenant included a civil magistrate for the nation of Israel Does the church within it have a civil magistrate? No. It's a different kind of kingdom. It's a different covenant. And It was literally a geopolitical nation, literally in a law covenant. But the law of Christ is for believers. Not everyone in Israel was a believer. A few were. But whether you were a believer or an unbeliever, if you were in Israel, you were under the jurisdiction of the Mosaic Covenant. The law of Christ is for believers, and it is ethical obligations of a spirit-filled people in a covenant of grace. That's not a covenant of law, it's a covenant of grace And our commandments don't come to us in letter, engraved on stone, but written on our hearts by the Spirit. We do have ethical obligations One of the critiques against this view is that it's antinomian or against the law because it sounds like you're rejecting Any notion of law, we're not rejecting any notion of law, just rejecting the notion that we're under the jurisdiction of Mosaic law. That's what we're rejecting So here's a couple verses just for the idea of law of Christ. So not law of Moses for Israel, but law of Christ for the church. 1 Corinthians 9 20 to 21 one to the Jews I became a Jew in order to win Jews to those under the law. And that's what it literally says there, everywhere where I've underlined this, is two words in the Greek text. under law, under the law I became as one under the law, though not myself though not being myself under the law, that I might win those under the law. That's talking Specifically about Mosaic Law. The the law that old covenant Jews would still have been living under at that time. Verse twenty-one to those outside the law, so that would have been Gentiles I became as one outside the law, but then this important parenthetical, not being outside the law of God But under the law of Christ, that I might win those outside the law. Now I've highlighted the phrase under the law of Christ because it looks like it's parallel to that other phrase, under the law. But it's not. It's actually just one word, literally in English, a literal translation of the way that's written would be in lawed to Christ. It does not say under the law of Christ. It's in law to Christ. So there is a law of Christ. And This is how Paul characterizes himself. He's not under the law, and he's not uh outside the law of God like the Gentiles, and he's not under the law of God like the Jews. He's inlawed to Christ. Galatians 6. 2 is another place where the phrase is used: bear one another's burdens and so fulfill the law of Christ. Fulfilling the law of Christ. Don't overthink it. It's just obeying Christ's commands. Teach them to obey all I've commanded you. So obeying Christ's commands. Going down to those Roman numerals, this is just working through this section in Matthew. First, there was Jesus dealt with God's law regarding hostility. And then secondly, God's law regarding marital faithfulness or sexual purity, I guess you could call that. And then God's law regarding divorce. You may have to go back and revisit those. Um there's some things I'd like to readdress there that I think would be more faithful to what Jesus is doing In terms of not just interpreting, but giving uh a new law, a new covenant law. But tonight The first section will be God's Law Regarding Oaths. So let's go ahead and read that. God's Law Regarding Oaths. 533. Matthew 5. 33. And again you have heard that it was said to those of old, You shall not swear falsely, but you shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. But I say to you, Do not take an oath at all. Neither by heaven, for it is the throne of God, or by earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king Do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair white or black. Let what you say be simply yes or no. Anything more than this comes from evil or, as some would translate, comes from the evil one It's not just an interpretation of Moses or of Mosaic law. It can't be. One is regulations for oaths, and what is Jesus now saying? Don't take oaths. Yeah, don't swear. Um now go to the handout just to get some background of where that's coming from. Letter A The law of Moses requires honest oaths, oaths in God's name, and requires fulfillment of your oaths. Number one, you shall not swear falsely. Jesus says that. Verse 33, you've heard it was said, those of old, you shall not swear falsely. That comes from Leviticus 19, 12. You shall not swear by my name falsely. Okay, so that was not a Pharisaical misinterpretation or misuse or abuse of the law of Moses. That comes from the law of Moses. You shall not swear by my name falsely and so profane the name of your God. I am the Lord. Exodus 20, verse 7, you shall not take the name of your God And then number two, the second part of what Jesus references, but shall perform to the Lord. What you have sworn. If you did make an oath, first of all, don't swear falsely, Mosaic Law, don't swear falsely by the name of God. And if you make an oath, you are duty bound to perform what you swore that you would do. Fulfill your oath. Numbers 30, verse 2 If a man vows a vow to the Lord, or swears an oath to bind himself by a pledge, he shall not break his word. He shall do according to all that proceeds out of his mouth. Deuteronomy 23, 21. If you make a vow to the Lord your God, you shall not delay fulfilling it, for the Lord your God will surely require it of you, and you will be guilty of sin. So you shall not swear falsely, but shall perform to the Lord what you have sworn. That is Mosaic Law. It's not a misinterpretation where Jesus is now going to come in and give the proper interpretation. That is God 's law as revealed and given through Moses as old covenant legislation. This is the point It's old covenant legislation for a nation who's under a covenant of law. Now down to the law of Christ. The law of Christ forbids oaths and requires fulfillment. Of whatever we say. Not just things we swear to, but whatever we say. Be honest to whatever we say. Let our word be our bond. He says, do not take an oath at all. Verse 34 -36, I say to you, do not take an oath at all, either by heaven. For it is the throne of God, or by earth, for it is his footstool, or by Jerusalem, for it is the city of the great king, and do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot Cannot make one hair white or black. Um James five twelve gives confirmation Of this, but above all, my brothers, do not swear either by heaven or by earth or by any other oath. And then basically Jesus continues to go on to say to teach, be true to whatever you say, not just what you swear to, not just what you give an oath to. Verse 37 Let what you say be simply yes or no. Anything more will come from the evil one Don't embellish our yes. Don't embellish our no. Just let your yes be yes and your no be no. James 5. 12 again gives confirmation. of this, but let your yes be yes and your no be no, so that you may not fall under condemnation. Um I I believe in the full context of scripture and you could debate me on this. I I'm fine with that. I mean not right here. It's probably not Not the right setting for a debate. Uh this has to do with religious oaths, um not oaths that we would take in the civil sphere. So within the covenant community, like you don't need to take an oath to me that that you're gonna uh you don't need to swear an oath to become a church member You don't need to swear an oath for your Sunday school term. You don't need to swear an oath to me that you're going to try to repent of a sin. Those kinds of things won't won't help us, they won't sanctify us, they won't make us holy. We let our yes be yes and our no be no. Do not take an oath at all. So in the Mosaic legislation you had um Which which included and allowed for oaths. There were regulations for those oaths and rules for those oaths And duties connected to those oaths. What does Jesus say? He says, don't take an oath at all. Just be true to your word. Let your yes be yes, your no be no. So it's not a pharisaic abuse of the law of Moses that Jesus corrects. It's the law of Moses that Jesus Now transcends with the new covenant law that replaces old covenant legislation. The law of Christ for the church in uh uh in replacement of mosaic law. Can you explain verse thirty six? I 'm not sure Do not take an oath by your head, for you cannot make one hair. Like swearing by yourself, like swearing on your own life. I swear to God and say what they didn't do or what they did do or something. Yeah. I mean that's dangerous in itself, isn't it? I swear to God. Yeah. I don't know, maybe one is why you 're just like common. Yeah. Um what is good and what is bad. It's it's I guess what you swear by is sort of an authority that you're appealing to. That is like your backing, like to back up your word. And Jesus is saying, just let your word be your word. Just be straightforward, be honest, and be true to your word. What do you think about oaths? Any guess? Don't make it too difficult now. You have this look on your face, Nicholas, like this is gonna really blow me out of the water here. Okay. Um I don't I don't remember the specific verses off the top of my head, but I feel like there are some verses where some competitor say Paul is taking the other Like it is it is writing through the letters. Yeah. So so I I've always understood when when Christ says do not take it home at all. I I'm trying to understand that it's not absolute, but like don't They just kind of understood Jesus as saying uh don't take it out if you're gonna like take it for flimsy reasons, like like they were swearing on on heaven or on their hair in order to to like bypass swearing on God and then they would like overuse the use of votes. You know, they would swear all the time. Or they would and then and they would, you know obviously it um falsely. So I I've understood um when you said not take it up at all because all take oath I understood that is not Absolutely. But um qualified. Yeah. I don't know if that's the same thing. you do see Paul having an oath having made an oath and then going to Jerusalem to fulfill that oath. And that could be um part of Uh acting as one under the law, to those under the law, to reach those under the law. We're not sure. But so there's gotta be some kind of qualification for that But wherever we make those qualifications, we also can't try to change what he's saying here because he's not saying like take an oath but don't swear by certain things. things or don't take oaths lightly. He he I mean it literally says and then's confirmed in um in James, don't take an oath at all. So how you balance those out, you know, just I would just Points you to the scripture and to prayer and study those passages where Paul makes that oath and and uh goes to fulfill fulfill that oath, that pledge. Um Um and and as you study through it, be okay with the tension. Don't try to, you know, just erase one side of it, like studying the incarnation where Jesus is fully human and fully God, or studying the doctrine of Scripture where Scripture is truly the Word of God and truly written by men. Or or other things, like the Trinity. God is truly one yet truly three. You know, work through the tension, pray through it, and in a given situation just pray and seek to be led by the Spirit. Tom? Yeah, so you're saying it's you know important out. They can report uh you swear to tell the truth, the whole truth, that's the nuttruth. I've done that many times and I've thought about that to me. With your hand on the Bible. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. And I think that's okay. And when people join the military, they take oaths. Like there there are lots of oaths in the civil sphere. I believe Jesus is giving um law for within the covenant community. specifically and some of those will touch on how we relate to those outside the covenant community. Um so I so I don't think that this prohibits taking oaths in the civil sphere. I could be wrong on that. I mean there's no Bible verse that says that. But that's how I'm taking Jesus as the lawgiver for the church, for his covenant people. All right. Well, I mean minus a similar person just don't take a note at all. If I remember correctly, I think there's a verse where Jesus says, uh those who live by the sword die by the sword. So, you know, the idea behind the verse is not necessarily never ever use violence parents. So the idea is it's like you only use violence in extreme circumstances. So it's like you it's basically double-door. Yeah. Yeah. Um yeah, the uh the standard would be don't do it. But in certain situations, you need to. Absolutely. That's a good point. And that comes back to what we were talking about several weeks ago, just how situational ethics can be difficult and there aren't simple solutions to difficult questions when it comes to ethics. Because the goal and what you're trying to achieve is one of the issues, and then the inner motive of why you're doing it in the first place is an issue, and then what's the moral standard that God has set? That's the issue. And it's uh lots of different things going on. All right, let's go to Roman numeral five, God's law regarding retribution This is the one as I've been studying through this that just I think sent me sent me to the other side of the camp in terms of how to how to understand what Jesus is doing here. and why he's doing it. God's law regarding retribution. So this is Matthew 8, Matthew 5, 38 to 42. My subtitle here says retaliation. Does anyone else have a a subtitle right before verse 38? Go the second mile. Yes, isn't it? So some of the subtitles are based on the mosaic, retaliation, and some of the subtitles are based on what Jesus gives. Go the second mile or something like that. And what you're going to see here is what Jesus is giving in response to this Mosaic law cannot be the proper interpretation because it's the exact opposite thing. All right. You have heard that it was said, an eye for an eye, and a tooth for a tooth. But I say to you, do not resist the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other also. And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let him have your cloak as well. If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two miles. Give to the one who begs from you. Do not refuse the one Who would borrow from you? The law of Moses, letter A, requires justice by way of exact retribution. for the offended party. An eye for an eye and a tooth for a tooth is equity, is justice, it's retribution. That's not retaliation. Exodus twenty-one, twenty-four. Now you'll have to go back and read the context of these. But the context is case law, civil law, civil justice and equity For those who are offended or harmed, or their property is damaged, or their property is lost, or their property is stolen. Exodus 21, 24, an eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth. Hand for hand, foot for foot. Leviticus 2420, fracture for fracture, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, whatever injury has Given whatever injury he has given a person, person shall be given to him. And the duty of judges, of the civil magistrate, would be to exact justice, to give equitable Retribution to the offended party. Deuteronomy 1921, your eye shall not pity, it shall be life for life, eye for eye, tooth for tooth, hand for hand. hand, foot for foot. Eye for an eye, tooth for a tooth, is mosaic legislation for the nation of Israel. That require judges to act in a just and equitable manner, not to show favoritism. It's not a pharisaical misinterpretation or legalistic abuse of the law. This is God's law For the old covenant for Mosaic legislation. That's the law of Moses. It required justice exacting retribution for the offended party. Is that how we treat each other in church? No. Because we're in the new covenant community We shouldn't. Some of you are giggling and laughing. That's not how we treat each other at church. We don't seek retaliation and retribution. from one another in church, with the leaders of the church acting as civil magistrates to make sure we exact justice one for another. The law of Christ forbids seeking retribution and requires seeking the good of the offender. That is, the law of Christ requires mercy. It the law of Christ that Jesus is giving here is not an interpretation of this requirement of justice. And retribution. He said, do not seek retribution. Verse 39. I say to you, don't resist The one who is evil, don't set yourself against the one who is evil. But if anyone slaps you on the right cheek, turn to him the other cheek. So it's not cheek for cheek. The law of Moses slaps you on one cheek, you slap their cheek. He punches you in the stomach, you punch him in the stomach, exacting retribution, justice. This is just illustrations, okay? It's not a free pass to punch me in the stomach on the way out of here if you don't like this approach to the Sermon on the Mount. This is saying no, turn the other cheek. Turn the other cheek in no universe and in no honest way of looking at this can be the proper interpretation of eye for an eye, tooth for tooth It's just a different law. It's the requirement of mercy, not retribution. Verse thirty nine and then some confirmation. Romans twelve seventeen Repay no one evil for evil, but give thought to do what is honorable in the sight of all. That's part of our Christian witness. What's wrong with these people? Why are they not retaliating? Why are they not taking out vengeance and seeking seeking retribution for all of these different things? They're giving thought to do what's honorable in the sight of all. They're seeking to show mercy. 1 Peter 3:9, do not repay evil for evil or reviling for reviling. Right, tooth for tooth, eye for an eye. Here he says, Do not repay evil for evil, reviling for reviling, but on the contrary, bless, for to this you were called, that you may obtain a blessing. So bless is the command. 1 Peter 3 9, bless. So don't repay evil for evil, but bless the one who shows evil. Don't repay reviling for reviling, but bless the one who reviles. For to this you recall that you may obtain a blessing. Not only does this law of Christ require mercy instead of seeking retribution, but it's actually to seek the good of the other party. And if anyone would sue you and take your tunic, let them have your cloak as well. If anyone forces you to go one mile, go with him two, two miles. Maybe a soldier would have had the authority to force you to carry something or help them with something. They had authority over you like that in the Roman Empire. Um don't seek retribution. Don't seek his evil. Go an extra mile. So it's not Eye for eye, tooth for tooth. It's actually the opposite. It's requiring mercy and seeking the good of the other party. Matthew 18, 21 and 22. Then Peter came up and said to him, Lord, how often will my brother sin against me and I forgot Forgive him as many as seven times. Jesus said to him, I do not say to you seven times, but seventy seven times, or seventy seven times, which would have been symbolic for always forgive. There's no law against such things. It's always right to forgive. That doesn't mean if you forgive that the re the relationship is completely reconciled and rest That's not what forgiveness is. When you forgive someone, it doesn't mean that they've restored your trust in them. But we forgive the offense. We Forfeit the right to be angry and seek retribution and revenge. Many times you'll have to forgive uh people People who the relationship between you is not yet reconciled or restored, and you still don't trust them, and rightly so, but you can still forgive. Um And then this one is thrown in here in verse 42 of be exceedingly generous. Verse 42: Give to the one who begs from you, do not refuse the one who would borrow from you. And then in Matthew 19, 21, there's another good verse on this. Jesus said to him, This is a rich young ruler, if you would be perfect, go sell what you possess and give to the poor, and you will have treasure in heaven. And come follow me. Any questions on retribution, mosaic retribution on the one hand, versus Christ's request? Requirement for mercy and seeking the good of these new and easy to say the main point. I think so. And those in the new covenant have the Holy Spirit and have a desire to do that. But if that was the law that they broke, now we're talking about a new coverage, which breaks the like we said in Bush. Right. So we mimic that. We ought to mimic Yeah, I think so. And you're absolutely right about that. God has always been merciful. He's merciful throughout uh history throughout scripture, but that mercy comes by way of promise, through gospel promise, it's not mediated through law. The law didn't bring mercy, the law only brought death and condemnation. And judgment and bondage to sin, the law could not justify, the law could not sanctify. So that's another difference in the purpose of uh the law of Moses on the one hand, which is old covenant versus new covenant, law of Christ. Uh Tom, I saw I thought I saw your hand back there again. I was I was thinking about being out of the journey jury and you're you're you're a jury for an assault case you you couldn't apply to the victim That's right. That's a great point. And it goes back to this a different sphere in the world, the civil sphere. Right. Um A judge we don't want a judge or a jury with the authority who could just turn to an accuser of someone who was assaulted and said, you just need to turn the other cheek. That's that would not be right. Uh there's right to due process. That's in the mosaic legislation too, a precedent for due process. Malik? Well say that if you're a a Christian and you have been wrong in some way just when you are actually even if you're not like let me know what you didn't have to do. Absolutely. Yeah, the Christian should forgive. Absolutely. Um but in the civil realm the Christian can forgive, but the uh the criminal is still on the hook for Paying for his crimes, he has still consequences. Yeah, absolutely. Absolutely, hundred percent. we're supposed to do in certain states if we just couldn't do like it. There are most of the times where I think we can be a non-etal Right. Yeah. Absolutely. Like self defense or something like that. No, I think you're right. Jesus epitomized this. Uh in his suffering and death, and it sets the paradigm for us. Peter talks about that in his epistle, that he he walked this path as an example for us, that we would follow his footsteps for sure. He he's the epitome, he's the paradigm of uh of a mercy that transcends uh human understanding. Uh it's a di it's a different kind of law altogether than this exacting justice of Mosaic law. Not that exacting justice is wrong. The law under Moses was whole Holy and righteous and good, and it actually had a gracious purpose behind it to lead to the conviction of sin, so that you would turn to God for grace and mercy Mercy, but the law itself does not provide grace and mercy. Uh only the gospel provides grace and mercy. Now we're getting getting away Deep into the law gospel thing. Alright, so hopefully that section, verse 38 to 42, is a good argument. I think it's a very strong argument for this idea of Jesus as a lawgiver. Who's giving new covenant code of conduct, replacing Moses as a new and better prophet, a new and better lawgiver for a new and better covenant New covenant community. Let's go to God's law regarding love. Now, if there is an argument to be made for Jesus correcting A pharisaical misuse of the law, it would have to come from this section right here. I'm not sold that it does, but I would understand if I would understand if that's the case. So God's law regarding love, Matthew 5, 43 to 48. You've heard that it was said, You'll love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, Love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. And sends rain on the just and on the unjust. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Don't even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? Holy. Now, this is a tough one. If uh and by the way, I don't think Jesus has to be doing the same exact hermeneutical thing every paragraph. can do one thing in one paragraph, he can do another thing in another paragraph. He's free to do that. So it could be that here he's he is correcting a pharisaical misunderstanding or misinterpretation of the law. Be completely fine with that. But the law of Moses did require a particular love for Israel, and it did require the driving out and the destroying of God's enemies. This was how God gave Israel the promised land and how they kept the promised land. God used Israel as his vehicle of judgment and destruction against God's enemies. And let's not forget that part of the story. And the church does not have that call. God has not called us to put our enemies to the sword and drive them out so that we can inherit the land. But that was commanded. That was a central command and central part of the purpose of God for Israel as his old covenant nation. You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. That's what he says. So you've heard that it was said. Now there's no verse that says hate your enemy. The question is at the end of the day the debate will come down to the whether that's uh a reference to some kind of teaching in the old covenant law. Let's just see a few where i if it is, it would be these. By the way, if you've noticed all these the old covenant references are from the Pentateuch. From Leviticus nineteen eighteen. You shall not take vengeance or bear grudge against who? Sons of your own people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I'm the Lord. So if all if you had that verse Who is it that's the neighbor? It's because it's in there. The sons of your own people. That's Israelites. Um, Deuteronomy 23, 3 to 8. No Ammonite or Moabite may enter the assembly of the Lord. Even to the tenth generation, none of them may enter the assembly of the Lord forever. Because they did not meet you with bread and with water on the way when you came out of Egypt. Because they hired against you Balaam, the son of Beor from Pethora of Mesopotamia. That's a mouthful. Who's that guy? That's Balaam, the son of Beor from Pethor, Mesopotamia, to curse you. Verse 5. But the Lord your God would not listen to Balaam. Instead the Lord your God turned the curse into a blessing for you, because the Lord your God loved you. Verse 6. You shall not seek their peace Or their prosperity all your days forever. The Ammonites and the Moabites. Should we love them? Should we seek their peace? Should we seek their prosperity? God says never. Don't do it. And that's part of God's judgment, a specific historical judgment against them. And that's where it could be a pharisaic misinterpretation and abuse, where you take that specific historical judgment against the Moabite and the Ammonite and apply just in the general sense. That you could hate anyone anyone who you say is your enemy, you could hate your enemy. But the problem is we don't have in the text any evidence that that was Being interpreted and used in that way. But don't seek their peace and prosperity all your days, forever. And then the opposite for some others: you shall not abhor an Edomite. For he is your brother, and you shall not abhor an Egyptian, because you were a sojourner in his land. Now abhor is an intense hatred. And that is set in as an opposite of seeking peace and prosperity. So don't seek the peace and prosperity of the Ammonite or the Moabite, but you should seek the peace and prosperity of the Edomite and the Edomite. Egyptian. Don't abhor them. And verse 8: Children born to them in the third generation may enter the assembly of the Lord. So a general principle is treat God's enemies as God's enemies. And receive those whom God would receive. Leviticus twenty-six, seven through nine. You shall chase your enemies, and they shall fall before you by the sword. Five of you shall chase a hundred, and a hundred of you shall chase ten thousand, and your enemies shall fall before you by the sword. I will turn to you and make you fruitful and multiply you and will confirm my covenant with you. You. In other words, as they're destroying their enemies and purging the land as God's vehicle of judgment. That's a difficult Topic to discuss and often difficult to stomach. Historical judgments are always like that. When we forget that it's God's world when we forget that God has all rights on everything and sinner the wages of sin really is death. Sometimes that can be hard to stomach. But here you have God not only commanding, but promising and decreeing that he'll use his children uh his covenant nation to chase their enemies and put them to the sword. Deuteronomy thirty-three, twenty-seven To 28. The eternal God is your dwelling place, and underneath are the everlasting arms. And he thrust out the enemy before you and said, Destroy Destroy who? Destroy the enemy. So Israel lived in safety. Jacob lived alone in a land of grain and wine, whose heavens drop down dew How did they get there? Because God drove out the enemy. Mosaic Law, Mosaic Covenant, a national people of God under the law, not a spirit-filled people. of God under grace in the new covenant. These kinds of things have no place in the church In no way, shape, or form, are Christians, as Christians, as the church, to purpose in their hearts to put others to the sword so that we can inherit a space of land and call it our own, call it our inheritance for the Lord. Again, I'm not talking about the civil sphere, and I don't want to debate just war theory tonight. We're talking about the kingdom of God, the new covenant, spirit-filled people of God on earth. This has no place for us. This has no place for us. But it really was the case. I mean, picture yourself as an Israelite and part of God's command and call for your tribe, whatever tribe you're in. Naphtali was to take up arms against the Canaanites as an instrument of God's judgment and justice to purge the enemy and inherit the land. Law of Moses. So you've heard it said. Now the law of Christ requires love for enemies and actually forbids seeking their harm. So that's Not just the proper interpretation of putting your enemy to the sword. It's a new law for a new covenant. From a new lawgiver. It requires love for enemies and forbids seeking their harm. You are forbidden from Seeking the harm of those who've harmed you. Verse 43 to 48. We're going to get there. It's only 742. How about that? You've heard that it was said, you love your neighbor and hate your enemy, but I say to you, love your enemies. That's different than that's different than putting to the sword, right? That's different than don't ever seek their prosperity. That's different than don't ever seek their peace. This is love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. So that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven, for he makes his son rise on the evil and on the good, and sends rain on the just and on the unjust. It's a popular verse for the doctrine of uh cop the common grace of God. For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? It's a good question, right If we only speak well of people who speak well of us, big deal. If we're only kind to those who are kind to us, big deal. If we only help people who we know will help us in return, who cares? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? And if you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? You therefore must be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. Again, I said that's parallel to Be holy as he is holy. But what's accentuated here is be merciful as he is merciful. Blessed are the merciful, for they'll receive mercy. I guess that's like going the extra mile. Yep. Yep. It's the same category. And I believe that's why these paragraphs are right next to each other. All right. And being uh uh seeking seeking the well-being of those who've set themselves against us 1 Peter 2, 17 to 19. Honor everyone. Love the brotherhood. Fear God, honor the Emperor, honor Nero What? Honor the emperor? In terms of his office? Honor the emperor. Servants be subject to your masters with all respect, not only to the good and gentle, but also to the unjust. For this is a gracious thing, when mindful of God, one endures sorrows while suffering unjustly. There is an unjust suffering. Luke 6, 35 to 36, incredible verses here. Love your enemies. Do good and lend, expecting nothing in return, and your reward will be great. And you will be sons of the Most High. This is one of my favorite clauses in all of Scripture. He is kind to the ungrateful and to the evil. I'm glad he is. I have no hope apart from that. If that's not true, I have no hope I have no kindness from God if God isn't kind to the ungrateful and the evil. And then he says this, verse 36: be merciful even as your father is merciful. You refrain from what's deserved. You spare others from what their sin warrants. And instead you pray for them and you love them, and you follow in the footsteps of Christ, though unjustly accused, and he suffered unjustly. He was rewarded, and that's what points us to here, too, an eternal reward. Your reward will be great, and you'll be sons of the Most High. Now loving loving our enemies and praying for our enemies in this way is not a proper interpretation. Now there are other areas of the law of Moses where um you do uh love others and Love the foreigner, love the sojourner, and different things like that. So you have to balance all of the all of these things out. Um so again, I I could be wrong. I leave the possibility that hate your enemy is, or at least could be, some kind of misuse or misinterpretation of those verses. But at least those verses, that general concept is in here. And when we look at those verses, I think it becomes really clear the practical import of this. We're not called to that. We're not called to put our enemies to the sword. Or seek their harm, or or pray that they wouldn't prosper, or pray that they wouldn't have peace. And um We don't forbid them from the assembly of the Lord. Remember that thing from the Ammonite and the Moabite? They're not allowed in the assembly of the Lord. That's not true for the church. Anyone who'd come to faith is allowed in the assembly of the Lord. So there is a difference. There is a change in the law in the legislation from Mosaic to the law of Christ. Do not believe he is merely an interpreter. Now let's go to this Roman number 7. These are just some food for thought, some related verses. Verse 14 in Romans 6. Think about why sin does not have dominion over us. Alright. Sin will have no dominion over you since you are not under law, but under Grace. So first question: Are Christians under the law? No. Um, we are not under the jurisdiction of a written law. We are not in a covenant. Of law at all. We're in a coven covenant of grace. You are not under law, but under grace. Which means our sins are forgiven So there can be no condemnation for our wrongdoings. For our transgressions, there could be no condemnation. Under law, there would only be condemnation for our transgressions. And no forgiveness. So there's a huge difference there. And under the law in the Mosaic Covenant, again, there was a civil magistrate, there was a penalty for lawbreaking. And the penalty was given by God through Moses and part of the law for the old covenant kingdom. You will have no dominion, sin will have no dominion over you Since you are not under law but under grace. What's the implication? Well, under law, sin has dominion over you. The law cannot overcome the power of sin. In fact, the law just stirs up an intensity The power of sin within us. First Corinthians nine, twenty through twenty-one. We read this at the outset. To the Jews, I became a Jew in order to win Jews. To those under the law, I became a There's one under the law, though not myself being under the law, that I might win those under the law. Say that ten times fast Uh to those outside the law, literally to the lawless or or or those without law. Sometimes those words are difficult to translate, because in the Greek text it's just one word. Outside the law became as one outside the law, not being outside the law of God. And as Christians we're not under the law, but we're not antinomian, we're not lawless. We have a code of conduct, but that's given to us by Christ, through Christ And his apostles. But under the law of Christ, or literally in law to Christ, that I might win those outside the law. Galatians 6:2, bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. There is continuity with the general moral ethics that's given in particularly the Decalogue, the Ten Commandments. And the two greatest commandments, which the two greatest commandments that are in the law are not even in the Ten Commandments. Love the Lord your God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. That's in the law, but that's not in the Ten Commandments. And that's there is continuity, but there's also discontinuity. And uh Jesus says a new commandment I give to you. Love others as I have loved you. So the love commandment was old, but the way we imitate Christ's self-sacrificial love is new. Because you can't imitate Christ's sacrificial love until Christ actually sacrifices himself in love. So in the New Covenant we have the law of love taken to its highest point. in the imitation of Christ, bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. Second Corinthians three, six to eight God who has made us sufficient to be ministers of a new covenant, not of the letter, but of the spirit. For the letter kills. But the Spirit gives life. The letter is referring to the Mosaic Law, the covenant document in for the old for uh Israel. We're ministers of a new covenant. It's not a covenant of the letter, but of the spirit. For the letter kills, but the spirit gives life. Now, if the ministry of death That's my alarm. Uh, if the ministry of death carved in letters on stone, what's that talking about? The Ten Commandments. Right? The tables of the covenant or the tablets of the covenant. It's that's the heart of the old covenant. And it's called a ministry of death. Ministry of death. Not a ministry of life. If the ministry of death carved in letters on stone came with such glory that the Israelites could not gaze at Moses' face because because of its glory, which was being brought to an end, will not the ministry of the Spirit have even more glory? ministry of the Spirit, which is a ministry of life, is set in contrast to the letter of the law, the Ten Commandments. Which was a ministry of death, not of justification, not of sanctification, death, condemnation Matthew 11, 29 to 30, take my yoke upon you and learn from me. Oh, let me read it again. I want to emphasize some words here. These are very important words. I think the most important words. Take My yoke upon you, which would be a different yoke than Moses' yoke, is what I'm trying to say. Take my yoke upon you, learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart. Not like the mosaic legislation that would put you to death for certain infractions. I'm gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. For my yoke is easy I always love that last phrase there, this juxtaposition of it's a burden and it's light. Well, which is it? Is it a burden or is it light? It's it is a code of conduct that we're called to, but it's easy and light because it's the Spirit of Christ in us enabling us to love and obey what He commands. He commands what is good and holy, and by his spirit he provides what he commands. It's Jesus' yoke. Jesus Teaching. Jesus law, the law of Christ. Matthew 28, 20, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I'm with you always to the end of the age. Jesus doesn't send people back to Moses to learn how to conduct themselves. He's the teacher. He's given commands. Now that's not, you know, it's not a radical discontinuity that I'm advocating where the Ten Commandments and Old Testament commands have no relevancy. I'm not saying that, but we'll interpret those and apply those through the lens of Christ and his teaching Because Christ's teaching is important. His incarnation is important. But let's not skip all of his teaching and then just get right to the death and resurrection. Jesus had a teaching ministry. He was the great prophet, the ultimate prophet, and the ultimate lawgiver. Just like he's the greater priest that surpasses Aaron and replaces Aaron and Aaron's priest He's also the lawgiver and the prophet and the coven covenant mediator and the redeemer figure who replaces and far supersedes Moses. And he's not just the interpreter, he's the lawgiver. The uh lawgiver of the new covenant. All right. I've got to wrap it up. Sorry, but that's time I've got