Let's take our Bibles and open to Genesis one one The easiest verse you'll ever have to turn it turn open to in your Bible, the first sentence, Genesis 1. 1. Today We're looking at the story of Scripture, but it's really just a review of Genesis chapters 1 to 3. The story of Scripture. Obviously the first three chapters of the Bible do not tell us the entire story, but they do lay out the basics of that. Genesis 1 to 3 can almost be seen like the back of a book or like the dust cover of a book where you get a summary of what's inside. You get a little preview of what this thing is about. Genesis 1-3 lays out the basic storyline Let's start with a reading of 1-1, just to get our hearts geared in that direction, and then we'll pray together. Genesis 1 Verse one. In the beginning, God created the heavens and The earth. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Where did the heavens come from? Where did the earth come from? Where did everything that's in the earth and on the earth come from? It came from God. This is the first doctrine in Scripture that God is the creator. God is uniquely creator. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. Let's pray together. Father, we pray that you would magnify Christ in our hearts this morning. Pray that you would deepen our love and affection for Him, that He would be supreme in our hearts, deepen our dependence on the Holy Spirit, that we would seek your guidance. Strength and sanctification of your Spirit daily in prayer and in your word. We pray that you would open our minds and hearts to your word this morning. Humble us. Whatever sin is living in our hearts, we pray that you would take away its strength and beat it down and kill it and give us repentance. Repentance from selfishness and from pride and from all forms of impurity and from our impatience and discontent In all kinds of ways, and you know the specific ways for each and every one of us because you search the heart. We pray that you would sanctify us and purify us and make us holy as you are holy. I pray that we would all pursue this work by grace through faith, not by works, not by human effort, not by religious performance. Not by any outward thing, but that we would seek your son, the living Savior, and by his grace and through faith in him You would grow us and mature us and strengthen us and give us wisdom, sanctify us into his image. It's in Christ we ask for your help during this time in your word. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, you'll see this very simple four-point outline that maps out the major Events of Genesis 1 to 3, but it also maps out, gives us a preview, like a dust jacket, back-of-the-book overview of the whole story that's going to come. Creation. Rebellion, and then after rebellion, judgment enters, but also grace enters. All right, creation Rebellion, judgment, and then grace. That's why you can't have just a three-point outline on this as much as you probably thought it was coming with me, a three-point outline. But if you end at judgment And you don't get to grace, the story ends, and we're not here. So you have God's creation, man's rebellion, and then judgment has to come because God is righteous and God is just, and this is his world. He must be obeyed. Amen? God requires obedience. He requires worship. He requires those things. He requires righteousness So when man rebels, now here comes judgment, but praise God Almighty that also grace comes, a way of escape. A way of salvation. A way of being reconciled to God. Because what does sin do? Our sin separates us from God. Our sin brings the wrath of God down on us. And so we need that grace. We need that fourth point of this sermon, or all we have is despair, just sin and death and judgment and alienation with no hope. The story would have ended apart from grace. So you have creation, rebellion, judgment, and grace, and then the rest of the Bible, the rest of history is God fulfilling his promise of grace. And also that final judgment coming. The final judgment is put on hold in the Garden of Eden. The final judgment is put on hold for the purposes of God's grace So that's your outline. Creation, rebellion, judgment, and grace. I hope that the the practical application I have in my mind, I hope that it becomes real for all of us in talking about these things, is to simply just to turn our hearts to Christ. to turn our hearts to Christ, to look to Him in love because of the salvation that He's given us. to look to Him and be filled with gratitude for the salvation that has come from the Father Through Christ in the power of the Holy Spirit, that we would turn our hearts afresh to Christ. That we would continue to grow in this thing of daily resting in Christ Finding our joy in him, beloved, I plead with you. I plead with you, make this your golden life every day to turn your heart to Christ. And that God, through a sight of Christ, would fill our hearts with love and gratitude for what He's done for us. That's always the practical application of talking about God's salvation. Remember the purpose behind this whole story. Now, this is this is uh A focus on the story this morning as we do this overview, but remember what you already know. Remember that you know why this whole story exists for the glory of God. So that's not the focus of this sermon. But you already know that as we're talking about creation and rebellion and judgment and grace, you know that underneath it all You know that behind the scenes of it all is God's purpose to show forth his glory and power and wisdom and grace that we might worship him. Amen? But don't forget the reason. Let's look at this first point of God's creation. Number one, God's creation. Brothers and sisters, God is the Creator, and therefore we owe Him our respect and our worship Genesis 1, 1-5 puts before our eyes the infinite power of God. Genesis 1, 1-5, the infinite power of God. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void. Darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. And God said, Let there be light, and there was light. And God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness. God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening, and there was morning the first day. And that's just the first paragraph of this creation narrative. You have all these things that only exist because God called them into existence. Morning, evening Darkness, light, the heavens, the earth, the deep, all of these things, and everything else that will follow Only exist because God, in infinite power, called them into existence. We don't understand the power of God. We cannot comprehend the power of God. One teaspoon of the sun, if you could get one teaspoon, not a tablespoon, one teaspoon of the sun could power over well over fifteen thousand homes for a whole year. We we don't understand power. And the sun, our our sun is just an average size star Out of how many stars? Billions? Hundreds of billions? We don't know. We can't measure. We can't investigate it all. We're talking about the being that brought stars into existence. We can't get our minds around this. The power of God The only thing that existed was God, an eternal being. An eternal being. And at his command, things were. The infinite power of God. Now, if that does not humble us, nothing will. Nothing will humble us. If the infinite power of God, the creator of all things. Can't captivate our minds with this this incredible, unthinkable, immeasurable power And let's remember his power in our lives. He created the heavens and the earth. He spoke light into existence. He created every star, all the power that exists in every star. came from and was sourced by and is sustained by the invisible God. Isn't that amazing? Am I the only one? Isn't this incredible? And beloved of God, He's made His power available to us in our lives through prayer. That's why we have prayer meetings. And in his word, and through each other, and the fellowship of the church, the fellowship of the Spirit that we share in church, God is powerful and He's made His power available to us. And he administers his grace and power and wisdom to us by his word and by his spirit through all these different instruments of grace, or these different means of grace that he's given to us. Aren't you thankful that God gives you power to endure hardship and suffering? Aren't we thankful and happy that God gives us power to achieve victory over temptation? Imagine your life If if every temptation that came your way, you were never ever able to have victory over the temptation. But imagine if 100% of the time the temptations that come into your mind and heart always got the better of you. Oh, what a horrible life. What a horrible life that would be. And we would be so tragically ashamed, right, if we would put that if we would put that up here, a list for us on the screen up here for others to see, we would run out of here and never come back. Thank God for his power. Thank God for his power. In fact, apart from his power, we wouldn't even care about temptation. We wouldn't even know what temptation is But he gives us power to endure hardship and power to get victory over temptation, and he gives us power to turn from sin and live holy lives. Isn't that what God wants from us ultimately? To live holy lives in all spheres of life. All spheres of life. Your church is meant to worship and praise and honor God, but the overarching practical application of church is to equip us and to encourage us to go out into the world and live for Christ rather than ourselves. Amen? Is that why we shine like lights in the world? But my point is if you take away God's power, all of that falls flat. The infinite power of God. Also, let's draw our attention to the purpose and goodness of God. The purpose and the goodness of God, particularly in mankind. So this also is Genesis one, twenty seven to thirty one. So God created man in his own image. In the image of God he created him. Male and female, he created them. And God blessed them. And God said to them, Be fruitful, multiply, fill the earth, subdue it, have dominion. Over the fish of the sea, and over the birds of the heavens, and over every living thing that moves on earth. And God said, Behold, I've given you every plant-yielding seed that is on the face of the earth. And every tree with seed in it, its fruit , you shall have them for food, and every beast of the earth, and to every bird of the heavens, and Everything that creeps on the earth, everything that has the breath of life, I have given every green plant for food, and it was so, and God saw everything that he had made, and behold, it was very good. And there was evening and there was morning the sixth day. He gives the earth to mankind. That's the best gift. That's better, that's bigger than any gift you've ever received. Any earthly gift you've ever received. Of course, the ultimate gift is salvation in Christ. But go back to the beginning of the story before sin. Before there was a need for forgiveness, the initial gift, the gift that got all gift giving started, God gave the whole earth to mankind. As a show of his goodness, as a show of his kindness. Be fruitful. Fill the earth. Subdue it. Rule over it. Everything is yours. You have dominion over everything. I've given you enough food. To fill the earth, enjoy it, subdue it. God's soul of all says is very good and it's yours. That's why sin is It's one of the things that makes sin so tragic when it happens, in light of God's goodness and sinning against God's goodness. But you see, in this, the purpose and goodness of God in mankind. Made in his image, which means very simply where to be God's representatives in the world that he made. Can you memorize that if that were to be on a final exam? What's the basics of what it means to be made in God's image? It means we're meant to represent Him. We're to be God's representatives on the earth that He made. Or to represent his goodness and his kindness, to obey him, to love him, to worship him, to trust, to believe what he says is true. This is the right way for humans to live. The purpose and goodness of God. What are gifts? Gifts are a sign that you care for someone. They're a sign of love. There's a sign of there can be a sign of appreciation, like there's different kinds of gifts, an appreciation gift, a sign of affection. Some kind of gift. Now God gives his whole earth to man as a gift. We should remember God's goodness when we think about creation. It is about power, but it's also about His goodness, God's kindness. And we should apply that to our own life, our own situations now. I know we we don't live in the Garden of Eden, we don't live before sin, but God's goodness, brothers and sisters, has not gone away. just been amplified and intensified over the ages because we have the full revelation of God's goodness in the Lord Jesus Christ. The gift of gifts, the greatest gift, is God Himself. Now, but because of our sin separates us from God. Jesus brings us back to God. God is the gift. God is the inheritance, and that's better than the earth. Amen? That's why you can gain the whole world but forfeit your soul. You've lost everything. Everything that matters. So as we study creation, we're reminded of the infinite power of God, we're reminded of the purpose. And goodness of God, his purpose for us to represent him in this world and his goodness, to give us good things, to show us his love, to show us his kindness. Now we get a man to man's rebellion. Man's rebellion. When we this is chapter three, verses four and six. Chapter three verses four and six. When we Look at this passage on man's original rebellion. It should also remind us of our personal rebellion. Because every one of us is a natural-born sinner. We've all broken God's laws We all have incurred guilt before the throne of God. We all have the corruption of sin living within us. So let's not be ivory tower theologians when we read this. Let's also Make practical application for our own lives. Whenever we read about man's rebellion, brothers and sisters, it should humble us. before the throne of God. It should put us on our faces in broken, humble repentance before God. Because this first sin that we read about, it just snowballs from there. And it's been passed on from generation to generation. And this wickedness of sin We hate to say this, right? It should grieve us to say this, but it's true. This wickedness of sin has manifested itself in our lives In our desires, in our thoughts, in our motives, in our words, in our actions, and apart from Jesus Christ, we would have no escape from it But praise God for Jesus Christ. Man's Rebellion, chapter 3, verse 4 to 6. But the serpent Which is representing Satan, Satan's presence here. The serpent said to the woman, You shall not surely die. But you know that's a lie, right? Because God said what? If you eat from this tree you will surely die. That's a lie. Verse 5, for God knows That when you eat of it, your eyes will be opened, and you will be like God, knowing good and evil. So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, And that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise. She took of its fruit and ate. She also gave some to her husband who was with her, and he ate. That's the fall of man. The fall from innocence into guilt. The fall from righteousness to wickedness. The fall from being in um right, true, blessed communion with God to being alienated and under judgment. That's where it all got started. And what did it start with? Something very, very simple. We learned about this more in kindergarten. It started with a lie. It started with a lie of a very specific species. It's a lie regarding God's word It's a lie about what God said would happen. It's a lie about what God said was true. It's a lie about what God said would be good for you. Here comes the lie. And and taking the bait. And biting down on the bait, getting hooked on Satan's lie, that's what leads to sin. I pray that God would be working in our minds through his scripture And through prayer and through the count and through biblical counsel, biblical direction from each other, I pray that God is making us wise to spot the lies of the evil one. To be able to discern the traps and the schemes and the snares of the evil one. And we have to have God giving us wisdom because Satan's lies are still out there and they still are within us because of the sinful flesh. My point is, man's rebellion lives on. Man's rebellion lives on and lives on through the lies of Satan, lies that contradict God's word, lies that contradict God's will. These lies that bombard us every day of our lives, they come from every angle outside of us, they come from within us in ways we don't expect, ways we really don't anticipate. They're these lies of Satan that cause us to sin. And that does grieve God, but it should grieve us. Have you stopped grieving your sin? Have you stopped even noticing sin within you? Have you stopped believing and grasping that you are still a sinner, even though you're under the grace of God? You know, if you don't see the car coming, you won't jump out of the way. If you don't see the criminal running, you won't run away. And if you don't see, and if you're not grieved by the sin that's living within you, you won't go to God asking for help And you won't make an effort to repent of that sin and grow holiness. A godly sorrow for sin is one of the great gifts that God has given his children. A godly sorrow for sin, of God of God at least one amen on that. Because this is the way God stirs us up It's the way it's the way Anthony loves when I do this stirring gesture. It's the way God stirs us up to turn from sin. Looking to Christ to turn from sin. And that's what pleases God. We talk about God's creation and his power and his goodness. We also remember man's rebellion, not just that happened way back then, but is still happening today. And it's not still happening today in the world, but it's still happening within us and in our lives. That's why daily we need to be going to God in prayer. Now we go to God's righteous judgment. We have creation, rebellion, righteous judgment. Now, if God were not holy, and if God were not righteous, and if God were not just, you wouldn't need this point. It's because God is holy, it's because God is righteous, it's because God is just that now you have judgment come. Chapter 3 still, and we can only look at a portion of this, 16 to 19. Chapter 3, 16 to 19 See this judgment, this discipline come down upon the woman and the man, and through them all mankind. Verse 16 in Genesis chapter 3. To the woman he said, I will surely multiply your pain in childbearing, and pain you shall bring forth children. Your desire shall be contrary to your husband, but he'll rule over you. And to Adam he said, Because you've listened to the voice of your wife, And have eaten the tree of which I commanded you, you shall not eat. Cursed is the ground because of you. In pain you shall eat of it all the days of your life. Thorns and thistles it shall bring forth for you, and you shall eat the plants of the field. By the sweat of your face you shall eat bread till you return to the ground. For out of it you were taken, for you are dust, and to dust you shall return. So that penalty of death that God said would come is still going to come, but that ultimate death, even that bodily death, has has been postponed. It's been sustained. That's your glaring, flashing neon light of God's mercy here. Because death really is the penalty for sin. The wages of sin really is death. And what did Adam and Eve do? They sinned. They deserved death. We sinned. We deserve death. Every morning, where there's still people living on earth Is a reminder God is merciful. Amen? God is merciful because sinners continue to have life Sustained by God and in God's world and enjoying good things from God, God is merciful. As the fact that God create is creator , Causes us and requires us to respect Him and worship Him. And as the fact of man's rebellion should cause us, should bring us to a humble, sorrowful repentance. The reminder of God's righteous judgment should remind us of our accountability. Before God. Would you say this with me? Accountability. Say it. One, two, three. This is the polar opposite of the spirit of the age. Yes? What's the spirit of the age is not accountability before God, but entitlement. I am entitled to live however I choose With no consequences. I'm not saying that for me. I'm coming into the the position, personification of the spirit of the age. That's the belief of the culture. That's the spirit of the age. That human beings are entitled to live however we want with no accountability. We won't answer it to God. Well then now here comes the Bible. Here comes the truth. Here comes the light in the darkness. And it tells us we are accountable to God. It tells us God made the world. It tells us God made us. It tells us God requires humble obedience. And it tells us that we will all answer to God one day. And you can take all of that and sum it up in one word, accountability. We are accountable to God. Until there's a great revival of preaching this And teaching this and believing this, we'll never see, never see, revival in the spiritual life of the church and awakening in the world around us. It starts with preaching God as the creator, as the lawgiver, as the judge, and our accountability to Him. Since we're accountable to God, we're guilty of sin, we need his salvation. We need God In supernatural power to erase the guilt of our sin. We need God in supernatural power to change our hearts And give us the Holy Spirit. We need God in supernatural power to take us from the dominion of Satan and reconcile us to God, opening our hearts to the love of Christ. This is what we need and What the world needs. But it goes back to this righteous judgment of God. God reveals his judgment in the world in those passages we just read about This discipline, this judgment to Adam, to Eve, to the whole world, to all mankind. God reveals this judgment in the world to remind us of the reality of sin. And to awaken us to our need for salvation. Those two things. Why is God revealing his judgment in the world? Two things. To remind us of the reality of sin , And to awaken us to our need for salvation. And we know that only the Holy Spirit can truly awaken us to our need for salvation. That happens through the Word, that happens through the Through the work of the Holy Spirit and hammer in the power of God. But this is the practical reason why God reveals his judgment in the world. It's a sober reminder of the fate of the world. It's a sober reminder of the fate of the world that we will stand before God in judgment. Ecclesiastes 12, 13 and 14. Fear God and keep his commandments. For this is the whole duty of man, for God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil. Do you believe that? Do you believe that? You know, this upsets a lot of people. This upsets a lot of people and we have to have a firm conviction of this reality. It's one of the things that will stir us up to evangelism and to mission Because we know that God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil. Matthew 12, 36. I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give account for every careless word they speak. Can you imagine that? The careless words that I've spoken being called to account in the heavenly courtroom of God. That's one of the many reasons I'm thankful for the blood of Christ. Because when you come to Christ in faith, and we've said this many times, on the basis of his righteous life On the basis of his sacrificial death, his substitutionary death in the place of sinners, when we put our faith in Christ, his righteousness becomes our righteousness. And now we have hope. That's the only way we can have confidence. That's the only way we can have assurance. That's the only way we can have true hope for this fact that we'll stand before God in judgment one day is that we know that that we are truly righteous. In his eyes. Not righteous based on things we've done, but righteous through faith based on what Christ has done. Righteous through faith, based on what Christ has done, that's the gospel. Righteous judgment from a holy God is coming. So we have God's creation. You have man's rebellion. Because of man's rebellion, you have righteous judgment, and that is the backdrop for number four. Number four is not just the fourth point of this sermon. Point number four is the main topic of the Bible Point number four is the main theme of history. Point number four Brothers and sisters, is the storyline of everything from eternity past to eternity future. This point number four is the point, and it is this. The saving grace of God. The saving grace of God. The grace Of God through the gospel. The grace of God, which is an undeserved favor, it's an undeserved gift or kindness, however you want to say it. It's a love, it's a gift that's not deserved. The goodness, the kindness, the gift has been forfeit because of sin. And in that context, God comes with a grace that will save us from sin. You see this. In Genesis 3, 15. Genesis 3, 15. I will put enmity. That's an intense Hatred and conflict, alright? Enmity. An intense hatred and conflict. I will put enmity between you and the woman And between your offspring and her offspring, he shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel This is God cursing and pronouncing victory over the serpent, over Satan. This has been called throughout church history the first gospel or the first preaching of the gospel. Because it's this first prophecy you get that a Savior will come and destroy Satan and save sinners. It's God's pledge to save sinners. It's God's pledge, his promise to destroy Satan and the works of Satan. The first, the gospel, Genesis 3. 15. And it should remind us immediately. It should remind our hearts immediately that God is gracious to sinners. That he's merciful to save sinners. That he's merciful to postpone judgment and give us a chance, give us an opportunity to be saved. God is compassionate towards sinners. Not only does he allow Adam and Eve and mankind to continue, but he also gives them a way to be saved from the tyranny of Satan. And he gives us a way to be saved from the guilt of sin, saving grace. Everything's about God's saving grace. And through his saving grace, that's also what we mean by God's glory. That's the ultimate way God shines forth his glory, he shines forth his saving grace. In Christ. Have you been saved? Have you been saved? If you're in here this morning and you've not been saved, would you turn to Christ this morning? Don't have to earn your way into heaven. You don't have to work your way to God. You don't have to work away your guilt. Like you have this much guilt. You committed this many sins, so now you've got to you've got to balance that out. You've got to do d that many good things. You've got to earn it back. That's not how people get saved. You get saved when you put your faith in Jesus based on his sacrificial death. When you see in your heart Jesus died for your sin, when you see that your sin put him on the cross When you see that he took your guilt upon himself. When you see that he took God's punishment against your sin, Jesus took that punishment upon himself. When you see that, when you believe that, the If Jesus died for your sins, you're saved immediately. Immediately. Immediately you are saved. There's no work, no obedience that you have to do after putting your faith in Christ in order to be saved. Put your faith in Christ on the basis of Him dying for you , you're saved immediately. Your soul is saved for all eternity, and that's our gospel. Now, brothers and sisters, that doesn't make sense apart from the backdrop of a righteous judgment and a coming judgment. So you can't strip that out. You can't water down the gospel. We can't take away the thing that convicts us and just get the good parts We have to preach the coming judgment, and then that makes sense of when we say there's salvation, dear friend, there's salvation from the coming judgment. The first preaching of the gospel. Now, the promise is really three parts. If you didn't hear this message earlier in the year, just go onto our sermon audio page and look for the wherever Genesis 3. 15 was covered. But you basically have three promises within Genesis 3. 15. First of all, a promise to save Eve. Because in this chapter, Eve She starts as a friend of God, but then she believes the lies of Satan. Now she's a friend of Satan. And he's become an enemy against God. That's what sin does. Now the promise is God is going to make her an enemy with Satan and again be a friend of God. God is going to get her back from the dominion of Satan. We have salvation of Eve is promised. You also have a promise that God is going to preserve a people for Himself. The seed, the seed of the woman, which first is plural in this passage, who preserve a people for himself, which God has done throughout history. There's always been a people of God, even if it's small, which is not small today, there's people of God all over the place. There's millions of true worshippers of God today. Amen? All over the world. But it wasn't always that case. Even if it's small, God promised to always have a people in this world, to preserve for Himself a a people, a seed of the woman, a spiritual offspring of the woman To combat the spiritual offspring of the devil, which are unbelievers. And the final promise in Genesis 3. 15 is that he'll send a deliverer. He'll send the Savior to come and destroy the devil and implied in that destroy the works of the devil. So if you look closely again at that verse, you see the three aspects of this gospel, this first preaching of the gospel. I'll put enmity between you and the woman. That's number one. And between your offspring and her offspring. That's number two. And then the the then it turns into a singular he Shall bruise your head, and you shall bruise his heel. So one of those offspring, this is this, one of those offspring will be a representative of all the other offspring And this is going to be Christ. And he's going to come and as a representative, he'll die on the cross as a substitute offering representing God 's people, representing sinners, he'll go to the cross and through death and resurrection destroy the tyranny of the devil. And destroy the works of the devil. Where would Adam and Eve? Just think about it. Where would Adam and Eve been apart from this promise? Where would they have been? Well, number one, they would have had to live if God allowed them to continue living, but never gave them this gospel promise of salvation. They would have lived totally under the power of sin with no escape. Can you imagine such a thing? Can you imagine if you didn't have the Holy Spirit? Can you imagine if the only power at work in our lives was the power of sin? What what would that be like? Imagine a city like that. Imagine a world like that. You just keep reading a Genesis. We get a world like that before the flood. Where all the thoughts of every person were only evil all the time. Not only that, if God enabled them to continue living but didn't give the gospel promise Not only would they have been totally under the power of sin with no escape, they would have 0% chance of erasing their guilt before God. That's the problem, isn't it? There's no way for us to erase the guilt of our own sin. And they would have had a hundred percent chance of receiving the just penalty of their sin from God And in that context enters the incredible, incomparable, wonderful, saving grace of God. And he promises them that the Savior will come. He will destroy Satan. And he will Remove all wickedness from the earth. You know that's going to happen one day, right? Jesus Will return. He will consummate his kingdom. He will bring all rebels, spiritual beings or humans, to a final judgment And he will eradicate all sin from the earth, and all causes of sin and all effects of sin from the earth. The deliverer will come. Now, creation, rebellion, judgment, and then saving grace And the rest of the Bible is tracking the history, tracking the development of where the saving grace will come from. And how you can receive it in your own life. So all the Bible is about this. It's the background story to God's saving grace. It's the story of God's saving grace. It's how we each can receive God's saving grace. And the way we receive God's saving grace is through faith in Jesus Christ based on his death. In our place. And that's our invitation. That's our call. We don't have any bells Or whistles, or manipulations, or bait and switches. All we have to offer is the saving grace of God that He's made freely available to sinners Through faith in Christ, based on his death in your place. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for your grace. For each one of us here, I pray that you would Magnify your grace to our hearts. Transform us by your grace. Encourage us and strengthen us and give us wisdom for the battle ahead. I pray that you would all the more for each one of us fill our hearts with joy and contentment in Christ and Christ alone. We'd not be so stressed or worried or concerned or distracted by other things. Pray that you you would increase a hungering and a thirsting for your word. A hungering and thirsting for prayer, a hungering and thirsting for true biblical worship. I pray that we would long, each one of us, to have our eyes daily set upon your saving grace in Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.