Well, the words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Galatians chapter 6. Starting in verse 1. Galatians 6, verse 1. The working of love. Last time we were in Galatians together, we heard about walking in the Spirit, keeping in step with the Spirit. We've come through this journey of Galatians and dealing with uh heretical teaching that was happening within the church. And now we're concluding this letter with encouragement. You've heard the lies. You've you've heard the lies of you gotta you gotta follow the law perfectly and that's where your salvation comes from, or that's where you keep your salvation. You've heard the lies that you've got to be circumcised to truly be a disciple of Christ. And now what happens is He he transf he he transitions into this understanding that now we're living. We're living by the Spirit But he doesn't just leave us there. Sometimes as Christians, we allow our faith and our Christianity to be a theoretical thing. It's just a head thing. It's only spiritual. It's only something we can't actually demonstrate or show. It's a feeling we have inside. It's the knowledge we have in our head. It's a prayer we said many years ago. That's not the case. We see that the life of a Christian, your faith, the walking in the Spirit, has a physical result that comes from it And this is what the the church in Galatians being encouraged to do. You know, you've heard the lies, now you're told to walk in the Spirit, and while there's been all this muddiness and all these lies about what it means to follow the law, And all these works you had to do, don't fall for that lie, but see now the true works that come out of the love for God and neighbor. And that's what Paul explains here in the beginning of chapter 6. So let us look at Galatians chapter 6, starting in verse 1. Brothers! If anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself lest you too be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. For if anyone thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself. But let each one test his own work. And then his reason to boast will be in him in himself alone, and not in his neighbor. For each will have to bear his own load Let the one who has taught the word share all good things with the one who teaches. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked For whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. And let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap. If we do not give up. So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. May the Lord bless the reading of his word. Paul's dealing with a lot here in the end of this letter. But one of the things that he's addressing is uh the deceivers, the false teachers. And that's why we see some of this language, like we see in verse 4 and 5, but let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone, and not in his neighbor, and for each will have to bear his own load. The issue that's happening here is the Judaizers are coming in and they're teaching this false doctrine of circumcision and fulfillment of the law And what they're desiring is that all these people will come and be circumcised, all these people will come and follow the law, and now these Judaizers can go around and start to boast with how big their following is. Their identity is starting to be focused on this group that is fulfilling the law according to their standards So part of the language here, Paul is is critiquing and correcting and pointing the finger at the Judaizers and saying, ultimately, these men will receive what they're sowing. And it's not good. It's actually corruption. But the rest of this section is for you and I, brother and sister. It's for the believer. It's for the saint. We need to hear these words. May we be washed by the truth of God's Word. May we be refreshed by His Word. And may we be spurred on tonight to love one another. To love one another more and more. Not in a theoretical way, but in a practical, everyday, realistic way, may we love one another. A quote on your handout there is love is to a saint what malice is to Satan, that which gives force to all his actings Our love for one another and our love for God should determine everything we do. It should be the the gasoline in our engine that drives us forward. It should be the motivator. It should be the force that drives us to do good works. It's the force that sends missionaries around the world. It's the force that gathers us together to fellowship with one another, to interact with one another. It's the force that drives us together to sing songs of praise and worship to our God. It's the force, the motivator that drives us into the world to preach the gospel. If it's anything else, if your good works are motivated by anything else, they are of corruption. They're of corruption. It's the love of God, it's the love of neighbor that we are able to and drawn to these good works. Notice that that stark difference that Paul makes here. Well the Judaizers, they were trying to do works to achieve something. They were trying to do the works and follow the law to earn their salvation and keep God's good pleasure with them and to to show how holy and special they were by fulfilling the law in a strange and man-made way. But here Paul's saying that the fulfillment of the law, the doing of the works, comes from love. Point number one is that the Christian is spurred to good works by their love for God and neighbor. It must be forefront in our minds here. It must be forefront as we start to talk about works. It can get so complicated and and messy for so many of us to understand the the the understanding of having faith and then but we're also called to works and and and to good deeds and and we mix this all up but we we can really just rest in this and understand that as Christians We do good works because we love God and we love our neighbor. It really makes sense Our love for one another is why we care for one another. It's why we do good deeds and help one another. Our love for God is why we is why we do anything of good and of value. It's what drives us forward. Hebrews 10 's classic verses on this. Hebrews 10, 24 through 25, is it says that we should Stir one another up, some translations which I prefer is that it we should spur one another on for love and good works. We gather together as a church to spur one another on in love and good works. The reason I like the word spur a little bit more than stir is uh this is my good old country boy and riding a horse. You know, when you're riding a horse the spur is this i is what you wear on the boot that you kick the horse with in a loving way, right? In a in a caring way, you kick the horse and it drives that horse to go faster The harder you pierce and you push in with those spurs, the faster the horse goes. Is that not what we do as a church? We gather together and we are we are lovingly kicking one another, figuratively, right neighbor? We're not actually kicking each other We're loving one another. We're driving one another on to do more good works, to love one another deeper, to love God and to worship God deeper because of our interactions with each other. We have to keep this forefront in our minds as we study this passage. We have to make sure this is our understanding that all the good works that we talk about here is not us achieving something, it's not us earning something. It 's us living out our new identity in Christ. It's us living out our love for God and our love for neighbor That's what brings us to point number two. We actually are going to start at the end of our passage to understand these works. Love for neighbor starts in the house. Love for neighbor starts at home or in the house. Brothers and sisters, hear me clearly tonight So I'm talking about love. So I'm talking about our good works. Right now, tonight, I'm focused on right here in North Hartford Baptist Church Right here in Jarrett'sville. Our relationships with one another. As we're looking at one another, that's who I'm talking about. Look with me at the end of our passage in verse ten. It says So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone, and especially to those who are of the household of faith. We've got to start at the home. What is tempting for many Christians, and even us , Is that we start at the ends of the earth. Alright, we want to do our good works, we want to do our love stuff all around the world. Send their money around the world. We want to go on short term missions trips and deal with people in other places And that's where our minds go when we think about loving our neighbor. It's it's outside of these walls and it's outside of this group. Now hear me, I'm not saying those things are bad. We see Paul says, So then, as we have opportunity, let's do good to everyone. But he he puts in this mark that's very important for us today to hear. and especially to those who are of the household of faith. Our love and our good works must start here. Think about this. If I would I would come in here and I would talk a lot about how I've I've I'm an international speaker. I like to bring that up because I lived in Italy and taught, and so I'm an international speaker. I can put that on my resume. But if I talked about all the the international speaking opportunities I had and how I'm sending huge chunks of money to mission agencies all around the world. And I and and every year I'm going to the to to India and helping to build churches and and orphanages and and and you guys would would be hearing this and and we do this and that excites us. We like that. And you'd be going, good job, Anthony. Like this is this is good Christian work, right? It's not wrong to think that. But then my wife and my child come in, malnourished, torn up close. Just living lives that are not reflecting the love of Christ. They're going off and doing wild, sinful things. Would you say, Anthony, you may have a problem? Your priorities may be unbalanced. Right. We see this in the the the family life, but sometimes we miss it in the church life. Our minds are everywhere else except for here. What's the next mission trip I can go on? What's the next mission I can support and love? And these are good things. But how often have you thought, how can I love the person in the pew next to me? How can I support them? How can I just call them up this week? Talk to them on the phone and see how they're doing. Our love is needs to be focused in the home. We cannot be sending something around the world if we don't have it here. You have to have it here to be able to reproduce it and send it to the ends of the earth. So let us focus here in this church. Right now. In this this congregation, this point in history here in North Hartford Church, this is what we're talking about. Now we'll see in your lives. It's gonna it's gonna reproduce, it's gonna multiply, it's going to grow. But right now, let us focus in on this church and the people God has called us together with. Alright? Everyone okay with that? No tomatoes are being thrown. We're good? We're loving one another, and then that will allow us to go love the world even more. Alright. So, point number three, then. Flying through it. Don't worry, this is when we slow down. Love deals with the messy parts of life. The good works God has called us to is not, you know, Hollywood movies, all glamour. All cool looking. It's messy. Good works are messy. Loving one another is a messy, messy thing. Why? It's because you and I, not just you and I, but you and I are messy people. We have sin in our lives. We hurt one another. That's why it's so easy to love the world and not love the people in the same pew as you. It's because the people in the other country that you've never seen before, they've never offended you before. But trust me, go live with them, bring them here and live have them live with you. There's going to be an offense. There's going to be sin that needs to be dealt with. And Paul's calling the church and Galatians to love one another even in the messiness. Look with me at verses one through five again. It says, Brothers, if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Keep watch on yourself, lest you two be tempted. Bear one another's burdens, and so fulfill the law of Christ. For if any one thinks he is something, when he is nothing, he deceives himself. But let each one test his own work, and then his reason to boast will be in himself alone, and not in his neighbor. For each will have to bear his own load This starts off with a very uh hard challenge for modern-day American Christians. We don't like confrontation And the people that like confrontation, those people probably other people probably aren't comfortable around you at times. It's just how it's how our culture is. We don't like confrontation. And when the commandment here is: if anyone is caught in any transgression, you who are spiritual should restore him in a spirit of gentleness, that immediately involves us going and confronting sin. We see the church here is dealing with people that are sinners. I have reason to believe that when Paul is saying this, he's telling the church, those that are truly in the Spirit, to go to the Judaizers. And try to get them out of their sin, to call them to repentance, to call them out of their sin of falling into this work mentality, this idea of working to fulfill the law and calling them out of it. Now remember, Paul has just written five chapters rebuking these people and calling them pretty harsh names. And now he turns it right around and says, go and restore them. Brothers and sisters, may we desire the same thing. When we see one another in a transgression, when we see one another in sin , With boldness and confidence in the Lord, and with gentleness, may we go to our brother and sister and call them to repentance in Christ. To call them, to turn from their wickedness, to turn from their sin. And to be, listen to this word, to be restored, brought back into right relationship with their Father in heaven. Matthew 18 verse 15 gives us uh the start of what is commonly called the church discipline passage. And it says if a brother has sinned against you, you should go to that brother. Tell them of their sin, and if they repent, anyone know what it says? You've won your brother, you've gained a brother. That's our desire here. When we're talking about dealing with transgression and sin within the church, it's not a pointing of the finger to mock in the shame, to embarrass, to break down. No, no, no. It's an embracing of love. To gain them back, to bring them back into right fellowship with the church, but most importantly with their Lord and Savior. To call them to return, to call them to turn from their wickedness. Jude talks about this, so snatching people out of the fire. Those that are going the the hell bound. You snatch them out and you pull them out of the fire. Do we love our brothers and sisters enough that when we see them in sin Instead of saying, ugh, I don't like confrontation, I don't want our relationship to be awkward, we go, I love you so much that in the gentlest way possible, I want you to recognize this is sin. Here's what the Word of God says. And brother, sister, I'm calling you to repent and find sweet and everlasting forgiveness in Christ. Notice it 's not a it's not a boastful thing. It's not a belittling thing. It's a restoring. It's a beautiful. It's a restoration. It brings life to the church. Do we ever think about that? Restoring a sinner in gentleness brings life into the church. A church is just Full of sinners that aren't actually dealing with their sin. They we know someone i in your pew is sinning and you're just allowing it to go. There's there's a death and a corruption that is is spreading throughout the congregation. But if we pluck that corruption out, if we love them, if we call them to repentance, and they are they confess their sin before the Lord, they turn away from their sin. You will feel you will feel a life within the congregation. It will be a joy to be in fellowship with one another. Your love for your brother and sister will grow. Even if you are the one that's in sin and your brother comes to you and and calls you to turn from your sin , And you do, you see that it actually is sin, it'll be a new joy, and there'll be a new relationship with that brother or sister. I promise you. I promise you that your relationship will grow and be strengthened. If if a brother or sister is in sin, you call them in that in gentleness and they're restored, your relationship will grow. Now, if their heart is hardened And they rejects it. We go through the the church discipline process and it goes all the way up and essentially uh they are recognized as unrepentant and then they are they are recognized as an unbeliever because of their unrepentance. We continue to pray for them. We treat them as an unbeliever. But do not jump to that far-end conclusion. Your hope and your desire and your gentle love is to restore them. And notice that that language there is so important. In the middle of verse 1, you should restore him in a spirit of gentleness. Gentleness. Now I think this can take on a many different looks depending on the situation. But may we have this forefront in our minds when we see a sin, a brother in transgression, and when we are about to go deal with it. May our desire and our spirit be one of gentleness. Take a deep breath. Take a deep breath and go into the situation. Have the Word of God ready Go from Scripture as your rebuke, not in it feels this way, my tradition doesn't allow this. No, no, we go to the Word of God and in love we go to the brother and sister and say, I love you. Here's what the Word of God says: turn from your sin. He's also giving a warning here. He gives us warning in verse 2, as you're dealing with the transgression. And you're bearing one another's burden. Excuse me, let me back up. Verse 1. It says, keep watch on yourself lest you two be tempted. Notice when you get close to fire, you can get burnt unexpectedly. You start dealing with sin. And maybe you don't get drawn into the same sin, but there's anger and frustration gets involved. You start lashing out that gentleness that is out the door. There's some other sin. You must be careful. Satan wants to use the offense of a brother or sister to start to destroy the church. So as you're starting to deal with the sins of others, gentleness and caution must be used. May we just be aware That Satan's at work here, but may we know and trust that our Lord and Savior is much, much more powerful. He is sovereign over the situation. May we go into the situation with confidence. And verse 2 continues on. Bear one another's burdens. Why do we bear one another's burdens? Why is this important that we are to go and deal with the transgressions of others? It's because we fulfill the law of Christ. We fulfill the law of Christ We want the works. What are our works to do? How can we fulfill the law? It's the law of Christ. And what is the law of Christ? It's in Matthew 22. There's two commandments he gives. To love God and to love your neighbor. So how is you want to know how should we work? How are we to fill the law? It's to love God and to love our neighbor. And this is how he finishes that section in verse forty. Of Matthew 22 says, On these two commandments, how much do the law and prophets hang on it? All. All. All of it. How are we going to do our good works? How am I going to deal with the sins of my brothers and sisters? It's by loving God and loving my neighbor. We fulfill the law of Christ. It's messy. We're dealing with burdens, we're dealing with transgression. We're dealing with the hurts of one another. Just think about the messiness of loving one another. Think about the messiness of the church. I'm about to get up here and preach, and Denise rightfully reminds me that Our brother, Wayne, has lost his his biological brother. Is that messy? That's hard, right? The pain of loss and physical death. It's hard. Are we ready to love our brother? Are we ready to care for his family as they need? This is the bearing one another's burdens that we see. This is the messiness. of loving one another. Now there's a lot of joys, right? There's a lot of joys. Weddings, births, birthday parties. Just celebrating with one another, pot like dinners, like there is a lot of just joy and highlights of loving one another, but we must also recognize It's messy at times. And we must be ready to deal with the messiness. Think about how our Lord and Savior came down from heaven, took on flesh. And joined into this world. He interacted with our messiness, and he died for our sins. How messy is that situation? But how deep is his love that he came down. He took on flesh. He experienced the life we experienced. But in his perfection he did not sin. He died on the cross for you and I. If he loves us so much that he's willing to leave heaven and come down to our messiness, we should demonstrate, we should reenact, we should follow in his footsteps and love one another as well. Be ready to deal with the messiness of relationships. But it continues on. Point number four is that love is defined and demonstrated by the Word of God. That's one of the challenges when we use the word like love. Society w uses the word love all the time. There's a truck stop called Love's. Right? Very clean bathrooms if you're going down 81. Recommend it. You know, so we have this word love. We use love all the time. We just celebrated a holiday that was all focused on love. and we hand out cards and candies, that's a wonderful part of this holiday. But essentially this word love has been diluted, um probably at the lightest phrase, or completely destroyed by society standards. I mean let just go out in uh in June and see what the word love looks like in this society. Uh oh, you're not loving your neighbor. You're not loving one another. Well why not? Well you don't you don't support everything someone does. Well yeah, it's sin. Oh, but you gotta love them. Isn't that what c you know, so so it gets all diluted and it gets all mixed up. But we must go to the Word of God to define what the word love is. And this is what Paul is actually encouraging here. Look at verse six with me. He says, Let the one who has taught the word share all good things with the word who teaches. Now at first glance it appears that Paul is, he knows that this letter is coming to an end, and he's just randomly putting some thoughts together. But if if we recognize he's actually tying all of this together. He's dealing with the the heretics throughout the letter, and now he's we're walking in the spirit and now we're loving one another, and and it feels like out of nowhere he talks about caring for the preacher. And you're like, okay, this is definitely written by a preacher, right? Well, yes, but the reason he's putting it here is because In all this mess of dealing with transgression, all the mess of dealing with burdens, all the mess of dealing with heretics, where are we to find our foundation? Where are we to find truth? How can we define what is right and wrong? How do we know that they're heretics? How do we know how to be gentle in our love? And how do we know what sin is? It's the Word of God. And we have been called and commanded to gather together and hear the preaching of God's Word. And Paul's pointing right here and he's he's saying this is important. Don't say that any teacher, because you've dealt with bad teachers, you can't now say all teachers And all preachers are terrible, wicked people, and I'm not going to deal with them. Paul's actually saying, no, if you care for the preacher that is preaching the word, the teacher that is teaching the word, you must care for them. Why? It's because what they're providing. Is the nourishment of the soul that God has provided for us. The preached word, brothers and sisters, hear me. The preached word is the nourishment for our souls. Now I I get it. I'm preaching to the group that is here on a Sunday night, hearing the preaching of the word. But it's vitally important for us to recognize this. That we need to be sitting under the preaching of God's Word. Sound teaching. Bold teaching Teaching that is proclaiming the gospel, proclaiming Christ, calling us to live lives that reflect the image of Christ And we need this in our lives. We should want this in our lives. And and let me just be very honest and up front as as I'm preaching here in North Harper, you guys reflect this. You guys care for your pastors in a way that is is a bit unheard of in many, many churches, especially this size. That's God's reflection. You are reflecting God's love in that. So good. You're doing what God has called us to. Do you recognize that you're doing that because you value the Word of God so much? You value the Word of God so much. You don't you haven't called the pastors to come and to uh to load you up in a bus and take you down to Baltimore rescue. That's a good thing. That's not why you're paying us. That's not why you're providing for our families. You're providing, and you've called us, because we are preaching the word of God, and you recognize the nourishment of the soul that the preacher word is. And Paul wants the church to hear that. Paul knows that in all the messiness, all the false teaching, the only way they're going to be able to withstand this is if they have sound biblical men proclaiming the gospel day in and day out. Preaching the word of God in the totality of it. They're ready to take it, the word of God, and pierce the soul of man to reveal the filth and to restore and bring new life to it. This is what 2 Timothy 3, 16 tells us the Word of God does. It's profitable for teaching, rebuking, correcting, and then the last one, training and righteousness. Friends, do you value the Word of God this way? Do you see the Word of God this way? Do you understand how His Word is the only thing That will guide us and lead us and allow us to understand what it actually means to love our neighbor, to love God, and to do good works. If you're basing off of your own understanding and your own ways of doing things and your own feelings and your own traditions, it will fail. It must be based off of the word of God and his word alone. May we seek his word. May it nourish us. May we yearn for it. May we want to hear the word preached more than anything else on a Sunday morning. Anything else, it's the preaching of the Word with boldness, with zeal, with energy. May we actually believe that it's going to change us, it's going to shape us, it's going to grow us. May we actually believe it is the Word of God that He has spoken for us. If you ever leave this church, you should be looking for another church with passion that the pastor is getting up there, a man of God, ready with zeal to preach the word. It's what God has given us to defend, to protect, and to grow us. So love is defined and demonstrated by the Word of God. Seek His Word. Spend time in his word. That's why we've given a Bible reading plan is so that you'll read through the entire Bible in one year, plus the New Testament twice. Okay , just four books. If you read faster, you could do the whole New Testament. But because we know it's valuable. We believe it's valuable. We want to be people of the word. And then, as we understand God's word, as we understand his calling, now we can actually love one another and love him rightly. Not just off of a feeling. Last point: love produces. Love produces. May we not fall for the lie that When you get saved, it's all about you. You're now a Christian. You got your ticket to heaven. Game over. Go sit in the love seat or the lazy boy and wait till you enter heaven. That's not what this is about. We see that love actually produces. Love produces works. And works produce fruit. And fruit glorifies God. Look with me in verse 6. It says, let the one who is taught. Excuse me, verse 7, do not be deceived God is not mocked. For whatever one sows, that will he also reap. For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption. But the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal life. And let us not grow weary of doing good, for in due season we will reap if we do not give up. Paul's dealing with the Judaizers here. He's saying, God's not going to be mocked. You've come in and you've taught these lies. You've taught the false doctrines. God's not going to be mocked. You're going to receive what you've sown. You want to do works? You want to earn your salvation by the working of your hands? Your hands are going to bleed. as you enter into hell. You you you will not he's saying you will what you're sowing, you're going to reap. And if you're sowing, it's all about the works of your hand for your salvation. You you're sowing with your hands, you're going to reap corruption. You're not gonna you're not gonna get a good fruit. Once again, let me use my good old boy uh metaphors here, examples, uhliterations, uh illustrations, that you're you're planting a field And and from spring you plant tomatoes. And all season long you're you're out there weeding, you're you're fertilizing, you're picking the the bugs off of the plants. And then as it's harvest time, what do you go out and find? Tomatoes, right? Hopefully if you're a good farmer, that's what should be on your plants. You're reaping what you're sowing, and that's what you planted, and that's what you're getting. And if you go out there and you reap a worthless crop, something that is of no taste, no value, you're going to reap that. And that's what Paul's pointing out is that the Judaizers are getting what they're sowing. But then he turns it. If you sow bad fruit, you'll reap bad fruit. But what happens if you sow in the spirit? In verse, the end of verse 8 it says, And the one who sows to the Spirit will from the Spirit reap eternal life. If our works are done because of the new life we have in us. What we're sowing, we will reap value. If we are sowing in faith, if our works are in faith to the Lord, not in trying to Earn something, not in trying to get our salvation, but it's out of our love for God and our love for neighbor. The reward, the fruit, is eternal life. Now this is where, and this is, go and read James tonight, James 2 especially. This is this wrestling that James does for us. It's It's where we wrestle as Christians, this faith and works and how are they balanced and which one is first. And I think James does a great job. I don't I I really don't understand uh why James uh trips people up to think that works is what brings salvation. So I he lays it out quite clear that when you have faith it's producing a work. So what he's saying is if You show me a faith with no works, I'll show you a dead faith. Because clearly it's not real, it's not alive. But when we have faith in Christ, when we have been born again of the Spirit. We have a new life in Christ. We are now working. We are living in Christ. It's going to produce something. When you have a child. Right? That child is a real child. That child is is living. That child's producing stuff, especially early on. It's producing a lot of fluids. But this child grows and strengthens and is alive. It's a child, it's doing things. It's not motionless. It's not theoretical. It's not like the child that is sitting next to my my wife is just a doll baby. It's just, you know, it's an imaginary thing. If we walked around saying this is my child and this is really my child and it was a doll baby, there would be a concern. No, it's real. The child is real. So is our faith. Our faith is alive. Our new life, the new birth we have in Christ, is alive. We are doing things. And when we walk in faith, from today until we enter glory, we walk in faith by the Spirit. We will enter the eternal reward, which is eternal life with Christ. Oh, may we yearn for that day May we yearn to love God and love our neighbor because we're looking forward to the day that we are in his presence forever. May we seek to do good because we know that we will sit in the presence of our Savior. Maybe desire to fight against sin. Maybe desire to call our brethren to to f uh repentance May we desire to love one another that are in this room more and more. May we desire to be obedient to God. Not because we think we're going to earn this, but because we know we have an eternal reward. And we will be with him forever. He will wipe away every tear. The messiness of the relationships. Brothers and sisters, I promise you. The things you don't like about me, that's fine. I'm okay with it. Thick skin. Still tell me right now. But the the things you don't like about me will be wiped away when we enter into heaven. The messiness. John, shh, not so. The messiness we deal with here on this life will be wiped away. It's because of Christ. You've been redeemed by Christ. We love one another because of what Christ has done in us. With joy may we love one another. With joy may we love our Father. With joy may we do works, producing fruit honoring to God. May we know that there is an eternal reward within. In verse 9, this is this encouragement, the producing, right? This is what we want to see. When you invest your money, you wanna you want the uh return of investment on your your investment, right? You wanna make sure that whatever you're sending your money to, you're gonna get something back in the in the financial world world. Likewise, we see this here, and this is actually the encouragement for us to keep going. Because you may not see the fruit today What you're sowing, you may never get to see it even sprout out of the ground. I think about this a lot with basketball camp and kids camp. And Mark you can testify a hundred percent of this. You're we're we're th we're sowing seeds that you're pretty sure The very soil that we're planting in has been nuked by a bomb because nothing is growing there. You know, we just these kids, they come, they have fun, they probably break something, and then we never see them again. But friends, may we not look at it this way. May we actually believe that what we're sowing, God is working, He's growing, He's maturing, and we may not see that and understand the fruit of what we've sown. until we enter into glory. Can you imagine the the the people that we will see there worshiping our Savior with us that we had no idea would be there. And if uh I don't think this is the case, but if we go down and tell the stories, it was because as we are loving one another, we're then proclaiming the gospel to the world and they see and hear and This is demonstrated to them. The Spirit convicts them and they are new in Christ just like you and I. Verse 9 tells us this, and he says, Let us not grow weary of doing good. Work is hard, right? Work wears us out. But he says, don't grow a weary of doing good. For in due season we will reap if we do not give up. We can't give up. So we love one another. We can't give up just because it's hard. So we love God and we are obedient to Him. We can't give up just because the world says it's not right. Keep fighting. Keep going. Keep seeking to love one another and to love God. Keep seeking to stir and spur on one another to do the same. May we not give up. Why can we not give up is because our Lord did not give up on us. We know that He is in heaven now. We know that our reward is in heaven. We'll spend the eternity with him. We know that now spiritually we are in the heavens worshiping him, but he has left us here on this earth for a reason. And that reason is to love God, love one another, to do good works, and we keep striving forward. Encourage one another and keep fighting. And let me just remind us of verse 10. So then, as we have opportunity, let us do good for everyone. I focused on that end piece already. That's how we started. But let me let me make sure I clear this up if it's there's any confusion. So then as we have opportunity. As we have opportunity, let us do good to everyone. Sometimes we drop that first clause and we just read the do good to everyone. And we miss that it's when we have opportunity. Brothers and sisters, we are not called. It's the same premise I gave with the family. You are not called to to wreck your family's life by giving all your finances away. You are not called not to eat and to starve to death by feeding others. Look, if you have the ability, if you have the capability, the finances, the time, do it But you're not commanded to die to fulfill that. There's there's a it's a hard thing to balance and and we've romanticized it, and often the stories we hear of the martyrs and And the saints that have gone before us and the missionaries that have gone to their death, we go, oh look, they did it. They gave up everything. Well yes, you're right, they did. But remember the story's kind of long. It it wasn't that they became a Christian and then the next day they went to their deaths. Some. But the majority of the missionaries we read about It's that they were laboring for a long time and then the the situation, the trial, the the persecution grew so strong that it finally destroyed them. In God's sovereign will. But it they didn't give up everything, because if we give up everything, then we cannot love anymore. You pour out all your finances and then you starve to death. What good works? How are you going to love your neighbor? I if you travel around the world to to build churches and care for the orphans, how are you to love your neighbors in this room? Right? It we must balance this. It's as the opportunity allows. We must understand and know that we serve a sovereign God who's in control. He's the one that calls us to the works and he's the one that gives us the ability to do them. I I really desire that this actually calms some of us. And we don't feel so guilty of not doing enough. At times we do need that guilt. Alright? If you're not loving your neighbor in this room, we need that. But sometimes I hear it often Of all I just, you know, I I I I I could give more money. And like, well, maybe, but let's have some discernment there. Let's talk about that. Uh that's that's really your conscience, but I think there's a lot of times where we feel guilty about something, so then we say, Oh, I gotta just go do some I gotta go do this work and this will clear up a guilt of something else. May we recognize that it's in God's timing and when He has provided and given us opportunity, let us do good to everyone. Ultimately, brothers and sisters, what we must see is that God has commanded us to work out in love. To love God and to love our neighbor. This is expressed in how we live our lives within this church, and then we see this bubble grow into the ends of the earth. Let's go before our Lord in prayer. Heavenly Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have loved us first, that you have redeemed us by the blood of Christ, that you have made us new, you have given us the spirit to love you and to love our neighbor. Lord, I now ask that you give us eyes to see where we have fallen short. Spur us on to good works and to love. Give us the wisdom of how to be gentle in our love with one another. How to spur one another on, out of love. Lord, may we seek you. May we glorify you in all we do. Lord, now I lift up Wayne and his family. Pray for them in the mourning of the loss of his brother. Be with his sister-in-law. Comfort her in this time. Give her someone to come and provide and care for her. Be with Wayne and the family as they travel down, keep them safe and as they head down for the the services. And Lord, may we be reminded of the shortness of our lives, of the glory of eternity with you. We pray us in Christ's name. Amen. Brothers and sisters, go in peace this week.