If you have a Bible, let's take them and turn to Ephesians chapter 4. You can find a Bible in the seat back in front of you if you didn't bring one. Ephesians 4. Chapters, or Ephesians 4, verses 4 to 6, talking about biblical unity. Before we go into the message, let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, as we come to your word, we pray that you would open our hearts to what you have to say to us. Give us humility. Give us open minds to receive. Let us be here as our hands are out to receive from you the good things from your word that you have for us. Encourage us. Strengthen us. We also pray that you would correct us and sanctify us, purify us into your likeness. By your word and your spirit, we pray, God, that you would minister to us in the way that each one of us needs. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Ephesians 4 Verses 4 to 6. Today we're talking about biblical unity. But if you want the full title, it would be Biblical Unity in the Local Church, because that's the context. Paul is writing to the church in Ephesus. He's writing to a local church. And he's teaching them about Christian unity. He's teaching them about biblical unity, which simply means unity the way God has drawn it up. He wants them to be unified We're not called just to have any kind of unity. I mean you can be a united around all kinds of things. If you're on a team, you want to be united with a common goal to be a good team to Win games. There can be all kinds of things that you can unify around sinful things. You can unify around bad things. What is the unity that we have in Christ? What is the unity that God calls us to in Christ? What do we unite around? What do we stand on as one united church? Of the Lord Jesus Christ. Well, that's what the passage is about. That's what the points will be about in detail, but in a general sense Each one of us should already be saying, God is our unity. God and his will and his glory. Not my ideas, heaven help us, not church tradition, not nostalgia for the past, not fun and excitement. Although there's nothing wrong with having fun and doing things that are exciting if they're you know in a right and proper way Certainly not error, but truth is what we want to unite around. Not disobedience, but obedience is what we want to unite around. But it all goes back to God, God Himself. In fact, Paul will draw that out in the passage. Let's read this passage. Ephesians 4, 4 to 6. There is one body and one spirit. Just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call. One Lord, one faith. One baptism, one God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. Now if you were teaching a lesson on that, or if you were preaching a sermon on that, what would the key word be? One. There you go. Alright, I'm done. See you guys tonight at the cookout. One. We're one. Unity. Now what we share in Jesus gives us unity in Jesus. This is crucial for understanding Christian living. It's crucial for understanding the nature of church, what we share in Jesus, the spiritual blessings that we share that we have all come to partake in through faith in Jesus. That is what makes us one. We cannot be Christians in isolation. We can try to be But that's not God's calling for us. And you saw the idea of calling in here, just as you were called to the one hope that belongs to your call. So this is the main point of the message that what we share in Jesus makes us one in Jesus. Now putting this into context Verses 4 to 6 that we just read is the reason behind verse 3. Alright, so look at verse 3 again Where we should be eager to maintain the what? Unity, eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Why? Why eager to maintain unity? Why eager to maintain the bond of peace? Because there's one body and one spirit and one hope, one Lord, one faith, one baptism, one God. So if there's We share all of these things that are one and make us one, we must be eager to maintain unity and peace in the local church. Unity and peace are hallmarks of a truly spirit-filled local church. And that's what we should all desire and strive to be a part of. So verses 4 to 6 are the underlying reason for verse 3. But also verses 4 and 6 are part of the calling of verse 1. They're part of the calling of verse 1. Look back at verse 1. I, therefore, a prisoner for the Lord. That was literal for Paul, the author, he's in jail. He's a prisoner for the Lord. I urge you to walk in a manner worthy of the Calling to which you've been called. The calling to which you've been called. You've been called into a relationship with Jesus. You've been called to live your life for Jesus. And now here's how you live, here's how you walk in accordance with that. Walk in a manner worthy of the calling to which you've been called. And then he alludes back to that. Again, verse 4, he alludes back to that. You were called to this one hope that belongs to your calling So, brothers and sisters, part of living out our calling is recognizing all these things that make us one in Christ. Recognizing all these different spiritual things that we all share of in Christ, understanding that that makes us one, and then each one of us Taking accountability. Every single one of us taking responsibility to be eager to maintain unity, eager to maintain a bond of peace in the local church These are not just abstract religious ideas floating out there in the ether. These are rich spiritual truths that should reshape our hearts and our minds to function as one in Christ. That's God's calling upon our lives. So let's go through and just list out the seven things we share that make us one. These seven things we share in Jesus that gives us unity in Jesus. It's um number one, we share in one body. That's verse four. There is one body Number two, we share in one spirit. That's also verse four. He says, and one spirit Now, if you have a capital S with Spirit, would you raise your hand? Or not or something? Now, what does that tell us when the S is capital? That's the Holy Spirit, right. There's one Holy Spirit. The implication here just in the first clause of verse 4 is that each of us In who have faith in Christ have the Holy Spirit. You share in the Holy Spirit. And because of that, we're one body. That's how there's one body. Because we all share of the one Spirit. And the one, the Holy Spirit. Friend, when you have the Holy Spirit, it does not only spiritually unite you to God, it also spiritually unites you to other people who have that same Holy Spirit. That's the bond that we have. One body, one spirit. Number three, one hope. That's also verse four. One hope. And then going to number four, we share in one Lord. That's verse five. The first phrase of verse five, one Lord. And then the second phrase in verse five is one faith. One faith, and then one baptism, and then one God and Father. 567 Faith is number five. Baptism is number six. And then God and Father. That's God the Father, number seven. So, the seven things we share in that make us one in Christ, the seven spiritual blessings, the seven things we share in that give us our unity. Let's go through them one by one and flesh them out as best we can and apply them to our lives. Number one, we share in one body. Again, that's the very first phrase of verse 4. That's what gets this whole thing going. That's the ignition. That's getting the engine on and getting us going in the right direction. We share in one body. Now, what in the world does that mean? That's A metaphor. I have a body, you have a body. What could this metaphor of the body mean? It means that we as a church are joined together as one, as a living entity. That's what a body is. It's one living entity. You have your own body. The person sitting next to you, they have their own body as one living entity. Different parts. Fingers, hands, whatever, toes, feet, knees, torso, head, been joined together as one living entity, joined in union. That's how we should think of ourselves. A team is many functioning as one. An army is many functioning as one. A family is many functioning as one. But the strongest illustration for unity is a body Because it's one living entity. And that's the metaphor here. In fact, this is the leading metaphor in the book of Ephesians. For the church. For us to understand who we are as a local church, this is without question the headline This is the shining light headline, leading story, leading metaphor in the book of Ephesians to help us understand who we are. So to prove that. So I'm not just making that up. Go back to chapter 1, verse 22 and 23. Chapter 1 22 23. And he, that's referring to Jesus, he put all things under his feet. Actually, that's God the Father. He, God the Father, put all things under his feet. That's Jesus. He put all things under his feet and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body. The church, which is his body. So it comes up in the first chapter of Ephesians. The church is the body of Christ. That's the leading metaphor. Then also chapter 2, verse 16. and might reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross. Again, it's talking about Christians, it's talking about the church He says, might reconcile us both. Who's the both? Well, if you're here for those messages, you know that that's Jews and Gentiles. That's Jews and non-Jews have been brought together in one what? One. Body. Also chapter 3, chapter 3, verse 6. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same, you guessed it, body. Chapter 4, we saw the one in our passage, but go down to chapter 4, verse 12. To equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the Body of Christ. Are you getting tired of these? I kind of like them. Same chapter, chapter 4, verse 15 and 16. Rather, speaking the truth in love, that's not always easy to do, is it? Speaking the truth, but also doing it in love. Having love for someone, but also having the courage to speak the truth. Don't you love the kind of people, the people in your life who are willing to do both? to speak the truth to you, but do it in a spirit of love. Speak the truth in love. Whenever you have that opportunity. to speak the truth to someone, be certain that you're doing it in a spirit of love. Speaking the truth in love, we have to grow up in every way into him who is the head into Christ. from whom the whole body, that's the church. The whole body. Now, Christ is the head, which means he's in charge He calls the shots. Your feet don't make your decisions. If you're running a race, your feet have a pretty important part in running the race, but it's your mind that made the decision to run the race. It's your mind that keeps you looking forward. It's your mind that keeps you going in the right direction. It's your mind that keeps your whole body working and doing what the mind wants it to do. That's Christ in the illustration. The church is not in charge of the church. The pastor is not in charge of the church. The deacons are not in charge of the church. The members are not in charge of the church. Christ is the he And of the church Now put that on your list of top three important doctrines that you need to know. Christ is the head, we are the body. So if he says run in this direction, we run in that direction. If he says stop running, don't go in that direction, we stop running and we don't go in that direction. Christ is the head of the body. Chapter 5. It keeps going. Chapter 5, verse 23. For the husband is the head of the wife, even as Christ is the head of the church, his body. There it is again. The church, his body, and is himself its Savior. Part of that passage, I've got to be careful here so I don't preach the rest of the morning on this. Part of that passage, husbands, is the way that you're to love your wives, the way that you're to lead your wives is modeled on Christ's love and leadership for the church, which He gave His life. For the well-being of the church. He laid his life down for the well-being of his precious bride, the church He his his leadership, his authority, his headship was not to get the church uh to do whatever the the church could do for his own personal comfort So husbands, don't you be functioning like that where you're using your leadership and using your authority so that everybody around you in your life is in service to your personal comfort. No, you're called. Before the throne of God, on the authority of God's word, I say to you, you are called to lay down your life in sacrificial love and service for your bride. Husbands, are you awake this morning? Seven of you are, maybe. God designed the family, God designed the marriage, and there is a leadership there. But he did not leave it to us He was wise in doing this. He didn't leave it to us husbands on how we use that leadership and authority. He has charged you. To lay down your life in sacrificial love for your bride. And that's the illustration here. The church is his body, he is the head, he is the savior. 29 and 30 verses 29 and 30, because we are members of his body. Therefore, and that's that's 30. Verse 29, for no one ever hated his own flesh but nourishes and cherishes it. Just as Christ does the church because we are members of his body. Now go back to our passage in chapter 4. Why did I spend so much time on this body? What's the big deal about the body? It's the whole theme of Ephesians. That we are the body of Christ. God came up with that metaphor, not me. God made this the major theme, this major thread throughout all Ephesians to help us understand our unity and our calling, that we are one body. One body. in Christ. And that's what he says here. That's just how he starts. This is the ignition. This gets the engine going. This gets us heading in the right direction. We share in one body. That makes us one in Christ. That gives us unity in Christ. Some short applications just for each one of our hearts to take this home and apply it to our own hearts and lives as the Spirit would lead you to do that. Number one, cherish the body of Christ. Cherish the body of Christ, to cherish the church, love the church. We're to imitate Jesus, right? Does Jesus cherish the church Does Jesus love the church or does he slander the church and badmouth the church and abandon the church and lash out against the church and blame the church He loves his bride with a gracious and merciful love. We're to imitate Jesus in that. Number two, remember your need for the body. Remember your need for the body. Don't cut yourself off from the body. You wouldn't cut something off from your own body, so don't cut yourself off from the body of Christ. God designed the church to support, strengthen, and minister to his people. Not to harm us, hurt us, or punish us. It's a blessing to be a part of the church. It's a wonderful privilege and gift to be a part of the church, to be surrounded with people who God's call on their life is for them to love you and encourage you and serve you and support you and help you and be there for you. Go to those people. That's so we all need people like that in our lives. Well, God says, whoop, there's the church. And you are one with them. So cherish the church. Remember your need for the church, the body of Christ. Number two, we share in one spirit. And actually, what we're going to do here is we're going to take three of these and mush them together for a megapoint. Alright? Dave, you down with the mega point? So what we're going to do is take the uh We share in one spirit. Okay, you see that in verse 4. And then we're going to take the first phrase in verse 5, one Lord. And then we're also going to take. From verse 6, one God and Father, because what you have here is God. You have God the Father, God the Son, and God the Holy Spirit. You have the Trinity. God who is one in essence and yet three in persons. So we have one Spirit, one Lord, one God and Father. That's the Trinity. That's God. God is our unity. Verse 4 he says Spirit. That refers to the Holy Spirit. The church sharing the Spirit is a church, is a picture of the church being filled with God's Spirit. If you know Scripture, you have the tent the tabernacle, which was a tent for worship in the Old Testament, and you have the temple, which was a building for worship in the Old Testament. And the sign that God authorized that as a place for worship is his spirit filled the tabernacle. And his spirit filled the temple so that people could say, yes, this is where we worship. This is where we fellowship with God according to his will. Well in the New Testament, what do you have? That's the church. It's not a building, it's not a tent that's filled with the Spirit in a visible way, but it's you. You're filled with the Spirit. Your heart is filled with the Spirit. Your mind is led by the Spirit. Our lives are guided by the Spirit. We are all filled with the Spirit. So when we gather together, what you have is a group of people filled with the Spirit of God. That's the temple. That's the place of worship. God is our unity. We are not here just talking about God. We are fellowshipping with God. We are fellowshipping with each other by the Spirit of God. These are eternal spiritual bonds that we have with God and with each other. One Spirit, that's the Holy Spirit. We may not be billionaires. We may not be famous. We may not have perfect health, but we have the Holy Spirit. I'll take it. Brother and sister, I will take it. What did that reading say earlier in the service? The uncertainty of riches. The uncertainty of riches. You're not certain you'll be able to keep them for the rest of your life. One thing that's certain about riches is you can't keep them forever. But the Holy Spirit you'll keep forever. And when your body dies, not only will you not lose the Holy Spirit, but your experience of joy the Holy Spirit will be intensified to the nth degree as your soul goes to heaven. Then he says Lord. Now this Lord with the capital L is referring to Jesus Christ, the crucified and risen and exalted Lord Jesus Christ. This word, Lord, Capital L is the picture of Jesus ruling in heaven on the throne of God. With supreme authority over all things. He's the king of all nations. He's the king of all kings. He's the king of all angels. He's the king of all demons. He's the Sing of the invisible realm. He's the king of the visible realm. He's the king of our homes. He's the king of your private time when nobody's looking. He's the supreme king over all things. Jesus Lord. He's a leader of the church. He's our good shepherd who leads us, who feeds us, who guides us, protects us. And we're to follow him, not rebel against him. Not to begrudge his leadership over us. He's a master who teaches us, who corrects us compassionately. If necessary, he disciplines us, and our goal is to seek his leadership to seek his instruction and obey his instruction in our lives. He's our Savior who loves us. He died for us He took our sin as his own on the cross. He took our guilt as his own on the cross. He took the penalty that I deserved as his own on the cross. Why? so that I could go free, so that I could be forgiven, so that I could have a relationship with God. And if you believe it, he's done that for you too. Out of love, he sanctifies us. He preserves us to the end. It's his strength that we need. That's why we go to him every day in prayer. For strength and for perseverance, for comfort through our trials and tribulations, for wisdom in those times. He's our great high priest who intercedes for us. Did you ever think about this? You have You have someone who legally, eternally represents you before God in heaven. Don't ever go to court without a lawyer. They say that is a horrible idea, right? Get a lawyer. Don't try to represent yourself. You will crash and burn. Have someone to represent you who knows that world, who's who is trained and knowledgeable, who knows what you need and knows what to say, knows how to get things done. to intercede for you, to represent for you. Jesus is that for you in heaven. He's your representative. He stands for you. Did you you know this? Jesus stands for you before God in heaven, pleads your case, intercedes on your behalf before God. Hebrews 4, 15 and 16. We do not have a high priest who is unable to sympathize with our weaknesses, but we have one who in every respect Has been tempted as we are, and yet is without sin. Let us then with confidence draw near to the throne of grace that we may receive mercy and find grace to help us in our time of need. And we all need mercy, and we all need grace, and we all need help in our time of need. Whatever that looks like for you. I know I need help daily in life, and you do too. Well, where could we go? Well we can go with confidence To the throne of God, because it's the throne of grace, and because Jesus is there as our great high priest. One body, one spirit, one Lord, the exalted Christ, who loves us, and one God and Father. That's verse 6. One God and Father of all, who is over all and through all and in all. This is God the Father. The glory and majesty of God the Father is beyond words. Even if it were not beyond words, it's beyond human imagination. It's beyond what our puny created minds can process. Or comprehend. God the Father is to be sanctified in our hearts. Jesus teaches us to pray. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. Did you ever pray that? Did you ever hear that? Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. That means let the name of the Father be set apart in our minds. Let the name of the Father be unique and sanctified and set apart in our hearts and in our minds in a special way. God the Father is our priority. Did you know that it's the Father's love that sent Jesus to be our Savior? John 3. 16, God so loved the world that he gave his only son. It's the Father's action that sent Jesus into the world, his command, his plan. He got it started. He mapped it out. 1 John 4, 14. The Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. The Father's goodness that sustains us. daily, to give us food, to give us clean water, to give us clothing and shelter and whatever measure of health, we all have different measure of health and strength and different enjoyments and freedoms, whatever measure of good thing that God has given us Should make us grateful and thankful to God our Father. But of all the things we could say about God the Father, of all the glory, of all the goodness, of all the love, of all the wisdom, of all the things we could say about God the Father What is the thing that this verse points out? It's his authority. You see, that's the thing, that's the thing the flesh doesn't want. That's the thing when Matt was lost, Matt didn't want this. God is the authority over my life. That's the thing the world doesn't want. Yeah, give me good things, give me the food, give me the water, give me the clothing, give me the shelter, give me the freedom, give me the enjoyments, but don't rule over my life Don't give me the authority, but that's the very thing this verse points out. One God and Father of all, who is what? He's over all and he's through all and in all. It's a poetic way of saying it's all his. And he's everywhere and he sees everything. You've never done anything in secret. You've never thought any secret thought. God knows it You've never had any secret desire. God knows it. God sees it. Everything's his. His power is beyond comprehension. His power is infinite. It's not just a whole lot greater than ours. It's on a different category altogether. Infinite power of an infinite God who is the supreme authority over all things. That's part of the Christian message. You know, it's one of the first parts of the Christian message that you get rid of when a church wants to be popular with the world and wants us to get big and known and liked by the world around us. But to be a people of truth, we have to proclaim the authority of God. And now the reason that says it here, because one of the things that gives us our unity is that by God's grace, we're a group of people who have acknowledged God is our authority. Gladly, cheerfully, willingly, because of God's Spirit. We're not better than anyone else, but because of God's grace, because of God's spirit, because of God's work in our hearts to supernaturally change us and make us new. We acknowledge God is our authority. Tradition is not our authority. My opinion is not my authority. My subjective desires are not my authority. Popular vote, democratic process is not our authority. Who is our authority? God is our authority. God is our authority. And so we walk acknowledging that, and that's part of what makes us one. And once we acknowledge that, everything else can come into focus. Once we acknowledge that, then we have a better understanding of his goodness, of his love. In all his wisdom and plan for all things and for our lives. What do we share in? What do we share in in Christ that gives us unity? We are one body, one spirit, we have one Lord, one God and Father. And now just a few more to tackle. We share in one hope. One hope. And that is toward the end of verse 4, you were called to the one hope. That belongs to your calling. Our hope is our eternal destiny that's been secured by Jesus Do you want a little short little put it in a nutshell definition of what hope is? That's what it is. It's our certain future, our secured future, our eternal destiny that has already been secured by Jesus Christ. And he is holding it. He is safeguarding it. It's his. And he shares eternal glory with those who believe in him. And that's why it's secure. Because not only did Jesus secure it, but Jesus is guarding it and Jesus is keeping it. 1 Peter 1, if you want that language from Scripture explicitly. Eternal destiny secured by Jesus. And so, brothers and sisters, we have one hope. It's not like some of us have a sure hope of heaven But then the other third don't have a sure hope of heaven. It's not like some of us have a sure hope that our sins are forgiven and that we'll be raised on the last day, but other others of us don't have that hope. No, if you have faith in Jesus, you have that hope. If you believe Jesus is Lord, if you believe He died on the cross to pay the penalty for your sin, you have eternal hope. You have eternal security. Your sins are forgiven. You're going to heaven when you die. You'll be raised on the last day, and you'll live forever in the presence of the glory of God. That is yours You don't have to work for that. You don't have to pay for that. You don't have to prove yourself worthy of that. It is a gift. It is yours. It is everyone who believes in Jesus Christ has this hope. There's not tears of Christians on this, friends. There's not a hierarchy of Christians. There's not a special group of Christians that have this hope and the others can't be sure. This hope is yours in Christ. It is ours in Christ, and it makes us one that we have one eternal destiny secured by Jesus, a certainty about the future. Some application on this, that certainty about the future can give us a peace of mind now. It can give us a peace of mind now that we know no matter what happens here, we know the future. No matter what happens in this Short span of life, this breath of life that's here and then is gone. No matter what happens to us here, we know w what our situation will be in eternity after this life. And that's what we're striving for. And we want others to share in that as well. So because of our certainty about the future, this one hope, we can have peace now, we can have assurance now, and we're to strive for holiness now. Holiness is another way of saying striving to imitate God rather than imitating sin. It's striving to be like Jesus rather than to be like the devil. Lying, cheating, stealing, killing, slandering, troublemaking, sowing discord, and on and on and on. Rather than going that road, we're on this road of striving to be like Jesus. And by the way, Jesus is the one who does that work of making us more like him. That's not a work that we do for God. That's a work that God does in us. Amen? Are you awake on that? We share in one hope, a certainty about the future, eternal destiny secured by Jesus that gives us peace now, assurance now, and causes us to live for Him now and strive after holiness. We also share in one faith. He says, one faith. That's verse 5. One Lord. We already talked about that. And then he says, one faith and one baptism. So that's our last two, and then we're done. One faith. This is the trust that we have in Christ. The trust that we have in Christ. And the body of truth that we've received. The New Testament will use the word faith in both of those ways. Primary way is your trust in Christ. So you trust Christ, you trust Christ, I trust Christ, they trust Christ, we all trust Christ, that makes us one. There's one faith There's one faith. And as those who trust Christ, we have received a body of truth, the truth about who He is. He's God and man. The truth about what he did to save us. He lived a righteous life. He died a sacrificial death. He died as a substitute for sinners. He rose to eternal glory. He ascended into heaven. He's poured out the Holy Spirit. So we have our faith is our trust in Christ, but then the faith, the faith is this body of truth that He's given to us. And that becomes the basis of our teaching and our preaching and our singing and our encouraging each other is building each other up in the truth of Christ that we might grow in our relationship with Christ. We share in one faith. Some application on this. We all should have a hunger for the truth of Christ. God nourishes our faith and strengthens our faith by feeding us his truth. He's like a shepherd where sheep that he's leading into pastures to feed us, and he feeds us with his truth. And the Holy Spirit applies that truth to our souls, to grow us, to encourage us, to train to change us and to purify us so that we become more and more like Him. But if we don't hunger for the truth, that will never happen. First, you hunger for the truth. The hunger leads us to feast on the truth, and it's on feasting in the truth that God ministers to us and conforms us to the likeness of Christ. But you see, it started with the hunger. If you don't have that, if you've been struggling to experience that, the first thing you need to do is just cry out to God that you would hunger for his truth. Don't try to do it on yourself and then come back to God when you're all fixed up. You'll never get there Cry out to God. Go home. Go into your room. Fall on your face. Weep in your bed. Weep on the floor. Cry out for God to fill your heart with a hunger for his truth. Now, every believer, every true believer will have at least the seed, the tiny seed of that. The tiny seed of that that will cause us to cry out to God for more of it. Another application is that we're to build each other up in the truth. Another application is that we're to stand on the truth as God's people. That's how we represent Him in the world. One faith, one faith. Now, the final one is one baptism. There's one baptism. Now, baptism is a couple different aspects in the New Testament. One is the spiritual baptism of the heart. That's our salvation. When you came to faith in Christ, that's spiritual baptism in the heart. Jesus is the one who does that baptizing. He baptizes with the Holy Spirit. But then there also is a physical baptism of the body. That's administered by a pastor, and that's administered with water. Now the physical baptism is meant to symbolize and publicly visualize the inner invisible spiritual baptism. That's the purpose of baptism. It becomes like its own sermon. It's a visual sermon. It's a picture of God's work in the heart. Of the old person dying and the new person being risen to newness of life. It's a picture of sins and the guilt of sin being washed away by the water of the Holy Spirit. Baptism is a proclamation. of the reality of salvation How do you know if you're ready for baptism? Number one, do you know the gospel? Do you know the gospel? Do you know Jesus is Lord? He's got a man and he died as a substitute for sinners. Do you know the gospel? The salvation is by faith in him. Number two, now do you know the gospel? Do you trust in Christ? Do you trust in Christ? Do you believe in him? Just ask yourself, do I believe? That he's the Savior. Do I believe he died for my sins? If you know the gospel, if you believe in Christ, number three, if you do believe in Christ, you'll have true repentance in your heart. You'll have it, it could be a mustard seed, but it will be there A mustard seed, itty bitty tiny, even microscopic seed of genuine I desire to turn from sin and live to God. That needs to be in your heart. That's how you know your faith is real. Are you ready to submit to God's will of joining the local church, the body of Christ? Are you willing to submit to God's will of you faithfully worshiping with the body of Christ, the local church? If you know the gospel, trust in Christ, have you begun to repent in your heart? If you're ready to join and faithfully worship with the church, yes. You are ready to be baptized. What is it that we share in that gives us unity in Jesus? One body, one spirit, one Lord, one God and Father. One hope, one faith, one baptism. Let's pray. God, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for the Holy Spirit. We thank you for your word. We thank you for making us one. We thank you for all the blessings that you give us by your wisdom, by your will, by your goodness. God, as we come now to a time where we will witness a baptism, I pray that you will use it to reach people's hearts. I pray that as they see the symbol, as they see the water, as they see the immersion, they see the washing over, I pray that they'll see this as a symbol of the work of your spirit in the heart I pray that each one here would look to Jesus and believe in him. That each one here would believe in Jesus as Savior, who died as their substitute on the cross. to gain their relationship with you forever. God, we lift this prayer to you in Jesus' name. Amen.