The words in which we'll examine tonight come out of Galatians chapter six. Starting in verse eleven. Galatians chapter six, verse eleven. This is the conclusion of this letter of which we've been studying for months, I don't know exactly how long, but quite a while. And as we've journeyed through this, we've seen that Paul is calling out the the false teaching of the Judaizers. Those coming into the church saying, You must be circumcised and you must fulfill parts of the law or the totality of the law to be saved and to be made righteous before God And what has Paul told us? He's pointed us to Christ. Faith in Christ. Faith in Christ. You're transformed by faith in Christ. This is what makes you new. It's not the works of the law. Those are outworking of the newness of who you are in Christ. And Paul concludes this letter. Many of your translations will have the heading as the final warning and benediction. The final instruction. I think it's often important for us to recognize the last words of a letter. The last words that the last thing someone gets to say is Oftentimes the most important, or at least it's the one thing, if you forget everything else, hold on to this one truth. We see our Lord Jesus doing something very similar. One of his last commandments to his disciples is what? Go and make disciples. Go, make disciples. Preaching and teaching and baptizing. It's the commandment he's given them because it's the last thing they're commanded to do, and then we read the book of Acts and we just see the beauty of the work of the Holy Spirit within their lives. Likewise, Paul drives us to think about this: that we shall boast in the cross of Christ. And nothing else. We boast in the cross of Christ. For many of us, the temptation is to boast in literally anything other than the cross of Christ. The schools we graduated from, the degrees we have, the jobs we've had, our church attendance, my family name. Literally, we we want to cling to anything other than the cross of Christ. And this is what our identity, our pride is wrapped all up in But Paul is telling us we must boast in the cross of Christ, because anything else is going to fail you. The true and everlasting joy we have. The only thing that gives us purpose and meaning in our lives, the only thing that has made us new is the fact that Christ died on the cross for sinners like you and I. So let's examine Paul's final words here in Galatians, and may we hear the call to boast in the cross of Christ. Starting in verse 11 of chapter 6, see with what large letters I'm writing to you with my own hand It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh, who would force you to be circumcised, and only in order that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. For even those who are circumcised do not themselves keep the law, but they desire to have you circumcised that they may boast in your flesh. But far be it from me to boast except for in the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world. For neither circumcision counts for anything, not uncircumcision, but a new creation. And as for all who walk by this rule, peace and mercy be upon them, and upon the Israel of God. From now on, let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. The grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen. I'm going to do something a little different with this message. What I'm going to do is I'm going to give you all the fill-in-the-blanks on your worksheet. Alright, I'm gonna build this the the sandbox of which we will then get to play in. Is that alright? I'm gonna give you all the answers. No one can leave just because you got to fill in the blanks all fill it out. But what I want us to do is have those in, and then as we work through the passage and the text, you then can add your notes to that those sections. But the first point is why does man boast in anything other than Christ? Point A, it's appearance. It's the appearance. They want to hold appearance. Letter B, it's to avoid persecution, to avoid the attacks and persecution. Letter C, it's achievements. This boasts in our achievements, what we have accomplished. The number two, why Christians must boast in the cross of Christ. Letter A is there's nothing is more valuable. Nothing is more valuable than the cross of Christ. Letter B. The saint has been made new. Christian, you have been made new through the cross of Christ. Letter C established peace between man and God. The cross of Christ has established peace between man and God. And letter D, brought mercy upon the sinner. Or the unrighteous. Brought mercy upon the sinner or the unrighteous. You know how hard it was to say those without elaborating and trying to talk about each point? I did it almost. Now let's play in this. Let's work through this and see this text. Let us see what the calling is to boast. What are we to boast in, and what are we to avoid boasting in? Starting off, Paul in verse 11 says, See with it large letters I am writing to you with my own hand. We must recognize what Paul's saying here. He's emphasizing his love and care for this church and his concern for the church. He is saying that he physically wrote this letter himself. Historically it's it's quoted in Mark that after Paul's conversion he had poor eyesight. That the the miraculous glory of Christ before him, his physical eyes could not handle. Now we know that the scales were removed from his eyes, but there seems to be an effect uh throughout his life because of this. So he's saying that I'm writing, you can see this letter is from me because of how big the letters are. Because some of the letters we have in scripture, Paul dictated. He spoke on. He had a scribe write them. Man, I wish I had that, someone to write, so then I could read my writing. But that the scribe then wrote it down and then those letters were sent out. So it was still the words of Paul, but it was another scribe writing it. Well, Paul is intensifying his care and his love for his church because he is marking that he is the one that has wrote this. He is so concerned about the church. The Judaizers are such a problem and such a danger to the church that he has taken his time to physically write this letter for the church himself. There used to be these things called letters where we would mail them out amongst one another. It's almost like emails, right? You remember those days And the love and the joy we had when we got letters. You know, even today, I think today it's actually magnified that. If you get a letter from someone, I know Kenzie's sister writes us letters. And they're like, whoa, this is weird, and she just loves Kenzie and loves us and wants to write. It's a joy. It's a great reminder of someone's care. That he's taking time to write this. But Paul's also emphasizing the seriousness of the issue. He doesn't want them to leave after this letter and say, okay, Paul made a big fuss and he he pointed out the Judaizers and the problems about them, but he probably wasn't that serious. No, Paul is emphasizing the seriousness of this issue. But he's also emphasizing the glory of Christ and the love he has for the people. So then he starts to talk about this issue. He lays out the boasting, the the contrast in the boasting. He's going to point to the Judaizers and say, They're boasting in these things, and there is no hope, there's no satisfaction, there's no fulfillment in boasting in these things. And then he's going to point to the true things that we should be boasting in, which is the cross of Christ. Join me in verse 12, he says, It is those who want to make a good showing in the flesh. Who want to force you to be circumcised? The problem with the Judaizers, one of the problems with the Judaizers is that they're coming into the church and they're trying to convert. This church, they're trying to convert the Christian to follow after their teaching so that then they can go into the world and say, look how popular we are. Look, we got this following. Obviously, our teaching is true because of the crowd of which we have gathered. Their appearance, they want it to look good. They want to show the world that their teaching is good. They want to show the world that they're being obedient to the law. They want to show the world that they're the extra holy and spiritual ones. That's why Paul is dealing with it. He's saying that they're making a good showing in the flesh. Brothers and sisters, our good showing, our appearance to the world should not be based on our flesh. Should be based on our spirit. Does the world see us because of how nicely we dress? Should the world recognize that we are Christians because of how wealthy we are? Should the world recognize us as Christians because of how powerful we are and how we have all the uh businesses in the world? Should the world recognize us as Christians? Should we be proclaiming the spirit that is within us, the new birth, the identity of Christ which indwells us? Should the world recognize us as Christians because of the love we have for one another? Should the world recognize us as Christians because we are walking as forgiven sinners, proclaiming the goodness to the world? Paul's driving home that these men, the Judaizers, are only boasting in the works of their hand, not in their heart. Not in their spirit. They're boasting in their hand. And friends, I believe that this is one of our biggest temptations as Americans. Is that we want to boast of everything other than Christ. We want to boast in what we have accomplished. This morning in our Sunday school class, we talked about this. The young adults And how, as Americans, one of our first questions when you get to know someone is what do you do for work? It's a very common question: what do you do? What did you do before you retired? What was your work? It's very Americanized. If you don't know that, if you travel around the world, that's not a common question people bring up in other parts of the world. It's actually a bit strange. Like, why are why are you asking me about that? But as Americans, we base so much value and we actually base our identity on our career and our profession. And we're tempted, are you tempted to boast in that? Is your identity wrapped up in your career? Is your identity wrapped up in your uh family tree. Is your identity wrapped up in uh your wealth? Is your identity wrapped up in just how popular you are within the community? Well, friends, Paul is pointing to that being an issue. You're doing that out of the flesh, out of your own passion, your own works. But he continues on. They're not only trying to convert and uh change the minds of this church to the works of the law for their own appearance, but he's also they're also trying to avoid persecution. Join me right in the middle of twelve. It says, who would force you to be circumcised, and only in order that they may not be persecuted for the cross of Christ. We must recognize that the Judaizers, they're trying to straddle the line. They're trying to have a foot in each camp. They want the joy of being a Christian and this faith thing that this new church is talking about, but they also want to stay firmly planted in the Jewish church. They don't want to depart from their traditions and their ways and and probably many of them were well respected within the Jewish church. Many of them possibly were leaders within the Jewish church, and they don't want to lose that status. So they're trying to mix it. They're trying to combine two worlds and collide them together and say, yes, we have faith in Christ, but we're also really good Jews because we keep the law. And we actually find our identity by keeping the law, and we find our righteousness by keeping the law, but we also want to claim Christ. You see, they're trying to hold on to two uh opposing worlds, and part of the reason is they fear persecution They don't want to be mocked. They don't want to lose their status of being a leader within the synagogues, their respect within the culture. Let's recognize that the early church faced persecution, something of which we cannot fully fathom here in America in 2025. Not only were they being persecuted by uh the Jewish uh congregation, the Jewish religion, and the leaders within that, that's what Paul was doing before he was converted. He was persecuting, putting to death Christians. And arresting them. But on the other side, there's also a civil oppression coming down that uh the the Roman Empire is as they continue to grow, they're they're bringing on what is uh worship of the emperor And Christians are saying, yes, we worship Christ, and we do not worship Caesar. And that was a criminal offense, deserving of the death penalty. So what what what are the Judaizers trying to do? They're trying to balance this out. Because Rome is okay. Rome is okay if you said, yes, we worship Christ, we worship Jesus, as long as you said, and we're okay with Caesar. We'll pay our our dues and our tithes to him. We'll say he is a God, and they're just fine if you worship Jesus. Jesus as well. But here's Christianity. Here's the early church standing and saying, no, no, we can't say that we Christ is God and Caesar is God. That cannot be true. And they're being persecuted for it. So Judaizers are saying, yes, we believe in Christ, but we're also going to respect Caesar. We're going to say, he is God. We're going to bow our knee to him. They didn't want the persecution. Friends, how often are we tempted? And a very similar thing. Is your allegiance to Christ to the point that you're ready to face death? We could sit here right now and say yes, but for uh probably all of us, we haven't faced that true challenge yet. God has given us minor challenges, minor persecutions. How have you done in the face of those persecutions? When your boss has mocked you for being a Christian. When your friends laugh and and uh ridicule you and make jokes because you go to church on Sunday. Because you're abstaining from just sleeping around. You're not going out to get drunk. These are minor persecutions. But we must recognize that they are persecutions. And it can reveal the depth of who and how we view God. Do we actually believe that we are saved? Do we believe that Christ is Lord and what He has commanded is worth following after? Or are we saying, yes, Christ is Lord, Sunday mornings and evenings, but then the rest of the week, we're okay following after Caesar? Because we don't want the persecution. We don't want the mockery. Well, friends, Paul is pointing out that we don't have that option as Christians. Don't boast in something else just to avoid persecution. Don't avoid boasting in the cross of Christ, celebrating the cross of Christ. Proclaiming your identity because of the cross of Christ just because you're worried about being mocked or persecuted. It has no value If you flee from it because you fear mockery, because you fear persecution, it is of no value to you He continues on in verse 13. For even those who are circumcised do not themselves keep the law. But they desire to have you circumcised that they may boast in your flesh. The other thing that we are so tempted to boast in, and the Judaizers are boasting in, is in their achievements. It's in their achievements. They want to have the checklist that they can send out of how obedient to the law they've been. They want to send out the list and the roster of all the people that are following after them. All the Gentiles that became Christians and then got circumcised following after the teaching of the Judaizers, they want to boast in what they have accomplished. Friends, we are very tempted to do this. We want to boast in what we have accomplished, our accolades, the things we've done Go into my office after this and you can see all my accolades up there because I don't have a space in my house that I could hang them up So they can be in this corner of my office, but the things I've accomplished, the things that I have pride in, the schools I've graduated, the things I've done that this is where my identity and my pride comes in so often. And Paul and Christ says they're of no value. If this is where your identity is rooted in, if this is what you think the world needs to know about, is the school you graduated, the accomplishment you did. Ten, twenty, thirty, forty years ago. Fifty. Who said fifty? I can't count that high. I haven't been there yet. I said forty and I thought it was too far gone for me. Our accomplishments are we will not. I will not think about my volleyball trophies I earned in high school when I'm in heaven. I won't put them up in my living room and they get moved every time I put them up. But do we recognize that they have no eternal value? Now, let me drive this home a little bit more for you. The accomplishments as a Christian you have here on this earth have no eternal value in heaven. It's Christ who will be in the presence of your Savior. All the mission scripts we go in, they're good. Please hear me out. As I'm saying these things, these are good things to do. But if you're boasting in these things alone, if these are your identity, you have an issue you must deal with. You have a heart issue. You're missing with the point and the purpose of this. The mission trips we go on are are tithes. Even our leading someone to Christ is not what God will look at when we stand before him and say, oh, well, how many people did you share the gospel with each week? And you'll probably lie and say a hundred. And the reality is not near that. Or God's not going to look at you and say, Well, how many orphans did you feed when you had all that money? You just say a number, and these things are good, but that is not what God views and looks at us when He says, You are my child or you're my enemy. That's what the Judaizers want to do. They want to form their identity around what they have accomplished and their achievements. What's God going to look at? When we stand before the throne of God, brothers and sisters, think about this. This should pierce our hearts and our minds. This should cause us to lay in bed at night thinking about this. When we stand before the throne of God, when he looks at us, What is going to cause him? What will make him say, Yes, you are my child, rather than saying, You are my enemy, be gone away from me. Faith in Christ alone. The cross of Christ. If you're boasting in anything else, please hear this. You're boasting in something that's not of any eternal value. I'm not telling you to go home and rip down all your accolades. I'm not saying don't do good works. I'm not saying don't obey Christ. Even more. What I'm saying is this is not our identity. It must be rooted in Christ. So, why Christians must boast in the cross of Christ? Let's look first at the commandment that Paul says here. He says, but far be it, verse 14, far be it from me to boast, except In the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ, by which the world has been crucified to me and I to the world It's actually a really popular phrase and theological topic of Paul, boasting the crucifixion. He talks about this a lot. In 1 Corinthians 2 2, he says, I wish to know nothing among you except Christ and Him crucified. I wish to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and him crucified. What are we talking about? Why are we gathered as the church? Because of Christ and Him crucified. Later on in that ch uh in that letter, chapter eleven, we we talked about this morning and what is the communion? As we take the Lord's Supper, what's remember we we take the bread and we take the fruit of the vine? And what's it telling us to proclaim and remember until the Lord's return? Anyone? Is death. Isn't interesting. And we're taking the Lord's Supper. You get a gold star. I forgot to say that. You get to the gold star for that Use your dismiss Lorna. She wasn't as fast tonight. But we take the Lord's Supper, and this is proclaiming to the world the Lord's death. Why are we so concerned about the death of Christ? Why is our boasting in the death of Christ? Friends, how much how more often That's probably not correct. How often and why aren't we supposed to boast in the resurrection? I do believe we should boast in the resurrection. I do believe that the resurrection is glorious. But I believe the world sees the resurrection as our identity. But friends, we must recognize that the resurrection of Christ is the pronouncement of what was accomplished on the cross. It's the assurance of what was accomplished on the cross. Because right as Christ is about to die on the cross, what's his some of his last words? It is finished. It wasn't it is finished three days from now. Now we there is such deep theology and important value to the resurrection of Christ, and then so much value and theology about his ascension to heaven But at the cross of Christ, brothers and sisters, you and I became children of God. Your sins were washed away at the cross of Christ. As he hung on the cross, he took on our sins, he took on the penalty that we owed. We deserve death. We deserve separation from God. And here's our Lord and Savior. Here's our God who came down to us, took on flesh, left his realm and his kingdom in heaven to take on flesh and dwelt among us. And here is our God living a perfect, obedient life, never breaking the law, either in his thoughts, his deeds, his actions, his passions. Not only did he not break the law, but he also fulfilled the law perfectly. Here's our Lord and Savior then going to the cross and taking on our sins. He had zero sins. Zero sins. There's no crimes. There's no punishment before the Father. He's innocent. Perfect. And here he goes to the cross, taking on our This is why we boast in the cross of Christ. It 's because this is the moment in history. This is when the world should radically change. When history shifts. When Satan recognizes that he is a loser is at the cross of Christ. When the rebel becomes the child, when the sinner becomes forgiven. When is this all happening? It's at the moment Christ hung and died on the cross. Brothers and sisters, this is finished. It's complete. The victory is won. Your sins are forgiven Over 2,000 years ago at the cross. It's a glorious truth. Revelation 5, 6 is one of my favorite images in all of Scripture. It says that the Lamb standing as he has as As though he had been slain. He's talking about Christ. This is the imagery we have of Christ. The perfect lamb, the Lamb standing as though he had been slain. Christ had been pierced for us. He died for us, the perfect Lamb. But he is victorious. So why Christians must boast in the cross of Christ is because this is where forgiveness happened. It's where the Creator of the universe looks down at us and finds us righteous. It's what allows us to go to the throne of God humbly on our knees. We can lay out every work you have, and it's all rubbish compared to the work of Christ on the cross on your behalf. It's the only reason that we can say, come to faith in Christ. And recognize the eternal forgiveness that He has paid on the cross. The cross of Christ, brothers and sisters. The cross of Christ is our message to the world. Calling sinners to repentance because of the cross of Christ. Calling sinners to new hope because of the cross of Christ. And this is why Paul is saying that he he wants to know nothing among you except Jesus and him crucified. He wants to say, for be it for me to boast, except the only thing to boast in is the cross of our Lord Jesus Christ. Friends, are we ready to boast in the cross of Christ? Is this our identity? I think I can be honest for all of us and say, not always. Not always. And Paul recognizes this. He's going to encourage us here. Drive us to value the cross. Drive us to boast in it and nothing else. He says, There's nothing more valuable. There's nothing more valuable than the cross of Christ. At the end of 14, he says, Lord, uh, by which the world has been crucified to me. An eye to the world. What he's saying is the world is dead. The riches of the world is dead. The fame and the passions of the world is dead because of the cross of Christ. At the top of your handout, this is a popular hymn. It says, I have found the pearl of greatest price. My heart doth sing for joy. And sing I must, for Christ is mine. Christ shall my song employ. I have found the pearl of greatest price It's the cross and the work of Christ on your behalf the greatest pearl you could fathom Is there anything else more valuable than his work on the cross? Is there anything else more valuable than the truth of the fact that we have been made righteous before God because Christ has made us forgiven before the Father? Is there anything more valuable, friends? Romans 6. 6 tells us, Romans 6. 6, we know that our old self was crucified with him. In order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing. We were crucified with him. We were killed off. It's of no value to us. Friends, may the the temptations and the false pearls of the world be disgusting to us as we start to recognize the beauty of the cross. May we not be tempted to boast in anything other than the cross. May the world's beauties and square coat square scare quotes Draw us away from the cross of Christ because we know that it is all going to fail. But that pearl, the pearl we hold on to, the cross of Christ. May it be the treasure we hold so tight that it brings us through the trials and tribulation of this world. May it be the treasure that we cling to because we know that we will enter into glory. The presence of our God. May the cross of Christ be the treasure and the pearl that sustains us when we're in the deepest depths of pain, anxiety, and depression. Because we know that we are forgiven. Doesn't matter what the world throws at us. It doesn't matter how painful death and destruction is around us. We know that the forgiveness of Christ The righteousness we have before the Father is worth all, and we will give up all to cling tightly to it. Friends, may we recognize the great value that nothing surpasses the value of the cross of Christ. But it continues on. It's not only a future thing that we're holding on to. It's not only that, okay, one day we'll get to enter into his glory It's not that one day we'll get to heaven, but that's a present reality for us now. Our boasting in the cross is a present reality For us now. Verse 15 it says, For neither circumcision counts for anything, nor uncircumcision. But what counts for something? But a new creation. A new creation. In a few weeks, Pastor Matt will be preaching on John 3. 16, arguably the most famous scripture in all of history. And in there we hear the love of God sending his son for us. But in that chapter, John 3 is all about the new birth. The new birth. Have you been born by the Spirit? Have you been transformed by the working of the Spirit in you? Are your passions, your desires, your wants anew? Are your hatreds You're throwing off of sin anew. Have you been born again? Friends, we should boast in our newness. We should boast that we have the Spirit of God. It should be a joy in our lives. It should be our motivation. It should be the passions we have to wake up and to live and follow after Christ. It's what drives us to holiness. It's what drives us to obedience in Christ. What Paul is doing is he's pointing to the physical issue, the physical aspects of the law that the Judaizers are promoting. You need to be circumcised. You need to be obedient to the law. This is what will make you righteous. And Paul is pointing and saying, no, no, our boasting is not in our circumcision. Our boasting is not in obedience to the law. Our boasting is that we are new creatures. We have been born again of the Holy Spirit because of Christ Jesus. The cross of Christ. Because of that, he has sent the Holy Spirit to change us, to renew us, to make us new. And because of that, now we're obedient. Because of that, we now do works. Because of that, we now are able to love one another and love our God. Our boasting is in the fact that we have been made new. This is a reality now. Is the reality, the truth, that you are a new creature. You have been born of the Holy Spirit, meaning that God dwells within you, in your soul. Has that transformed our thinking? Has that transformed what we think about, how we make decisions, how we act? Calling out the young adults once again on last night we had a Bible study working through a series called Behold Your God. And in there he's he's driving home this truth that we need to know God, not just the head knowledge, but that our that our hearts are transformed by knowing God. And he uses this idea of truth truths. Now there's these things that we know are true, but we haven't allowed them to impact our lives. And one of the examples he uses is that the earth is round. He says, We know that to be true. We have the science and we know that's the creation order. And and I think if I quizzed anyone, r immediately you go, Yes, that is true and he says, but how much does The fact that the earth is round impact the clothes you pick out for today? Like, no. Does it impact how you uh cook your eggs? No. And this is what we sometimes do with the truth of God. Have we made it so minuscule? And it's just this fact that we have in our head, but we haven't allowed the knowledge of God and the fact that we are a new creature, that we have the righteousness of Christ. If we just said, yes, that's true, we believe it, but we don't let it impact any aspect of our lives. Friends may the reality that we are new creatures Change radically everything about us, from our thoughts to our actions. And Paul is saying we should boast in this reality that we are new creatures because of the work of Christ on the cross. And and the indwelling of the Holy Spirit within us. He drives home. This is one of my favorite facts and truths. Um Matt, when I die, priest please preach this at my funeral that we have peace. Through Christ between us and the Creator. We have peace because of the work of Christ on the cross between us and the Lord of Lords. The sovereign king, the God of gods. We have peace. It's a beautiful truth that he drives home in verse 16: he says, And as for all who walk by this rule, The reality that you're not saved by your works, but by the new creature you are, the working of the Spirit, because of the work of Christ on the cross. Peace and mercy. Peace and mercy. Friends, the establishment of peace between us and God is the most important peace that we need and have in our lives. Often we take this idea of peace and we put it simply in a physical sense. And we will see the end of wars We will see the end of fighting and grumbling and infighting within the church and and bloody and terrible wars around this globe. We will see the end of that But friends, today we live in the peace between us and God because of the work of Christ on the cross. Right now, you can go before the Holy God. Because Christ died on the cross for you. You don't have to go behind the curtain. You don't have to pay for indulgence. You don't have to make amends or change something. No, right now, because Christ has died on the cross. The newness of the Spirit gives you faith. You can go before the Holy God. Christ is the mediator between sinful man, you and I, and the Holy God, the Father. This is the peace we have. While we were rebels, while we were his enemies, he died for us and made us his children. Peace, brothers and sisters, peace. We often forget or can't put to words and fully understand the war that is happening between God and his enemies, those outside of Christ. And we fully do not comprehend or understand and see the wrath of God's judgment that will be poured out upon his enemies. And that the physical war we see here, as terrible as it is, is just a glimpse of terrible judgment and punishment that God will pour out upon sinners. And we rest and we boast and we celebrate that we will never face that terrible judgment. Because we have peace with God. We are his family. We are his. He looks at us with joy. He doesn't look at us and say, Well, you're getting better. You're okay. No, he looks at us because of the cross of Christ and says, You are my child and you are righteous. Come into my kingdom. With joy we boast in the peace we have between us and God. But he also uses this word mercy. I believe this word mercy could be the totality of our boasting because it's the It's the showing or the demonstrating of compassion and kindness that God pours out upon us. Because of Christ's work on the cross We have so many blessings, brothers and sisters. The mercy, the forgiveness of God because of Christ on the cross. The compassion, the kindness God has shown us because of his son 's work on the cross. Titus 3:5 says, He saved us. And there's a little bit, and then he says he saved us according to his own mercy. Actually, he says that he saves us, not according to our works, but according to his own mercy. And then in Titus he starts to list out some of the blessings and part of the gifts of God's mercy he gives to us. There's a washing. The forgiveness of our sins happened at the cross. The regeneration. That work was accomplished on the cross, and then we see it, the regeneration happening. And the indwelling of the Holy Spirit within us. But it was accomplished at the cross. Part of His mercy is the renewal. The renewal, this is the new life that he talks about. Part of God's mercy is that we are justified. Justified. This is a status before the Holy God. The judge. We are justified. While we were guilty of our sin, Christ died on the cross to make us justified, innocent, before God. We don't deserve it. We didn't earn it. We didn't accomplish it. We boast that God's mercy has given it to us. We rejoice that the mercy of God, His love, His kindness for us, that He has poured it out upon us, brothers and sisters. And Titus, the last mercy of the gifts that he gives is the eternal life. Friends, is this our message to the world? Is this what we are boasting in? Not our identity as a Baptist church. It's a good thing It's not our identity as our perfect church attendance. It's not in our works and the things we've accomplished. It's our boasting in that Christ died on the cross. It's the most valuable thing we have. It's made us new. It's brought us peace between us and the Creator of the universe. And we recognize through the cross that He has poured out endless mercies, gifts, and kindness upon us. This is our message. This is the only thing we need to boast in. Friends, I challenge us. I'm challenging myself in this. May our identity be to the world the reality that we follow the Christ that was crucified on the cross. Let me say that again. May our identity to the world B that we follow the Christ that died on the cross, was crucified on the cross. I encourage you. You start to introduce yourself to people. As early as you can, identify yourself as a Christian. As early as you can, identify yourself as going to church. Or as early as you can identify that you are forgiven in Christ. I'm telling you right now, it sounds really weird when we think about that. It's a challenge for us. But if you plead to the Lord in prayer, you ask him, How can this happen? bolden me to do it, it'll happen. Early on in my uh walk with Christ, my new new birth is about six, seven months into it. uh got a new job and I remember thinking, okay, how do I explain to these people I'm a Christian? And and I remember talking to a man that was discipling me and I said, Well should I just walk in and like announce it, you know, that that uh bravado that the young Christian has, like, I'm gonna walk in there, I'm gonna look my boss in the eyes and say, I'm Anthony and I'm a Christian. He's like, nah, you probably shouldn't do that. But I remember like this really was was tightening up my gut. I didn't know what to do. And that first week happened, I didn't say anything. And then at the very end of the week Uh the my boss brought up something that was of sin. He said, Oh, we're gonna go do this and I s and it was just this opportunity. It was like it and I remembered so clearly that right in that moment it was like, oh no, I'm not going to do that with you guys. I'm a Christian, so I don't partake in that. I was like, come on God, you really had to embarrass me like that? But but man, was that not the moment? Was I and that sparked a a three uh almost three year relationship and conversation that If I would have just said, you know, I'm Anthony, I'm from Pennsylvania, and just live that life, that real surface-level American life that we love to live right away. That was my identity with those guys I worked with. It wasn't nothing I've done. It's nothing I accomplished, but it was it was me wanting and seeking to do that and God giving Me the strength and the wisdom to do it at the right time. May we root ourselves in our identity as Christians before anything else. Even before being an Orioles fan. They're not that good. So boast in Christ, nothing else. Now Paul concludes this letter, and he has these two sentences, and I love his conclusion here. Verse 17. And just to hear kind of the uh the Paul's frustration right now. He says, from now on, let no one calls me trouble. Amen, Paul. Stop causing me trouble. Stop bringing up this issue. But what's actually happening is Paul's dealing with this Is that he's been dealing with it a lot, and the Judaizers are trying to uh belittle and destroy Paul's work and image and his identity as a leader and a teacher and a They've been trying to say no, don't don't follow after Paul. He's he's a false teacher, he's a fake, he's he just wants you to be a Pauline and follow him. We know through a lot of Paul's teaching that's not the case. But right here he's saying, from now on, let no one cause me trouble, for I bear on my body the marks of Jesus. He's not faking it. Paul's not faking it, just giving you lip service. Paul has gone to prison multiple times by this point because of proclaiming Christ in Christ only. We know that Paul goes to his death because he's proclaiming the cross of Christ. And Paul's saying Stop allowing these false teachers to to belittle me and say that that's not who I am. They're trying to deceive you and bring you into their camp to follow after their teaching and their works and their flesh. And Paul's saying, all I'm doing is boasting in Christ. If you don't like the boasting in Christ, church, I'm saying this to you. If you don't like the teaching of the cross of Christ, this is not the place for you. Or if that hurts you and it spurs you, you should seek the Lord and why that bothers you so much. Because this is all we have. This is our message to the world. It's the cross of Christ. It's what has changed us, has transformed us. And Paul's saying, stop, don't allow them to keep bringing this issue to me. And his last statement is his grouchy old man goes away a little bit. We all need that. He says, the grace of our Lord Jesus Christ be with your spirit, brothers. Amen. This is that not how we want to encourage one another. Is that not how we should end our conversations, even painful and hard conversations? Our struggles with another. We recognize each other as brothers and sisters in Christ. With a glad heart, should we not look one another in the eyes and say, May the grace of our Lord Jesus be with your spirit? His mercy be upon us. May this be what we think about. The grace of God. May it stir up our spirit. As Pastor John pointed out in my last sermon, spur and stir. Spur is an outward thing, and stir, as he did, is an inward thing. And he did this motion, so I'm going to use it. May the grace of God stir up our spirit. Bring us the joy. Bring us our identity. And bring us the love we have for God and our neighbor, for one another. And he concludes with Amen. May it be true. May all that he's written be true. May it be final. May we trust and recognize that these words are valuable to us today. May we push off the desire and the passions to follow after our works. May we hate the idea, the simple idea of earning our salvation by something we have done And may we cling to the cross. May we cling to faith. May we recognize that the new life Christ has given us has brought us joy which surpasses anything the world can give us. Us. Let us go before our Lord in prayer. Gracious Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that we are forgiven because of what Christ has done on our behalf. We thank you that He has taken our sins, He's paid the debt of which we owe. He has brought us forgiveness, brought us new life, and made us your children. Lord, may we boast in this beautiful yet simple truth. May we proclaim this to ourselves every day. May we live out this reality every day. Give us eyes to recognize and to see this in ourselves. Lord, anything that has drawn us away from you Any identity of righteousness that is of our hands and our work, rip it out of us. Cut it out of us tonight, Lord. Mend us with your word and your spirit. Heal us and draw us closer to you. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Well, friends, next week we will start a series in 1 Peter. And we will go through that letter for the rest of our lives, I promise you. And may you go this week in peace serving your king.