All right, let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter four. A bold goal for this morning. Doing an entire chapter as we continue our series series in Genesis today, looking at six aspects of life on earth. So you know Genesis 4, it's the story of Cain and Abel, but I want to look at this from a bird's eye view and look at just what is life like here on Earth. Because remember this Significance of chapter four. From chapters one, two, and three, a lot of big things have already happened. You've had the creation of the world, the creation of man in the image of God, and Commissioned to be God's representative in the world. But then you have man's fall into sin. Man's fall into the corruption of sin. He's now guilty of sin. Death has entered the world, and after man's what we call man's fall or man's rebellion, now you also have God's judgment upon man for his sin, but you also have God's grace as entered So you've had creation, you've had the rebellion, you had The entrance of judgment and the entrance of saving grace through this first promise of the gospel. And now we're going to look at six aspects of life on earth in That context to grasp society, to understand what's going on in the world around us. We have to understand that there are multiple things happening at once. And that's why I want to take a bird's eye view and look at these six aspects of life on earth. Earth the encouragement that I want all of us to receive in our hearts, the encouragement that I hope that all of us would take From this is that in the midst of a world of sin and suffering and death, that we are called to shine forth the light of Jesus Christ. That's our calling. Generally speaking, that's your calling, if you're a believer, to shine forth the light of Jesus Christ. Now you can take that individually. And you should, and I need to. But brothers and sisters, we need to take that congregationally as a church. That's the purpose of the local church as well, to shine forth the light of Christ. Now, we will , as we go through the points, we will work through the whole chapter. But I'm not going to read the whole chapter at the beginning. Like I typically would read the whole passage or the whole verse at the beginning of a sermon. But I do want to read some representative verses Before we pray and get into this message. So representatively, look at Genesis 4, verses 3 to 4. In the course of time, Cain brought to the Lord an offering of the fruit of the ground. And Abel also brought the firstborn of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel. And his offering. Also, verse 5. But for Cain and his offering he had no regard. And now skip down to verse 26. Very significant verse, great verse. To Seth also a son was born. He called his name Enosh. And at that time, people began to call upon the name of the Lord. People began to call upon the name of the Lord. It's a wonderful thing, and people are still doing that today. In fact, people are doing that today all over the world, and that's still spreading, and that's still growing as Christ is building his church. People are gathering together, and what are they doing? They're calling upon the name of the Lord. Adam, could you bring me down a little bit? Let's go to the Lord in prayer before we get into this message. God, I pray, we pray that you would open our minds to your word, that you would administer your grace to our hearts, that you would show us Christ. So each one of us. the Lord Jesus Christ, that we would find rest in him. Father, help us to have contentment and peace and joy because of our union with him. Because of this covenantal pledge that you've given us that our sins are forgiven because of his blood, that we are your adopted children, reconciled to you forever. Father, thank you. Thank you for your word. We pray that you would powerfully drive that word into our hearts during this time. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. When you look out in the world and the culture around you, what do you see? Well, some of the things that you see are violence, out of control, and sexual immorality out of control And sexual deviancy, out of control, and these things not just out of control seemingly, but also rejoice in We see selfishness out of control. We see angst. We see idolatry. And we should be reminded that apart from the grace of God, all we would be is wrapped up in all of it. Apart from the grace of God. And that's just the aspect of sin when we look out in the world. We haven't even got into just suffering and hardship that exists in the world. That ultimately, yes, ultimately is a result of sin, but in and of itself, there are things in your life that hurt And that brings suffering, that's not your sin. This is the world that we live in. Is there hope? Yes, there is. Absolutely there is hope. Because, brothers and sisters, Jesus still saves sinners. Jesus came for sinners. God has the love that He has poured out for sinners to receive and to rest in and to rejoice in and to be changed by That we would no longer be wrapped up in all of these things that we see out in the world. There is hope because Jesus still saves, and because God is still sovereign. God is a sovereign king who rules over the world. And make no mistake about it, that God is perfectly working out his plan on his timeline and nothing and nobody will be able to stop him. God is the sovereign king And he's not just working in an arbitrary fashion. God has a purpose that he's working toward. I want to encourage you this morning that when you think about the world around you, When you look at culture, when you look at society, when you look at politics, please don't take God out of the equation When I said earlier, when you look at the world around you, what do you see? For most of us, probably bad things came immediately to the mind. But you know what else we see when we look out into the world? We still see when we look out into the world the gospel Spreading to all nations, to all tribes, to all peoples. We still see people all over the world gathering to worship God. We still see souls being saved. and people being baptized and people joining the church. We see churches being planted. We see missit missionaries. Going , we see pastors in training, we see the kingdom of God advancing, we see men being changed powerfully into men of God. Women being changed powerfully into women of God so that men can learn how to be godly spouses and godly fathers and godly employees and women can learn how to be godly spouses and godly moms and godly employees. And the kingdom of God is advancing in this world in a powerful way. And we need to see that when we look at the world. Because if you take God out of the equation, all that's Left is skepticism and cynicism and despair and negativity. And as Christians, we're to be a people who are filled with faith. And with hope and with love. So when we evaluate the world, when we look at the world, when we seek to understand what's going on in the world, It's more than just evil and sin. It's more than just suffering and hardship. There's an Almighty God who is powerfully at work To save sinners for his glory, to change homes, to change families, to change communities. We are to shine the light of Christ in a sin -cursed world. Christianity is not a private affair It's not a private affair. We are representatives of God. It's important for me to say that because now we're going to get into some six to be exact aspects of life on earth. And I want us that every Point to understand our role in this picture. Number one, number one, religion. An aspect of life on earth is religion. And what you'll see is you have a combination. You have a true religion that's acceptable to God, and you have a man-made religion, a false religion. that's not acceptable to God. So this is verses 1 to 7. This is the difference. Mark it. This is the difference between Cain and Abel Abel offers true devotion, true religion to God, because in his heart he believes in God Cain's worship, Cain's devotion, Cain's religion is not acceptable to God because Cain in his heart is not a believer in God. Verses 1 to 7. Now Adam knew Eve, his wife, and she conceived and bore Cain, saying, I have gotten a man with the help of the Lord. And again she bore his brother Abel. Now Abel was a keeper of sheep, and Cain a worker of the ground. In the course of time Cain brought to the Lord an offering of the fruit of the ground, and Abel also brought of the firstborn of his flock and of their fat portions. And the Lord had regard for Abel and his offering, but for Cain and his offering he had no regard. So Cain was very angry, and his face fell. The Lord said to Cain, Why are you angry? And why has your face fallen? If you do well, will you not be accepted? And if you do not do well, sin is crouching at the door. Its desire is contrary to you, but you must rule over it. Cain can't rule over sin. Cain can't rule over sin. Cain cannot be liberated from the shackles of sin. Cain cannot be freed from the ruling power of sin unless Cain repents. And believes in God. He needs to be saved by faith. The same way that we needed to be saved by faith. Now, Abel, on the other hand, Abel has offered a sacrifice to God And it is accepted by God. It is commended by God. Why is that? Well, we already read it earlier in the service in our reading in Hebrews. Hebrews tells us, Hebrews 11:4. Hebrews tells us the motive behind Abel's sacrifice. Hebrews tells us the heart The inner reality behind the outward devotion. Hebrews 11, 4. By faith Abel offered to God. Will you stop right there? If you don't get anything else today, get that. By faith, Abel offered to God. God does not just want outward devotion. God is not pleased with outward religion. That is not backed by and that does not arise from faith in the heart. This is what God wants. He wants us to humble ourselves and to put our faith In him. And then the result of that, the result of that is outward devotion, which you also could call religion. Religion would just mean outward devotion. Outward devotion. And so Abel's worship is accepted. Cain's is not accepted. What's the difference? Believer versus unbeliever. That's the difference. Put your faith in God. Don't think that what God calls you to do is just a life of outward religion Don't think what God wants you to do is just a life of outward good deeds. Brothers and sisters, friends, God wants your heart God wants us to humble ourselves, to fall down before Him, to turn to Him, to look to Him, and believe Believe that He is our God. Believe that He made us. Believe that He is a gracious Savior and will forgive our sins. This is where true religion starts. But the fact is in the world you'll always have a mixture until Christ returns and brings all things together. You'll always have a mixture, just like in our lives. In your life is a mixture of holiness, because you have the Holy Spirit, and also sin, because sin still lives within us, even though it's not reigning over us. You're always going to have a mixture in the world of believers and unbelievers, of true worship, of false worship, of proper Bible-based religion and improper man-made religion, you'll always have a mixture. And in that context, the context of This mixture, we are called to shine the light of Christ in how we worship. And how we worship. We should strive to worship according to God's word. According to God's word. And the principles outlined therein. You see what's going you already know what's going to happen in this passage. Cain is going to lash out. In bitterness, in jealousy, in hatred against his own brother And of course that's the fruit. That's ultimately that's the fruit of unbelief is to persecute the belief. So you have number one aspect And just life on earth. You have religion or formal devotion to God. There's the real kind, there's the fake kind. Number two and number three we're going to take together. Number two and number three, we're going to take together. Number two in this world, you also have crime. Alright, crime. That could be a definition of crime. It's particular sins. That are punishable by the civil authorities. That's crime. All crime, in God's design, all crimes are sins, but not all sins are crimes Otherwise we'd all be locked up. Or just paying one fine after another. Sins Specific sins that are punishable by the civil authorities, crime. And then also we're taking together with this number three justice. Justice, which is the punishment for those crimes. Justice. And the crime comes from verse 8. Cain spoke to Abel his brother, and when they were in the field, Cain rose up against his brother, Abel, and killed him. This is not just a sin, this is a crime. And later on in Scripture, God tells us exactly why this is a crime, because man is made in God's image. And one person does not have the right to murder a person made in God's image. This is why we believe that abortion is wrong. Abortion is sin. Abortion should be a crime because We believe it's wrong to murder another person made in the image of God. We don't have the right to take that life that God created. You have crime, sin punishable by the civil authorities here in our verse, murder, and then you have justice. First of all, look at verse 9. To twelve. Nine to twelve. It's interesting because there's already been a judgment and a curse poured out and revealed on the earth because of Adam and Eve's first sin. But now on top of that You have an additional punishment given to Cain for his crime. Then the Lord said to Cain , Verse 9, the Lord said to King, Where is Abel your brother? He said, I do not know. Am I my brother's keeper? We could just pause right there. Do you know the answer to that question? Yes, you are you are to guard and protect and love your brother And the Lord said, verse 10, What have you done? The voice of your brother's blood is crying to me from the ground, and crying out for justice. Crying out for a just retribution for Cain's wickedness and his crime. And now, verse 11, now you are cursed from the ground which has opened its mouth to receive your brother's blood. From your hand. Isn't that a powerful picture? This vivid picture. You slaughtered your brother. The ground has received his blood, and now that blood is speaking up from the ground, calling out for justice. Verse 12: When you work the ground, it shall no longer yield to you its strength. You shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth. Cast out, cast out to struggle and suffer in punishment. But then, then verse 13 Which is going verses 13 to 16 draw us attention to an attribute of God that should be so precious to us. See if you can Pick it out. There's probably multiple ones. I'll tell you which one stood out to me. Verse 13 to 16. Cain said to the Lord My punishment is greater than I can bear. Behold, you've driven me today away from the ground, and from your face I shall be hidden. I shall be a fugitive and a wanderer on the earth, and whoever finds me will kill me Then the Lord said to him, Not so. If anyone kills Cain, vengeance shall be taken on him sevenfold. Again, you see that again. If there's a crime, there'll be justice. And the Lord put a mark on Cain, lest any who found him should attack him. Then Cain went away from the presence of the Lord and settled in the land of Nod, east of Eden. He left the place of blessing. He left the presence of the Lord. And God, though, put a mark of protection. God put a mark of sovereign, intervening protection. The Lord put a mark on Cain lest any who found him should attack him. The attribute of God that should shine forth to us here is mercy. Mercy. Cain did not deserve that. Cain did not deserve to continue to live. The wages of sin is death. I do not continue, I do not deserve to continue to live. When I was lost. Before I knew about the gospel, before I had the Holy Spirit, those dark days when I still loved sin and was running from God, I did not deserve for God to Preserve my life that I would one day hear the gospel and be saved. I hope we believe the verse that we memorized when we were in kindergarten, that the wages of sin Really is death. Sinners deserve to die. I am a sinner I was lost and deserved death. And what did God do for each and every one of us? Each and every one of us. Are you awake this morning? Would you raise your hand? He mercifully preserved us until we were saved. He mercifully preserved our lives. And then what did he do? On top of that, he brought his incomparable grace into our lives. He brought his word into our lives. He poured his spirit into our hearts. He brought us to life through the Lord Jesus Christ. And he's given us the greatest gift of all. God has given us himself. God has reconciled us to himself. He's erased the guilt of our sin so that we no longer deserve to die. He's declared us righteous in his eyes so that we're no longer guilty. He's given us the gift of eternal life. Jesus Christ, by his blood shed on the cross and by the power of his resurrection, has united us to God. He's brought us into a relationship with God that will never, ever, ever end. You see, life, beloved, is a gift from God. Life is a gift from God. This is a precious and holy, sacred gift from God. And when we sin against God, we forfeit that gift That's called death. Death is a penalty. Life is a gift. Death is a penalty. What God does here is he mercifully preserves Cain, even though Cain had committed this crime. Crime, sin punishable by civil authorities, and then justice, the punishment for crime. Now this is Genesis chapter 4. So those two themes aren't fully worked out here in Genesis chapter 4. But if you study out the scriptures, if you follow the story, These two themes continue to build, and we learn more and more about crime. We learn more and more about justice and equity and retribution and also mercy, having mercy. If you would turn to, you can turn to Romans 13, 4. Romans 13, the first paragraph, tells us God's role for government in the world. And we'll look at just one verse, Romans 13, 4, where it's summarized. The main role of the governing authorities, or if you want to call it the state, or if you want to call it the civil magistrate, there are different ways to say it. The main role, one of the main roles of the government is to punish crime, is to uphold justice in society protecting the innocent and punishing the evildoer. Here's Romans 13, 4. Talking about the civil magistrate, the verse says, he is God's servant for your good. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. For he is the servant of God, an avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. That's the priority. That's God's design for the civil authorities. Right there. Just a part of it, but that's the main part of it. To bring justice to the evildoer. And to protect the innocent and to protect society in general. And we said that the role of the church and the role of Christians is to shine the light of Christ and A sin-cursed world. The role of the magistrate is to execute God's wrath in a crime-infested world. That's to deter, that's to be a deterrent to sinners. to deter, to restrain, to hold back crime. Could you imagine if it were not illegal to steal? If it were not illegal to steal, would more or less people be taking things from others? More If there were no penalty for stealing, we'll say it's wrong, we'll say it's wrong, but there's no penalty for theft. Would more or less people be taking others' property More. So the law and the penalty is to restrain sin also to bring retribution. And justice, where that crime is violated. You see that in its earliest stages right here with this murder, and Cain receives this On top of the judgment that's already been poured out in mankind in general, he reserves, he deserves, he receives rather this punishment of being exiled and to suffer, but yet we still see God's mercy. Shining through. And that brings us to number four. Number four aspect of life on earth is what's called common grace. Now turn back to Genesis 4. Common grace. Common grace refers to God 's gifts to mankind besides salvation. So if you never heard this phrase before, common grace, what the word common means are these are graces, these are gifts, these are kindnesses shown to both believers and unbelievers. That's what this means. Common grace. God's gifts to mankind besides salvation. I'll read the passages 17 to 22. 17 to 22, and then talk a little bit more about common grace and why that's important, why we need to know about that. So look at verses 17 to 22. Cain knew his wife, and she conceived and bore Enoch. When he built a city, he called the name of the city after the name of his son Enoch. To Enoch was born Irad , and Irad fathered Mahujael, and Mahujael fathered Methushael, and Methushel fathered Lamak And Lame took two wives. The name of the one was Adda, the name of the other Zillah. Adda bore Jabal, and he was the father of those who dwell in tents. And have livestock. His brother's name was Jubal. He was the father of all those who play the lyre and pipe. Zilla also bore Tubul Cain. He was the forger of all instruments of bronze and iron. The sister of Tubul Cain was Nama. And Lamech said to his wives, oh no, I'm saving that for the next point. We're saving Lamex uh Pride and decadence for the next point. What you see in these passages, 17 to 22, is the development of culture and society. And I want us to understand common grace is what enables that to happen. God's grace upon all mankind is what enables mankind to continue. And we continue and we develop culture, we develop social society, we play they we play instruments, we build houses, we build cities, we have livestock, we develop Different things, forger of instruments of bronze and iron. You have the development of culture. Humanity goes on. Society develops because of God's common grace. It allows things to continue despite our constant rebellion. Common grace includes the restraint of sin. Did you know that God is always restraining sin in the world? He's always restraining sin. You you we cannot begin to imagine what what just one city would look like if God were to remove completely his providential restraint of sin and just let only sin and nothing else have its way. Common grace Includes the preservation of order, the natural order of things. Common grace includes the provision of life and breath. And sun and rain and food and clothing and shelter and enjoyments and work and rest and family and gift after gift after gift after gift that comes to all from God. Common grace. And what's the practical application of that? Well, number one, gratitude. It's got to be gratitude. God gives us good gifts as signs of His goodness. God gives us enjoyment. and food and rain so that we would uh daily be reminded that he is good, so that our hearts would be full of gratitude, so that our hearts would be full of love. Now you know that's not the message of the world The message of the world is not God is good, give him thanks. But that is the reality. God is good. Every day we wake up is a mercy from God. Every bite we take is a mercy of God. Every sip we take is a gift from God. Every breath, every day. It's a gift from God. And we need to be a thankful people. How do we shine the light of Christ in the world? Well, one of the ways we shine the light of Christ in the world is just by being thankful. By being thankful for all that God has given us and by being the people who talk about that, who talk about God has given me this, God has given me that, and thank you God for providing this. And we needed this and God gave us this. And you know we don't have these things over here, we don't have as much a as them, but God has given us this, and God has given us this And you know what? We're just thankful. Thank you, God. We should exude. We should shine forth gratitude and thanksgiving for what God has given us. That's one of the ways, one of the central ways, I would argue. To shine the light of Christ in the world. Matthew five Verse 45 is just one example of a verse on common grace. He makes his son rise on the evil and on the good. And sends rain on the just and on the unjust. And in fact, that verse is a verse that's telling us teaching us how to love our enemies. Don't just love just your friends, everybody does that. But love your enemies. Pray for those who persecute you And bless those who curse you. Love your enemies. And as a model of that, as a teaching point for that Jesus makes this point about common grace, and he's saying, God is already doing this. He's loving his enemies. God is leading the charge on this. He's showing kindness and grace to those who have made themselves enemies of the Now you show love and you show grace and you show mercy and you show compassion. That's how we shine the light of Christ. We do not reflect the vengeance of the world back on the world. Amen? We do not reflect a spirit of revenge and bitter anger back on the world, but rather from the inside. From heaven down to our hearts from the inside, shining love and grace and compassion and mercy in the spirit of common grace. As part of our witness, brothers and sisters, a big part of our witness is our attitude. A big part of our witness is our character. A big part of our witnesses to how we talk to people, how we talk about people, how we talk about our enemies, things we wish for our enemies, those who have made themselves enemies of the Word of God. And all of that is supplemental to now here's the heart of our witness is the truth of God's word. Number five, the fifth aspect. Number one, we had religion. Number two, we had crime. Number three, we have justice. Number four, common grace. Common grace, God's gifts to mankind besides salvation. That's what enables history to continue, this culture and society to be built. The reason it continues is because God has a purpose and plan to work out. He's not letting it continue just Just for the sake of it, but he has a purpose and plan to work out, a purpose of salvation. Number five, we have decadence. Number five, the fifth aspect of life on earth in this sin-cursed world is decadence. Decadence, which will come from verses we'll see in verses 23 and 24. Tell me if you see this out in our culture and society. Decadence is the indulgence in godlessness. Do you see any of that? Do you see an indulgence in godlessness? It's a giving of oneself over to moral decay, a celebrating of immorality, glorying in evil. That's what decadence is. And it Lammock Said to his two wives, verse 23, Adam and Zillah hear my voice. You wives of Lamech, listen to what I say. I have killed a man for wounding me. A young man for striking me, if Cain's revenge is sevenfold, then Lamech 's is seventy-sevenfold. If you thought Cain was willing to kill. Way do you get a hold of Lamac? And that's him saying this. If you think Cain was Stirred up by a spirit of wicked vengeance and murderous hatred, waity get a load of lament. That's what he's saying, singing, declaring about himself to his two wives. There was a young man who stood up to me, a young man tried to attack me. I killed him for it. That's verse 23. I killed him for it. And basically he's saying in verse 24, and that's just the tip of the iceberg. That's just A piece of what I'm willing to do. Have you ever seen in human society, human history, a glorying in violence? A glorying in murder, a glorying in vengeance, and it's wicked, all of it is wicked and against God's will And we must be on guard against the devil's schemes so that we do not let the root of that grow up within us. The bitter, wicked Root of vengeance. Vengeance is not ours. God has not called his people to pursue vengeance. Vengeance is the Lord's. He will repay. Now justice belongs to the civil authorities, and that is the Lord's vengeance against crimes, Romans 13. But God 's people have not been delegated the responsibility of carrying out God's vengeance in the world. That's up to God. We're to be the shining light of Christ. Decadence, indulgence, and godlessness. Well, I know that you see those things in our culture. I know you see the glorying in violence in our society. What's the answer How will things change in our culture? This is the million-dollar question, isn't it? How can we have an improved moral fabric? In our culture? How can we have a redirected ethical compass in our society Well, there's only one answer, and it's a very simple answer. The only answer, the only solution is God changing hearts through the gospel of Jesus Christ. That will be on the final exam. Okay? This is the only answer to society's ills, is God changing hearts through the gospel of Jesus Christ. Because when God changes hearts through the gospel, that changed heart produces changed morals in that person And now those changed morals in that person produced changed actions in the world. And they produced changed pursuits in the world So you have we're all lost, we're all sinners until God changes us and saves us by the gospel. He gives us new hearts. That now with new hearts we have new morals, new principles of ethics. And because of these new morals and new principles of ethics Now our actions and pursuits start to be transformed and start to come in line with God's word instead of being in rebellion against God's word. And now with new actions and new pursuits based on new morals, based on a new heart, with those new actions and pursuits. Now all of us, we go into the world in all the various aspects of life, And we're living in a new way, representing God's truth, representing God's will rather than the will of the flesh. And that's how society changes. That's how a home will change. That's how a home will change. That's how a culture and society will change. And that's all that's called, and you know what that's called. That's just discipleship. That's discipleship. Sinners who've been saved by grace, they have new hearts, new morals, new actions, new pursuits. Going home to live according to according to what God has made new. Going at work, going to school, going into our our hobbies and our habits, wherever we go, representing New life in Christ to be the shining light of Christ. There's no shortcut. There's no cultural change. There's no political change. There's not nothing can happen apart from God changing hearts Through the gospel of Jesus Christ. Now that's simple. I'm not saying that's easy, but that's a simple formula. That's a simple equation. And brothers and sisters, that's not my design. That's God's design. God's design for this whole era of history, from the ascension of Christ to the return of Christ is his people spreading the gospel so that sinners can be saved and changed by the gospel. And then what that happens when you get enough saved sinners in a place that gather together to be the church and then they join the work. They join the work of spreading the gospel. So that the gospel can continue to spread, continue to change lives, continue to impact society, continue to make changes and moral improvement and culture, continue to establish churches Local churches are God's design for his kingdom. To organize this kingdom, to advance his kingdom. So get in on this with God. Get in on this with God. Pour ourselves into the local church, the worship, the learning, the fellowship, the ministries, the giving. Get in on it with God. Because why? Because you want the changes in culture and you want the changes in society. But to get those, you need new actions and new pursuits. But to get those, you need new morals. And to get those new morals, you need new hearts. And to get new hearts, you need what? You need the gospel of Jesus Christ to save sinners. It is not unwise to pour ourselves into the spread of the gospel and the work of the local church. This decadence is real in the world. We are called to be the shining light of Christ in a sin-cursed world. The shining light of Christ centrally in the gospel, the shining light of Christ in the sin-cursed world is the thing that delivers sinners out of the curse of sin and into the light of Christ. And as one sinner is added, and another sinner is added, and another sinner is added to the kingdom of Christ, the light of Christ shines all the greater. And that's what we mean when we say advance of the kingdom of God. We think of advance going this way, but the way the kingdom advances is by sinners being brought into the kingdom by the grace of God. Ephesians 5, 8 to 11. Paul writes this to the church, for at one time you were darkness. But now you are light in the Lord. Walk as children of light, for the fruit of light is found in all that is good and right and true. And try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. We all should be trying to do that, right? Trying to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. And then verse 11, take no part in the unfruitful works of darkness, but instead expose them. Number six, the last aspect. I got into this already instead of waiting for the point. I got too excited. I couldn't wait. But number six is the church. Aspect of life on earth. This is verses 25 to 26. The church, by which I mean assembly of God's people to worship and serve Him. That's what church means. Assembly of God's people to worship and serve Him. We've been called out of the world. We've been gathered together. We've been assembled to worship and serve God. Verses 25 to 26. And Adam knew his wife again, and she bore a son and called his name Seth, for she said, God has appointed for me another offspring instead of Abel, for Cain killed him. To Seth also was born a son was born, and he called his name Enosh, and at that time people began to call upon the name of the Lord. That means congregationally. You already had believers. But now you have formally, publicly, the people of God gathering together to call upon the name of the Lord. And they would they would worship God for his greatness and power. They would remember his promise of a Savior. And they would express their love for God. This is what worship is. They would express their love for God. They would express their gratitude for God. They would express their need for God. This is worship. They would call upon God in worship. They would call upon God in prayer to help them with their various needs. and to lift their requests to God. People began to call upon the name of the Lord. That's what we're doing this morning. We've gathered together, we've assembled as a church to call upon the name of the Lord, to worship him, to express our love, to express our gratitude, to express our need for him, trusting in him. And that's part. That's part of the life of the church. That's part of the life of the Christian. This is not a peripheral thing. This is not an optional thing. This is not a side issue. This is central to God's design, central to God's will for all Christians to be faithful, active members of biblical local churches. Again, that's God's design, not ours. This church, this assembly of God's people to worship and serve Him, this Offering that Abel makes in faith that's acceptable to God, that's commended by God, these things are only possible because of the sacrifice of Jesus Christ. In history, payment for sin had to be made. In history, a righteous life had to be lived Now Jesus has done both of those things on our behalf. Because those are the two things that need to happen for Matt to get to heaven. And those are the two things that need to happen for you, for you to get to heaven. You need to have the penalty of your sin paid for, and you also need to live a righteous life in every single way. And none of us have done that. So that's strictly hypothetical. And leads to only one way to get to heaven. Is Jesus doing both of those things on our behalf? Jesus lived a perfectly righteous life. And his righteousness, which he earned, he earned righteousness. He obeyed God in every way. He'll give you that righteousness as a gift if you believe in him. And when he died on the cross, he took the penalty of sin. He bore our guilt in his body. He bore our shame in his body. He took the wrath of God as our substitute. And if you believe in him, he took the wrath of God as your substitute. So you see, we're only left with one thing for all of these details, all these different aspects of life on earth, the sin, the suffering, the common grace, the whatever. On an individual level, you're left with one thing. Do you believe in Jesus Christ? Do you believe in Jesus Christ? If you believe in him, your sins are forgiven. If you believe in him, you're reconciled to God forever. If you believe in him, you go to heaven when you die. If you believe in him, you'll be risen on the last day to dwell forever with God in glory. If you believe in him. So we close on an invitation. Come to Christ. Come to Jesus Christ as your salvation. Leave the pride of the world behind. And humble yourself and receive Christ. Leave the decadence of the culture behind. Leave the violence behind. Leave the immorality behind and come find. Freedom and holiness and rest in the Lord Jesus Christ. Leave the old behind and receive a new heart in Jesus Christ. If you're burdened for your soul, if you need to talk more about the condition of your soul, if you want to learn more about this gospel of Jesus Christ and how it creates new hearts. I beg you, I beg you talk to one of us after the service. Anthony and Jeremiah will be in the back. I will be up here. We are ready to receive you. If that's embarrassing for you, just email us this week Call us, text us, let us know. But behind it all, what needs to be happening in your heart is seek the Lord. You know that God promises that If you seek him, you will find him if you seek him with all your heart. Seek the Lord, seek his salvation, seek his goodness, seek his grace, you'll never regret it. No one who's ever found the grace of God has ever regretted it. Ever. Those who truly found the grace of God have never been upset about it later. So seek the Lord while he may be found. Today is the day of salvation. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have provided a Savior for us. We thank you for your Holy Spirit. We thank you for your providence. We thank you that there is a hope in this world. And we do pray for our culture, our society, our nation, our leaders. We pray for many hearts. Many hearts, widespread conversions, and turning to Christ in faith for the salvation of their souls. It's in his name we pray. Amen.