The words we'll examine tonight come out of 1 Peter chapter 5 verses 1 through 5. 1 Peter chapter 5 verses 1 through 5. Talking about shepherds tonight. Hopefully the first thing that comes to your mind is sheep. You can hear the word shepherd, that's very intentional. Scripture uses this term to talk about what we refer most of the time today as pastors, elders. Overseers. Alright, this word shepherd, and we're going to talk about this imagery and the impact it has here. But tonight I want us to spend time talking about the structure of God's church, how He has organized it, who He has brought into it, and who He The Lord has called to lead his people, to lead his church. And in Peter and other places in Scripture, we see this word shepherd. When Kenzie and I lived in Europe, some of our favorite things to to see were when the the herdsmen, the shepherd, would move their flock of sheep right down the streets of the city. And you get stopped. I'm sure in the Middle East you probably have a similar uh uh wonderful issue. It is a problem, but it's a great problem uh that they would just they would move their sheep and the the cars have to stop. Uh I remember Kenzie sending me a video of her sitting in a car and the car's rocking is all the sheep. are passing by her. And then in the back here comes a few dogs, a donkey. Usually hanging on the donkey is a is a saddlebag with one or two lambs in it. I think either they're real young lambs They just can't do the long walk. But I also think that there's probably just some bad lands in there and that the shepherd's tired of chasing them, so he's gonna tie them to the donkey. Until they get to the next place. And then here comes this man who is rugged, he's dirty , he is weathered by the sun and the elements. And if we got too close to him, I think he would also have a smell of the sheep. And he is the shepherd. It's the person that cares for the sheep, moves them around. Uh just just so you know how how uh much Kenzie and I love this, if we would see sheep poop on the road, we would get in the car and chase it down. Like, all right, we're gonna follow this trail and hopefully find sheep. It's just something we love. Uh so if anyone wants to buy sheep And start having sheep here on the church grounds. Trustees. Jeremiah, I second it. That's a motion I can make tonight. We raise sheep here. But let's talk about shepherds. The the man that that is with these sheep, guiding them, protecting them, instructing them, providing for them, healing them, correcting them, all of the aspects of what the shepherd does, that's the same imagery That Scripture gives for the pastor. The pastor's here to care for God's sheep. Don't hear this as an insult. When we're called that we are the sheep of God, we are his flock. This is not an insult. Sometimes Sheep can be unintelligent. This isn't that. What we're talking about is that we belong to God. And here on this earth, And this point in history, he has organized us to gather together in the local church, and he has established leaders to care for us within the church. Church, and we call them shepherds. Alexander Sha writes some great books. Um this one book that this quote is taken out of is called Paul's Vision of Biblical Eldership. And he has a wonderful second book called Paul's Vision of Biblical Deacons. And both of these books are wonderful. He lays out the biblical positions for these two functions and roles within the local church, what they are, uh he gives some some different views because there's some There's some fun debates within the church and denominations of what these two roles are. But in his book on elders, Alexander writes this, elders, jointly pastors They jointly pastor the church. They teach the word. They protect the church from false teachers Exhort and admonish believers in sound doctrine. Pray with a stick and judge doctrinal issues. You see, the role of the pastor is not just limited to the pulpit on Sunday mornings and Sunday evenings. You see, that's a huge part of it. The preaching of the word covers a lot of these things that he talks about, teaching sound doctrines, exhorting and admonishing, uh judging doctrinal issues. A lot of that happens from the pulpit. But a lot of the shepherd's work is down in the crowd with the sheep. But it has to be revolving around the Word of God. It has to be revolving around the Word of God as the element, as the tool to guide, to correct, to direct, to lead, to Everything the pastor does, the shepherd does, must be focused on and built off of the Word of God and the glory of Christ. Everything. So as we talk about this role of what a shepherd is and how they're functioning, we must first recognize that the shepherd's role is to glorify God while caring for his people. His role is to glorify God while caring for God's people. And tonight I want you to keep this in mind of the shepherd and the sheep. The the human version of that, the the smelly shepherd and the the foolish sheep. I want that to be forefront of our minds because that's the imagery that the Lord gives us to think about I think as we unpack that, it will help us regularly be reminded of the role of the shepherd and to give glory to God in all things. So let us look at 1 Peter chapter 5, starting in verse 1. So I exhorted the elders among you, as a fellow elder, and a witness of the sufferings of Christ, as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight, not under compulsion, but willingly. As God would have you, not for shameful gain, but eagerly, not domineering over those in your charge But being examples to the flock, and when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of Glory. Likewise, you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another. For God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Shepherd, God 's call for the leaders of the church. We must first understand who is the flock. So we're going to get into the shepherd leading the flock, caring for the flock. It's very important for us to know who is the flock. We have that here in Scripture. The flock is the flock of God. Look at verse 2. Shepherd the flock of God. The people of God. Now, how is one a people of God? How does one become a sheep of God? How is one considered to be part of the family of God? Well we see in John 10, verses eleven and fourteen through eighteen, a lot of talk about Jesus being the shepherd. And those that hear his voice are of his flock. And John loves this imagery of the sheep and the shepherd of Christ, in that uh he opens the gate when he calls for them, the sheep hear his voice And they respond. But essentially, those who is the flock, to answer that question, we can say anyone that has been redeemed by the blood of Christ are part of the flock of God. Let me say it again. Anyone that has been redeemed by the blood of Christ are part of the flock of God. Or, in other words, all Christians. All Christians are part of the flock of God. Now, this is what we would call the universal church or the universal flock. Is that it's everybody all over the world that have faith in Christ, doesn't matter the ethnicity, the age, the background, the language. None of that matters. If they have faith in Christ, they have been redeemed by the blood of Christ, they are considered the flock of God. But then when we start to talk about these specific letters to specific people in specific regions In this history, we recognize that the flock, while it's universal, it's also what we would call local. If you heard this term, the local church, simply put, the local church or the local flock is the uh group that is gathered together in a specific location, i. e. North Hartford Baptist Church We are a flock of God's people that gather together to worship the Lord, to serve God, to hear the preaching of his word, so on and so forth. But we have a specific gathering. And because of that specific gathering, the Lord then instructs us to establish elders over us, or shepherds. But we must see, we must comprehend that every believer is part of the flock of God. Everyone. And then we see expressions of that in as we gather together as local churches Just to be reminded, this is what Peter's letter is all about. Peter's whole premise is to talk to the Christian, to talk to the saint, and to encourage them. In the times of trial. And 1 Peter 1, verse 3 says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, according to his great mercy. Here it is. He has caused us to be born again to a living hope. How? Through the resurrection of Jesus Jesus Christ from the dead to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation, ready to be revealed in the last times. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. so that the testigeness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes, though through though it is tested by fire, may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus. Christ. We belong to God. We are his people. Therefore, if you've been redeemed by the blood of Christ, you are called a child of God. And in this analogy, in this illustration, you are considered the child. Flock of God. So, John, if I call you a sheep, it's not an insult. On Wednesdays, it may be an insult, but right now it's an encouragement. We see that this is this is our identity. Why wouldn't we say that we would want to be in the flock of God? What holds us back from being proud that we are we are part of the family of God? He's using this imagery. I don't care the mindset of a sheep or whatever the role of the sheep is in society and the world. All I know is I'm a sheep owned by the creator of the universe. I'm happy about that. I rejoice in this. This is important, though, that we recognize that only those redeemed by the blood of Christ are considered the flock of God. Why is that important? It's because those that don't profess faith in Christ, those that aren't believers, aren't considered the flock of God, comma, yet. Right? We hold out with the preaching of the gospel, the work of the Spirit. That person could come to faith, and then they are considered the flock of God. But we must delineate, we must have a division that there are those that are part of the flock of God, right? They've been redeemed by the blood of Christ, they're part of the flock of God, and then there are those that are not. And this is why we preach the gospel. We believe that those that are not, that are dead in their sins, can be brought to life by the work of the Holy Spirit and faith in Christ, redeemed by the blood of Christ, and be brought into the flock of God. But we must have that division. Because as we talk about the role of the shepherd and their function, it helps keep them focused on the right people. It helps keep them focused on the right people. And you are well aware of this within your own families. Right? You have your children. Some days you love them, and then the rest of the days you love them even more. Right? Right? Good? That's how it works. But they're your children. And you're okay with other children. You like other children. If another child was in need. You would take care of them, you would help provide for them, but you're not going to abandon your children to go help my child. You're not going to say, okay, I'll let all my children be now malnutrition uh they won't have any food, they won't have an education because Dorothy Wilson needs her snacks. And needs to be taken care of. So I'm going to abandon my children to go take care of them. Wait, you wouldn't do that. That's not how we think. Well, likewise, we don't do that with these flocks. You 're the flock of God. That's who you're closest connected with. That's who you commune with, and that's who the shepherd is called to lead and to care for. While we love the world, not because of who they are, but we love them enough to preach the truth of Christ to them. We uh hear me. Me as a shepherd of this church, I will not abandon North Hartford Baptist Church Saints because I think it would be better for me to go deal with the the world and the sinner in the world and let me go Uber love them and completely abandon you guys over here. That'd be false. That'd be wrong. Doesn't mean I don't evangelize. It doesn't mean I don't go and love them and care for them. But if I misplace my loves because I don't understand who God has called me to shepherd and to care for, it'd be great harm to So who is the flock of God? Anyway, anyone that has been redeemed by the blood of Christ. They are the flock of God. This thing brings us to our second point. Just for your knowledge, point number two and three will be the longest. So if you get nervous that we're getting real close to time and I'm not done with point three, it's fine because point four will be won't take too long. Alright? But point number two, who are the shepherds? Alright, so we see that we have the flock of God. And then we have this imagery of shepherd laid out here. In verse 2, Peter's instructing them: Shepherd, Shepherd, the flock of God. Shepherd, pastor, be an elder, be an overseer. Of the flock of God. So who are the shepherds? Well, the first shepherd that we must recognize is Jesus Christ. Christ. He is the chief shepherd. Jesus is the chief shepherd. This comes from verse 4 Verse 4 says, And when the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the unfading crown of glory. And we know that Peter's whole purpose of this letter is to encourage the saint. in the time of suffering because they are waiting for the return of Christ. So who is who are the shepherds? The first shepherd we must acknowledge, we must think about is that Jesus is the chief Alright, so if we were in a hierarchy system and this was a corporation, you would have the CEO, I think, is the highest person, the president of the organization, right? This is Jesus Christ. He is head over all the sheep. He is head over the entire flock. All those that have been redeemed by Christ's blood belong to Christ. It just makes sense. He's the one that has purchased them with his blood. He is the chief shepherd. Hebrews 13, verse 20, says, Our Lord Jesus, this is the title that the author then gives, Our Lord Jesus, the great shepherd of the sheep. He's the Great Shepherd. So he's the Chief, the Great Shepherd, the Supreme Shepherd, the Head Shepherd. All other shepherds that will be mentioned must first go to the Chief Shepherd for their guidance and instruction. All other shepherds that we're going to talk about must first recognize that Christ is King, Christ is the one in control of the flock, and we, the shepherds, are just operating under his command. And his authority. And this will protect the flock. This protects the flock from abusive shepherds. But when we must have that Christ is the chief shepherd. But then that brings us to the other shepherds. Because Peter's not talking to Christ here. Peter's not saying in verse 1, so I exhort you, Jesus. As a fellow elder, no, he's saying, I exhort the elders among you. He's talking to others. He's not talking to Jesus. But we must recognize, and Peter recognizes, that Jesus is the Chief Shepherd, the Supreme Shepherd. He sits at the top. But then we have what I will refer to as Under Shepherd. The Under Shepherd works under the authority of the Chief Shepherd, under his guidance and instruction, and only under his authority. And that's what Peter is talking to: the under-shepherds. And he's calling these elders. So I exhort you in verse 1, exhort you the elders among you, as a fellow elder. So he's recognizing that he is part of this class and a witness of the suffering of Christ. As well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed. And then here's what he says: Shepherd the flock of God that is among you. You see that the you have the chief shepherd and then you have uh under -shepherds, but the under shepherds don't have a leader and guidance and authority over the universal flock of God. Alright? What's happening is he's making it specific to the region. Shepherd the flock that that the flock of God that is among you. With you. In your presence. Alright, so when we're talking about under shepherds, when we're talking about pastors, We use the common vernacular force. When I'm talking about pastors, I am not a pastor of the Universal Church of America. Right? I don't have authority to go into any other Christians' lives and tell them this is how we do things, this is what you will do in your church. No. God has called me and established me as the pastor here at North Hartford Baptist Church. Right? We even within the Southern Baptist Convention, this is one of the things the SBC prides themselves in, is that it's autonomous churches. There's not a hierarchy structure where the president of the SBC can come down to Pastor Matt and say, this Sunday, you will preach and then give him some pastor. He can encourage it, he can suggest it, but he's not a universal pastor that has authority to shepherd any single flock that he feels so desired to. We see that God has established Christ as a chief shepherd, and then has set up here on this earth under shepherds to care for the local expressions of God's flock. The question must be asked, who are the shepherds? Who are these shepherds? We see that Scripture gives a lot of evidence of who qualifies to be a shepherd. Who qualifies to be a shepherd? And then we'll check out what their role is. But firstly, this is the most basic premise that we see in Scripture. Is that the shepherd, the pastor, the elder, the overseer, the presbyter , the presbyter, whatever you want to call it, their role or the person that is to be the shepherd is a godly man. That's the first criteria. Is a godly man. This comes out of verse 1. So exhort the elders among you, that's a masculine word, as a fellow elder and a witness to the sufferings of Christ. So the witness of the sufferings of Christ reassures that they are talking about belief in Christ and then as well as a partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed, who will receive the glory revealed? Are the saints. Alright, so that's the premise here. But now what we'll do is we'll look at 1 Timothy. So please turn, if you have your Bibles, to 1 Timothy chapter 3. And Jeremiah read this, so I'm not going to reread the entire passage. But within this list, we see that godly men are called to shepherd the flock. But then those who qualify, it becomes even more specific. And it's very important that this isn't just a general opening. Then anyone that has the feeling, anyone that professes faith in Christ, you should be a leader of God's people. You should lead the flock. You're sure. You're a Christian, go for it. Do we do that with our government? Do we do that do would you do that in your workplaces Oh you saying, oh yeah, oh oh you've you you have a checkbook? Go ahead run Google balance the books of Google, right? We don't do that. And why? It's because you want qualified people, you want qualified people to be in the leadership system. And even more, we want qualified people that God has established, the qualifications for that role, and we want qualified people to be in the leadership system that God has established. Established, not man, that God has established. So we don't have enough time to elaborate on every single qualification, but I will give just a quick annotation about each and every one of them out of 1 Timothy. So, who are the Undershepherds? It's those that are in charge of the local flock. And the very base is that they are godly men. Godly man, that's what Timothy's laying out for us as well. Godly man. And then here he starts to lay out a list of other qualifications that must be thought about. Above reproach. Above reproach. One that isn't sinning regularly and outwardly, that is, that can just constantly, you can keep bringing in accusations against them. Uh well no Anthony can't be your pastor and then you can just come in and say he was drunk at the bar last night. Anthony can't be the he can't be your pastor. He just got he just got fired from his job for robbing them of This is that above reproach that these sins are that aren't just in the open and being flaunted, but the sins that have been committed, which will be committed by all saints, are being confessed. But this above reproach has a very high bar. There's not an accusation that just diminishes your identity and diminish even more, diminish the identity of Christ. We hear stories all the time of pastors having to step away from a pulpit in their ministry because of adultery. Because of sin. Stealing. And you go, oh, that's so terrible. And you do feel bad for that local church that's going through that experience. But you know what the world likes to do with that also? Look at those Christians. Yeah, look, I might as well be a Christian. The pastor is sleeping around. Right? It's an insult to the name of Christ. When your pastors are not above reproach. So that's why in Timothy we see that's the start, above reproach. Then we have a husband of one wife. In today's context, we we get really twisted up in this, and and we do talk about divorce, that's a big aspect of it. But especially in this time, we are talking about only having one wife. Numerically, one wife. Why? Is because it wasn't that foreign for someone to have multiple wives in that time. It is very regular. And most of the time what was happening was these people that were pagans living after uh their own pride and and worshipping false gods, had multiple wives in whatever way they got to that situation, then come to Christ Alright, so now they're they're born again. They have three wives. This is what First Corinthians is dealing with is what do you do in that situation. Um so now they have three wives and what Timothy's instructing is that yeah, you you don't need to Promote them and make them leaders of the church. They of course they can be born again, but we see that you should be a husband of one wife. And now we understand even more of that of the protection of those that uh are divorced. Uh could think about the the imagery and some of the issues that are behind the pastor that's maybe been divorced two, three, four times and Comes up here and starts preaching and there's there's issues there. So we see a husband of one wife sober minded Often we jump right to alcohol, but we know that can't be only the only thing talked about here because later on talks about being a drunkard. But sober-minded There's plenty of instances where alcohol is not in our system, but we are not sober-minded at the same time. It often happens when your favorite sports team is losing the championship. It often happens when you're enraged driving in Baltimore traffic. Right? The sober-minded. Are you a person that regularly is out of your mind, out of control, which leads into the next point, which is self-control? Is your pastor someone that is bursting out in anger and frustration? Someone that is on these mood swings of highs and lows, making decisions based off of their feelings in that instant, self-controlled. Many of these are very logical. You think, yeah, this is this makes sense that you want a leader of any organization, especially the flock of God, you would want them to have these characteristics. Self-controlled. Respectable. I think that's an internal one. When we're talking about respectable, within the flock of God, is this person respected? But do they have the respect of others? Hospitable? Are they open to communing and talking with others, to welcoming others? Able to teach. This is a unique one, especially compared to the second part of that list in Timothy about deacons But here we have that elders are able to teach. Now, why would they have to be able to teach is because we know that one of their roles, one of the primary roles, is to Preach the word. So you've got to be able to preach the word to instruct on the word of God to help those understand who God is and his word. Not a drunkard, so not drunken to wine and to alcohol. They're gentle, dealing with issues out of gentleness and kindness, not quarrelsome, not getting into fights and arguments. Not a lover of money. Not a lover of money. New flesh. The shepherd of the church is not a Big investment. You're not you're not gonna become rich off of this career. And if they're a lover of money, they'll always be seeking a scheme of making more money. Manage the household well. That's that's a big s chunk there in Timothy But we can look at the pastor's household to get a glimpse of how they lead within their home, which then will help us understand how they lead within the church. So that's an example we can look at that's that helps you understand their leadership style and structure. Manage the household well. Not a recent convert. Uh there's not a time limit on this one, but uh if someone comes to Christ tonight and then tomorrow they say, I want to be a pastor, I meet all the qualifications, I only have one wife, I'm sober minded, I'm respectable, we would say, Well that's That's good, but let's hold on a little bit. You have a lot to learn. You have a long path of growth ahead of you, as we all do But there's a lot to learn. You're not ready yet. And then lastly, well thought of by outsiders. Are we hated by the world for the right reasons? Or are we hated by the world for the wrong reasons, i. e. we're just rude and disrespectful? Are we hated by the world? Are we not uh uh thought of well by the outside because When we get in a heated argument, we cuss them out. Alright, so thought of well by the out uh by outsiders. What I don't ever want this to become is to say, well, when we go to let just Z you've heard it. I got to hear a testimony of someone else preaching the gospel in the streets. When you're preaching the gospel, there's plenty of outsiders that hate your message and hate the truth that you're speaking. And if you would go and say, Is Anthony well respected by you? They would say, Absolutely not. I hate his guts. And you would say, Well why? You know, why do you not think highly of him? Is is he been Rude to you? What's the issue? And says, Oh, well, he told me XYZ, the truth of Christ. He told me I was a sinner in need of salvation. And I hope you guys would clap and go, Oh, yeah, that's the kind of guy. you would want in that position. So well thought of by outsiders is not based off of human standards, but based off of God's standards. So who are the shepherds? We must remember that the shepherd is the chief Christ is the chief Priest, and then he has called under-shepherds, godly men, to lead his local flocks. What is the role of these shepherds? What is the role of the shepherd? I have five examples here, or five things I think we can take from the imagery of a shepherd and from scripture to understand the role of the shepherd. And I'll give you all five of them right up front. It is to lead, to feed, to mend, to discipline, and to defend. Lead, feed, mend, discipline, and defend. Pester Matt would have had them rhyme or would have had all the letters starting the same I ain't that guy. I ain't like that. He likes to wrath in his free time as well, I think, is why he can do that. But yeah, leave, feed, men, discipline, and defend. And we'll unpack this. But here's what we must recognize about the shepherd. The shepherd must have these two things forefront on his mind when he is shepherding the flock. He must love the chief shepherd, and he must love the flock. He must love the chief shepherd and he must love the flock. If either of these two things, if the loves are lost in either one of these categories, He will fail as a shepherd. Must love the chief shepherd, Christ Jesus, and he must love the flock. So to lead. We see this coming out of verse 3 or verse 2. Shepherd the flock of God that is among you, exercising oversight. That word exercising oversight is part of that leadership, not under compulsion, but willingly. So they sh this shouldn't be you're forced into it. You just drew the short end of the stick. short straw. That's how the Amish churches do it, just so you know. So don't become Amish if you don't want to be put into a risk of becoming the bishop. They literally draw straws. So you're not forced into it. You're doing it willingly because you love the chief shepherd and you love the flock. As God would have you, not for shameful gain, but eagerly not domineering over those in your charge, but being examples to the flock That's the key word, being the examples to the flock. That's why that bar and that qualifications of who are shepherds should be high, because we, the shepherds, are the example to the flock, even in our failures. Even when we sin and make mistakes, we are the example of one that confesses and repent of sin and turns to Christ. The shepherd is the example. So what is this leading? Leading is the given the giving direction and purpose to the flock. Psalm 23 just resonates in my mind whenever I'm thinking about the shepherd and uh that God leads us to lie down, leads us to still waters. There's this this I understanding of that He guides us and He leads us And that's what your shepherds should be doing. Your pastors are doing. We are giving direction to you and purpose to you. And you may not ever hear us say, This is your purpose, Jeannie, this is your direction. Miss Lorna, but I sure hope you hear us pointing to Christ in every single message we preach. Every single time we sit down for discipleship and for uh counseling We deal with issues, we address problems, but we are putting your eyes and your hearts and your minds to focus on your purpose as a child of God. To keep your eyes on the glory of Christ. To always be pointing you to Christ. Pointing you to Christ. In your broken marriages, we point you to Christ. In your depression, we point you to Christ. In your suffering, we point you to Christ. In your joys, we point you to Christ. In your evangelism, we point you to Christ. We are constantly leading you. to Christ. This is the direction and the purpose that the shepherds should be doing is leading you. You you come to me and you say, I think I'm called to the mission field. Amen, brother. Amen, sister. Let's talk about that. And let's talk about how you glorify Christ in the mission field. Anthony, I think God has called me. to serve on the trustees. Amen, brother. Now let me point you how you will glorify Christ serving the trustee. You see that? That every aspect of what the pastor is doing is leading by giving direction and purpose, and that direction and purpose is to the glory of Christ. That's the leading aspect of the shepherd. The second one is the feeding. Feeding. Give the nourishment they need. Sometimes we see some real skinny sheep in the flock. I'm not talking about your waistline. I'm talking about the spiritual food that we have. There's something Sam said this morning, I think he probably just read it out of scripture, but he talked about how uh even our enemies, we if they're hungry, we give them food. And if they're thirsty, we give them a drink. And yes, an amen, we're talking about a physical meal and a physical drink. But there's something that happened to me this morning, and maybe I'm just a fool for never catching it But the ultimate food and drink that we're providing them is the truth of Christ. It's the truth of Christ. How loving you are to your enemies. When you provide them the bread of life and the eternal fountain that flows out of heaven. The blood of Christ. This is uh that's a complete side note, but that's what we are talking about when we're talking about feeding. The shepherd is feeding you. It's nourishing you with the word of God. I said there's some some uh very thin, skinny sheep up there. It's because a lot of the sheep in the flock Just aren't in their Bibles. They're not studying the Word of God. They haven't tasted and enjoyed the Word of God as God has instructed them to They think that they can be fulfilled and filled up with the works of their hands or the good deeds they do or the positive thoughts they have, but rarely are some of these sheep thinking about the nourishment and the fulfillment they get from sitting under the preaching teaching of God's Word and the studying and examination they do in their private So I'm going to point to my life. Me as the shepherd, my role is to be feeding you the Word of God. I'm not feeding you Anthony's good advice. Ten steps to becoming more like Anthony. It'd be a lot more than ten if we were going to do that. Supposed to be an insult to myself. I hear that not sounding that way. That like it's gonna be really hard to become me? It's not. Like drop out of college a few times, join the army, you'll figure it out. But what we see here Is that we are feeding you the word of God. We want the nourishment of your souls, beloved. The shepherds look at you. you with love and want you to be in love with the great chief shepherd. And we know the only way that happens is through feeding on his word. So we are feeding you, we are nourishing you. Mending. This mending is the healing or the helping the hurt, the broken, the downcasted. We know this is very common in the shepherd. When a sheep is injured, they're the ones to point on put on the ointment, to carry the weak, to mend the broken leg. And likewise, that's what the pastors are to do. Beloved, hear me. If you come to me and you say, I am burdened in this, I am just downcast in this. My marriage is going down in flames fast. I feel conflicted about this conflict at work. We're going to sit down and we're going to talk about it. Why? It's because God has called me as your shepherd to love you. And to care for your pains, your hurting, your sorrows, your mournings. It's easy to celebrate the weddings. It's easy to celebrate the births. It's easy to celebrate the baptisms And the challenge comes when someone comes and says, My marriage is messed up And I go, I hear you, brother. I hear you, sister. The only thing that you need, and the only thing that I can do as a shepherd, is to guide you to Christ. The true healer, the chief shepherd that mends all wounds, cares for all sorrows, lifts up the head of all those that are mourning. This is what the shepherd does. So let me just hear this call if you are one of those sheep that is herding tonight. Pastor Matt, myself, Jeremiah, we're here. As good shepherds to mend and to care for you, to love you as God has commanded us. The fourth aspect and role of the shepherd is the discipline. The correcting of the wandering. Correcting the wandering. Think about Matthew 18, verses 15 through 20 is often what we talk about or refer to as church discipline And we see that if you have a conflict between a brother, you go to them. If not, then you bring others into it, then you get the elders involved, and it's this whole process to deal with sin and to deal with those that are wandering away from the flock. We miss, though, that the parable that's right before that example in Matthew 18 is about the lost sheep. So Jesus is talking about the lost sheep and then goes right into what we call church discipline. That's one of the roles as the shepherds is we are to discipline Now when we think of discipline, we're thinking of you know the paddlings that you got as a kid, or the timeouts that maybe you got, or you know, y excommunications that we talk about at the end of Matthew 18. and church discipline. Let's often, most of the time of discipline uh within the the church is not to those extreme. Hey, none of it's paddling. I to be clear, not gonna happen. Not for me. Jeremiah, you do that as you see fit. He works with you So maybe it's a little different. But no, this discipline is the correcting. You know, there's plenty of times where a question or a thought or this idea is brought up. Well, maybe Jesus didn't really die and he did X, Y, and Z and then three days later he appeared. There needs to be some discipline there. If you're thinking that this is where the correcting happens, often happens very casual in a Sunday school or just in a conversation, go, no, brother. No, no. Right here, scripture tells us that. And that issue is dealt with and is moved Don't. Rarely does it does it go up to these higher levels that or levels that we see in Matthew 18. But but the good shepherd, a good shepherd must be willing to discipline. Why? Not out of malice. Peter says, not out of domineering, trying to overpower and uh make sure you are the authoritative figure. Notice because we love the sheep. I see a sheep wandering away from the flock and going off with some crazy sin or crazy idea and theology that completely Rejects the gospel, I want to make sure that I do all I can to guide that sheep back to the flock of God. And Hebrews gives us this warning that some will leave. And we we are uncertain of that, but we must uh the shepherd must discipline, must fight to correct the wandering because we believe that they will return to the flock and be forgiven by Christ. This brings me to the last role of the shepherd is to defend. Is to defend. Fight the wolves that appear. Fight the false doctrines, the false teachers and preachers that are trying to come into the church, try to tickle your ears with every cool and fun topic that the year 2025 has given us. They try to come in and distract the flock of God from glorifying God, and by doing so, they are devouring the sheep of God. And the shepherd is here to defend. We will not allow just any Joe Schmoe to walk in off the street and get up here and preach and to teach some exact school to try to influence you. It's part of why we do interviews when someone becomes a member of the church. A, we want to ensure the profession of faith is genuine. as we understand it, we hear their their testimony. But we also want to sniff out are they coming in with a another motive? They're coming in to try to get into the flock and and then take off the fleet And show that they're truly a wolf and try to destroy the flock of God. The pastors are here to defend the wolves because we love the sheep God has So the roles of the shepherd is to lead, feed, mend, discipline, and defend. And then lastly, how should the flock respond to the shepherd? We see that in verse 5. And I'll end here. Because we can pick this verse up uh next week, as we finish First Peter. But likewise you who are younger, be subject to the elders. Clothe yourselves, all of you, with humility toward one another, for God opposes the proud, but gives grace to the humble. Flock, you should be subject and humble to either your shepherd. God has placed them over you. God has placed them as the leader. And we see that this subject and humility has been the theme of 1 Peter. That we are to be subject to all these different organizations, the civil government, and the household. And now he's saying also within the church. Too often we think we're only subject to the President of the United States, but we don't care about what happens in the church. But here, the instruction is to be subject, and all of this, and all of us, including the shepherd, is clothed with humility. And next week, as we finish 1 Peter, we will talk about the This humility and this humble spirit that all Christians are to have. kind of sped through the that last verse we'll pick up but I I pray this was beneficial and and helpful for you to understand the role of the shepherd and the role of God's flock. Let's go before the Lord in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have made us your flock. You have redeemed us by the blood of your Son. You have called us yours. And Lord, now may we walk in obedience to you. May we seek your wisdom in all things. May we trust your working in all things. We pray this in the name of Christ. Amen.