Let me go ahead and pray for us and we'll begin. Father, we thank you. You created the world. You created us. You are working out your purpose every moment of every day, every day of every year, working toward your ultimate purpose. We're thankful to have a seat at the table. We're sinners. And yet you've been merciful to us. We've rebelled against you, yet you've made us your children. We've sinned and are worthy of a sentence of death, and yet you've bestowed upon us the gift of eternal life So we have nothing to do and nothing to say but to worship you and to praise you and to ask for your help and to say thank you, Lord That we come to your word this evening. We pray that you would encourage us. We pray that you would convict us of our sin, but show us your grace in Christ that we may rely on him more. See him more. Rejoice in him more. Help us. Teach us. It's in his name we pray. Amen. So, for those of you who who didn't hear this the section, uh the very beginning of what I said tonight was about five or six weeks ago, I tried quoting a Part of a kingdom parable off the top of my head. As I was quoting it, I knew it was wrong. I checked it when I got home and I was wrong. I did it backwards. So let me read the parable fully and correctly from Mark 4, 26 through 29, and then uh go to another verse that I think in my head I was combining the two and that's what that's why I messed up. Not making excuses, it was wrong. But uh Mark 426, and he said, Jesus said, the kingdom of God is as if a man should Scatter seed on the ground. Right? So that's the picture in our heads. A man scattering seed on the ground. What's that a picture of? It's the kingdom of God. He sleeps. And rises night and day, and the seed sprouts and grows. He knows not how The earth produces by itself. This is what I said backwards. I said grain first. Grain comes last. I said grain, then blade, then ear. It's actually the earth produces by itself first the blade. Then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. But when the grain is ripe, at once He puts in the sickle because the harvest has come. That's that fully ripened grain. The crop, the harvest, that's produced by the power, the kingdom of God First the blade. It's talking in terms of what that man sees. When he scatters that seed, he goes to sleep, he wakes up. He goes to sleep, he wakes up. He goes to sleep, he wakes up. W What does he see first? He sees first the blade Then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. Why did I say grain first? Well, I turn to John 12 Twenty three The agrarian metaphors are all over the New Testament, especially the Gospels and Jesus. Teaching ministry. They're used in some different ways. The field , fruit, trees, grain, crop, harvest. See that they're all over the place. Here's another one. Uh John 12 23 This is uh Jesus talking about his death. When Jesus answered them, the hour has come for the Son of Man to be glorified. Truly, truly I say to you, unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies. So now here the grain is first. You picture the grain not being harvested at the end of a kingdom growing process, but the grain falling to the earth and dying. Unless a grain of wheat falls into the earth and dies, it remains alone. That's true. If you leave a grain on the counter, it's going to remain alone. But if it dies , It bears much fruit. Whoever loves his life will lose it, and whoever hates his life in this world will keep it for eternal life. If anyone serves me, he must follow me, and where I am, there will my servant also be. If anyone serves me, the Father will honor him. Alright, so Jesus in talking about his death pictures himself as a grain of wheat falling to the earth and dying to create a harvest of resurrection life. And it's just another aspect of the kingdom of God. And uh anyway, the grain comes first. But in Mark, the parable that I in my mind was consciously trying to quote five or six weeks ago, it is not the grain, it's that harvest. that comes at the end. First what? First the stalk, then the Yeah, first the blade Stalk blade and grain. All right. Now, Second Thessalonians. The day Jesus is revealed, the day of vengeance and glory. We introduced this study last week. We introduced the Four main points. Number one, that the day of Jesus, the day Jesus is revealed is the focus from 5 through 12 The day Jesus is revealed will bring God's righteous judgment. We'll begin here and probably end here this evening. I really want to Go deep into this day of God's righteous judgment, the nature of that judgment, and just drive that point home as m as much as we can All of the Bible leads to this day that we're talking about, and then the consummate state of glory that follows. The day Jesus is revealed will bring God's kingdom to final glory. And the day Jesus is revealed gives us perspective in this life. Go ahead and read verses 5 through 12 in 2 Thessalonians 1, and then we'll go ahead on the second point. The righteous judgment of God. And so if you want to pick something out as we're reading through, try to pick out things that are about that because that's the one we're going to focus on. Verse 5. This is evidence. Of the righteous judgment of God. Do you remember from last week what the word this is referring to when he says this is evidence? Patience and faith. Per perseverance. The persecution. Yeah, the persecutions and deflictions above. And it's related to the perseverance. I mean that's what they're persevering through. Persevering through these these persecutions and deflictions. That you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God for which you are also suffering, since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you. And God considers that just. It's not just for me to go and try and repay with affliction those who afflict me. That's God's duty. He's not uh, what's the word I'm looking for? He's not delegated final vengeance and wrath to his church And to grant relief to you who are afflicted, as well as to us, when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels In flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God, and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. So the vengeance has now broadened. At the first mention, it was specifically those who were involved in what? Persecution against the Lord's church. Now it's broadened. Now who does it include? Those who do not know God and those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ, which is two different ways of referring to the same group of people, unbelievers. It is not only those who persecute the church. Verse 9, they will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction. Here's the specifics of what that means. Away from the presence of the Lord, away from his favorable presence. And away from the glory of his might when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints. And uh when will they enter into this punishment? When will they be exiled from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might? When he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints and to be marveled at among all who have believed. Because our testimony to you was believed. To this end, we always pray for you that our God, now here's the paragraph, here's the verses for number four, gives us perspective in this life. To this end, we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling and may fulfill every resolve for good And every work of faith by his power. Well, if God doesn't help us do those things, those things will not happen. Right? Doing good. Right? Works of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you and you in him, according to the grace of our God in the Lord Jesus The Lord Jesus Christ. The day Jesus is revealed will bring the righteous judgment of God since Most of almost all of what we're going to do is going to be more of a uh maybe a systematic or a theological delving into this point. Let's go ahead and front load one more time looking at the verses that this doctrine comes from in this paragraph. The reason we're delving into this doctrine is because it's a central doctrine in this paragraph. Alright. So first of all, verse 5. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God. So right there. He opens up the main topic of this paragraph, the righteous judgment of God. And then also verse six. God considers it just. Just gives you the idea of justice. You can think of a court of justice. God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you. So here you see. Judgment, a specific judgment coming for specific crimes. God considers it just. No, let's see. Verse 7. The Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels In flaming fire, inflicting vengeance, and flaming fire is a biblical imagery for God's judgment, his destructive judgment. You think Sodom and Gomorrah. Fire is used to Symbolize other things, but it one of the definite uses is an image of God's righteous judgment, destructive judgment In flaming fire, inflicting vengeance. There you have it again. Okay, so God's righteous judgment, and God repaying with affliction, and now here inflicting vengeance. on those who do not know him and who've rejected the good news of Christ. And then verse 9, suffer punishment. Suffer punishment of eternal destruction. Away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might. Now when we say that we're saved , We are saying that we're saved from these things, all right? Concrete realities, things that will happen Judgment hovers over us as long as we are spiritually outside of Christ. And the only way to be delivered, the only way to be saved from that judgment that hovers over us is to be united to Christ by faith. And sharing the benefits and the blessings of his work of redemption. It's the only way to be saved, to be in Christ, to be spared of these very things in this paragraph. Righteous judgment of God. So before I go on, is it is that clear that in the paragraph that that's what this is about? Okay. So what does it call for? Number one, it calls for repentance. This is the number one application. The number one application is this calls for repentance. God calls all sinners everywhere to repent. And as a church, part of our duty, central to our duty, is preaching the good news of Christ. And calling sinners to repentance, urging all to come to repentance so that they can be spared of this. This really will happen. And we don't want people to experience this. We want them to be saved. We want them to have eternal life and eternal blessing in Christ, in the presence of God. So number one, application is personal, practical repent. And then secondarily connected to that is our duty to call others to repent and to expand and reason from Scripture like Paul why they need to repent. I want to talk about a general judgment. There's a day of general judgment that is consistent in Scripture. We cannot look at all of the verses, but I want to look at a sampling of verses. that that there is a day of a general judgment coming. First of all, Acts 1731 At the end of Paul's message, Paul's preaching, the Areopagus, Mars Hill in Athens. And in verse thirty one he says, because he, God Has fixed you know actually look at the end of verse 30 because it picks up on what where we just left off with the application. But now he commands all people everywhere to repent. Because, verse 31, he has fixed a day. He has fixed a day on which he will judge the world in righteousness. By a man. If you're an underliner, you can underline man. There is a man who will execute the judgment of God in righteousness. Who what man? Christ. Jesus Christ. Jesus Christ. Whom he has appointed. And it's uh specifically referring to the ascension there in Christ's kingship in heaven. as Lord in Christ. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. So the resurrection here is the basis of Paul's argument. He's not trying to give historical reasons or historical proofs that the resurrection happened. He knows the resurrection happened. It's the resurrection that is the proof of a future judgment. Executed by the one who is risen from the dead. You see, and of this, of what? Coming judgment, of this, he has given assurance to all By raising him from the dead. The man. The man whom he has appointed The one through which he'll judge the world, he raised him from the dead, proving this is the one who will judge the world. Because he has fixed a day. On which he will judge the world. And a common phrase to summarize that very first clause of verse 31 is this, Judgment Day, or the day of judgment. So he's fixed the day. Second Peter two nine Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until The day of judgment. All right. Day of judgment So judgment is going to occur on a what? Fill in the blank on a day. Romans 2. 16, a related verse. Romans 2. 16. There is going to be a day of general judgment Judge the world in righteousness Well go to ver uh go to verse 15. No , I think this is in a uh later point too. So I'll go quickly here. They show that the work of the law is written on their hearts, this is talking about Gentiles, while their conscience also bears witness, bears witness to what? That the law is written on their hearts. And their conflicting thoughts accuse them or even excuse them. On that day when, there it is again, don't miss that D word. On that day when, according to my gospel, this is part of the gospel. God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. Very simple picture. Christ is the judge. He's coming back on a day, and on that day he'll execute judgment from the world in righteousness. Judgment Day, a day of general judgment. One more, John 5, 26 I like to well I try to say whenever we get to things like this, doctrines in this category of study, and if you if we miss the clear and the obvious Once we get to the details, we'll just be in a maze of speculation and confusion and endless debate, and it will not be edifying, and we'll miss what God wants from us. We'll miss the the point. But if we can get what's clear, if we can get what's obvious, we'll have a good perspective, we'll understand what we need to understand, to live these things out, and th then to not get lost in In speculation and confusion. John five, beginning in verse twenty-six For as the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself. God's the only being, he's the only thing that has life in himself. None of people don't have life in ourselves. Nothing has existence of itself. God is alone is self-existent Not only Father has life in himself, it's granted the son to have life in himself, and he has given him authority to execute judgment. Right? So consistent. Bible's consistent on this He's given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man. And you see that in Daniel 7. I think it's 13 most specifically. Daniel 7, 13. The Son of Man approaches the Ancient of Days, the Ancient of Days appoints him, gives him the kingdom, and appoints him with supreme authority over everything, which includes being judged. So that's why it says him to execute judgment because he's the son of man. Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming when all who are in the tombs will hear his voice. So, an hour is coming. Here's the main phrase I want us to see there. All All who are in the tombs, right? All general judgment. All who are in the tombs at this hour, one hour, all who are in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. Those who have done good to the resurrection of life and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. Now you tell me if that could get more simpler in terms of the picture of what's happening. Son of man is going to return to execute judgment. And at that hour, at that time, like when this happens, right? It doesn't mean it's literally this is going to take one specific hour, right? 6. 22 to 72. It just means at that time, when this happens. When this is happening. Number one, subpoint. Here's your preaching points, right? Roman numeral one, all, all who in the tombs will hear his voice and come out. It's a general resurrection. And then, Roman numeral two, those who've done good to the resurrection of life, and those who've done evil to the resurrection of judgment. The sheep and the goats Judgment in Matthew 25 is also a clear picture of this. One judgment separating. It's an event of separation. Through singular event for all. On one day, at one time, one hour, separating. Alright? So if we can get the clear and overarching picture of this day of general judgment, we have a good footing. Now what Will we be judged for? Let's look at some specifics. One, two, three, four, five, six. Seven specific things, and then one overarching. All of these seven things are just subcategories under underneath the main thing. But they come from verses of scripture, so we we can learn from them. First of all, what will we be judged for on this day of general judgment? Number one, behavior Ecclesiastes twelve fourteen For God will bring every deed into judgment, sobering, sobering thoughts God will bring every deed into judgment with every secret thing, whether good or evil. There's some of our deeds that we've done. in life that if there were a video put up on the big screen on Sunday, we'd be so mortified we would move to um Siberia and never come back. And we're thankful that God sees us with true grace and true mercy and true forgiveness. It's beyond comprehension. And he really does see us that way. As white as snow because of Christ, because of the blood of Christ. Think about our deeds. Ecclesiastes 12:14. God will bring every deed into judgment. Second, words. God help us all. Words we've said about people, to people, about God. about others. Matthew 12, 36, I tell you, on the day of judgment, there it is again. I tell you, on the day of judgment, people will give account for every careless word they speak. Every careless word. Third, thoughts and desires Romans two sixteen. On that day, there it is again On that day when, according to my gospel, God judges the secrets of men by Christ Jesus. That's the one we just looked at. Secrets of man by Christ Jesus. The things that are in here. The things that are in here Secret to the world around us. Secret to your friends. Secret to each other. Secret to your pastor. Secret to your co-workers. Secret to your wife. Secret to your kids. Secret. All of our secrets The invisible things. Your deeds are visible. Your deeds are concrete, outward. And your words too are audible and they're outward. They're concrete things. But your secrets, your thoughts, your desires, your motives. Invisible will come under judgment because why? That is part of who you are. And those also are sinful acts of rebellion against God that do not bring him glory. Deeds, number one, words, number two, secrets, number three, or as I've called it on the outline, thoughts and desires. Number four teachings, teachings what we teach others specifically about God and anything related to God. James 3. 1. Not many of you should become teachers, my brothers. For you know that he who that he who teach teaches will be judged That we, we who teach, typo, will be judged with greater strictness. Always got to give a qualification here, and I almost hate doing that because I don't want to lessen the weight of how this verse Should bear down on us and how important teaching is. Can't just be saying things about God and about Jesus willy-nilly. Or about the Bible. We 've got to be careful with what we teach, because it's impacting and influencing others in the most important topics there could ever be. The qualification is, like you would say with any other warning, the true believer will never come under God's judgment. It's impossible. It's literally impossible. Just as impossible as it is for an unbeliever who dies in unbelief. Just as it's impossible for them to receive eternal life, it's equally impossible for a true believer to receive eternal condemnation. The worst judgment, the worst judgment of judgments, I believe, will be for false teachers within professing Christianity who lead others astray using the Bible, using the name Jesus, using words like church and faith and Holy Spirit, blasphemers. Spawn of Satan on this earth teaching is something that should cause us to pause And that's why he says, because he's writing this book to the church, James, he's writing it to Christians. It's not just like a secret group of false teachers. Hey, just wanted to let you guys know over here, you're false teachers, and there's a strict judgment coming. It's a warning to believers. To take heed and grasp the weight, the gravity of teaching. Christianity is a teaching and preaching faith or a teaching and preaching religion. This is how the kingdom of God, the word of God, spreads through preaching and teaching. Not many of you should become teachers. I think it's one of those verses. There's probably many of them, but I've got a short list in my head. That in modern evangelicalism we've either completely reversed or just ignored altogether. It doesn't say, yeah, anybody can be a teacher as long as they're willing and they have the time. It doesn't say that. It says not many should become teachers. And it's very, very serious stuff. Stuff that keeps you up at night. Alright, number five. What have we said so far? Number one was what? You guys remember? Yeah. Come under judgment for behavior. The Bible word was deed, I put behavior, and then words, and then secret things, thoughts and desires, number four, teachings. Number five. The example we set for children. Check this out. Matthew 18, 6. But whoever causes one of these little ones who believe in me to sin, it would have been better for him to have a great millstone fastened around his neck and to be drowned in the depth of the sea. Jesus was a vivid preacher, but I just That would have left you your jaw on the in the dirt. Said this because you see some of the vignettes in the gospel of the children being turned away and Acting like they don't matter, acting like they're a bother. Jesus says, unless you humble yourself and become like these children, you won't enter the kingdom of heaven. Whoever causes, whoever is the cause of, one of these little ones, one of these children who believe in me to sin, you lead a child into sin. By your example or by your teaching, or whatever, the way you treat them, you lead them into sin, you lead them away from Christ. It's better for you to have a giant stone fastened around your neck and to be tossed Into the sea. And just die right there on the spot. Rather than having this kind of impact and influence in the world. Why is it better for that? Because the worst judgment Because here you have, it looks like there's some kind of false teaching or some kind of false spirituality that's leading children astray in spiritual matters. So you're going to keep live keep living and keep doing this and keep judgment upon judgment upon judgment upon yourself. It's better for you just to die and get it over with than have this impact and lead children astray I don't want to be strong on that, but think of what Jesus says. He said it's better you'd have mill screwed tied around your neck and thrown into the sea. I didn't say that. Jesus said that. We've got to be very, very careful with the example that we're setting for children. Our example is just one example. You can come up with a whole list. The example we set for children and how we prioritize the body life of the church. Which is ground zero for kingdom of God service and for discipleship. Well, really, the home is ground zero. But in terms of the gathered body, the church. And the ministry, ministries, and the worship, and the learning, and the praying of the church. We should model discipleship for children. Because children are like what? They're like sponges. You've heard it a thousand times. The example that we set for them is very, very important. We are going to be judged for our behavior, for our words, for our thoughts and desires, for our teachings, for the example we set for children, the spiritual influence, or spiritual impact we have on children. Uh number six. Go ahead, read it. Woe to the world for temptations to sin, for it is necessary Yeah, that's a great one. That's a great one. So that was verse seven of Matthew 18. It was right after the one we read. So your vehicle, your conduit of temptation in the lives of others, woe to you, which is the opposite of saying, blessed are you. Woe to you. It's a pronouncement of judgment. Yes. So this um this general issue of the influence and example and impact we have on others is very important. Now uh number six, and this is general We'll be judged for our response to God's revelation. We will be judged for our response to God's revelation. Luke 10, 13 through 16. Luke 10, 13 through 16, woe to you, Khorazin, and woe to you, Beth Saida. But now this paragraph is coming back to your mind. If you've heard this before, you hear those two sentences and you pretty much know what's coming. Woe to you, Chorus, and woe to you, Besseda, for if The mighty works done in you had been done entire in Sidon , through godless places. But if the mighty works Done in you had been done there, Tyre and Sidon, they would have repented long ago, sitting in sackcloth and ashes. Now what mighty works is he referring to? Jesus is talking about his own Earthly ministry, mighty works. Nobody performed works the way Jesus did. And there are other miracle-working men at select times It was uh pretty much just Moses and Aaron, and then Elijah and Elisha, and then Jesus and the apostles. That he gave authority to perform miracles, and then apostles could give that authority in the early church in the apostolic age to others. No one did the amount of works that Jesus did. Work after work after work of all different kinds, healing paralytics, giving sight to the blind. Raising the dead, healing sickness, casting out demons over and over and over. Woe to you. So they, what did they do? Even in the midst of God's climactic revelation in the person of his son and in the works of his son, they still rejected God's revelation. So he says, Woe to you, woe to you. Verse 14. Verse 14. But it will be more bearable in the judgment, the judgment, singular, for Tyre and Sidon than for you. See if Tyran Sodon, godless places, could be more bearable for them than for Khorzin and Beth Said. Why? Because their rejection of the clearest most obvious, most obvious, most powerful revelation of God in human history, the earthly ministry of Christ. Verse 15, and you, Capernaum, will you be exalted to heaven? You shall be brought down to Hades. And now he says this to the disciples. The one who hears you hears me. The one who rejects you rejects me. And the one who rejects me rejects him who sent me. So now also God's revelation in his word, the message of his disciples. Carries with it the authority of Christ and the presence of Christ. So if you eject the message, today we say the message of Scripture Or the true gospel, if you reject that message, you're rejecting Christ. You're rejecting Christ, you're rejecting the Father, and you're rejecting the Holy Spirit. So there's a judgment. There is a judgment coming. One more. Turn to Jeremiah 6. The false religion and worship. Now, if you read the prophets, I mean this is all over, this is typified in the prophets. Because of the uh national form of the kingdom under the old covenant. Jeremiah 6, 20. Let me get there first before I So what you see in a typological or in a typified way for national Israel, you'll see in an eschatological way in a consummate way in the final judgment. So they had earthly blessings. uh graces from God, earthly blessings for the for the old covenant. But they were dependent upon their obedience as a nation. And of course you know the story. You know the Old Testament. Were they as a nation, were they obedient or disobedient They're disobedient. I mean that's understatement of the year right there. It's horrible, woeful sin and rebellion against God. And One of the things you see from the prophets is you find out that Israel, Northern Kingdom and Solomon Kingdom, actually were quite religious. It's not let it's not that they neglected religion altogether, she was a false idolatrous religion, oftentimes mixing what God had revealed to them in the in the Levitical faith, the Levitical religion. and worship with pagan worship, Baal worship and other things. And it was it was disgusting and it involved prostitution and corruption and taking advantage of the poor. I mean you even see that in when Jesus is turning over the the uh tables in the temple courts in his ministry they were using the religious structures and worship that God had revealed for for capitalistic or for mercantile purposes to make money to make a profit turn it into a House of idolatry and moneymaking, profiteering. No, people still do that today with religion. But anyway, so you but you see this idea of judgment for false religion and false worship all throughout the prophets. Jeremiah 6, verse 20. What use to me is frankincense that comes from Sheba? Or sweet cane from a distant land? So really fine things. They weren't being cheap for these offerings. Your burnt offerings are not acceptable. Not acceptable. Nor your sacrifice is pleasing to me. So the outward form of the offering of the sacrifice, the outward form of the religion. Guys, it means nothing. It means nothing apart from the true heart, true worship of the living God. Therefore, verse 21, therefore, thus says the Lord, Behold, I will lay before this people stumbling blocks against Which they will stumble. Fathers and sons together, neighbor and friend, shall perish. 22, thus says the Lord, Behold, a people is coming from the north country. A great nation is stirring from the farthest parts of the earth. Why is that great nation stirring? God is stirring that great nation. This great nation is going to be God's vehicle of judgment against The false religion and false worship of his chosen nation, Israel. And that now as a nation that that judgment for that false religion and losing those typological blessings Foreshadows eschatological judgment for all false religion, all false worship. So now there is a list, but I mean that's an abbreviated list. We'll come under judgment. Here's that general point, that umbrella point, for breaking of God's holy law. For breaking of God's holy law. And all of those are just examples of how we of how we do that. It's just giving a taxonomy of how people transgress God's law. Breaking of God's holy law brings a sentence of death. The standard is righteousness. You don't have to turn here, but um you can if you'd like. Psalm 98. Psalm Nine, eight. Well, we'll do seven and eight The Lord sits enthroned forever. He's established his throne of what? Of justice. So you have him enthroned as a king judge. And he judges the world with righteousness. He judges the peoples with uprightness. That's his standard. His own character is the standard, the standard of righteousness. Psalm 96, 13 is another one. I mean you can cross-reference these out on your own. Look at the marginal references, look at the footnotes. If you have enough time, you can study this theme out throughout all of Scripture. This idea of judgment. The Bible is a book about redemption and judgment. Redemption in Christ for the glory of God, and judgment against God's enemies for the glory of God. Those two strands define history and the outworking of God's purpose within history He's restraining his judgment now so he can fulfill and finish his purpose of redemption. It's the purpose of redemption that's the centerpiece. But The strand of judgment is important also. Psalm ninety-six thirteen Well, I guess you pick it up in the middle of twelve, right, where the sentence starts. Then shall all the trees of the forest sing for joy. Before the Lord, for he comes. He comes to judge the earth. And he will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. God is a righteous judge. He's a merciful redeemer, and he's a righteous judge, both and And that's the kind of that's the kind of judges we want in our counties, in our nation, are those who are truly righteous. And are not corrupts, and who will uphold the law, not violate the law, and who will give fair judgment, also will be merciful and compassionate compassionate And not harsh and unforgiving. It's got to have wisdom there. No man can do that. God can do that. God is perfectly just, perfectly holy, and he's also perfectly merciful and all-wise and all-knowing. But this is the standard. God's holy law. God's revealed will. Breaking of God's law brings a sentence of death. And I have just a few verses on that. And then we'll move on. Romans 6, 23. Now this doesn't wake us up to the need for evangelism, to the need for true biblical missions. I don't know what will. You know, if this doesn't create a compassion and the sadness and the burden for the loss, I don't know what will. The wages of sin is death. Romans 6 23, for the wages of sin is death. But so here's your way out. The free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Now wages of sin is death. That means that death is deserved. Death is earned by our sin. The principle of law or the rule of law is if you obey, you receive life. If you disobey, you die. The tree of the knowledge of good and evil was there in the garden. And Adam was told, don't eat of this tree. If he would eat of that tree, what would happen? He would die. He would surely die. Dying you will die. Penalty for disobedience is death. But what was the other tree? Like. The tree of life. Representing the reward of life. Conditioned on his obedience, a reward that we now find received and fulfilled in Christ, that we can we can share in in Christ. Turn to Still on this still on this subpoint of just trying to understand the rule of law, the principle of law, because this is the standard of Judgment, behind God's judgment. Deuteronomy 11, 26 and 28. Just wanting to drive this home a little bit, 1128, 1126 in Deuteronomy. This idea that obedience brings life. This is under law. Disobedience brings death. So what do you have under the principle of law? You have two things: you have a promise. You have a threat. You have the promise of life, you have the threat of death. The promise of reward, the threat of punishment. This is the when you're under law, that's your situation Now getting ahead of ourselves for those under grace not under law, the law has no authority to give us the threat of death. And the law also has no authority to promise us life conditioned on our obedience We're not under the authority of the law. We're not under the law. We're under grace. We've already received life in Christ. We've already been spared and saved from the threat of death. If we're not under law, we're under grace. But if we're not under grace in Christ, Where are we? Still under law. So this stuff is very important. When you're thinking about your evangelism and thinking about your friends and thinking about how, you know, just thinking about the state of man, our own condition apart from Christ. You're still under law. If you're separated and severed from Christ, you have none of the blessings or benefits that are found in him. You're still under the curse of God's holy law. Deuteronomy 11. 26. And God says this, see, I am setting before you today a blessing and a curse. The blessing, if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God, which I command you today, and the curse If you do not obey the commandments of the Lord your God, but turn aside from the way that I am commanding you today, to go after other gods that you have not known. So is that structure, is that paradigm clear? I mean I think it's crystal clear there in the text. The way of life is what? Obedience. The way of death is disobedience. This is the law. The wages of sin is death. The reward for obedience is life. So bring into focus, right? Turning the lens, bring into focus, and Jesus says he's He's come to fulfill the law. One of the ways he does that is fulfilling the righteous requirement of the law, attaining to the reward of eternal life, and then he ascends into heaven and shares that reward for all who come to him This is I mean this is foundational for understanding the gospel. One more verse in Deuteronomy. Deuteronomy 30, 15 Deuteronomy thirty fifteen. And I'm going to read through eighteen. See, I said before you today. Life and good, death and evil. Now, if you obey the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you today, by loving the Lord your God, by walking in his ways, by keeping his commandments and his statutes and his rules, then you shall live and multiply, and the Lord your God will bless you in the land that you are entering to take possession of it. But if your heart turns away, you will not hear, but are drawn away to worship other gods and serve them I declare to you today that you will surely perish. You shall not live long in the land that you are going over to the Jordan to enter and possess. Well, this is why we must preach the gospel. Because it really is true that disobedience to God our Maker Reaps a harvest of death and judgment and eternal destruction. It really is true that Jesus is coming on a day set by God to judge the world in righteousness. We must preach the gospel, the keys to the kingdom of heaven, church wheels. You can grant exodus from the domain of darkness and grant entrance into the promised land of life in Christ through the preaching of the gospel and the power of the Spirit. We're so afraid of wielding biblical authority these days because we live in an anti-authoritarian or anti-authority culture anti -authority society, very rebellious -minded, very lawless-minded So we sa it say things like share the gospel. What we've done is reduce the gospel to uh to an intellectual sales pitch But you see, in Scripture, it's the authoritative and bold and clear proclamation of the gospel that advances the kingdom and transfers sinners into the kingdom of God. It's done with authority. It's done with boldness. It's done using the scriptures. Now, in the eyes of the world, what is that? What does Paul say in 2 Corinthians? Foolishness. It's foolishness. First Corinthians. First Corinthians one into two. It's foolishness. Why would you do that? That's nonsense. That's absurd. And even said, what do you say? It's wickedness. It's wicked to propagate that message. It's mean-spirited. And then many Christians would think that it's weak and ineffective. Well that's that's never going to change people's minds. People don't believe the Bible. People don't believe in God. So if you use that as your message, no, no, no. You've got to use something else to get them in, something else to change their minds. And then we'll bring in the gospel later. It doesn't work that way. The only thing that sets us free, the only thing that sets sinners free from the grip of sin in our hearts and the blinding impact of sin in our minds is the gospel. Is the gospel But the gospel has a context. The reason the gospel exists is because uh the judgment that's coming, the judgment that's coming because we've all rebelled against God's law. We're all Deserving of the sentence of death. Praise be to God. He sent Jesus to save us. And as I uh preached on Sunday, well, as I tried to preach on Sunday from Romans 3, This message is for everybody. This message is for all. We've got to dedicate ourselves to this. This is the heart and the spirit of God to get this message to all, to urge all to come to faith in repentance. We've got to have that spirit within ourselves. Not just going through the motions of outward religion, but really, truly driven by the gospel of Jesus Christ. By the way, it's not only for the for the conversion and salvation of the lost, but it's for our own edification and our own sanctification that we would be gospel-humbled people, gospel-rejoicing people. loving the gospel, hungering after the gospel, each week to be reminded anew of Christ's infinite mercy and goodness toward us. This is the source of spiritual growth. Whether it's the initial growth of being born again or the ongoing growth of sanctification, the gospel is the fountain of life. This is God's revelation of Himself. It has transforming power. That is 2 Corinthians 3. 18 and into chapter 4. As we behold God 's redemptive glory in the gospel, it's Christ who transforms us to become more like Him. So this is how we see God. This is how we worship God. He revealed himself in the gospel. So we preach it, we teach it, we sing it. We talk about it. We grow in it. This is it. This is everything. This is not just for the lost. This is not just for those who are unrepentant and for those who need God. This is for the people of God. We are a gospel people. Always and everywhere. Yeah, severing ourselves from that at the practical level of church life or practical level of our own devotions. You can't. That's the punchline. You can. You can run the plays, and from a distance it may look like you're playing. But there's no actual game because there's no ball. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus It's sobering to meditate on where I would be if you didn't intervene in my life in your sovereign mercy. And so we thank you. And we praise you. And we ask that you would use us however you would purpose to use us. You tell us in your word how you purposed uses, as kingdom servants, as disciples who take up a cross daily, as people who seek your kingdom first. And people devoted to prayer, devoted to your word, devote devoted to missions, devoted to love and care and compassion and service. You've shown us Problem is not your word. Oh dear Lord, the problem is us. The problem is me. I pray that you would transform us, wake us up, stir us up, revive us. Give us repentance, humble us, crush us, bring us to prayer, use us according to the power of your spirit that so mightily works within us. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.