Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. We are uh doing the whole hour on Daniel seven, nine through ten tonight. So the whole hour Two verses. I do have some uh assignments because I need Bible verse readers tonight. And I think I may have more verses than we have people here. So you may get two, maybe even three verses. Let me read the passage and then I'll pray for us and we'll get started. Name of the study is the God You Serve. The God You Serve. Daniel seven, nine through ten. As I looked, thrones were placed in the ancient of days took his seat. His clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head was like pure wool. His throne was fiery flames. Its wheels were burnt Burning fire, a stream of fire issued and came out from before him. A thousand thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him. The court sat in judgment, and the books were opened. Let's pray. Father, we are thankful that you are the one who reigns Over all things. As we take a glimpse into your heavenly court, your heavenly throne room this evening in this passage, I pray that you would humble us I pray you would teach us about your power and that it's right to submit to you and to trust in you and to expect that you will accomplish the purpose that you planned. I pray that you'll give us a glimpse into your holiness. Give us a glimpse also into your mercy as we are sinners. We can only come before you through faith in Christ on the basis of his blood shed on the cross. Father, I pray that you would be our teacher, our helper, our encourager. Sanctify us for your purpose. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Called this study the God you serve. One of the other titles that was in the running, the final running to be the title for this, was God Himself. God Himself, because that's what we're focusing on tonight, is God Himself. This is a vision into God's throne room. teaching and the message and the meaning of this vision of this passage is about who God is. And there's so many different uh passages and sections of scripture and so many different Things you could Bible study about something God says, or Bible study about something God does, Bible study about something God requires, something God promises, on and on and on. This is about God Himself. The God you serve. Now I need volunteers and then at some point in the and they're going to be in order, so you'll have an idea of when your turn is next. When you're on deck. But I'll call on you to read it. So be ready. And when you read it, proclaim it. Read it with Gusto, project. Your teaching voice, project. Psalm ninety-five three. Denise? Is that good? And Psalm ten sixteen. John, we can just go in order. John, can you do that? Psalm ten sixteen Lorna, you've got an important one here. Exodus 15, 18. Is that you good to do Jeremiah 10, 10? And we do one? I forget your name. I know you're Lynnette 's mom. No, you don't have a Bible. Okay. Tom? Uh actually no, we'll all go to this one. Because this one's in Daniel. Well go to that. Let's see. Tom Psalm 93 2. Robin, you good to do Isaiah 40 28 And what's next? That one we'll turn to Brian, Psalm eleven, four and five. Four and five of Psalm eleven. Big job. Big job. Two verses. Mark, Psalm 18, 6. And then I have one more, so whoever wants to do it. Alright? Habakkuk Two nineteen and twenty. Now you guys know once I get really into a Bible study, especially on this topic, you know I get all revved up. If I if it's if I for some reason skip you, just raise your hand and say, hey, you skipped me. What about my verse? Okay? Just cut me a Oh yes, thank you. And one last time before I start, does everyone have their She since we're going I usually have three points, sometimes four, we're going to seven. I figured it'd be nice if you had a guide. So number one, the God you serve, the God we serve, is an eternal Verse nine, it is the Ancient of Days who takes his seat. Days who takes his seat. In verse thirteen, if you glance ahead, the Son of Man, or the one like a son of man, approaches the ancient of days to receive The authority, the dominion, the kingdom of God. He is an eternal being. This means he is before all things and super. Superior to all things. He's before all things and superior to all things, which really exposes the silliness of living for trivial material things in the world, of treating the material things in the world as if They're greater than God. It's absolute foolishness. Nonsense. I'm so thankful God liberated me from that life. He took me out of that life, of living as if things on earth are ultimate, all the while treating God, who is ultimate, as a trivial thing He's an eternal being, the ancient of days. He's before all things and superior to all things, of course, because he created all things. He created all things. This is the being that's eternal. We can't even comprehend Comprehend what that means. He has no beginning. He has no cause behind him where that would make him an effect. He's an eternal Eternal being. Who has Psalm ninety-three two? Yep, that's you. No, you don't You don't have that one, do you? That was the third report when you came out. That's you, Denise. Oh you have ninety-five three. Tom, that's you, ninety-three two. Good call. Thank you. Told you I get crazy. I'm writing this down now. Tom, you got it? I got it. Ninety three two Your throne is established of old. You are from everlasting. Yeah, your throne is established From old, you are from everlasting. He's from before time. Time exists because he created things to exist in time. There's no duration in God. Created things Go through duration and they age. His throne is over all things because he's from everlasting. Who has Isaiah 40, 28 Hast thou not known, hast thou not heard that the everlasting God, the Lord, the creator of the ends of the earth, fainteth not, neither is weary. Amen. Again, another the same word that was in Tom's verse. Everlasting. Everlasting. He is an eternal Being. And he doesn't get tired. He doesn't grow weaker. He doesn't get old. He he is who he is and he does not change He can't become less. He can't become greater because he's infinitely great. He's everlasting. He's eternal. Ancient of days. This is the God we serve. A man-made God. This is not a man-made idea of religion. This is the being, an infinite, eternal being that created us and created this world in all Secondly, the God we serve, the God you serve, is the supreme ruler. The supreme ruler. Look at the beginning of verse 9. As I looked, thrones were placed, and the ancient of days took his seat. And then look at the end of verse 10, towards the end, the court sat in judgment. This is a heavenly court. There are thrones. There are different seats of authority. But the one who takes his seat of authority over all other seats of authority is the Ancient of Days. This is his court. This is his throne room. He has supreme authority. Any other authority in this heavenly court is delegated. They receive orders. It's the Ancient of Days that gives the orders from his throne. That's the greatest throne. That's over all. Thrones were placed, and the Ancient of Days took his seat. Maybe parallel to how a judge enters the courtroom last and everyone stands Because in order to honor and respect the entrance of the one who in that room for these proceedings has the highest authority. It's which you have in heaven, God's heavenly throne. room. Thrones were placed. The ancient of days took his seat. The court sat in judgment. He's the supreme ruler over all things. Of course that makes perfect sense, right? That's illogical. If he created all things And he's superior to all things. He rules over all things. He doesn't give that job away. He hasn't given that job away. But he's delegated it through his son. Now Jesus Christ. Now we're to Denise. Psalm ninety-five, three. For the Lord is a great God and a great I love that verse. Psalm ninety-five three. He is a great king. He's a great God. He 's a being. He's a great King. Right? He's not only God, but he exercised exercises his authority over that which he's created. Psalm one, uh no, Psalm 10. sixteen and I think really just the first phrase, but you can read the whole the whole thing. Okay, the Lord is king forever and ever. The nations perish from his hand. Amen Psalm 10 16. The Lord is king forever and ever. That's right. He's not going to relinquish that title. And then what's the second part of that verse? Yeah. That's right. The nations perish. All will come under judgment. And this is why it's so important to be saved and find refuge in Jesus Christ to escape that judgment. That's what salvation is. It's escaping God's judgment through faith in Jesus Christ based on his blood. This is the gospel. Who has Exodus fifteen eighteen? The Lord will reign forever and ever. It's a great one. Exodus Exodus fifteen, eighteen. It's a great memory verse. The Lord will reign forever and ever. Right? The time aspect is so important in in both directions. Looking back from everlasting Uh to everlasting from everlasting. He's ancient of days. And when he think about his reign, he's gonna reign forever and forever. It's not going forever and ever. It's not going to end. His sovereign rule over all things. He's a king. He sits on the throne. He reigns. He rules and that will never end. Who has Jeremiah 1010? He is the true God, he is the living God and an everlasting King. At his wrath the earth shall tremble, and the nations shall not be able to abide his Amen. Yeah, you see all the elements coming together in that one. He's a king, he reigned, forever he reigns, and he is a judge. He is a righteous judge, and he will punish Sin and there will be no escape except but one one rock of refuge, the Lord Jesus Christ. If you were to zoom out and just summarize The story of the Bible. There's different ways you could summarize the story of the Bible because there's different aspects to the story. But one way to summarize the story of the Bible is God revealing Himself as the King and Creator, number one, and as Merciful Savior, number two. He's created all things, and he's therefore king over all things, and he has a righteous standard as a king that we're to Obey, but have we obeyed that righteous standard? No, of course not. We violated his law in heart, mind, word, deed. We are corrupt sinners. That's why the second part of the story Of the Bible is so important because not only is God a righteous king and creator, but he's also a merciful Savior who sent his Son to die, receiving the penalty for our transgression, for our law breaking, for our rebellion. Against this great King, God sent a Savior. He's revealed himself as Creator King. He's revealed Himself as merciful Savior, gracious Savior in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ. I think one thing that's been overlooked uh minimized is the proclamation and the preaching that God is king. He is the king and ruler over all things of righteous and holy. Holy King who requires obedience. That is where you get a proper definition of sin. It's our viol, it's our violation, it's our rebellion. It's our hatred against that God, against our Creator King. And now you can bring in the gospel. So, well, what's the gospel? It's God's grace toward those who rebelled against against him. God. It's God's forgiveness of the sins of those who've transgressed his holy law. So you you cut out this this aspect of God as creator King. Look, that's not just philosophy. That's how we have to understand the world. This is the state of affairs. God is king. And we violated his law. But what's the good news? What's the good news? The good news is that's not the end of the story. God sent a savior. He sent his son to save us, to forgive us our sins, to reconcile us to himself, to make his enemies his friends, to make rebels his children. This is the gospel. Let's turn to the next One together because it's in Daniel. Daniel four thirty-four through thirty-five. Daniel four thirty-four through thirty-five. This is one of the th If not the thing, God was wanting to get across and reveal and teach Nebuchadnezzar. He what remember that one of the titles of one of the stars we did was God wants the world to know that he rules the world. He wants Nebuchadnezzar to know. God wants Nebuchadnezzar to know, or wanted Nebuchadnezzar to know, that God rules, not Nebuchadne And he wants every individual person in the world, every one of us in this room, he wants God wants us to know that we are not the center of the universe. We do not rule, he rules. And we'll just submit that. Daniel 4, 34. At the end of days, at the end of the days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me And I blessed the Most High and praised and honored him who lives forever and ever. And now he recounts And uh chronicles what it is that God taught him about, what God taught Nebuchadnezzar about God. For his dominion is an everlasting dominion. What does dominion mean? Rule. It means rule. It means kingdom. It means the place where God rules. His dominion is an everlasting dominion. His kingdom endures from generation to generation. The idea is there's never going to come. a generation where God doesn't reign and rule. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. And he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven. So on the earth and in heaven, God does what God wants to do, and no one's going to stop him from doing what he wants to do. Among the inhabitants and among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say to him, What have you done? In other words, call into question what God has done and act as if as act as if we're in the judgment seat and we're looking at what God does. And we say, what what are you thinking, God? No. God is in control. God does what he wants to do. And what God wants to do is always Right. It's always right. And there's no standard outside of him. He is the standard. Who is the God that we serve? The God that we serve is an eternal being. The God we serve is the supreme ruler. And number three, the God we serve is Holy. Think about someone in your life or someone in the world in the government who has a lot of authority but doesn't have any character. You don't want to be under that authority. What we have in God is not only the the supreme authority, but the very definition of what it means to be Ethically pure, morally perfect, the definition of what's good and right. Uh back in Daniel seven, verse nine, as I looked, thrones were placed, and the ancient of days took You see, his clothing was white as snow. It symbolizes his purity. It symbolizes His holiness. We've talked about this. I talked about this a little bit, I think a little bit last week. It might have been the week before. What Daniel is seeing in this vision is God 's central revelation of Himself. In heaven is an actual self -revelation of God. God, a self-manifestation of God. And you can think of little examples throughout history where God revealed Himself. How did He reveal Himself to Moses first? How did God reveal Himself, manifest His presence to Moses first? Everybody knows it. You know since you were in kindergarten. In the bush that was burning, quote unquote. Right? It had a fire, but the bush was not consumed. Different ways God manifests his glory on earth. Well, God manifests his glory and reveals himself in the heaven. Heavenly realm as well. There is an actual self-revelation of God in heaven. Here it is uh seen at a glimpse by Daniel. And this being, the ancient of days, representing the manifest presence of God the Father, is wearing clothing. And he sits on his throne. Now we don't I had to make a judgment call here. Through the Bible and even the book of Revelation where it comes to it comes A climactic fulfillment of how white represents the purity and holiness of God. So if you are wearing a white robe in the Bible Or in Revelation. That symbolizes that God has made you holy. That symbolizes that God has made you holy. Now you can be in his presence too, because you've been made holy by the Holy One. His clothing was white as Snow. Now the idea of holiness for God means two things. It first and foremost means that He is highly exalted far above all things. I mean to say far above doesn't even come close. We don't really have words to articulate the distance between God and man. It's an infinite distance. He's a completely different kind of being he's highly exalted far above all other things that's first and foremost the idea of holiness he's set apart he's different he's unique Unique. He's categorically different. He's infinitely better than anything else. Secondarily, which is a an implication of that first one, is that he's pure and perfect in all things. He's pure and perfect in all things. Any thought God has is a pure and perfect thought. Any desire God has is a pure and perfect desire. A Speaking and the way that he speaks it is a pure and perfect manner of speaking. Anything he does is pure and perfect. God is the definition Purity and perfection. What's ethically right, what's morally acceptable, is defined by God, who is exalted, highly exalted, far above all things. In other words, he is holy. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. This is the one we serve. This is the one we serve worship. He is worth he deserves us lifting our voices to him and singing his praises. If the world were to truly do what's right every morning, the whole world would wake up and start singing the praises and worshiping this God, this holy God. Who mercifully reserves his wrath and graciously offers redemption to any who would come to him through faith in Christ. Turn to Isaiah 6. Yeah, let me ask you. That's better than sports, right? That's better than shoes. It's better than food. It's better than TV. It's better than anything. You won't find anything better than this being. This being. Not an idea, not a philosophy, a being. This eternal infinite Creator, King, perfect, holy being, God. That's who I want to have a relationship with. That's who I want to spend eternity with. Praise God. Praise God. He's made himself known to us. Otherwise, we'd have no clue about any of this. First of all, we'd have no clue about any of this. We don't deserve to hear about any of this. I don't deserve to have a Bible come into my life so that I can learn about this God and find the forgiveness of sins and look forward to the hope of resurrection glory with this God. God. We don't deserve it. We don't deserve to hear for these things to hit our ears. But God is merciful and He's made Isaiah six one through five. In the year that King Isaiah died I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne. Isaiah has a vision similar to what we're reading in Daniel. High and lifted up. And the train of his robe filled the temple. So means his authority, his ruling, reigning authority represented by his robe. robe, fills everything. In other words, everything's in submission to him. And above him stood the seraphim. Each had six wings. With two he covered his face, because of the glory of the one sitting on the throne, and with two he covered his feet. Because it's wherever wherever the Lord is is radiant, powerful, holy ground. And with two he flew And one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts, the whole earth is full of his glory. And the foundations of the thresholds shook at the voice of him who called, and the house was filled with smoke. And I said, Woe is me, for I am lost. I am a man of unclean. And I dwell in the midst of a people of unclean lips, and my eyes have seen the King, the King, the Lord of hosts. Then one of the seraphim flew to me, having in his hand a burning coal that he had taken with tongs from the altar. And he touched my mouth and said, Behold, this has touched your lips, your guilt is taken away, and your sin is atoned for. We can go back to Daniel. The God we serve is an eternal being. The God we serve is the supreme ruler. If the God we serve is holy, the God we serve is all knowing. He is all- All knowing. Daniel seven, verse nine. As I looked, thrones were placed, the ancient of days took his seat, his clothing was white as snow, the hair of his head like pure wood That symbolizes in the Bible wisdom. White hair symbolizes wisdom. Symbolizes for a man it would symbolize the wisdom of experience, knowledge, of having received truth. From God, an experience, but for God to the utmost, in the supreme sense, symbolizes his perfect wisdom. He's all-knowing. He has perfect wisdom in all knowing things. Therefore, he demands perfect reverence from all beings. He is perfect wisdom and perfect knowledge and perfect insight into and about all things. Therefore, if we want wisdom, who should we go to? We should go to him. We should pray to him. God give us wisdom. Give me wisdom. I have no clue what how I'm going to deal with the situation. God, give me wisdom. Give me the words to speak. He demands perfect reverence from all Now when we say he's all knowing, don't think about that as some abstract idea. Just think of it first of all in terms that he sees He sees everything about you. He sees everything about me. He sees everything about our hearts. He sees all. Nothing is secret. Who has Psalm 11, 4 and 5? Brian, is that you? Could you read those? in his holy temple, for the Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes see. His eyelids test the children of men. The Lord tests the righteous, but his soul hates God reigning and ruling in his holy temple, and from there, he sees it all. He sees it all. And we can we can keep things hidden from each other. Even those who are closest to us. And we can even fall into the sin of self-deception and In a twisted way, try to keep things from ourselves. But there's no keeping things from God. He sees all and he also tests. He tests the righteous. So put us through times of testing. To strengthen us, to humble us, to show us our weakness, to show us our corruption, but also to grow us and sanctify us. And you there's a lot of character building that happens when you walk with the Lord. He sees all. But secondly, since he's all-knowing, he you know, you know for certain that when you pray, God will What? Your prayers. He'll hear them. He'll hear your prayers. Who has Psalm eighteen six? Is that you, Mark? In my distress I call upon the Lord. My God, I cried for him. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears. Amen. Amen. What encouragement. It's literally impossible for you to pray a prayer that God doesn't hear. It's literally impossible to even Even in your heart to cry out a silent prayer in your heart. It's literally impossible for God to not hear that cry He sees everything about us. The more we're aware of that, it's that's one component, not the whole thing, but that's one component of what will help us in living for the Lord. And it will humble us. And help us be mindful of how we live and help us be mindful of our intense and radical and unceasing need for Grace in our lives. God wants us to see ourselves as people who are in desperate need of His grace. Am I wrong about that? Vince, am I wrong about that or right about that? He wants us to see ourselves as people who are in Desperate need of his grace, and who constantly are looking to Jesus Christ for that grace. Looking to Christ, looking to Christ for grace. But if we don't see our weakness, we won't see our need for grace if we don't see our Sin, we won't see our need for grace. He sees all, he hears all, so we'll hear our prayers, and he also will silence the arrogant, either in this life. Or the next. Habakkuk two nineteen and twenty. Yeah. The whole earth, which is a way of saying all mouths are shut before God. Everyone's accountable. No one has an excuse at the end. And there's the contrast there where you have people who are worshiping idols, crying out to idols. That cannot hear them, or carve out of a piece of stone, or maybe carve out of a piece of a wood and idol and carve eyes into it, but there's no being there that exists and can see them, let alone see into their hearts. They'll carve ears into this thing, this piece of material from the created world. What nonsense is this? And they'll carve ears into it, but there's no being that exists that hears their cries, that can answer Their prayers, but in the end they'll stand silent before God. We should be mindful and thankful that there's a day of repentance. God reaches out and gives us the opportunity to repent. And by his power, the power of the Holy Spirit changes our hearts to love him and know him So, all knowing God, perfectly wise, perfect insight into all situations, he sees all, he hears all, and he'll silence the pride of arrogant man either in the This life or the next. Number one, the God we serve is an eternal being. That's better than serving a being that doesn't exist. It's better than serving things in the world that are not eternal. cannot help us. Number two, the God we serve is the supreme ruler. Number three, the God we serve is holy. I should have put holy, holy, holy. He's the As it's been said, the thrice holy God, just to emphasize his holiness. The God we serve, number four, is all-knowing, and number five, the God we serve is all powerful. Back in Daniel 7, verse 9. As I looked, thrones were placed, the ancient of days took his seat, his clothing was white as snow, and the hair of his head like pure wool. Now his throne was fiery flames. This this blows my mind if there's one thing in one vision Of the Bible. I got to pick where I could say, okay, show me what this looks like. I want to know what this looks like. It's not a throne that's on fire. The throne is fire. It's a throne of fire. This is incredible. And the one sitting on the throne is more powerful and therefore more destructive than the fire of his throne. I mean we can't even comprehend And then it says it's uh its wheels were burning fire. It's like a chariot thrown, it has wheels. The throne is fiery flames, its wheels were burning fire, because wherever he goes is impacted, of course, I mean it's to say the least is impacted by his presence. presence. He transforms the places where he goes. A stream of fire issued and came out from before him. If it weren't enough that the throne is fire. And if it weren't enough that the w chariot wheels on the throne are fiery flames, there's a stream, you picture a giant blowtorch of unending stream of fire emanating from this being This is a God who truly dwells in unapproachable light, the radiance of his presence. Cannot just walk up to this being. You will be disintegrated by the glory and radiance Of what? Of the throne? Well, in the vision, yes, but of him, that's the point. Him, his power, his glory, his radiance. The throne is designed. As an appropriate place of ruling for this being. The other thrones, thrones in verse 9, the other thrones aren't like this. The other thrones aren't like this. There's only one throne like this. It's in God's throne in heaven. Now , why did he go temporarily mad about this fire? Well, because I want I'm setting you up because later in the chapter, later in this vision, there's a person, a human Human being who's going to approach this throne and not be harmed. Alright? We know who it is. We know the end of the story. There's no cliffhanger here. You know that it it's the risen Lord Jesus Christ and the glory of a resurrection body. What the scroll represents. But not only that, he takes his seat on the throne. A human being, our brother, your brother, the Lord Jesus Christ. Sitting on this throne with the Father, reigning over all things with supreme authority. That's Christianity in a nutshell. Our representative. Capital E, capital R, capital E, capital P all the way through. Our representative Representative in heaven. Our representative, covenant Lord in heaven. He's made a way for us to enter this throne room of God and worship with all the angels that we're about to see. He's all powerful. He's unapproachable. Letter A. How long have I been on that point? Now I'm getting to letter A. I think I've already made the point. He's unapproachable. He's unapproachable. Unless he makes a way that we're soup a supernatural provision that we can approach him, he's unapproachable. Unapproachable And he's unstoppable. He's unstoppable. If he wants to do something, he's going to do it. But like I said earlier, the story of the Bible is this God, this being has revealed himself, even this vision. Is a revelation of God, his self-revelation. This is what the Bible is. It's God's self-revelation. And this is what the Bible is about. God's self-revelation. He's revealed himself as creator. He's revealed himself as redeemer. He's made a way for us to not only know him, but to be with him and worship him, to join this heavenly chorus. Holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty. The whole earth is full of his glory to sing that song. And other songs forever in his presence. Friends, he's made a way. He's made a way. He's all powerful. Let's turn on Um oh we have time. We have plenty of time. Exodus twenty four, nine through eleven Just something I thought was a neat cross-reference Now, what covenant is being confirmed and entered into around this time of Exodus twenty four. The Mosaic Covenant. Here we go. Right, the law covenant. The law covenant with the nation Israel. Then Moses and Aaron, Nadab, and Abihu, and the seventy elders of Israel Went up and they saw the God of Israel. They went up, they saw the God of Israel. And there was under his feet, as it were, a Pavement of sapphire stone, like the very heaven, for clearness. And he did not lay his hand on the chief men of the people of Israel. But they beheld God and Ate and drank. Did you remember that part of the story? Of Moses, Aaron, Nadab, Abihu, the seventy elders of Israel ascending the mountain. This is a great story. picture of redemption. It's it's a veiled, shadowy, typological picture of our redemption, the story of redemption, of Christ bringing us to heaven that we may dwell with God and feast with God. Here's God coming down. Moses, Aaron, Nadad, Abaihu, the 70 elders of Israel went up the mountain. Number one, they saw the God of Israel. They saw his revelation, a revelation on earth, on the mountain That's modeled after God's self-revelation in heaven. They beheld him and they ate and they drank. They feasted with God. Brothers and sisters, that's where the story is headed. And every Sunday morning, when we gather, as God People to worship him is a preview and a prelude to this great gathering in heaven that we'll all attend. Eating And drinking with God and seeing God. Let's go back to Daniel seven We have two more points. Nineteen minutes. Friends, I like our odds. What do you think? Number one, the God we serve is an eternal being. Number two, the God we serve is a supreme ruler. Friends, don't ever forget it. In charge, the Congress isn't in charge, the governor's not in charge, you and I are not in charge. God is in charge. He actually does rule and exercise. Exercises kingship on earth according to his will and purpose. Number three, the God we serve is holy. Therefore, be holy, for he is holy. Number four, the God you serve is all knowing. He sees your heart. He sees everything about you. He hears your prayers. Number five, the God we serve is all powerful. Number six, the God we serve is a covenant. Lord. It's a covenant Lord, which means He He enters into relationship with people, with angels. and with people according to his will. Enters into a relationship, a mutual agreement. He's a covenant Lord. Now we see that in Daniel 7 in terms of his His heavenly assembly of worship. But again, we've already got a glimpse into that with our cross-reference in Exodus. And I've mentioned this several times, hopefully mentioned this Several times every week, this is the story of the Bible, God creating a people for Himself. So that's another way to summarize the story of the Bible. Creator and Redeemer, making a people for himself in Christ. As a covenant Lord. As a covenant Lord. Go back to Daniel 7. 9. As I looked, thrones were placed, the ancient of days took his seat. His clothing was white as snow. The hair of his head was like pure wool. His throne was fiery flames. Its wheels were burning fire. A stream of fire issued forth and came out from before him. A thousand thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood Before him. There's not 24 people here. There's not 36 people here. There's thousands and thousands and thousands upon thousands, countless hosts, the Heavenly host Of angels, heavenly beings. He's a covenant Lord. He creates worshipers. He creates worshipers because God's purpose in revealing Revealing himself as Creator, revealing himself as Redeemer, making a people for himself. His purpose in all of that is to manifest his glory and to be worshipped for it. All things are to the praise of his glory. Ephesians once to the praise of his glorious grace, to the praise of his glory, to the praise of his glory, Ephesians one three through fourteen. to behold his majesty, to behold his goodness and his glory. And in beholding, return worship and return. Praise and sing to enjoy his presence. Servants, servants, they attend to him. Thousands and thousands served him. Ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him They obey him in all things. But you know it's just uh you know it's uh just as important as as outward obedience, in fact If all you have is outward obedience, you don't have true obedience. True obedience is outward obedience that comes from inward obedience, which is love. L-O-V -E. Love. They love the Ancient of Days. They love Him. They serve Him. They obey Him. They worship Him. Him and they're glad to do it. They're happy to do it. It's not begrudging worship. God doesn't tell his angels throughout the Bible, you God doesn't tell his angels Something give them a charge to do and they argue with him and it's like he's twisting their arm. No, of course there were those angels to rebelled, they were cast out, and their demons We're talking about angels. Holy angels, true servants of God. Now, what's the parallel for that on earth? The saints of God. Now, true obedience is never ever out, just outward obedience. Obedience. It's not just going to church. It's not just doing the outward things of religion. Never ever. Perish the thought. True obedience starts in the heart. A heart that loves God, that cherishes God, that wants to know God, wants to know Him more, desires deeper relationship with God, a heart that loves God, any True obedience. Anything else in our lives, whether something we do or something we say or something we think, anything else at all that could ever be considered true obedience grows from a heart that loves God. And we know where that heart that loves God comes from, right? We don't create that. That comes from it's a gift of God's grace. That's being born again. A heart that loves God. You don't just receive a heart that wants to go to heaven. Alright, perish that thought too. Yes, I want to go to heaven. Pray this prayer. It's good, you're going to heaven. A heart that loves God, that loves God most, is a gift of grace. That's what being born again is. He's a covenant Lord. We're happy to be his servants We obey him in all things. Love him in all things. That's the goal. If we don't do that perfectly now, of course we don't. But one day we will. We're just pilgrims here. Sisters, we're just pilgrims. We're being sanctified. But there's a goal, there's an end game. We will obey him perfectly in all things. Like angels. We will love him perfectly in our heart as he deserves, as is right. We will. But not yet. Not yet. Now we walk by Faith, not by sight. But he's a covenant Lord, and we're his people, that makes us what? His covenant people. We're people of the new covenant. We're people of the blood of Christ. We have the first Forgiveness of sins. We've been reconciled to God. We join this heavenly chorus. Even though we're on earth, by faith, we join the heavenly chorus. Number one, the God we serve as the eternal being. Number two, the God we serve as supreme ruler. Number three, the God we serve is holy, holy, holy. Number four, the God we serve as all-knowing Number five, the God we serve is all powerful. He can do whatever he wants to do. Number six, the God we serve is a covenant Lord. He has hosts in heaven. He has hosts on earth doing his will by his grace and for his glory. He's a covenant Lord. He enters into relationship and creates servants for himself. Number seven, the God we serve is a righteous judge. And now that's really the context and point of all this. Daniel seven verse Verse 9. As I looked, thrones were placed, and the ancient of days took his seat. His clothing was white as snow, the hair of his head was like pure wool, his throne was fiery flame. Its wheels were burning fire, a stream of fire issued forth and came out from before him. Thousands of thousands served him, and ten thousand times ten thousand stood before him The court sat in judgment and the books were open. Books of judgment Books of judgment, books of God's verdict, specifically against wicked empires. What comes before this scene is the beginning of this vision, representing the progression of these wicked empires of man throughout history. But then when you get to this fourth and unique kingdom representing the Roman Empire and the her Roman Emperors is when God will establish his kingdom on earth, completely different kind of kingdom. Kingdom than these than these earthly kingdoms. Earthly kingdoms, heavenly kingdoms, wicked kingdoms, holy kingdoms. Kingdom is based on man's wisdom and what man thinks is right. Kingdom based on faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. But part of how God, what part of what God's going to do when he establishes this kingdom, and it in all things in history is Exercise judgment against the wicked. There is a final judgment, but that's not, and that'll be the final consummate judgment. But there are times in his history, different times in history Where God exercises judgment against wicked nations and wicked people. Egypt. Israel was redeemed. And came through the Red Sea. And then what did the Red Sea do after Israel was safely on the other side? Yeah, yeah. If you couldn't see it with Vince just went, Psh That's exactly right. It was a it was a vessel, it it was a It was a vessel of judgment used for judgment to bring judgment against Pharaoh and his army. Sodom and Genorah. Gomorrah. Genorrah. I don't know what G where Genorah is. Well I'm talking about Sodom and Gomorrah. God brought a historical judgment upon them. Of course, uh God's uh Israel's conquest led by Joshua into the the Canaanite Land was God's judgment against uh the Amorites, other nations too, the Canaanites, historical judgments. Of course, in the year AD, not 8-0, but the Letters AD 70, Christ exercised historical judgment against Jerusalem, apostate Israel. Now true Israel, spiritual Israel. But apostate Israel. It's a historical judgment. And where does that issue forth from? In the book of Revelation, when you see judgments being exercised on earth and poured out on earth, where does that issue forth Books were opened. Revelation a scroll is opened. It's a scroll of judgment. It's a scroll of the wrath of the Lamb. Judgment. God will ultimately bring all things He ultimately will make all things right. Let's go back to Denise 's Psalm 95. There's just two cross-references I want to close this on. Psalm 95. Now the practical application of that point, one of the practical applications of that point is we've got to have an urgency to preach the We want people to be saved from that the judgment of the one sitting on the This throne. When we say the word saved, that's what we mean. We want people to be saved. Saved from this judgment. Spared from this judgment. And how are they going to be saved? They've got to hear the The gospel. They've got to hear the gospel, the word of the kingdom that gets into the heart and changes the heart to believe in Christ and be saved. We've got to we've got to have a passion For the gospel, a burden for the lost. Because this God, Ancient of Days, the one we've been talking about this whole time, is going to bring judgment against the wicked. And we don't want that for people. God help him. We don't want that. He's a righteous judge. He's a righteous judge. Psalm 95. Through eleven. So in other words, Psalm ninety-five. The whole shebang. Oh, come, let us sing to the Lord. Let us make a joyful noise to the rock of our salvation. Let us come into His presence with thanksgiving Let us make a joyful noise to him with songs of praise, because the Lord is a great God. He's a great king above all gods. In his hand are the depths of the earth. The heights of the mountain also are his. The sea is his because he made it. And his hands formed the dry land. Oh come, let us worship and bow down, let us Kneel before the Lord, our Maker, because He is our God. We are the people of His pasture. keep of his hand. But today if you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts, as was at Meribah, as on the day at at Masa In the wilderness, when your fathers put me to the test and put me to the proof, though they'd seen my work. But for forty years I loathed that generation. And said , They are a people who go astray in their heart. They have not known my ways. Therefore I swore in my wrath they will Never enter my rest. Now let's turn to 1 Timothy 1 17. One of my goals in life is to preach a sermon on just this verse. 1 Timothy 1 17. And it would be On the doctrine of God to the King of Ages, immortal Invisible, the only God. Be honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Let's pray