Take our Bibles and turn to first John three eighteen. Continuing our series in First John on the spiritual confidence that we have in Christ, which is a confidence that is based on his Life, death, and resurrection. It's the spiritual confidence that we have through faith in Christ. It's not based on works It's not based on religious activity, it's not certainly not based on subjective feelings, but it's a faith that's based on Christ's life, death, resurrection, and is received through faith. Specifically, confidence that our sins have been forgiven, and confidence that we have been reconciled to God, and so we are children of God, and confidence that we have received the gift of eternal life, and that nothing can take that away from us. Continuing this series on confidence in Christ, we come to 1 John 3, 18 to 24, which is a passage that deals with the self Self-condemning heart. That's our title for this morning. The self -condemning heart. A self-condemning heart is the heart Of a child of God when it feels unsaved rather than saved. A self-condemning heart is the heart of a child of God when it feels under condemnation rather than under the forgiveness and grace of Christ. A self-condemning heart. Some people feel saved, but are not. That's something that Scripture deals with. Others are saved, but often feel like they're not saved. That's our topic today, a self-condemning heart. This is something that some people struggle with occasionally. Maybe maybe every couple couple months they go through a little season of doubting their salvation. For some people, this is a struggle that's ongoing, almost like a theme of life, of doubting salvation and doubting God's love and doubting God's forgiveness. It's a self-condemning heart. Maybe you haven't dealt with this issue, but maybe one day you will. You know, we don't know what lies ahead on this road of faith. We don't know everything that the Lord has in store for us. Different trials. And maybe the Lord's discipline of him wanting to teach you a particular thing. But let's just say in theory, this is something that you personally have never dealt with and maybe in this lifetime, maybe this is something that you never will deal with for you personally. Well there are other people who do and you Need to know about this so that you can minister to them and encourage them and speak the truth in love to them to build them up in the faith. Because many people do struggle with a self-condemning heart Sometimes a child can feel unloved, even though that child is loved. Sometimes a friend can feel forgotten, even though they've not been forgotten. Sometimes you can feel unforgiven in a particular situation, even though the other person has already forgiven you. And sometimes a believer in Jesus can feel like an unbeliever. It's a self-condemning heart, and today what we're going to talk about, what is it, and what is the remedy for it. Let's read the passage, 1 John 3, 18 to 24. Little children, let us not love in word or talk, but in deed and in truth. By this we shall know that we are of the truth And to reassure our heart before Him. For whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our hearts, and He knows everything. Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God. And whatever we ask, we receive from him, because we keep his commandments and do what pleases him. And this is his commandment, that we believe in the name of his son Jesus Christ and love one another just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in God, and God in him. And by this we know that he abides in us, by the Spirit whom he has given us Let's pray. Father, once again we come to your word and I pray and we pray, joining our hearts in prayer, joining our hearts. In faith, we pray that you would bless us by your word and by your spirit. I pray that we came for the right reasons. I pray that we each came for you to administer your grace to our hearts For you to administer your transforming power in our hearts, your renewing power in our minds through your word and through your spirit. All based on what Christ has done for us, all because of the power of Christ to work through his word. Father, we humble ourselves under your word. If not, please humble us. Make us those who hear your word with faith and embrace your word and strive to obey your word, putting it into practice as those in Christ. If nothing else happens during our time. In your word this morning, Father, we pray that Christ would be exalted. We pray that he would be lifted up, that he would be spoken highly of highly of, that he would be esteemed greatly in what is said and in the way that it's heard. Father, we come now to your word, asking that you would bless us for your name and for your glory, we pray. Amen. Today we have five questions. About a self-condemning heart dwelling within a true child of God. Five questions dealing with this issue. Question number one. Where does the idea of a self-condemning heart even come from? It comes from verse 20. Verse the first phrase of verse twenty, whenever our heart condemns us Writing to Christians discussing an issue that Christians deal with, giving pastoral, apostolic counsel regarding this issue. Whenever Our heart condemns us. The us is children of God. The us is believers. And you have uh time or times When our own heart speaks a word of condemnation against us, when our hearts condemn us. Now, looking forward in the message, we need to know what to do when that happens. But just the idea, whenever our heart condemns us, has your heart ever condemned you? Has your heart ever spoken a word of condemnation against you? God doesn't love you. God will never forgive you for that. Maybe for these things, not for this thing. There's no way you're forgiven. There's no way you're saved. Has your Has your own heart ever preached the devil's doctrines against you, doctrines that oppose the gospel promises of God, a self-condemning heart? Don't race past this word condemn whenever our hearts condemn us. That is to speak a word of judgment over something. We shouldn't be condemning each other. Sometimes our heart condemns us. Now Remember the context of 1 John. There was a group of professing Christians Who proved themselves to be false Christians by leaving the true biblical church And by teaching unbiblical doctrine, and by giving themselves to ungodly living. Flip backwards to chapter 2, verse 18 and 19. Children, it is the last hour, and you have heard that Antichrist is coming, and so now many Antichrists have come, and therefore we know it's the last hour. They went out from us. But they were not of us, or if they had been of us, they would have continued with us, but they went out that it might become plain that they are that they all are not of us They had outwardly, formally been a part of the true church, but they abandoned all of that to do their own thing, to get their own following for their own teachings. To follow the passions of their own flesh for their own name, for their own glory, the spirit of the Antichrist gathering uh people to set themselves in opposition to the true gospel. Well Some of those who remained in the true church probably were greatly discouraged. What if for your particular church it was 90% of the group that left and abandoned the church? What if what if they got most of the resources and most of the people? And what if they were more highly thought of in the surrounding culture and community? And you're left there with your little group. It could have been very discouraging. And the group that left Was still outwardly using Christian terms and biblical terms to express their spirituality in a very proud way, setting themselves over against So the true Christians, some of them, at least some of them, would have been very discouraged at this, especially when they're uh going through persecution. Persecution from Jews, persecution from Gentiles, now persecution from a false church that's abandoned them. Persecution from everywhere, rejection from everywhere. Could have been very discouraged, and that can impact the heart. And you know this is true when you're going through difficult times, when you're going through stressful times, uh when people are setting themselves against you. You know it can be very discouraging. It can start to impact your heart and the way you feel. You can start to feel like God has abandoned you. You can start to feel like God's not watching over you. You can start to feel like God's not answering your prayers. And it can lead to a self-condemning heart. Where, question number one, where does it come from? Very simple answer. It comes from the first phrase in verse 20. Second question. Second question. Why does a self-condemning heart need to be remedied? Why is it a big deal? Why does it need to be healed? Why does it need to be Fixed, attended to, however you want to say it. Why does the self-condemning heart need to be remedied? Well look at verse 21, and the first thing you'll see is that this self-condemning heart is an obstacle to assurance. It's an obstacle to assurance. Verse 21: Beloved, if our heart does not condemn us, we have confidence before God. Well, what's the opposite? What if your heart does condemn you? You won't have that confidence before God. So it's a it's a practical obstacle to the assurance of faith, to your assurance of faith The self-condemning heart is an obstacle. It's a barrier to having the true assurance and confidence in Christ that we're called to have, that we're meant to have. In fact, that we do have The self-condemning heart is an obstacle in practical discipleship. Because If we don't have assurance, it's also going to hinder our growth in the faith. If we don't have assurance, it's also going to hinder our not only our growth in the faith, but our fruitfulness in ministry. Because if we don't have assurance, what happens is there's this obstacle here, and uh on the other side of the obstacle is assurance On the other side of the obstacle is growth. On the other side of the obstacle is spiritual fruitfulness and ministry. But on this side of the obstacle, on this side of the self-condemning heart, you just go in psychological circles. You're you're like intensely introspective, thinking about your feelings, thinking about your thoughts, going round and round and round and round this philosophical, this speculative philosophical whirlwind trying to figure out if God loves you. When God tells you that if you put your faith in Christ, He loves you with an eternal love that can never be taken away. Yes, but that's not how I feel. You start to see the problem. You start to see the problem? We've abandoned planting our feet on the gospel promises of God, and now we're over here all up in our feelings, acting as if our feelings about ourselves determine our spiritual condition. Why does it need to be remedied? It's it's an obstacle to assurance Which makes it an obstacle to spiritual growth, which makes it an obstacle to spiritual fruitfulness in ministry If our heart does not condemn us, then we'll have confidence before God. But if we have a self-condemning heart, we're we don't have the confidence that we ought to have. But there's another reason why this needs to be remedied, another practical reason. Verse 22. Verse 22. This self-condemning heart is also an obstacle to fruitful prayer. Verse 22, and whatever we ask, we receive from him. It's talking about answered prayer. Now if you run that through the grid of our selfish, sinful desires and of our natural way of faking You'll interpret that incorrectly. You'll interpret that to mean God is like this genie. You tell him what you want, he gives you everything you want, he answers all your wishes. That's not the kind of parents we want to be for our kids. Tell them what you want. You have whatever you want. You want nineteen cookies, that's fine. Just have nineteen cookies Do whatever you want. That's not what that's not what, brothers and sisters, that's not what prayer is. But through a biblical paradigm of what prayer is, all this is talking about, friends, is God answers Prayer. There's such a thing as fruitful prayer. Of genuine communion with God through His Word and through His prayer. Sincerely pouring out our hearts to God and God answering our prayers in our lives. Not always on the timeline that we very rarely on the timeline that we want or that we think is the best. But this is part of the same sentence from verse 21. If our heart would not condemn us, we would have this assurance, and we also would have this confidence in prayer, we'd have a more fruitful prayer life. If we would have this obstacle, this barrier, this self-condemning heart remedied. And the bigger picture of why this needs to be remedied, the bigger picture, bigger theological picture. It's not so much of a practical thing like it's an obstacle to assurance, it's an obstacle to growth, it's an obstacle to fruitful prayer. The bigger picture is the self-condemning heart contradicts God's word. The self-condemning heart contradicts God's promise to his children. Romans 8. 1, there is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. God's promise to his children is that there's no condemnation. But now my heart feels as if there is condemnation. Well, who is right in the matter? What's the higher authority? Who is more reliable? Who knows more? God is the higher authority. God's word is the reliable word. God is to be trusted, not the feelings, the condemning feelings of our own heart. In fact, if you're looking ahead in the passage, you know that's exactly what is said. God is greater than our heart, and he knows everything. Now, if that's true, why would we trust our feelings? When our feelings contradict what God has to say? That's a great question, isn't it? God says this, yes, but I feel this way. Where does the idea come from? Very simple, it comes from verse 20. Why does it need to be remedied? Some practical issues, it's an obstacle to assurance, it's an obstacle to fruitful prayer, and also a theological, bigger picture concern. It needs to be remedied because it contradicts What God says about his children. He says we're not under condemnation. Third question. Third question. So what is the remedy? That'd be quite a sermon if we didn't talk about the remedy for this this problem at all, wouldn't it? We just end it. Here you go. The self-condemning heart, go deal with it. What's the remedy? The only ointment or the only healing medicine for a self-condemning heart is to trust God's word about you rather than your heart's feelings about you. You must trust in God's word about you rather than your heart's Feelings about you. I understand that this contradicts arguably the number one virtue in the culture around us, which is follow Your heart. Be true to your heart. Be true to yourself. Follow your heart This def this determines what's real. This determines what's right. This determines what's true. This determines which path you should follow in life. But the only ointment, the only balm of healing for the self-condemning heart is really simple. Trust us what God says rather than what your heart feels. Isn't it amazing when you think about the role of faith in the Christian life? Trusting in God's word is both the preschool level of following God and the PhD level of following God. Trust God's Word. Put your faith in God's Word. It's the first step up the mountain, and it's the big celebration at the mountaintop. Trust in God. So the remedy is faith. But it's faith in a very specific situation, trusting in what God says about you rather than your heart's feelings about you. Look at verse 20 once again, and you'll see that right after John mentions this reality of a heart that condemns us, he goes right to The cure. Whenever our heart condemns us, God is greater than our heart, and He knows everything. Now that connects to something that the whole entire passage is about, and we'll get there when we get there. But the general point is this God is greater than our heart. I've said this already. He's a greater authority, he's more reliable. We trust in what he has to say, and he knows everything. So even though your heart may not feel saved, God knows that you're saved if you put your faith in Christ, you receive the Holy Spirit. God knows that even when you forget it. So he points to God immediately. God is the remedy. Trusting in God's word is the remedy. If you have angst in your heart, then the remedy is to go to God and plead with God that He would fill your heart with peace. If you have doubt in your mind, trying to get a foothold in your mind, a skepticism, then the remedy is to go to God and cry out to God that He would strengthen your faith. That he would intensify your trust in his word. If you have a self -assaulting spirit Within you, uh a self-defeating spirit within you, a self-attacking engine, war machine running inside your heart, condemning you, even though God doesn't condemn you. What you need is spiritual rest from God. Jesus says, Come to me and I will give you rest for your souls. We go to Jesus, and we receive this rest by trusting in his word rather than our heart's feelings. Jeremiah Chapter 17, verse 9. Everybody say it with me. Jeremiah, chapter 17, verse 9. If we were going for saying that in unison, we failed miserably. But hopefully it made you think of Jeremiah chapter 17 verse 9. Think about how this contradicts What we would say naturally speaking, like in our natural selves, in our unsaved selves, without the Holy Spirit. Here's think about how this contradicts What we would say naturally, and what the culture all around us bombards us with each day. Jeremiah 17:9. The heart is deceitful. Above all things, and desperately sick, who can understand it? The heart is deceitful. Now you would have had me like right there. That would have been enough. But if all you said was the heart is deceitful, then right off the bat I need to know I need to trust God's word rather than my heart. That's all you needed to say. But to hammer this point home into our hearts. The heart is deceitful above all things It's a tie for first place with the devil. You take all things, all things in the world. And you're going to list them which the most deceitful things. What does God say? The heart is deceitful above all things. And then he says this. There's a par a parallel where it brings out a different component of this And desperately sick, which is a metaphor for corrupt, spiritual sickness, wickedness Which obviously that's referring to the deceitfulness of the heart. Can't trust your heart. You cannot trust your heart as a source and standard for truth And then he says, Who can understand it? This is a rhetorical question. This confounds the human mind. The heart is deceitful above all things. So when you have a self condemning heart But also you're a person who professes Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior Which side of the fence are you gonna land on? Are you going to believe the lie, the propaganda of the devil? It 's coming through your own heart, condemning you? Or are you going to believe the word of God that says, There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus? I've counseled with people on this on this matter several times over the years. And I'll I'll just go through a series of questions. Do you believe Jesus Christ died for your sins? Yes. Do you believe he rose from the dead? Yes. You believe in him as your Lord and you believe in him as your Savior. Yes, and yes, and yes, and you're trying the best you can to live for him. Yes, and you know you're not saved by your works, but You're saved by faith, right? Yes, and yes, and yes, and yes. Do you have an assurance of your salvation? No. But if you're answering yes to all of those other things, you have assurance. The Bible says you have assurance. So there's some kind of obstacle here. You see, there's some kind of obstacle. I can answer these most important questions. Are you going to uh live for god live with God for all eternity and not go to hell? Absolutely, yes. Do you have confidence about that? Hmm You see, it's an obstacle. There's something in the heart that creates an obstacle to expressing with confidence and boldness and assurance, I am a child of God. There's an obstacle in the heart, a self-condemning heart. Now, I'm not saying it's easy to remedy this. Brothers and sisters, we are talking about spiritual warfare. It is impossible to do this apart from God to remedy this self-condemning heart. And you can liken it to being stationed on the outer wall. of the fortress that's under siege. And Satan is leading the attack. Satan is and his armies are laying siege to the fortress that you're stationed on the outer wall. Satan wants to destroy what God has built in your life. And he wants to take what God has won, or at least Try to discourage you to the point where you feel like you haven't won anything at all. And your heart has grown weary and your faith has grown weary and you are faint and you are discouraged and you've begun to believe the lies and the propaganda of the enemy that says you don't belong in the city of God. And you have, if you have this plague of a self-condemning heart, you have forgotten what wall you are standing on. You have forgotten the nature of the fortress that you are in. God is your fortress God is the wall that protects you with the supernatural power from the attacks of the enemy. This is common language. In Scripture, I'll give you a sampling of what I what I consider very powerful and very encouraging Psalms. Psalm 28, verse 7, The Lord is my strength and my shield. In him my heart trusts, and I am helped. My heart exalts, and with my song I give thanks to him. That's where you need to be. That's where we need to be. The Lord is my strength. The Lord is my shield, my heart will trust in him. I love this phrase. And I am helped. You see, the trusting comes first. You see, the singing and the rejoicing that God is our fortress comes first. The faith comes first. And then comes the help from Almighty God. Psalm 18, 2 and 3. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge. My shield, the horn of my salvation, my stronghold, and I will call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. If I struggle with a self-condemning heart, the first thing I need to realize is that I cannot remedy that. If you struggle with a self-condemning heart, Dear friend, the first thing you need to realize is that you cannot remedy that. So stop going in circles and turn to the living God above. And look to God and believe God's word. Cry out to God, You are my rock, you are my refuge, you are my shield, you are my protection, you are my fortress. It is spiritual warfare, and therefore it is wearisome, and we will go through seasons where we feel defeated and beaten down, and we will grow faint. You know God is growing us through all of this. You know this is God's chief means of sanctifying and maturing his children. So don't resent the Lord and the trials that he brings you through. Dear brother and sister, don't resent and don't let a root of bitterness grow up because of the difficulties and the trials that the Lord brings you through. To strengthen your faith, to sanctify you into the likeness of Christ. Are you with me on this, church? I need to know. Guard against the root of bitterness that comes from trials and difficulties. But look to God as your strength. Psalm 33, 20 and 20, 20 through 22. Our soul waits for the Lord. Wow. If you need to wait for something to come and fix things to come and help you, wait for the Lord. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. And our heart is glad in him because we trust in his holy name. Let your steadfast love, O Lord, be upon us Even as we hope in you. I love that imagery of the psalmist cries out. Let your steadfast love be upon us Let it be upon us. Bestow it over us. Let it come down upon us. Were you ever were you ever caught in a storm, a thunderstorm, or or something like that, maybe even a hurricane, and just You can't do anything about it about it. It's just upon you, and you've got to figure out what to do. Let the steadfast Lord, love of the Lord rather, let the steadfast love of the Lord be upon us. And be our help. Ver us one more here, Psalm 71, verse 3. Be to me A rock of refuge, to which I may continually come. You have given the command to save me, for you are my rock and my fortress. In this spiritual warfare, we are not soldiers trying to win the battle for ourselves and also trying to win the battle for God. In this spiritual warfare, we fight as children of God. We're not fighting to become children of God. We're not fighting to Maintain status as children of God. Jesus, by his blood and by his spirit, has made us into children of God for all eternity. And in that context we fight. The work Of procuring your soul for God is complete. When we talk about the work of Christ, we talk about the finished work of Christ. You cannot add to it. You cannot detract from it. You can receive the benefits of his finished work through faith, and you can be saved. Jesus paid it all. And he cried out on the cross. Say this with me, if you know it, he cried out on the cross, it is finished. Amen Purchasing our souls for God finished. Paying the penalty for all of our sins. Finished. Defeating the evil one and stripping him of power over us. Finished. Not stripping the devil of his power to attack us, but stripping the devil of his power over us to speak condemnation and accusation against us. On the cross, the shed blood of Christ stripped the devil of his reigning power, his accusing power over us. So trust in the fortress that God has stationed you in. Do not buy the lies and the propaganda of the one who's laying siege to the fortress. In other words. Trust in God's word about you rather than your heart's feelings about you. What is the remedy? God is the remedy. Faith, brothers and sisters. Friends, guests, visitors, anyone. Faith looks away from self and unto God. Faith looks away. Faith turns away from self and it turns to God to look unto God to cast your heart on God. Trust in Him. Look away from self. And on this specific topic, dear child of God, when your heart condemns you Look away from the self-condemning heart and look to God who has forgiven your sin through the blood of Jesus Christ. It's the only remedy. God is your fortress. Just remember The fortress that you're stationed on. Number four. Question four Is it is it is that clock right? Oh man. All right. Question four. What is God's word about you in this passage? This is so simple. The entire passage, the entire passage Screams out a very clear message. The entire passage screams out that Christian love in your life is evidence that you're saved. The reality of Christian love In your life, which is the whole sermon last week was on Christian love. The reality of Christian love in your life is further evidence that you're saved. That should reassure us in our confidence. The whole passage screams out this word of God. First, in verses 14 and 15, Christian love is a sign that you possess spiritual Life. This is even this is before the passage, I believe. Unless my notes are wrong on this, because that's not in our our passage. Uh Yeah. Verse 14 and 15, looking at the greater context. We know that we've passed out of death into life because we love the brothers. Whoever does not love abides in death. Everyone who hates his brother is a murderer, and you know that no murderer has eternal life abiding in him. So Christian love is an evidence that you possess spiritual life. Second, it's a sign that you are of the truth You are of the truth. Doesn't matter if your group is smaller. Doesn't matter if your group's not as popular. Doesn't matter if your group from a worldly measure is not as successful. If you have true Christian love, it's a sign that you're of the truth. Verses 18 and 19. Little children. Let us love not in word or talk, but in deed and in truth, and by this we shall know that we are of the truth, and reassure our heart before him. Christian love reassures us that we are a people of truth because biblical love and biblical truth go together. You are a people of truth. And that should reassure our heart before him. And this is the word that God speaks to us in this specific issue of a self-condemning heart. It's a sign that you have life. It's a sign that you're of the truth. And third, it's a sign, Christian love is a sign that you walk in communion with God. Just like hate is a sign that you don't walk into communion with God. This comes from verses 23 and 24. This is his commandment, that we believe in the name of his son Jesus Christ and love one another just as he has commanded us. Whoever keeps his commandments abides in God and God in him. That means he has fellowship with God and he's walking in fellowship with God. And by this We know that he abides in us by the Spirit whom he has given us. You have a spirit-born Christian love within you and in your life. This is evidence that you are a child of God. And you can even flip back one page to chapter 2, verse 10. Whoever loves his brother abides in the light, and in him there's no cause for stumbling. Gives you a little bit of a reminder of just how important Christian love is, doesn't it? If it's that strong of an evidence. Anyway, the whole passage screams this this out. If you have Christian love, a sincere, genuine Christian love It's further evidence that you are God's child, and it should help you in your assurance and support your assurance I'll tell you what I'm gonna do. I'm gonna call an audible. Do you all know what an audible is? What's an audible in football? Or adjust the play. So I'm putting off that fifth question till tonight, and I'll just make the sermon tonight, this fifth question. The fifth question is why in the world then would our own hearts condemn us? Like that needs to be addressed. If all this is true, why is this this common problem? Why would our hearts condemn us? If we believe all these things, we say yes to all these things, why would we have a self condemning heart. But we're just going to end on this this idea of faith, faith in God's Word. Faith is a shield. Against the attacks of the devil. Faith is a shield against temptations. Uh in fact in Ephesians 6, 16, in all circumstances take up the shield of Faith, with which you can extinguish all the flaming darts of the evil one. You see, faith is the shield. Faith shields, it blocks away these attacks. In 1 Peter 1:5, Peter writes that by God's power we are being guarded through faith. Faith guards us. And 1 John 5. 4, you probably flip one page, maybe two pages if you want to look at 1 John 5. 4. Everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. Not just some of us, but all of us. Everyone who's been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that's overcome the world. And then what does it say at the end of verse 4? Our faith. Now who is it that overcomes the world except the one that believes that Jesus is the Son of God Which is uh a good word to end on. Believe that Jesus is the Son of God. So stay guarded in the basis of your assurance. That your assurance is not based on your feelings, but your assurance is based on the blood of Christ and based on the promise of the gospel. And stay grateful for the work of God in you. The work of God in you, centrally Christian love is evidence that you are a child of God. And stay going to God in prayer. Go to God in prayer for strength. Go to God in prayer for perseverance. Go to God in prayer for assurance. Go to God in prayer to remove this obstacle of a self-condemning heart. Go to God in faith, and God will help you. Let's pray. Father, thank you for Your word and your spirit and your mercy and your forgiveness and for giving us true and lasting hope in this world. And I pray for anyone here that has struggled or is struggling or will struggle with a self-condemning heart. And in fact we join our hearts and we pray this one prayer that you would turn their eyes to Christ and to trust in him and in him alone. It's in his name we pray, Amen.