And open up your Bibles to the word we'll examine tonight. Comes out of 1 Peter 5 verses 6 through 14 1 Peter chapter 5, 6 through 14. We made it to the end and you landed that. Who is his father? We made it to the end of the the the letter. A short letter. Took us a long time. I recognize some of you weren't here the entire time, so I'm gonna start from the beginning and catch you up real fast. No, we made it to the end, and uh as we conclude this letter, you'll see Peter's call, and we saw a little bit last week, is to humble ourselves. This humility, last week we saw the humility was between us and our brothers and sisters in Christ, to be humble and show humility toward one another. So to not allow our pride to dwell up in us, to puff us up, but to recognize that we're to be humbled to one another. And tonight the focus is on that we humble ourselves. It says to humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God. This idea of humility is how Peter concludes this letter, and I believe it's an important conclusion, and there's a reason he's doing this. And as Christians, we need to recognize humility. And we must be thinking about how we are to humble ourselves before God. If we are unable to humble ourselves before God, how then is it ever going to be possible that we can show humility between one another? If we can't humble ourselves before the creator of the universe, how then could we possibly humble ourselves and show humility to a brother or sister that will offend us at some point? We must see that we humble ourselves before the living God, the mighty creator of the universe. And as we humble ourselves before Him, He strengthens us. matures us, sanctifies us, and gives us the ability to live and walk in obedience to Him. Thomas Watson says, humility looks upon another's virtues and its own infirmities. Humility looks upon another's virtues and its own infirmities. Another way to say that is to be humble means you look at what is good in the other. You look at their virtues. What is good? What is pleasing? What is beautiful in that other person? And you also recognize that you have some brokenness, some sicknesses. Some spots on you, if we may say infirmities, illnesses. Do we do that enough? Do we recognize our sinfulness, our brokenness? Do we recognize that we don't have it all figured out quite yet, right? Maybe soon, but not yet. We don't have it all figured out We're still broken. We still make mistakes. And are we able to look at others and say, oh, you know what? I really like what God has blessed that person with. I do that with musicians Well they don't have good d dance moves coming off the stage. I do say I d I bless God, I praise God that God has blessed them with musical talent. I look at them and I I I see that that is a virtue that God has given them. It's humility in that, and we do that with a lot of things. Well, if we are doing that between one another, how much more shall we be doing it to our Lord and Savior? To the holy God. Does God have any virtues we should recognize? Yeah, shake your heads north and south. Yes. Absolutely. The mighty God. The creator of the universe, the creator of everything you see around you, sustains it. I love how uh God talks to Job and says, you know, he he says, are you the one that tells the the the waves how far up the shoreline they may come? Do you know how much snow is stored up in the heavens to be dropped down onto the plains? You know, we start to hear this language. You're like, not not at all. I was happy to get a D in biology, right? Let alone am I going to speak it into creation and then command it to do anything. The mighty God. We 're about this that the just judge, the holy God, sees our sin and in our wickedness, in our rebellion against Him. He was patient and gracious, merciful, sent Jesus to come and die on the cross for our sins. To pay for our sins, to pay the penalty that we deserve to pay. Raised him from the dead, seated him at his right hand, and has complete and total victory over the enemies, and he will come back. And establish his reign and throne in the new heavens and the new earth. Is there some virtues you can pick out of there? The reason we recognize the virtues and the reason we talk about humility here is because as we grow in our understanding of our great God, how wonderful He is, how powerful He is. It lifts our eyes into the heavens to see his glory, to see his greatness. And at the same time, we're reminded of our brokenness. And in fact, we start to see our brokenness more and more disgusting as it really is. And it gr grows this great chasm. I've talked about it many times. This is the double knowledge as we grow in our understanding of God and his great virtues, we understand our infirmities and our brokenness more and more, and the separation between us and God grows and grows And we start to see the cross of Christ filling that chasm more and more every day of our lives. This is what it means. To humble yourselves before the Lord, to see his greatness, to see your brokenness, and to see how Christ is the only one that has brought us into fellowship with the Holy God. So as we talk about being humble and showing humility towards the Lord, I pray, and my desire from this message and what Peter has written here is that we are strengthened, beloved. We see that humility is a virtue in itself. It is a strength. It is a good characteristic trait, a gift. A fruit that we should have as we humble ourselves before the Lord, we will see how He strengthens us day by day. So let us look at 1 Peter chapter 5, starting in verse 6. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. Casting all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Be sober minded. Be watchful Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him Firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm. strengthen and establish you. To him be the dominion forever and ever. Amen. By Sylvania, the faithful brother, as I regard him, I have written briefly to you, exhorting and declaring that this is the true grace of God. Stand firm in it She who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen, sends you greetings, and so does Mark, my son. Greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace to all of you who are in Christ. What a beautiful ending to that letter. He's praising and thanking God for the people that God has redeemed and surrounded him with. And then he says, greet one another with a kiss of love. Peace to all of you who are in Christ. And we'll get to that, but may we be, may this be our mindset that we love one another. Because we have been all redeemed by the blood of Christ, and we seek peace to one another who are in Christ. But let's jump back into verse 6. The first thing we see as we talk about humility and humbling ourselves before the mighty hand of God, or under the mighty hand of God, is that the humbled are rewarded. The humbled are rewarded. We see this in verse 6 that he says, Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. He may exalt you. This idea of humility and uh looking at another's virtues and recognizing our brokenness and our infirmities uh is not natural to man. It's not natural to us. Well, in our flesh, we like to boast about ourselves. We like to think highly of ourselves, and we like to think lesser of others. And we like to always be kind of comparing ourselves and trying to raise ourselves up, and this thing I did wrong isn't really that bad, especially when it's compared to so-and-so. That's the natural man in us. That's how we naturally think. But here, once we were born again and had the Spirit of the living God dwelling within us, we've been born again, that mindset starts to change. We start to think about the greatness of others and how God has blessed them and our brokenness, but even more we are told to humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God, this powerful hand. Uh I think I had a commander one time that he was built like a refrigerator. You know what I mean? It was just perfectly square. Perfectly square. And his favorite thing, I think he he was I was in I was terrified of this man. Terrified of him. But one of his favorite things was when he was talking to you was to pat you on your back. and not just pat, but slap you on your back and you just stand on attention trying to talk to this man and get out of that situation as fast as possible. And he would just rattle your y rattle you as he he's hit you with these big bear claws And this mighty hand, and I respected that man in a lot of ways. What about the mighty hand of the Lord? The powerful hand of the Lord that has defeated enemies. The powerful hand of the Lord that has created you and I. The powerful hand of the Lord has resurrected the dead. Here we are to humble ourselves under this mighty hand. And in this moment, as we think about the the mighty hand of God, there's this temptation that that we shake and fear and terror in a sinful way. We are to fear the Lord. Yes and amen. We should fear the Lord to recognize his greatness and his might. But as we fear the Lord, we love him more. Under this humility, under the mighty hand of God. We see that it's not just to oppress us, it's not just to push us down, but it's out of love that we are to humble ourselves, and then at the proper time he may exalt you. He exalts us. This is the grace of God. That mighty hand should squash us. That mighty hand should wipe us off from the face of this earth. That mighty hand of God should just destroy us that no one ever thinks about us again. But that's not what it does. The mighty hand of God, we are humbled under it because we see that it is his love and his grace and his mercy. that Christ has come and died for us. And here we see that he is going to exalt us. This word exalt means to rise up or to praise. Why is he lifting us up? Why is the mighty hand of God, the creator of the universe, the just judge, going to lift us up? We must recognize that humility is also part of submission. So, this humbleness, as we humble ourselves before, under, excuse me, under the mighty hand of God, we are submitting to Him. And within this submission, we are proclaiming, professing, and recognizing that Christ is our only hope. And when we do that, we receive the righteousness of Christ, and now we can be lifted up in the likeness of Christ. In Ephesians 2, verse 6, it says, And God raised us. Up with him. Who's the him? It's Jesus. You think about this? This is a not a future tense sentence. This is present and a reality. It says, and God raised us up. With him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. We are raised up With him. Not because of our own strength, not because of what we have done, not because of our good works, but because of the works of Christ. It's actually because of the mighty hand of God that He raises us up. We are white as snow under the fountain of blood of Christ. Our sins are washed away. And now, because of that, we can be raised up. We can be exalted in Christ. James 4. 10 says, humble yourselves in the presence of the Lord. And what happens? And he will exalt you. I hope you recognize that the reward is being exalted, is being raised up by God. What a glorious reward! It's better than winning the lottery. It's better than winning the Super Bowl. It's better than winning all the praises of every friend and foe of yours. Being exalted by the living God? Being raised up by the living God, this is the great reward that comes to those who humble themselves under the mighty hand of God. Another aspect of that reward and point number two is that the humble have access to God The humble have access to God. Look at verse 7 with me. So we go from humble yourselves unto the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you, verse 7, casting all your anxieties on him. Because he cares for you. Beloved, why does he care for you? Because you're really smart? Does he care for you because of how good you have followed the law? Does he care for you because of your church attendance? No, his care for you is because you are his child through The regeneration of the Holy Spirit accomplished by the death of Christ on the cross. Faith in Christ has brought us into the family of God And he cares for us. And here we now have access to the creator of the universe. Access to the creator of the universe. Access to the just judge. Access to the one that the angels cry out, holy, holy, holy. I don't I don't know who has better access. I I don't know who else you'd rather go to to talk to for help and guidance. I don't know who you what what counselor would be better than the living God that you can go and what's to say cast all of your anxieties on him. Beloved, we must recognize the beauty that we have access to the living God. This is why we spend so much time in prayer. It's why as a church we gather together in prayer. It's why as a church we say it is valuable for you to be praying to the living God, both privately, publicly, corporately, individually. We have access to God. But notice how this access is expressed here in verse 7. It's casting all your anxieties on him. How is humility and anxieties connected? Well, I believe that if we are not humbled before the Lord, we will have great, great anxieties Now, why is that? It's because we recognize that our anxieties come out of our pride. Anxiety is a form of pride, it's a method of pride. And what happens is we are anxious about tomorrow. We're anxious about the world around us. We're anxious about what could happen because we recognize that we aren't in control. But we really, really want to be. And if we were in control in our minds, then I wouldn't have to be worried about tomorrow. If I was in control, I wouldn't have to be uh anxious about my bank account. If I had the power to control my neighbor or my spouse, then I wouldn't have to be anxious about what tomorrow is going to look like. We've got to recognize that our anxiety is a form of pride. And when we fail or humble ourselves before the Lord, anxiety raises up within us. Now if you're sitting in here and you're like most of the other people that are sitting in here, you probably are anxious at different points in your week, in your life. And you're going, oh no, I'm all messed up. Yes. Just like the rest of us. The Bible talks so much about anxiety because it's a an a problem and a sin that we all have and we will wrestle with for probably the rest of our lives. And that's why we have to be told to humble ourselves. It's why we have to be told in multiple places to cast our anxieties onto him. It's because as we recognize his greatness, as we see the virtues of God, we see our infirmities, our brokenness, that anxiety is going to swell up in you. I'm with you. I'm preaching to myself right now. That anxiety is going to swell up in us. And when we are humbled under the mighty hand of God, with freedom we can cast our anxieties onto Him. And we say, Lord, well I don't understand it. Well, I don't like it. I don't feel comfortable right now. I know that you are mighty You are great. You are sovereign. You are a loving Father. And you care for us. You care for me. Beloved, I encourage you to pray those types of prayer to God. I can't give you the answers. I can't say, well, tomorrow don't worry about, don't worry, your bank account is going to be great. I can't promise that. God doesn't promise that, but God does promise that he cares for you. God does promise that you belong to him. He cares for you, and we have access to him. Well, although I know anxiety is a is a common problem. I know it's a very painful problem. It's a very painful sin to have in our lives. And I I want us to see the mercy of God. And as as may this be a word for you right now. If tonight you go and lay in your bed and you feel the anxiety swelling up in you. Cast it to Christ. Cast it on Him immediately. This is my encouragement as your pastor is to pray. Cry out to the Lord. Seek guidance and help from other believers in Christ. Seek their counsel and wisdom. Read the scriptures, but run to the cross of Christ. See his goodness. Read Psalm 8. The youth did it on Wednesday. Psalm 8. How majestic is your name, O Lord. O Lord, my Lord, how majestic is your name that you should be mindful of me. Cast your anxieties onto him. Recognize that you have access to the Creator of the universe. This can only happen when we humble ourselves under his mighty hand. So leads us to point number three, which is the humble or humble are strengthened for the fight. The humbled are strengthened for the fight For the fight. My original title for the sermon was A Humbled Fighter, but I believe that actually missed the point. But this these two verses, verses eight and nine. I want us to hold on to and see that while we are humbled under the mighty hand of God, He strengthens us and prepares us to fight the enemy. Look at verse 8 with me. He says, be sober-minded. Be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. Resist him firm in your faith, knowing that the same kinds of suffering are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world. Beloved, this right here, let us let us just unpack this. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. That's why I read that uh Revelation 12 section. It's one of my favorites. I think it's one of the most encouraging passages in all of Scripture for the battle that lies before us and for the attacks of the enemy. We shall not and should not be surprised when the enemy attacks. And may I be so bold to say we should be a little bit encouraged when the enemy attacks us for our faith? May we be a little bit encouraged when the enemy attacks because of our likeness in Christ, that we are walking in obedience to Christ, that we are proclaiming the gospel. May we rejoice that the enemy attacks at that moment. Why? Why? The enemy's not going to waste his time on people that are already in his camp. The enemy is not going to waste his time on the weakest soldier. The weakest soldier is going to fall off. The weakest soldier is going to have their problems. The enemy is going to focus the attacks on the strong. The enemy is going to focus the attacks on the one that are proclaiming the gospel or walking in obedience to Christ or giving glory to God in all things. So as we see the attacks of the enemy, we know this is because the devil is prowling prowl prowls around like a roaring lion. I'm not going to say it anymore. He's mad. He's mad. Dorothy can't say line, and now I recognize where she got it from. From me. He's mad. He's furious. Because he knows that his time is short. Satan knows that he lost when that grave is empty after three days of Jesus being in it. Satan knows that he is lost. When the church continues to advance and grow, even after Stephen was stoned. Satan knows that he is lost As we sit here in Jarrett's film talking about the glory of Christ, preaching the gospel, desiring sinners to turn from their sins and turn to Christ, Satan knows that he lost. And he's mad. And he's going to attack with all he has. And this is the call. Is that when we humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God , We are strengthened to fight against this enemy. You know how and why we can? It's just like Satan knows he has lost, we too know that we serve the God that has destroyed him. We stand in victory because of Christ. And here Peter tells us to be sober-minded and watchful. Don't get distracted by all the world has to offer. This isn't even talking. The sober-minded we jump right to alcohol. And then we say, okay, I'm sober-minded, I'm not getting drunk, and I'm good to go. But there are so many other things that take away the sober-mindedness. The distractions of the world. Getting pulled into to petty arguments and fights and and getting pulled into stressing and worrying about all the wrong things and completely uh uh avoiding and forgetting about. The gospel about the spiritual things. Be sober-minded. Have your mind set on Christ and be watchful. Be watchful. Be ready for the attacks. Don't be surprised when the enemy attacks. If you are walking in the likeness of Christ, you should expect the devil to attack. He's he's seeking someone to devour. He's seeking someone to bring down and to destroy. Beloved, we are in a day where the attacks feel stronger than ever. The attacks feel in our face at times. And we we don't know what to do at times. We we think, oh no, this is it. This is it. It's all over. Be watchful. Be sober-minded. And here it is in verse 9. Resist him. Fight. Fight. How are we to fight? It's because it tells us right here, firm in your faith. Beloved, are you ready for the fight? The only way that you are ready for the fight is to be firm in your faith. To know that Christ is Lord. To know that he is victorious, to know that because you have been born again, you have his spirit, you have the ability to resist sin and temptation, you have the ability to fight against the devil. And if it looks like the devil wins in this moment, meaning you die, if the attacks get so strong that you perish, that you die, what happens? You enter into glory. Oh, good job, Satan. You're so powerful that as you have you fought against us here on this earth, you're so powerful that you send us to our Savior. Good job, Satan. Oh, you're so powerful. We should mock his weakness. We should mock that he tries to attack us when we're standing firm in faith. When we see who Christ is. And we know this is going to happen. Peter encourages us here by saying, we know that this is going to be happening. This type of suffering is happening around the world. Throughout all the churches. With the brotherhood. He unifies them there. Knowing that the same kind of sufferings, suffering, are being experienced by your brotherhood throughout the world And what should we do in this? We should praise God and we should be humbled by it. When we are humbled before God , We recognize that if Satan attacks us and it's based off of my strength and my wisdom, I'm going to lose in the first seven seconds of the battle. First seven seconds of the battle, I will lose. But when I'm humbled under the mighty hand of God, Satan doesn't have a chance. Not because of me, not because of my wisdom, not because of what I'm doing, but because I am under the authority of God. The victory is in Christ. The resistance is in Christ. The fight is in Christ. And he wins the fight. He wins the battle. Be sober-minded, be watchful. Resist him firm in your faith. Beloved, I challenge you as temptation, as you face temptation this week, to resist it. Too often we say we can't do it. I'm too weak. I'm too addicted to this. You don't know my background. You don't know my upbringing, how I was raised. You're right, I don't. But I do know that if you are born again, You are in the likeness of Christ. You have the spirit that gives you the ability to resist and to fight. Stand firm in that faith. And let's fight. Let's join together and fight. Let's pre proclaim the gospel to the ends of the earth. Fight against sin and temptation. Fight against the enemy. Resist him and give glory to our God. And this is what point number four brings us to. It's the humble proclaim Christ's Lordship. The humble proclaim Christ's Lordship. Look with me in verses ten and eleven. And after you have suffered a little while, the God of all grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ, will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. To him be the dominion for ever and ever. Amen. Notice this that is we are humbled under the mighty hand of God, and we are in this fight against the enemy, and we resist him. What happens? Is the Lord comes in. And he, he has called us to eternal glory, and he will himself, I'm emphasizing he, he will confirm, strengthen, and establish you. Are you going to praise God as He confirms you? And He points to you and says, You are my child, because you are washed in the blood of Christ Are you going to praise him and give him glory and proclaim his goodness as he strengthens you, as you fight against the temptation today, and then tomorrow that temptation comes and it goes right by you because you've been strengthened in the battle from yesterday? Are you going to give glory and praise to God? He establishes you. He establishes you. He keeps you firm. Are you going to give him praise and glory? Are you going to preach his goodness and proclaim his goodness to the ends of the world? That only happens when we are humble. When we recognize his virtues and our infirmities, and we see that Christ is our Lord and Savior. But notice what Peter says. Verse 11. This is the praise that he gives at the end of this letter. And this is our praise, beloved. If we are washed in the blood of Christ, this is what we shout. All the days of our lives. To him, to him, to Christ. To Christ, not to you, not to the church. Not to the Bible, not to good works, not to religion, not to the Pope, to him, to Christ, be the dominion. That's the authority, the ruling power He is the King of kings, the Lord of Lords. He rules in heaven. So what Matthew 28 tells us. He sits in heaven at the right hand of the Father, having dominion, authority over heaven and earth. To him be the dominion for ever and ever. When? When will his dominion end? When will his rule end? When will he not be king anymore? You all better be saying never. He is king today and he will be tomorrow until the ends of the earth. He will be king unto glory. He will be king forever and ever. His lordship, his kingship must be on our minds. Beloved, he is king today. His dominion and reign is now, and this is why we submit to him. This is our call to the world This is our call to the world. The gospel is not we're we're running for an election and we're just trying to get some votes. Come on, you join us, you come vote for Jesus, you vote for Jesus, you vote for Jesus, and if we all get together, we just might have enough votes to get Jesus to be king. No, no, no, no, no. He's in heaven now. He's at the right hand of the Father now. He is king Now. So what are we doing as we're preaching the gospel? We're not trying to win votes. What we are doing is we are proclaiming that he is king. That the king reigns. You are in his dominion. He rules over all of it. And you either submit to him, you follow him, you recognize him as king. and you live peacefully in his kingdom and you receive all the blessings and all the glory that is in the kingdom. Or if you rebel against the king, you reject him as king, you will receive the just punishment for your rebellion. This is the gospel. So we're calling with those rebels to turn from the rebelness and turn to Christ, acknowledge Him as King, come to Him in faith and find forgiveness. And this is what we preach. And we proclaim this to him be the dominion forever and ever. May we preach this forever and ever, that he is king. This brings us to our fifth point. The humble are unified. So we have been humbled under the mercy and the mighty hand of God. We recognize Christ as King and we proclaim it. Because we are humbled before Him, the humble are unified. This closing is really just a normal closing to a letter. You know, we write uh in love or uh well I don't know what else we say in letters. No one writes letters anymore. But we we close out with some kind of some closing within our letters. And that's what Peter's doing here. But Notice what he's doing in his letter. He's sending love to those that he's writing to. Now, how can he do that? We see that he starts his letter with recognizing that they are in the same likeness, they are part of the same family because they have been washed in the blood of Christ. So now he's sending his love to them. And then he's also talking about these other people that he loves. Sylvanius, a faithful brother, as I regard him. He's probably the one that is writing or taking this letter to them. I've written briefly to you, so he's going to be there So he's expressing his love of Slovenius and that the church should receive Slovanius as a brother. And then he says this in thirteen, she who is at Babylon, who is likewise chosen. Uh he doesn't refer to who the she is. Some fun arguments if you want to go and and nerd out about that, that's there, but we see It's some kind of saint, someone that has been redeemed by the blood of Christ. That's why he says, who is likewise chosen. So he's just showing love, an expression of love, and her sending greetings to this church, and also Mark. which is his son. So we just see this love and this this unit this unity here, not because of the location they're from, not because of their ethnicity. How are they unified? Why are they sending greetings and love? It's here in 14. Greet one another with the kiss of love. Peace to all of you who are in Christ. The unity comes because we are all in Christ. And if we're in Christ, we recognize that we are sinners redeemed by the blood of Christ. We are humbled in this moment, which then allows us to love one another in a very unique way. Because we see the greatness of God, we see our brokenness, how he has redeemed us, and I recognize that that's the same story for you as it is for me. I love you deeper than that uh now because of that. We see that this unifies us. This unifies us as we have this fight before us against Satan, as we see sin and temptation before us, as we see the oppression of society in the workplace, we come together in love, in peace, because of Christ. And recognize the deep unity here. Greet one another with the kiss of love. Believe we should start to do that. Just this week, I'm on a spiritual renewal this week. So Monday to Sunday, we should be doing this. Professor Matt would knock me out if I went up to him tomorrow morning and gave him a kiss. So if I have a black eye, you'll know where that came from. But the uniqueness and the depth of the love, it's not just to greet one another with a casual, hey buddy, how you doing, but it's with a kiss. It's this deep compassion, this deep love for one another. It's why we can serve one another. It's why we can recognize one another's virtues and recognize our brokenness at the same time. It's because we love one another. It's because you have been washed in the blood of Christ just like me. And we are family. We are brothers and sisters in Christ And the same battles you face, I face. The same grace you have is the grace I have had. And we are unified in this. It's why different denominations, when they profess faith in Christ as Lord and Savior, and that's the way of salvation, we can unify. Sure, we have disagreements. Sure we have disagreements and and and we say go and worship together and that's right and good for you but we can recognize that when they profess faith in Christ as their Lord and Savior and the only way of sal uh salvation, we are actually unified with With them. We should be more unified and more in love with our brothers and sisters in Christ than the world. We are to love the world. But I believe there's a temptation for many Christians to love the world more than we love other Christians. We're we're real fast to go help the world who rejects Christ, who who s uh spits out the name of Christ, who hates Christ, d denies him as Lord and Savior, but then when our brothers and sisters in Christ need some help, We're not as quick to jump on it. And all I'm saying is that when we are humbled under the mighty hand of God, we are unified and we love one another more. We love the world. Don't hear me. We love the enemies of God. We love them so much that we call them and tell them that they're enemies and that the only hope they have is in Christ. But may we see our love for one another deeper Deeper than our love for anyone else. And this can only happen when we are humbled under the mighty hand of God. That's how Peter ends this letter. He ends the letter with us being reminded to be humble, to humble ourselves under the mighty hand of God, to fight the fight. To give praise and glory and proclamation of the goodness of God and to love one another I think it's a good closing to the letter. It's good reminders of what's some last things that you hear as you conclude this letter. It may be a reminder for us. May this be how we live our lives, constantly and regularly humbling ourselves under the mighty hand of God, seeking to show humility to one another, as we unify in the fight against the enemy, we proclaim the glory of Christ. And this is what Peter wants us to think about.