The miracles of Christ. We'll see Jesus healing today, if we get through the passage. Leprosy. Paralysis, sickness, and demon possession. Now, obviously, there's more to come in the Gospel of Matthew. There'll be other miracles. But in Matthew 8, 1 through 17, leprosy, paralysis, sickness, and demonic possession Before I read it, I just want to say something about understanding the significance, or rather the meaning, of Christ's miracles, the historical and the theological meaning of his miracles Remember, Matthew is about what Jesus came to do, and Jesus came to inaugurate the kingdom of God. So the first thing we should think about when we hear Kingdom of God is God's saving reign in all the earth. That's what the kingdom of God is. That's what we are citizens of. God's kingdom, Christ's kingdom, God's saving reign in all the earth. Synonymous with that is the idea of a new creation. Christ is bringing about a new creation. Well Christ has checked that. Christ has brought about a new creation. And in our salvation, He's made us partakers of that new creation. So the kingdom of God, which is the saving reign of God in all the earth, bringing about the new creation. Here's where the meaning of miracles comes in, because the miracles is a sign of the new creation uh coming to bear within the old creation. The old creation is the realm where demons are working. The old fallen creation is where people suffer sickness and paralysis and are subject to the work of satanic forces. So Christ comes and he has the authority and he has the compassion to reverse the effects of the curse of sin and death. And that's what the old creation is. The old creation is under the curse of sin and death. Christ brings redemption, in other words, he brings the new creation. So the meaning of the miracles The historical and the theological significance of them is reversing the effects of the curse, and of course, that demonstrates also, this is a secondary point. when we talk about the meaning of his miracles, it demonstrates his authority and his compassion, which is a Which is very important because it's a divine authority and it's a divine compassion. This is Emmanuel. This is God with us. This is God with the power to reverse the effects of sin and death, to redeem lost sinners out of this old fallen creation and to bring about a new creation. So they are they are definitely signs of his power that prove who he is and validate his message, but keep the bigger picture in mind of Christ bringing about the new creation. And that's what the miracles are. They're signs of the new creation that demonstrate his authority and his compassion as Emmanuel Alright, let's begin with verses one through four. Jesus cleansing a leper. When he came down from the mountain, great crowds followed him. And behold, a leper came to him and knelt before him, saying, Lord, if you will , Which is another way of saying, If you're willing, if you're willing, you can make me clean. Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him, saying I will be clean. I will be clean. Punctuation is important there. I was going too quickly. I will, semicolon, be clean. So he's basically saying, I am willing And then he gives the word. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. Jesus said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone. But go, show yourself to the priest and offer the gift that Moses commanded for a proof to them. So Jesus still sensitive to and still um Recognizing the at that point the mosaic code, the mosaic law for what you should do if you're cleansed of your leprosy. So he comes down from the mountain. That's after the Sermon on the Mount. Comes down from the mountain. Great crowds followed him. Great crowds amassed to him. And there's a leper who comes and kneels before him, and he says, Lord, if you will , You can make me clean. So the first point is the faith of the leper. Now the leper Is ceremonially unclean. And under the old covenant, here's the way it happens If the unclean person touches you, what happens? Are they cleansed by your cleanliness, or do you become unclean? You become unclean. Right here. But with Jesus that's not the case because of the supernatural power and the supernatural authority of Jesus. It's the complete opposite. as God he touches the leper and speaks a word and of course by his word the leper is cleansed and he's now ceremonially clean. He's able to join the religious community and join the worship and all of those things. So in a sense he's brought back into the fellowship. He's restored if you want to put that Summary word on it. The leper is restored. You have the faith of the leper, and it's an active faith. It's a faith that doesn't exist just in his mind. It's a faith that takes action. So he goes to Jesus in the midst of a crowd. I can't imagine this was an easy thing. I mean these were mobs. These were huge masses of people uh in the countryside and he made his way to Jesus And he kneels down, and he straightforward addresses Christ as Lord, there's debate on that whether he just means master or teacher or if he's really meaning the covenant Lord Yahweh. I'll let you read the commentaries and make your decision. But either way, he's acknowledging and he believes 100% in his heart, he believes that Jesus has the ability to heal him. That's faith. So he says, if you are willing, you can make me Clean. I also see in his profession of faith a humility. I think when he says, if if you will or if you are willing, I think it demonstrates something deeper in his heart. He's not coming. to command Jesus. He's not the one in charge. He doesn't feel like Jesus is obligated to heal him. He doesn't have this sense of entitlement in his heart. But it is a humble Request made in faith. And Jesus stretched out his hand and touched him. Now mark that away in your mind. He won't do that with all the miracles. Uh in this chapter or in his ministry. But he does this one's very personal. It's in person. It's very personal. He stretches out his hand and touched him I can almost picture like what the exalted Christ does with John in the first chapter of Revelation. And you see that in the Old Testament prophets too in Theophanes. where the prophet upon the upon the vision of God collapses or falls down and is weakened. And God reaches forth and touches them on the shoulder or grabs them by the hand to strengthen them. And that's what you have here. You have Jesus stretching out his hand, touching him and saying, I will be clean. And immediately his leprosy was cleansed. So it's a sudden cleansing And then Jesus tells him to basically do this in the lawful way. Be restored. You are restored physically, ceremonially, but now follow up in the lawful way. And something you'll read about in maybe a study Bible or the commentaries. You probably hear this on sermons. It's a th theme or a motif in the gospel narratives that's been called the messianic secret. It's this uh secretive tendency that You see in Christ, it tells people that he heals, don't tell anyone. Um, and it's it's just something that grows in his early ministry. Th there's different theories and different things to say about that. Uh, I think the main thing is the point that Jesus is sovereign over pacing his own ministry and pacing how he reveals himself and pacing the news about who he is and he'll he probably does that for practical purposes I can think of an example in the Gospel of John where uh the disciples and the brothers were going down to a feast and they They they told him, Come down to the feast. If you want to be a public figure, you've got to get out there, you've got to make yourself known and Jesus said, Anytime it's a good time for you. It's not my time. I'm not going. You go to the feast. So they all went to the feast a couple of days later, when Jesus is ready, Jesus goes to the feast. the feast. So he does things on his timeline, and I think underneath that category we see the messianic secret. If I were gonna preach all this, I would I would highlight the faith of the leper. The faith of the leper That's a humble faith. That's an active faith. And that is a bold faith. He he's humble in his heart. He doesn't feel entitled. He's it's active. He makes his way to Jesus and falls down before Jesus. And it's bold. He asks for the thing that he came for. And it's right for us to do that in prayer. And the second point I would preach on would be the Of course, the authority of Christ, his ability, his power to do this, this is not a small thing. This is uh this is a divine power to Cleanse the leper at touch and at his word. And the third thing I would probably preach on would be his compassion. The compassion of Christ. And these two things over and over again, His authority, His compassion, His ability, his love. Both of these things flavor the entire earthly ministry of Christ. There are other things as well, um, like his hatred for sin and hypocrisy. But in terms of the the positive healings and miracles It's his authority, for example, it's his authority to forgive sins, and it's his compassion that he actually desires to forgive sinners. And here you have this, his compassion, his authority. I think there is some good application there for us if we want to talk about Christ's likeness. Now we don't have supernatural authority inherently, but we do minister uh from a book that has supernatural authority. We do have a divine word and we should speak Speak with conviction and with authority, but we also need to have compassion and love and a merciful heart toward others. So, the faith of the leper who's made clean by the touch and by the word of Christ. There you have a sign of restoration, a sign of re Redemption even within this old fallen creation. Any comments or any questions on the leper? Or on Jesus cleansing the leper, who is the main character. that he might have known that he was a deity or not. Well what? Oh the leper. I thought you meant Jesus. No. Yeah, so anyways, yeah, so he might have known he was deity, but yeah the way I'm reading it here it kinda looks like because he's saying um the leper came and worshipped him. So I and he uh in my comment It says he he bowed down. I don't see where it said he did kneel, but he said by kneeling before Jesus and trusting the Lord carry us in the green or whatever. But uh Uh the man recognizes him as more than just a man? Definitely more than a man, but we're not sure of God. He could have just thought he was a very, very powerful prophet as well. And that's another of the The themes in the gospel narratives develop as the story goes on, and one of those themes is the identity of Christ and how much people understood, even the disciples, what they understood, and And um and so it grows and it develops, and that's why the whole story taken together, we know for sure we know for certain Jesus is self-conscious that he's the Christ. Then that he is God. But that comes you know, that's revealed. His earthly ministry is part of the progress of revelation. And yeah. Yeah, so at different points you know you know the demons know who he is from a very early point. It takes the disciples a while to catch on and really grasp the significance. Um anything else? uh you know the leopard and everything like that. I wonder if he didn't just walk through and they just sprang away from him. But they didn't want to be next to him and they are touched to him or Yeah, it could be. I mean he would have been required to announce himself and uh people probably will so we don't know. I mean probably we can try to envision it but It's not told us exactly how that happened, but um he definitely would have been ostracized and would have been a very very lonely person and uh So this restoration is a big is a big big deal for him. That's like what you were saying. It was like that. Something unclean touching you would make you uncoin, but you in this case it becomes a kind of spread clean to this to somewhere else. Yeah. It's a great object lesson, isn't it? Maybe that's the reason for the touch and it's all said and done, maybe it's that simple. It's easy He's just r it's demonstrating he's not afraid of this and he has the power to um how did you say you said it in a great way for his his cleanliness to share that with a leper. That's uh that's an amazing thing. Um , I'm not sure if you're not going to be able to do that. Different uh a completely different situation than what he came. It just took that one event. Alright, ready to go to the centurion? So now you have a centurion asking he's gonna ask for the miracle, but not for himself. So there's one difference right off the bat. There are some other differences with this Not least of which is now you have a Gentile. So first you have a leper who's ceremonially unclean, and then you have a Gentile outside the uh the Jewish community. And we see his faith. So the faith of the centurion, the faith of the leper, the faith of the centurion. Verses 5 to 13 When he had entered Capernaum, a centurion came forward to him, appealing to him: Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly And he said to him , I will come and heal him. But the centurion replied, Lord, I'm not worthy to have you come under my roof. You see this humility again with the centurion, don't you? But only say the word, and my servant will be healed. For I too am a man under authority, with soldiers under me. And I say to one, go, and he goes. And to another, come, and he comes. And to my servant, do this, and he does it. When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who followed him, Truly I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith. That's an indictment on Israel, isn't it? I tell you, many will come from east and west, that's Gentiles, and recline at table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the Kingdom of heaven. While the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into the outer darkness, in that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth, and the censuring And to the centurion, Jesus said, Go and let it be done for you as you have believed. And the servant was healed at that very moment. Aha, the faith of the Centurion. It takes it to the next le next level. Next level faith. Radical faith. Uh humble and active And bold. It's humble, it's active, and it's bold. So a centurion comes to him, appealing to him, Lord, my servant is lying paralyzed at home, suffering terribly. And Jesus said, I'll come and heal him. But the centurion replied, I'm not worthy to have you come under my roof, but only say the word, and my servant will be healed. Now, that's the request. Say the word that he'd be healed, and he will be healed. And he's really summarizing his faith right there. But verse 9 and following. He explains his rationale. And it's really brilliant. Because he understands exactly The authority of Jesus. He gives himself as an example of someone who's under authority. I am a man under authority with soldiers under me. So it's an illustration, he's using himself as a personal example. He's under authority, and he also has soldiers under him. So I say to one, go and he goes. And to another, come and he comes, and to my servant, do this, and he does it. So he understands that Jesus has authority over paralysis. How he knew that? Maybe from listening to Jesus' teaching, watching Jesus' mirac other miracles. Um we don't know exactly the details of all that he was thinking, but we know that he understands Jesus has authority. legitimate authority over paralysis so that if he says go, the paralysis will go. That's the illustration he uses. He's a man under authority, but he also is in authority over others. And if he says go, they go. If I say come, he comes. If I say do this, does this. So if Jesus says be healed, he'll be healed. It's really a strength of conviction that the centurion demonstrates, and Jesus affirms that. Truly I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith. Now you can you can interpret that in uh a different way if you'd like. I think he's just talking about his earthly ministry thus far in his earthly ministry I don't think he means throughout throughout all the history of Israel. He could. Uh 'cause the preincarnate Christ was definitely You know, still the Son of God in the Old Testament and still active and um mediating the Word of God and and all those things. But I think he's Just simply talking about thus far in his earthly ministry, he hasn't found an Israelite with that depth of conviction in their faith. And maybe even that level that level of understanding in the authority of Christ, that he has authority over physical ailments, so that whatever he says, the physical ailment obeys him. So this is a strong. I think it's fair to say because I'm recording that at the very least emotion is just sent by God I think so. I I think he I think that's fair to say, and that's probably fair to say with the leper as well, that he's one sent by God, that he has some kind of He that he's a miracle worker, that he has some kind of authority. Um absolutely So again you see these two aspects in Jesus' healing ministry. Authority and compassion. Authority and compassion. Now, there's some differences from the leper healing. First of all, the leper makes the request for himself The centurion makes the request for his servant. With the leper, the miracle is done in person. With the servant of the centurion, the miracle is done from a distance. Distance is not a problem for Jesus. Jesus is God. So the fact that the Centurion servant is at home rather than there, it's not a problem at all. He maybe never even saw the um the servant, and we have no reason to believe that he did see him. But that's another difference. And of course another difference which is connected to that is the element of touch. There is the touch, the compassionate touch for the leper. Since Jesus is not there in person with the servant, only say the word, and my servant will be healed. So it's a little different MO. There's no mechanical formula for the miracles where Jesus has to follow this formula and people have to unlock his power, which is a a phrase and a concept that word of faith heretics in America today use. You have to unlock God's power by your faith and There's no formula here. Jesus is God. He can do whatever he wants, and whatever he wants to do, he can do it in whatever way he wants. He's the sovereign Lord of creation, and he's the sovereign lord of the new creation, too. He can reverse the effects of sin anytime, any way that he so chooses. And that's what you see. And the significance of his faith from verses ten through twelve is also very important. This is another difference. There was no theological lesson after the healing of the leper, but there is a theological lesson after the healing of the servant. And Here it is, verses 10 through 12. When Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those that followed him, Which makes you think this is not the crowd. This there are often times where he breaks off from the crowd, and there's that smaller group of disciples. Those that followed him. Truly I tell you, with no one in Israel have I found such faith. But I do tell you this, in verse 11, many will come from east and west and recline at the table with Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. in the kingdom of heaven. Which which is the kingdom of God. That's the kingdom of God's salvation. That's what you're a citizen of. That's what you belong to. While the sons of the kingdom, now that's natural Israel, the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth Um makes me think of a very important verse in Matthew. 2143, where Jesus tells the leaders, the the uh leaders of Israel at the time representing apostate Israel, uh he says, Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits, which will be the church. They are were the sons of the kingdom. Historically, Israel was the kingdom of God. It was the outward manifestation of the kingdom Kingdom of God on earth. It was a a nation, a geopolitical nation under the old covenant. That was the kingdom of God in the Old Testament. But that stewardship will be taken away from them, and the stewardship of the kingdom of God will be given to the church and the leaders of the church, rather than Israel and the leaders of Israel. Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people produced. So this faith of the centurion And this healing, Jesus uses as a sign that God's great harvest among the Gentiles has begun. And that was a promise In the Old Testament, that salvation will come through through the Jews, through the nation of Israel, but it will expand to the whole earth. That's in the first couple verses of the call of Abraham. All of Israel is formed and grows out of God's call and covenant with Abraham. Genesis beginning in Genesis 12, 1 through 3. And in Genesis 12, 1 through 3, God promises Abraham basically two things. I mean there's details to fill in, but basically God promises Abram at the time He hadn't expanded his name yet. He promises Abram a a nation will come from him. And what nation will that be Israel. And then he promises Abram also that through that nation will come a Savior to bring salvation to the whole world. In your offspring, all the families of earth will be blessed. He promises a nation, and he promises global salvation that will come through that nation. The nation is a means to global salvation. This is one of the things the Pharisees just didn't get in their unbiblical hermeneutics and interpretation of the Old Testament. That it was always promised that salvation would come through the Jews, to the Jew first, but then through the Jews, salvation would go to the ends of the earth. And the faith of the centurion and Jesus Healing of his servant, not healing of him, healing of a servant is just a sign, a sign that God's great harvest among the Gentiles has begun, which is really just another way of saying the kingdom of God was was is Here. The kingdom of God was upon them. Abram , so you have coming from east and west and reclining at table With Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob in the kingdom of heaven. And Abraham, Isaac, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob were the patriarchs. Before Israel was constituted as a nation, but it's all rooted in the covenant promises given to the patriarchs And then it's also a sign that the time for historical judgment on apostate Israel had come. The time for judgment on apostate Israel had come. The sons of the kingdom will be thrown into outer darkness. In that place there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth. Now that appears to be looking forward really to hell, to final judgment. As you get deeper into the gospel of Matthew, especially into chapter 21 and all the way through 24, Jesus does prophesy a historical judgment that would come on Israel, apostate Israel, uh within that generation. And that happened in the si the sixties and culminated in A. D. 70 with the destruction of the temple and the siege of Jerusalem. So some pretty interesting teaching there, even though it's quick, it's pretty significant about Gentiles coming to share at the same covenant table with the patriarchs. And it's one table. That's important. There you go, there's a sermon. One table, not two tables, one kingdom, not two kingdoms, one people, one fellowship, not two completely different People's fellowships purposes. One table, Gentiles, patriarchs, all the elect of God, saved by grace through faith, at one table in the kingdom of heaven Any questions or thoughts on the centurion? His servant. I mean, there's some interesting things to think about the servant, right? He didn't express faith. He didn't go to Jesus, but he's the one that healed. So these aren't these aren't like little uh metaphors for ha I mean you can you can do that as an application for some of the miracles, but they're not metaphors for ha for salvation, for personal salvation. Um at least these ones are. It's just a reporting on that. Right, right, but I'm saying s um It's a re yeah, it's that's right. It's a report on what happened. But in terms of the significance of them, the uh if it were if a m metaphor for personal salvation, you would have had to have faith and repentance. In the servant who is lying at home. But the servant doesn't express faith. We don't even know if the servant knows that Jesus exists. But it's the The faith of the centurion is the point. Any thoughts or questions on the centurion or the servant, or of course, Jesus, who's the main the main figure? significant that not only is he a gentile, he's a Roman occupier. And that's the very thing they expected the Messiah to come and deal with. It's like Jesus is just shipping away Yeah, that's a great point right there. That's a that's a great point. I love that phrase you use, chipping away at their expectations about the kind of kingdom he came to set up. That's that'll preach, brother. That's good. And um they weren't happy about it by and large. That's why he ends up on a cross, right? They they just weren't happy About having their their expectations not met. And when their expectations weren't met about the kingdom, like their whole hermeneutics were completely demolished. They just couldn't couldn't deal with it. Um what did you say? Aki 's an occupier? He's a Roman occupier, yeah, that's right. In the land Oh now I'm eager to hear this. assume when Jesus healed someone he probably also save them. But I mean there's nothing to back that up, but it does feel weird thinking that you would directly touch someone's life and not save them Um, not off the bat. I mean, I think there are some miracles where salvation is in view too. If it it's written out I just think that the the significance of the miracles is broader. At the very least, it's broader than being a metaphor for salvation. It's more about what he's revealing about himself and what he's revealing about the kingdom and his work. That's right. The friend you mean the friends lowering the paralytic down? Yeah. The point there was was more about, you know What his real need was, right? And he ends up doing both. And that's it's an interesting point, because the forgiveness of sins is the miracle. In fact that's a that's the greatest miracle. Is the forgiveness of sins. It's just invisible. So he gives these visible ones to give some kind of evidence and validation, a manifestation of his power. Yeah, where uh trying to see if I forget if that one's in Matthew. I know that's in Mark. And we'll we'll figure it out as we go along. Um yeah, I think I believed that growing up too, Malika. I think I just assumed it. I don't even know as far back As far back as I can remember, I don't remember being taught that, but I o m it probably was implied. And I always thought they went hand in hand. Um case it would imply that everyone would be fair to the file to see I don't know Yeah, in John in John uh six and seven you find out that after after his teaching about the significance of that miracle a great crowd left him and abandoned him. It was like it was one of the ma one of the major turning points. Um good stuff. You guys really got my wheels turning Yeah, yeah, and that Roman point too. That's that's a hu that's a huge point that that that point about Rome. And then God's going to use Rome as the vehicle of judgment uh within that generation, just like he used Babylon in the Old Testament and Assyria in the Old Testament and Egypt in the Old Testament. Testament and uh so you have obviously the the two kingdoms at war against the kingdom of God is gonna be Roman Empire and uh the apostate Israel And you see that persecution from both of those elements continuing on through the book of Acts, it's in the early church. And then the third enemy arises, which is within the professing church. That's the anti Antichrist spirit, that's the third big enemy. Enough about enemies. But that's what you do in the kingdom. You've you've got to conquer your enemies. And then the Defend your kingdom against enemies and then spread and advance your kingdom, further subduing your enemies. So that 's the Great Commission. Spiritual warfare is involved in this whole thing. Um the healing of sickness. So we've seen leprosy, we've seen paralysis It seemed like it was a painful paralysis too. Remember that phrase? He's suffering greatly. I don't know if that's physical pain or whatever, but uh Now you have in verse 14 to 17, little paragraph, healing sickness, and some differences with this miracle as well, too. And when Jesus entered Peter's house, finally get a break from ministry, right? Right, here's go Peter, home group at Peter's house. He saw his mother-in-law lying sick with a fever. Uh it's pretty sick. That's a summary way of saying this is a pretty serious fever. He touched her hand And the fever left her, and she rose and began to serve him. That evening they brought to him many who were oppressed by demons, and he cast out the spirits with a word And healed all who were sick. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. He took our illnesses and bore our diseases. Alright, now the difference here is there's no expression of faith And there's no request for a healing, and there's no word spoken about it He goes over to Peter's mother-in-law, touched her hand, and the fever left her And she rose and began to serve him. And I think the point there, I mean I always hear subpoints on this in the sermon about, you know How we need to be servants. Yeah, of course we need to be servants. Uh I think the point is that the healing was not only immediate but complete. She's completely restored to full strength. How long does it take you to get restored? Or the stomach virus or bad fever. Too long Sometimes I enjoy that. I don't know if I'm off base on this, but sometimes I interpret those times as times where God is telling me I need to slow down and just get away from everything and just rest for a couple of days. Maybe that's just how I rationalize feeling so Chrome got to be laid up. But on a serious note, her recovery is immediately fully restored to strength. to serve him and I don't think just him but there's a group of disciples here we think I mean at at the very least it's a s small group of disciples That evening they, this probably his group of disciples, they brought to him many who were oppressed by demons, and he cast out the spirits with the word. That's the fulfillment of prophecy, too. He'll cast out spirits Spirits from the land, who cleanse the land of evil spirits. And then he healed all who were sick. So you have many, many healings this night At Peter's house. Important place to be. So we've had leprosy, we've had paralysis, we have sickness, and then Demonic spirits being cast out. Differences. Well, we already looked at the differences with this with this healing. What's really intriguing to me is This verse seventeen seventeen where we get another aspect. You can put a star next to this one because this is the one Matthew gives another aspect of the historical and theological significance of these healings, specifically Uh the healings of the sick, but I think you can just in I I think it is a it's broader than that. Verse 17, this was to fulfill. So The fulfillment of prophecy. Christ's miracles is the fulfillment of prophecy. This was to fulfill what was spoken by the prophet Isaiah. He took our illnesses and bore our diseases. So one of the one aspect of the meaning of miracles is the fulfillment of prophecy. But you've got to be s more specific about that. What's what fulfillment? He says, he took our illnesses and bore our diseases. So let's turn to that. Isaiah 53 What that means is Christ is the suffering servant of the Lord who's brought eschatological salvation to both Jew and Gentile. There you go. There's a little memory statement. That'll be on the final exam. Referencing Isaiah 53, 4, which is a servant song, a servant song in Isaiah. Servant songs are songs that describe and prophesy the work of Christ, the work of God's Christ who will come and bring final salvation. That's what eschatological means. I mean technically it means the last, the last and ultimate. The final salvation of God, the salvation that will completely redeem sinners from the curse of sin and death and remove all causes of sin from the earth, remove all sin from the earth, remove all effects of sin. Sin from the earth and redeem sinners from the judgment that we deserve from our sin. Completely eradicate sin and evil in every respect. This is what the suffering servant of the Lord will do when he comes. That's eschatological salvation. 's not going to be able to do that. He'll bring it to both Jew and Gentile. First to Jew, to the Jew, and then to the Gentile. This um Prophecy that Matthew alludes to as the is the fulfillment is Matthew, is Isaiah 53, 4. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows, yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted. You have this little prophecy about Christ's earthly ministry in the midst of this prophecy about the sacrificial death of Christ And that's what this servant song is focused on. It says more than it says more than just about the sacrificial death. Of Christ. But that is the main point. And in the midst of it, you have a prophecy that's fulfilled in his earthly ministry. Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Matthew interprets that. uh taken away. He has taken away. Let me get his wording exactly. He took our illnesses and bore our diseases. So only Christ can do that. What I'd like to do is read this whole servant song. It begins in Isaiah 52, verse 13. Significant prophecy about Christ and his work of redemption. Behold, my servant shall act wisely. He shall be high and lifted up, and shall be exalted. as many were astonished at you, his appearance was so marred beyond human semblance, and his form beyond that of the children of mankind, so that he may sprinkle Israel. Many nations. Certainly he'll sprinkle Israel. Absolutely He brings salvation to that chosen nation, his nation, his elected nation of all the earth, but not only them. He'll suffer greatly. He'll be so beaten, so marred, so wounded, but through that suffering, he'll atone for the sins of people all over the world. That's a sprinkle of many nations. Means. He'll cleanse sinners of their guilt before God all over the world. Kings shall shut their mouths because of him For that which has not been told them they see, and that which they have not heard, they understand. Obviously, that happens through gospel preaching as it spreads on the earth and biblical teaching. That's what opens eyes, that's what changes hearts, that's what brings people to understand God's purpose. Verse 5 verse 1 in chapter 53. This continues Who has believed what he has heard from us, and to whom has the arm of the Lord been revealed In Romans 10, 16, we find out that this is referring to the gospel message, God's good news of salvation. Verse 2: For he grew up before him like a young plant, and like a root out of the dry ground. He had no former majesty that we should look at him, and no beauty that we should desire him This this is just talking about he's not uh attractive or desirable from a worldly measure, from a from a carnal fleshly standpoint He's not a celebrity as we would think of a celebrity. He would walk if walk in any mall and just would immediately be mobbed with people because they're in such awe at this person for their worldly fame. He's in a different category. Verse 3 tells us that category. He was despised and rejected by men, a man of sorrows and acquainted with grief. And as one from whom men hide their faces, he was despised, and we esteemed him not. That's the trajectory Of the narrative in the Gospels. He starts with these huge crowds and The conflict just builds and builds and builds and builds and builds the hatred for Christ grows and grows and finally they couldn't take it anymore They finally put their plan in action. They tried to kill him multiple times. Read through the Gospel of John. Multiple times they wanted to and tried to kill Jesus. And they finally, they finally. Schemed enough and came up with this plan. And uh they despised him, esteemed him not. Verse 4 : Surely he has borne our griefs and carried our sorrows. Now I'll just stop there b again because that's the Verse that's quoted as being fulfilled in Christ's healings. And when an Old Testament verse or passage is referenced as a fulfill as something being f fulfilling it. It's calling into view the whole context. Not just that verse, but the whole context is being In other words, the servant of the Lord is has come to earth to bring this salvation, to suffer and be rejected, and to sprinkle many nations. The in other words, again, the kingdom of God has had come upon them. And I like the Juxtaposition of verse four with verse three. Because verse four alludes to, if Matthew's right about that, being fulfilled in Christ's healings. Verse 4 alludes to great acts of kindness and mercy in Christ's earthly ministry. And you see that set right up against how much people despised him and hated him. And that's what you see in Christ's earthly ministry. He did nothing but good things. He did nothing but show kindness and forgiveness, and yes, he rebuked and spoke judgment over hypocrites, religious hypocrites and sinners, but that too is a good thing. You don't want Jesus condoning sin, just like man condones sin. But he did many, many acts of kindness, and he was very gracious and very compassionate. He was a friend to sinners. Um a friend to the lonely and the hurting, and he healed many, but he was despised and he was not esteemed The end of verse 4 Yet we esteemed him stricken, smitten by God, and afflicted, but he was pierced for our transgression. And he was crushed for our iniquities. You see the idea of substitution here, right? This is talking about the cross. He was there for our iniquities. Upon him was the chastisement that brought us peace. Peace with God. And with his wounds we are healed. And that's true, right? By his wounds On the cross, in his suffering and on the cross, by virtue of those wounds, we are healed. We are forgiven of our sins. We're sanctified in our hearts, renewed in our minds, given the gift of eternal life. We're healed. Verse 6, all we like sheep have gone astray. We have turned every one to his own way, and the Lord has laid on him the iniquity of us all. He was oppressed. And he was afflicted, yet he opened not his mouth, like a lamb that is led to slaughter, to thus slaughter, and like a sheep that before its shearers is silent, so he opened not his mouth. By oppression and judgment he was taken away. And as for his generation, who considered that he was cut off out of the land of the living, stricken for the transgression of my people And they made his grave with the wicked, and with a rich man in his death. So now we're unto his burial, although he had done no violence, and there was no deceit in his mouth Yet it was the will of the Lord to crush him. He has put him to grief. When his soul makes an offering for guilt, he shall see his offspring And he shall prolong his days. You see the ramifications or the effects of his suffering. And And his substitutionary death. He was giving of his his whole life and he giving his soul as an offering for guilt, which is an offering that removes guilt. And he will have offspring. You are his offspring. We are his offspring. And he shall prolong his days. He lives forever. He is living. The will of the Lord shall prosper in his hand. He now is in charge of executing the will of the Lord. He is the one who sits at the right hand of God. And the will of the Lord is prospering in his hand, not failing in his hand. He's not coming up short. He's not doing a bad job. He's not doing a mediocre job. He's doing exactly what God has appointed him to do as the Lord who reigns at his right hand. Verse 11, out of the anguish of his soul he s shall see and be satisfied by his knowledge Shall the righteous one, my servant, make many to be accounted righteous, and he shall bear their iniquities. There's a good gospel verse right there, just a second hand He'll make many to be accounted righteous. That's our justification. Christ's righteousness accounted to us, and he shall bear their iniquities. I love that because it's the twofold grace of the gospel. What Jesus takes away from us and what Jesus gives to us. He takes away from us our guilt, bearing our iniquities, and he gives to us his righteousness. Verse 12, the final verse. Therefore I will divide with him a portion with the many, and he shall divide the spoil with the strong be so there's a reward in view, a great, great reward, not only for him, but a reward uh to share with many. Um which is the reward of eternal life that he share Man, Isaiah, how many different times can You say this. He bore the sin of others. He bore the sin of many and makes intercession for the transgressors. Now that's a great verse uh for the gospel too because you have the cross, the ministry of Christ on the cross, bearing the sin of many, and then you have the ministry of Christ in heaven making intercession for transgressors. Where he ever lives to make intercession for us. Boy, you could you could preach about twenty gospel sermons from this servant song. Very significant servant song, fulfilled in Christ, the one who sprinkles many nations through suffering and glory. It makes me think of those verses in Luke 24 and in 1 Peter 1, and there are others as well. They're just the first two that come to mind. twenty-four and first Peter one, where the whole message of the whole Old Testament is summarized in the sufferings of Christ. And the glories that follow, and then the salvation of the whole world that results from that. Jesus, the risen Christ, summarizes the whole message of the whole Old Testament as that in Luke twenty-four. He does it two times In verse 24 and following, and verse 44 and following. All the prophets, all the books of the law, the Psalms, the prophets, everything. It was about the suffering of Christ and the glories that will follow and then global salvation. And then Peter says the same thing in First Peter chapter one. And this this servant song is a great place to See all see both of those things, or all three of those things rather, summarized in one prophecy. So that's Matthew 8, 1 through 17, beginning on the miracles of Christ. Great authority, great compassion. We do see some lessons about faith. Okay, there's practical application here. A true biblical faith will always be a humble faith. It would always be an active faith. It should be a bold faith. Asking for What you need to ask for. If you need to ask for repentance from a specific sin, go to God in humble prayer and pray a prayer of faith that God will give you repentance. Humble, active, and bold, but mostly what we're seeing is uh signs, real manifestations that The kingdom of God had come and Christ has the power of God and the compassion of God. And isn't it nice? He still has the power of God and he still has the compassion of God. Alright, let's pray.