Today's sermon is from Genesis chapter 6. So let's take our Bibles and open to Genesis chapter 6, looking at the salvation of Noah. The whole sermon this morning, I'm hoping that God will use it as a reminder to each of us that God is both a just judge and a gracious Savior. God is a just judge, and he is a gracious Savior. You need both sides of the coin if you only have heads but no tails. on a on it looks like a quarter because you only see the one side but you flip it over there's nothing. It's not a real quarter. And you need both of these doctrines for the true Christian message. You need that God is the just the judge And He will bring everything into judgment. But God also is a gracious Savior, and He gives us deliverance. He gives us escape. He gives us salvation So that we can be spared from that judgment. God is a just judge and a gracious savior. And if you know the story of Noah, you know that that's the story. There's a judgment that comes on the whole world, and yet God saves Noah. Noah and his family. Before we get into the message, let's go to the Lord once more in prayer. Father, at this time, we ask that you would open our minds to your word. We ask that you'd open our hearts to your word. Help us to see who you are. Show us who you are, your holiness, your righteousness. Show us your goodness, but also, Father, show us your love. Show us the salvation that you You've provided in Christ. I pray that you will drive your word deep into our hearts such that it changes us. Build us up in the faith and knowledge of the Lord Jesus Christ. For those who are discouraged, we pray that you will encourage them. For those who are weak, we pray that you will strengthen them. For those who've been distracted, we pray that you'll refocus them. Whatever it is that we need We pray that you would provide it for us richly through your word and spirit as you center us on Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. God is a just judge, and he is a gracious savior. You can look at some earthly examples to understand the importance of both of those things. For example, think about the kind of judges that we want serving in the county level or the state level or the federal level. We want judges who will uphold the law Who understand the law and then also uphold the law, not create their own laws. But we also want them to be able to show mercy And compassion. We don't want judges that have no sense of mercy or compassion. We want both their commitment to understanding and upholding the law, but also they have a proper mercy and compassion uh to temper their commitment to righteousness and justice. Think about parents. Parents should be committed to teaching our children the difference between our Right and wrong. We should be committed to disciplining our children. There should be s consequences for wrongdoing. A certain reward and blessing and approval, a commending of well doing. We want to be committed to right and wrong and committed to dis But we also have to have hearts that are overflowing with forgiveness. We have to have grace. We have to have compassion Can you imagine parents that don't have any compassion or patience? And so you want the right and wrong and you want the discipline, yes, but not only that. We also want lots of forgiveness, lots of grace, lots of long -suffering patience and compassion. for our children. You want both of those things. And that's sort of a mirror, sort of a reflection of the re the greater reality, the deeper reality, that God is a just judge and he is righteous. But he also is a gracious Savior that will deliver us from the judgment to come. And that's where the gospel comes in: that Jesus, through his life, death, and resurrection, saves us from that coming judgment. He reconciles us to God. Jesus erases the guilt of our sin. He reconciles us to God so that we can have hope and confidence for that coming day of judgment, that we will not face the penalty for our wrongdoing. That's the gospel. Can you imagine our nation without any justice for Christ? So close your eyes if you need to, but maybe you don't need to. Maybe you can just picture in your mind's eye the United States of America with no laws Right? If there's no laws, then there's no penalty. There's no crime. So crime doesn't exist because there's no laws. There's no penalty. There's no government, there's no judges, and there's no police. You think we'd be more peaceful? You think we'd be better off? No, we'd be terrified. You you would you would you would f you would go down into the bayou and hide away so that no one could reach you. You'd go into the mountains. You'd you'd be terrified because Society would just degenerate into chaos and violence like we could not even imagine, to be honest. Because you need justice and you need law and you need penalty and you need governance and you need judges and you need governors and officers. You need morality. Now, stay with that picture that you've this horrible picture that you've painted of the United States with no laws, no penalties, no judgments. Complete chaos, everybody for themselves. And the whole nation, and imagine in that nation there's only one believer. There's only one person who believes in God and is striving to obey God. Just one. That's what we see in Genesis. 6. That's the world we see in Genesis 6. And you see on your outline there's only two major points. The first major point is looking at the societal corruption, and the second major point is the salvation of Noah. Societal corruption, and then in that context, the salvation of Noah. It's the salvation of Noah that keeps the story going. If God doesn't save Noah and his family in Genesis 6, it's over. The story ends. Societal corruption. I hope we understand that not all societies and not all cultures are created equal. You have underlying beliefs Underlying beliefs lead to specific morals, and those specific morals lead to a culture and lead to public policy and public behavior. And not all cultures are the same. And we go ABC, underneath societal corruption, you'll see in ABC, letter A, we see the defiling of mankind. The defiling of mankind. This is verses 1 to 4. When man began to multiply on the face of the land and daughters were born to them, the sons of God saw that the daughters of man were attractive. And they took as their wives any they chose. Then the Lord said, My spirit shall not abide in man forever, for he is flesh. His days shall be a hundred and twenty years The Nephilim, or if you have another translation, it'll say the giants , the Nephilim were on the earth in those days, and also afterward, when the sons of God came into the daughters of man. And they bore children to them. These were the mighty men who were of old, the men of renown, basically warlords, marauding, lawless, godless warlords. Like bacteria creeping into an open wound and bringing infection and And danger and death, that's what sin has done to society here early in the Bible story. You see the defiling of mankind. Now you see the sons of God seeing the daughters of man were attractive, taking them as their wives, and bearing these children. And then if you look at verse three again Again, you'll see that gu it goes right into a word of judgment. Well God is angry at this because this is sinful. My spirit shall not abide with man forever, for his flesh, his days will be a hundred So 120 years until a judgment comes. It talks about the Nephilim, the offspring of this Defy this defilement. Now there's two main views on this, and I promise you that if you follow up and do your own study on this through a study Bible or looking up some theological articles or looking at commentary. There's just a lot of material here to study and what exactly is going on here. What I want to do is try to quickly summarize the two main views. It all s centers on the phrase sons of God. Who are the sons of God? Verse 2, it says sons of God and then Later verse 4 sons of God. And the reason it centers on this is because you're trying to get to the nature of, okay, what exactly is the sin here? So I'll give you the two main views in summary. The first main view is that sons of God refers to angelic beings who rebelled against God, that come to earth, take on the form of man. and take human women for their own sexual desires and lusts and procreate, and then you get the Nephilim or the Giants But this is not proper for angels to do this. You have supernatural beings leaving their appointed place, coming to earth, and defiling mankind. That's one main View. That's one major view. And the best argument, the strongest argument for that is the phrase sons of God in the Old Testament is only used for angelic beings. A good example would be Job chapter 1 and 2. Where sons of God in the Old Testament refers to a supernatural being, a heavenly being. That's the first major view. The set I told you I'm just summarizing it, okay? If you want more of this, you have to dive into your own study. The second major view is that sons of God refers to Men who are coming from the line of Seth. They're coming from the line of Seth in the narrative, which the line of Seth represents the line of faith. the line of worship, the line of of God's revelation and crying out to God, that's the line of Seth. And in the context of the narrative, you have the line of Seth on the one hand, and the line of Ca Cain, on the other hand. And the line of Cain represents unbelief and represents idolatry, represents not living for God, but living just simply according to the sinful flesh. And so what you have, instead of angelic beings coming down, in the second major view, you have the men from the line of Seth intermarrying with women from the line of Cain. That is the second view, that that's a defilement of the godly community and of true worship, and would serve to propagate idolatry and immorality rather than true worship. And godliness. Now the main arguments for this, number one, that does fit with the context. It actually is a really big deal in the context that you have within the line of Seth, people begin to worship God, and that's the line of promise, and the Savior will come from that line. Then you have the line of Cain who's been exiled representing Unbelief. Also, another argument for this is that in the Old Testament it is a actually a really big deal. It's um when you look at the story of Israel To intermarriage with other peoples who worship other gods is a sin and was condemned by God because what it did was it It defiled the people of God because those families and those men would just adopt other gods from other peoples when they took those wives. So not only the immediate context of the narrative, that does it really fit with the line of Seth versus the line of Cain. But also the broader Old Testament context of intermarriage. And then thirdly, and quickly, yeah, the phrase sons of God, exactly as it's written here. Is not used in the Old Testament for people, for people of God, but the concept is there throughout the Old Testament of God's people being his children. In fact, Israel as a as a whole is called God's son. God says, out of Egypt I called my son. God calls his people his son. He calls his people his children. whom he gave birth to. So the idea is there. And if you want to know more about that, and the different there are other views too, by the way. Just find yourself a good study Bible or a good commentary. What I want to focus on this morning is the result of this defiling. The result of this defiling is widespread depravity in society. That's the issue So, whatever the sin was, and I'm not saying it's not important which one you end up believing, it is important what happened. But what I want to focus on is what it led to. And what it led to is widespread corruption and idolatry on the earth. Letter B, the depravity of mankind. After the defiling, letter A, now letter B, you have the depravity of mankind. Mankind. So look with me at verses five and six. The Lord saw that the wickedness of man was great in the earth. And that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was only evil continually. And the Lord regretted that he made man on the earth, and it grieved him to his heart. Let's not forget, brothers and sisters. That sin really does grieve God. Sin truly is offensive to God. My sin and your sin still grieves God, even though it doesn't change our standing with God if we're in Christ. But sin is a problem. And that is what happens as a result of this defiling of mankind. You see the widespread depravity of mankind. Also look at verse 11. Now the earth was corrupt in God's sight, and the earth was filled with violence, and God saw the earth And behold, it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on earth. Now, verses five and six, and verses eleven and twelve paint I know there are some topics in the Bible that are very confusing and very difficult if we get into different views on eschatology and different specific ethical decisions and like the most difficult situations. But this is easy to see what's happened. Widespread corruption, widespread glorying in corruption, celebrating in corruption. It's a world filled with violence and selfishness And greed and immorality and idolatry, widespread corruption on earth I mean you just can't get around these verses. Verses 5 and 6 really zooming us in on the pervasiveness of corruption for inside the person, the wickedness of man was great And that every intention of the thoughts of his heart was evil continually. That's the individual himself. But then if you go down to verse 11, it gives you the sprawling nature of what's going on here. The earth was corrupt. The earth was. Filled with violence. God saw the earth and it was corrupt, for all flesh had corrupted their way on earth. Now, this is what I'm about to say is strictly hypothetical, strictly theoretical. It's not going to happen. We know it's not going to happen because of God's promise and because of the plan that God has revealed. But theoretically, if God were to remove his saving grace, if God were to remove his grace from the world, that's exactly right back where we would be Right here. Every thought of every heart, only evil, all the time, with nothing but corruption and violence and other other evils and perversities filling the Now that should make us thankful for the gospel, amen? It's because of the gospel that we have salvation. Because of the gospel we have salvation, because of salvation we have godliness. And because of godliness we have people can learn what justice is and righteousness is and morality is and ethics are, and we can live for God and not ourselves inwardly and So praise God for the gospel that we don't live in this world Widespread evil, approved of, widespread evil, celebrated, widespread evil admired, and seen as good rather than bad. Now we still have those things too. extent in our culture, right? We still have those things, but it's not defining every square inch of human society. There's a huge difference. There weren't local churches and people celebrating the Lord's Supper and worshiping God all spread all over the world in the time of Noah. It wasn't there. It wasn't there. Now, application. What is some practical application? When we talk about this depravity of mankind, because the depravity is still there, even though it's not as widespread today. It's not the defining thing on earth Today. You have the kingdom of God, which is growing and spreading gradually. But what is some practical application? Well, first of all, each one of us individually should be repenting from wickedness. And striving for holiness. We should each be repenting from certain sins in our lives. Sins that are inward, sins of the tongue, sins of behavior, sins of attitude. If you you're a child of God, you're a believer in Christ, but you can't think of anything that you have been repenting of or that you should be repenting of, there's a problem. There's a disconnect. We are repenters. We are people who are striving for holiness. We are people who are battling against sin. We are people who are locked in a war against temptation. Repent, turn from wickedness, and strive for holiness. Every child of God, this is our calling. This is God's will for our lives. Secondly, practical application. We should be praying fervently for our nation and for our culture. Amen. I'm glad I got one amen on that. The only way culture, society can change for the better is through the special providence and power of God. And it will center on a powerful move of the gospel. The gospel changes hearts, and where you have new hearts, you have new morals. Where you have new hearts, you have new values, you have new principles. And you get enough of that. You get enough of representatives of Christ out in the world. You get enough of disciples of Christ out in the world in leadership. And in different spheres of life, and you get impact, you get changed. Not every generation is the same. Things can change. God can change the moral fabric of a people. But we have to give ourselves to prayer because only God can do it. We need God to do it. And I'll I'll keep cordially Inviting you to the prayer meetings and our different prayer efforts. Every other Wednesday in the morning down. I know it's tough because it's the morning and a lot of you work But for those of you who are available every other Wednesday downstairs, we have men's prayer. The women have different prayer ministries. If you are interested in any of that, just uh email us info at northharford. org off the top of my head I don't know the details of those. Every right now it's pretty much been every first Sunday Tonight we have a congregational prayer. We have prayer meeting downstairs. That's old school church having a prayer meeting. Brothers and sisters, that's vintage church. You know they used to have prayer meetings to church that were real well attended and were seen Back in the days of America where the church was growing and spreading and influential and not so superficial it'll drive you mad. That's when prayer meetings used to exist. We're trying to go old school. Pastor Anthony, am I right? And it's the simplest ministry you ever come to. You don't have to come and set anything up, you don't have to bring anything. You can help break down the tables and chairs if you're up to it. But all you gotta do is come and share fellowship and pray and cry out to God to bring about change in our lives, in our church, in our community, in our nation. And our world. We call upon God because only God can do it. So come to the prayer meeting. Third practical application is we must continue in faithful gospel ministry. We must continue in faithful gospel ministry. Living for the Lord and trying to be servants of the Lord can bring hardship. It can be it can bring struggles. It's not always the easiest thing. But the design of it is simple. The design of it is simple. And just obeying the simple things that God has given us to do. And so we Stay faithful in the biblical gospel. Keep preaching it, keep teaching it, keep sharing it, keep explaining it, keep learning it, keep growing in it. The gospel is the beating heart of the local church that grows the kingdom of God. And so we personally must repent from wickedness and strive for holiness. We must pray for our nation and pray for our culture, and we must continue in faithful gospel ministry. Now letter C is the divine judgment. You have the defiling of mankind, you have the depravity of mankind that it leads to, and now you have divine judgment because it Again, God is a just judge. is And you see the divine judgment now in verse 7 and verse 17. Verse 7: So the Lord said, I will blot out man. Whom I have created from the face of the land, man and animals and creeping things and birds of the heavens, for I am sorry that I have made them And now down to verse 17, for behold, I will bring a flood of waters upon the earth to destroy all flesh, in which is the breath of life under heaven. Everything that is on the earth shall die. That is the judgment that's coming. Now it'll be in a future message. We won't get there this morning, but after this flood, And Noah and his family come out of the ark and they'll repopulate the earth. But God's promise is that He'll never bring this kind of historical judgment again. He'll never again bring this flood. And those this preserving grace to preserve sinful man to preserve society until the end and And so we don't have to be afraid that another flood is going to come or some kind of natural disaster that's going to wipe out all mankind because of that. But that again, that's in a later sermon. However, that does not mean that a judgment is not coming. In fact, I've said this many times by God's grace. I'll continue. There's a a final judgment coming Because we've all sinned. And the question is: will you be saved from that final judgment through faith in Christ? That's the question of the Bible. Will you be saved through faith in Christ? And that's what it takes to be saved. is trusting in Jesus from the heart. Not doing religion, not doing good works, not just feel not emotional experience, just feeling good about myself, but faith in Christ from the heart. A humble, simple, heartfelt. I'm trusting in Jesus Christ for salvation. That's what saves me. Of course, that faith is not just a subjective feeling. It's based on the fact, fact, historical fact, that Jesus died on the cross for our sins. That's why faith in him saves. Because Jesus died as a substitute on a cross. He took our guilt as his own. So we're no longer guilty. He took our penalty as his own. So there's no longer any penalty for our sin. That's what salvation is. So there is no flood coming, but there is a judgment coming. Please believe in Jesus. Please believe in Jesus Christ from the heart and be saved. And um just allude back to my my number three practical application on the previous section of Of being a church that sticks to the biblical gospel. Where so many churches are going toward entertainment and fun programs and social groups, we stick to the true gospel because brothers and sisters. Sisters, in the end, that's all that matters. This is what helps people. This is what saves people. We don't have to have the world around us admiring us and thinking that we're cool. We want sinners to be saved and to know God and to have true and lasting hope. So we stick to the true gospel, and that's the true gospel. Believing in Jesus Christ for salvation. Based on his sacrificial death. Well, that's the end of that section on societal corruption, thinking about God as a just judge. Now we go to Salv. Salvation of Noah. The salvation of Noah. Letter A. Under the salvation of Noah is grace. From God. You probably could have predicted that, right? You can't have a salvation unless you first have grace. You have grace. Picture the heart of God. You have grace Inside the heart of God that leads to salvation for Noah. Just like you have grace inside the heart of a mom or dad that then leads to forgiving your child when they mess up. You have grace in the heart of a child. You can have grace in the heart of a child that can forgive mom and dad when they lose their temper. You have grace in the heart of a husband, grace in the heart of a wife, that will lead to forgiveness and patience. That's what you have here. In the heart of God, you have grace. That comes from verse 8. Sometimes I forget to give you the verse first. I'm supposed to give you the verse first, then the point. Have grace toward me. I'll give you the point first, then the verse We 'll go backwards. Verse 8. But Noah found favor in the eyes of the Lord. It's like a miracle of finding a fountain, a fresh water, when you've been stranded in the desert for a week. Here you have grace from God toward Noah. Noah was not sinless. Noah was a sinner. And yet God had favor toward him. He found favor in the eyes of God. There's a grace, a favor. It means kindness. It means a gracious love that's poured upon Noah Grace is an undeserved gift. Grace would be throwing a huge party for your worst enemy. Grace would be buying a new car for somebody who stole yours. Grace would be renovating the house of someone who burnt yours down. That's what grace is. It's an outpouring of love that has not been worked for, that has not been earned. In fact, it's been forfeit through misbehavior But here comes the kindness, here comes the love, here comes the grace. Beloved, this is what the Bible is about. This is what church is about. This is what daily Christian living is about. This is what congregational worship is about, feasting on the incredible grace of Almighty God. It's a story of grace. In fact, that's the name of one of the books we give away here at the church. It's called The Story of Grace. If you want one, let me know Titus 2. 11, the scripture says, the grace of God has appeared, bringing salvation for all people. It's the same pattern that you see in Noah. You have grace in the heart of God that leads to Noah's salvation. Titus 2. 11, the grace of God has appeared It's brought salvation for all people. The grace leads to salvation, and you know what Titus is talking about. Titus is talking about the person of the Lord Jesus Christ. When Jesus appeared, that is grace appearing. When Jesus appeared, that is salvation appearing. When Jesus is preached, that's salvation being preached. W When Jesus is preached, that's grace being preached Romans 3, 23 and 24. The Bible says that all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And are justified by his grace as a gift. I like that. We're justified, that means Declared righteous in God's eyes, justified by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. And one more, Romans 5 20. Now the law came in to increase the trespass But where sin increased, grace abounded all the more. In other words, the more we know of our sin, the more we'll understand of God's grace. The larger we see our sin, now we can start to see God's grace as larger and larger and larger because no matter how many sins you have committed, no matter how many sins you You will commit. have No matter how sinful we are, God's grace covers it through the blood of Christ. His blood is sufficient to forgive all our guilt of all our sin forever. He has a perfect salvation. Noah was saved. And he would be saved from the flood, but he was already saved because he already had faith in God. Letter B, faith in God. This is verses 9 and 10. These are the generations of Noah. Noah was a righteous man, blameless in his generation. Noah walked with God. And Noah had three sons: Shem, Ham, and Japheth. He was righteous, he was blameless, and he walked with God. What does that mean? That means he was a believer. That means he was a disciple, which means he was learning to live for God and not himself. Noah believed the promise of God. Noah believed God's word. He believed in God. He loved God. He was living a godly life. Like us, not a perfect life. But because of the Holy Spirit, you can live a godly life. Please don't let anyone tell you different. Don't let Satan get up in your head and discourage you. You can't live a godly life? Yes, you can because of the Holy Spirit and the power of Jesus Christ. You absolutely can live a godly life. Not a perfect life, but you can live a godly life. Noah had faith in God. How can a man be righteous? How can a man be blameless? How can a man be approved and accepted by God? How can a man who's sinful walk in relationship with God? Through faith We know Noah had faith because we know what the Bible teaches of all these things. Faith in God. It's like leaning on your crutches. Because you know they will support you. Otherwise, you wouldn't try to get up and lean on your crutches. It's like driving onto a bridge because you know it will hold you. Otherwise, you wouldn't job onto it. It's like admitting what you did wrong. Because you know that your loved one will understand you and forgive you. If you don't believe that, you won't admit what you do wrong. This is what faith is: believing that God will save you. Because you know He is gracious. He is a gracious savior. And brothers and sisters, all of God's plan, every single thing that has ever happened Every single thing that has ever existed or will exist is leading to one final ultimate goal of all things. And that is the shining forth of God as a gracious Savior in Jesus Christ. Everything's leading to that. And so when we turn to God and when we believe in Christ, we're getting in a line with, we're getting on board with God's eternal purpose. Noah had faith in God. He would not be saved from the flood by his works, and he was not saved from Final judgment by his works. Romans 3:28. We hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Justified by faith apart from works of the law. Being right with God is not like trying out for a football team. Where you have to prove how fast you are, you have to prove how strong you are, you have to prove certain skills that you might have. Becoming right with God and being saved is not like that. We're weak in the illustration: we're not fast, we're not strong, we have no skills And God still accepts us and saves us anyway. Through faith. We believe in God. Being saved and being right with God is not like passing a physical fitness test to become a Navy SEAL. I'm keen out. I don't know what they are. Maybe Pastor Anthony knows what what they are. Not that he would stand up measure up to them. But you have to meet certain standards. That you don't have to meet certain standards of godliness and holiness and righteousness. The good news of the gospel, the heart, the core of the Bible, which then needs to be the core of our church and our message, is that God forgives sinners. He is gracious. He's loving. You don't have to work for it. You don't have to earn it. You don't have to go out and prove yourself worthy and then come and be baptized and think that you're saved. No, you know, you know that based on Jesus' death on the cross, based on God is gracious and He forgives sinners, you know, you know that you're saved because you put your faith in Him. That's What's the gospel message? I know there's so many of us and I hear so many Christians talking all the time about revival in the culture, revival in the nation, change in the nation. So what we need first is repentance and revival in local churches to lead the superficial man-made methods and strategies and Entertainment, worship, leave it all behind, and come back to a true gospel preaching, Christ centered, biblical gospel, thundering ministry and worship. That's what we need to come back to. The nation needs the gospel. Churches need the gospel. I need the gospel to help me in my life. Take the gospel out of my life. I have nothing, nothing to offer. No spiritual growth, no spiritual maturity, no practical wisdom, nothing. If you take out the gospel, I'm done. I have nothing. Jesus is all that we have. Let us see obedience to God. Now I'll let you, because of time, you can read that on your own. It's verses 14 to 22. You see obedience in Noah's life. But the obedience comes after the faith. Like vines bring forth grapes, so also faith brings forth obedience. We are not saved by obedience, brothers and sisters, we're saved unto obedience. Obedience. If you came in here this morning not believing in Jesus and not understanding the gospel that he died on the cross for sins, would you in your heart, would you put your faith in Jesus right now? To be saved. Believe in Jesus as your Savior. Believe that He forgives your sin. Believe that when that final judgment comes, you'll be spared because He died on the cross for your sin. He died on the cross to take your judgment. That's our invitation. We try to give it every week, and I'm sure there's some weeks we forget or we don't do a good job of it, but that's our invitation. Come to Jesus. Turn and put your faith in Jesus to be saved. And if you do that in your heart this morning, would you find me afterwards? I'll be right up here. Or Pastor Anthony, he'll be in the back at the welcome desk. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness, kindness, and grace. We ask that you'd open all of our eyes to your love to the Lord Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen.