Good evening everyone. Thanks for coming. Tonight we're in Daniel 7, 11 to 18, or as I told the people who were here earlier. Earlier tonight we're studying Daniel 7 through Revelation 1. Not really, but we will hopefully look at have the chance to look at We are going to be doing a lot of looking in the New Testament, particularly the Gospel of Matthew. Daniel 7, 11 to 18, and I'm calling this study the stone is a man. The stone is a man Now, if you know anything about Daniel or if you've been in any of these classes, and I say the stone, it should immediately bring to mind what chapter and what vision. Chapter two chapter two in the stone that represents the kingdom of God that crushes demolishes really the The kingdoms, the dark the kingdoms of darkness, these earthly kingdoms, and the universal dominion on the earth is Taken away from these kingdoms of darkness and given to what we'll see tonight a man, the son of man. What we see in Daniel two as a Stone that represents the establishing of the kingdom of God, we get in chapter seven information that tells us this is actually going to be something that a man achieves. It is going to be a man who establishes the kingdom of God, who receives this dominion from the ancient of days. So that's where the title comes from. The Stone is a man. We do have a lot to cover. I'm going to try my best not to If you have any questions at any time that you think I'll be able to answer, either feel free to ask those. If you have ones you think you know he doesn't know this, just ask Pastor John. Or send me an email and give me time to you know look it up and figure something out. Daniel 7, we'll begin with the reading of 11 through 18. I looked then because of the sound of the great words, boastful words that the horn was speaking And as I look, the beast was killed, and its body destroyed, and given over to be burned with fire. Their dominion was taken away, but their lives were prolonged for a season and a time. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, there came one like a sun Son of man. And he came to the ancient of days and was presented before him, and to him was given dominion. And glory and a kingdom, that all peoples, nations, languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. As for me, Daniel, my spirit within me was anxious, and the visions of my head alarmed me I approached one of those who stood there in the court of heaven, this is where he was, who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this. We'll pause here for a moment because look at verse 13, the beginning. I saw. So he's seeing a vision, but what's always going to happen in Daniel is he's need you also need the interpretation. I approached one of those who stood there and asked him the truth concerning all this, so he told me and made known to me the interpretation of these things. These four great beasts are four kings who shall arise out of the earth. But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and Possess the kingdom forever and ever. So who is it? Is it one one, one, like a son of man, who comes to the ancient of days and receives the king? kingdom or is it the saints of the most high who receive a kingdom? The answer is yes, it's both. The Son of Man receives the kingdom on behalf of his people. His people are one with him. The Son of Man, one like a son of man comes to the ancient of days. He alone receives the kingdom. He alone is given supreme authority and dominion. That all peoples, nations, and language Which should serve him. Should they serve him? Yes, they should serve him. But he does so. He shares that kingdom with his people. In other words, he brings sinners into his Kingdom. This is the spiritual redemptive kingdom of Christ. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would help us to, at the very least, understand that this is a prophecy of the ascension. Of Jesus Christ, his coronation, his enthronement, his entering heaven after being risen, after being crucified, dying for our sins. I pray that you would help us to understand the historical significance of Christ reigning in heaven on our behalf. And Father, I pray that by His Spirit you would encourage us and teach us And humble us that we would be faithful servants. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. This is a prophetic vision of the Ascension and enthronement of the risen Christ, the ascension of Jesus Christ Is his resurrection body ascending from this realm to heaven, to the throne Room of God. But what happens once he gets there? Does he simply join the heavenly chorus to the glory of God with all of the other angels? No. He approaches the ancient of days. And if you want the background, just look at our lesson from last week on verses nine and ten. 10, the throne of God in heaven, the central revelation, the most glorious revelation of God in existence, his throne in heaven. The Son of Man is risen after having died for the sins of his people. He's risen to eternal life. And then later he is ascended into heaven. He's lifted into heaven on clouds of glory. And then he's enthroned at the right hand of God. He's seated at the right hand of God. If you want a really rich, time-consuming, but uh beneficial Time in study and prayer. Just go through all of your references in the New Testament about Jesus Christ being seated at the right hand of God in heaven. So He is ascended into heaven. He's enthroned in heaven. This part of this vision is a prophetic vision of the ascension and enthronement of the risen Christ. That's number one. Now, number two is the historical significance of that event, of the essential Christ is risen, Christ is reigning, he's on Lord. But in this context, it is in this context of this vision in Daniel, his ascension is the historical judgment or the historical victory over the fourth kingdom and then establishing the fifth kingdom, which is the kingdom of God. Remember this right from chapter 2. The vision of the statue made up uh in different parts, made of different materials. And what does that statue or that image represent? It represents four progressive or four successive kingdoms of darkness, kingdoms of Of man on the earth. Babylonian Empire, Medes and Persians, Greek and the Roman, in the days of those kings, the days of the fourth kingdom, God will establish his kingdom. And then in chapter 7, we get the same kingdoms prophesied in different image. This time, four beasts aligned with eagles' wings. Should have an apostrophe, right? A bear, leopard with four wings and four heads, and then this unique, ravenous beast with iron And then instead of a stone being cut with uh not with human hands, but a stone hewn cut from a mountain and thrown against the feet and destroying the image, you have something different to explain or to give representation of the overthrowing of this fourth kingdom and the establishing of the kingdom of God. It's the same thing happening, but here it's not a stone being thro from a mountain thrown at an image, here it's a man, a su one like a son of man, in heaven, approaching the ancient of days and remote receiving from the ancient of days dominion, glory, kingdom that all peoples, nations, languages should serve him. So what happened with the stone when it struck and destroyed the image? Is a stone became a mountain, it got bigger, and then it grew to cover the whole world. Where here The same thing is portrayed, but in more historical detail, in more historical fashion. All peoples, nations, languages should serve him Just think of the Great Commission. Just think of what's happened with the gospel and God establishing local churches all over the world since the day. Of Pentecost. That's all this is talking about here. The spreading of the gospel through the power of the Spirit for God to establish local churches for his glory all over the earth. That's been happening ever since the day of Pentecost, and it will continue To the final rebellion and the return of Christ. But you have the stone is a man. Let me summarize those two overarching points, and then we'll look at some New Testament passages only ascension itself. This is a prophetic vision of the ascension and enthronement of the And what's the historical significance? The historical significance is God 's judgment and victory over the fourth kingdom and the establishing of his kingdom. So pretty simple. Same story that's been the case all throughout Daniel. Alright, let's look at some things for the ascension. Put a ribbon or some kind of marker in Daniel 7. This is this may take some time, but as I said earlier, I do not want to rush. Acts 1, 9 through 11. Acts One nine through eleven And when Jesus had said these things, as they were looking on, he was lifted up. And a cloud took him out of their sight. And while they were gazing into heaven, as he went Oh, he's lifted up from the earth on a cloud of glory into heaven. Behold, two men stood by them in white robes. And said, Men of Galilee, why do you stand looking into heaven? Well, it's of course it's a rhetorical question because he wants to Teach them something. The angels know why they're looking into heaven. Any normal person would be looking into heaven if you just see the risen Lord Jesus Christ. Christ taken up on a cloud of glory from the earthly realm into the heavenly realm, there's nowhere else you would be looking This Jesus who was taken up from you into heaven will come in the same way as you saw him go into heaven. He left from earth to heaven, bodily, in heavenly in glory, heavenly glory, heavenly splendor. He's going To return bodily in heavenly glory, in heavenly splendor, the clouds of heaven. In the Old Testament, God is the one who rides on clouds. Isaiah 19, 1, which we may get to. to that one later, but this is for your cross-reference afterward. Uh Isaiah 191, Psalm 104 3. And you know God revealed himself many times. In the Old Testament, and pillar of fire, smoke, clouds. God is the one who rides on clouds. In his ascension, Jesus is taken So in verse 13, I saw the night visions, behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. This is a prophetic vision of the ascension. That's acts Acts 1, 9 through 11. Now go backwards. Luke 24, 51. Luke 24 51. I'm going to say something that's hypothetical, theoretical Hopefully just to make a point, not to confuse anybody. But if Jesus never ascended into heaven, we couldn't be saved. We couldn't have the Holy Spirit. Jesus must complete the work that his father gave him and then receive his reward. It's from heaven that the ascended and enthroned Christ pours Pours out his Holy Spirit. Peter's sermon in Acts chapter 2 is basically that. This Jesus, whom you crucified, God has made him both Lord in Christ. He is the one who now pours out what you're saying. He's the one who gives the Holy Spirit. Luke 24, 51, while he blessed them, he parted from them and was carried up into heaven. The ascension. This is the ascension. The story does not end after the resurrection. And the story doesn't end after the ascension either In many ways, that's where it really gets going. Mark sixteen nineteen. Mark sixteen nineteen So then the Lord Jesus, after he had spoken to them Was taken up into heaven and sat down at the right hand of God. Do you see the two elements? The ascension And the coronation, the enthronement of the Son of God, the Son of Man, Jesus Christ, to his one salvation for the world. Matthew Matthew twenty eight eighteen Matthew does not give explicit mention of the ascension At the end of his gospel account. But the end of Matthew nevertheless is one of the most classic paragraphs in all of Scripture, and so helpful for practical application how we understand Our role and our calling as the church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Matthew 28 :18. Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given To me. He had won his reward. He attained that authority, but he had not formally been given the kingdom, the dominion, yet until he's seated at the right hand of God. So it's just a matter of a technicality, of a of an inevitable redemptive historical event that is going to occur. He is going to ascend. He is going to be seated as at the right hand of God. He is going to be given dominion, glory, and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. It may start small as a mustard seed, but it continues to grow, it continues to grow, it continues to grow like leaven, begins to work through dough. Continues to work and spreads and spreads and spreads till it works through the whole batch. But all authority is his. Now I'll give you a few related. A few related. Because I wanted to to get something in here from John, although John doesn't give us explicit mention of the ascension either. Remember the significance of the ascension is and enthronement is historical victory or historical judgment over these kingdoms of darkness, kingdoms of the world, and the establishment of God's kingdom. John twelve thirty-one through thirty thirty three John twelve thirty one through thirty three And this is Jesus talking about, among other things, his death. He's talking about his death and What's going to result from his death, which his death is a victory. His death is the victory over the enemy. After a king wins victory or wins a mighty conquest, completes a mighty conquest, he goes and sits on his throne and rules over everything. That he's conquered. Verse 31. Now is the judgment upon this world. Now is the judgment of this world. We'll get back to that, because he says now, and he's pointing towards something What's about to happen later that week, his death on the cross. Now is the judgment of this world, and now will the ruler of this world be Cast out. And you some of your keywords here is now. Now. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. And I, when I am lifted up from the earth will draw all people to myself. Picture that stone becoming a mountain and spreading all over Now he said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. So the things he just said were about his death, the victory that he's going to win. In his death. It's seen as judgment of this world. Now is the judgment of this world. Does that mean that is death is when God executes final judgment upon every No, certainly not. Final judgment hasn't happened yet. So why does he say now is the judgment of this world? One of the ways the Bible uses the world, though the phrase the world, and especially j John uses it in this way, not exclusively, but the world referring to the kingdom of man, the kingdom of darkness, the kingdom of Satan. Is the world. And judgment of this world is removing universal dominion from the kingdoms of the world Now, the dominant authority, the dominant spiritual authority, universal spiritual dominion on earth, is held by Christ, who reigns from heaven, not by a worldly king ruling a worldly king. Kingdom. In the book of Judges, who were the judges? What were the judges? They were warriors. They defeated the enemy. They saved God's people from the enemy, from the kingdom. of man, from the kingdoms of darkness. Judges were warriors, rulers, kings. They saved God's people. Judgment is not, when it says judgment is given It is not always a final judgment. It is not always a sentence of death and execution. It is often just taking authority away from the authority. the enemy and giving that authority to where it belongs to God's people. That's the idea of Jesus' death as the time where judgment is given on this world. And he says, now will the ruler of this world will be cast out. The ruler of this world will be cast out. And then he right after that he says he's talking about his death. At the death of Jesus Christ was Satan literally cast out of this realm so that he doesn't Do anything or even exist in this realm anymore? No, of course not. We know the devil is active in this world. Why would it say that he's cast out? Well it's a metaphor. It means his authority is taken away. Who was the spiritual authority behind these wicked, sprawling kingdoms of darkness? Kingdoms of darkness of man. Satan, satanically inspired, satanically driven kingdoms. You see that in Revelation 2 for the Roman Empire and also for apostate Israel. So this is the victory achieved at the cross. The victory, the kingdom victory. He actually received The spoils of war in his ascension and enthronement. One more, just one more here. I mean, this is all throughout the new Testament, the significance of the ascension and Christ's Lordship in heaven. First Peter three, twenty-one , Actually twenty-one and twenty-two. First Peter three, twenty-one and twenty-two Picking it up in the middle of a discussion about baptism and referring back to Noah's flood and what it means to be saved from judgment. Baptism, which now corresponds to this. Now saves you, not as a removal of dirt from the body, but as an appeal to God for a good conscience. How do we appeal to God for a good conscience? with a good conscience. Through the resurrection of Christ Jesus. Through the resurrection of Christ is on the basis of his resurrection life is the only way we can make an appeal to God God to save us, who has gone into heaven and is at the right hand of God, with angels' authorities and powers having been subjected to him. Gave us a nice four Roman numeral four-point outline for this to make a great lecture on the authority of Christ. The end of verse 21, the resurrection of Jesus Christ. He was risen from the dead. The beginning of verse 22, who has gone into heaven. That's Roman numeral 2. He ascended. He was risen and then he ascended. Ascended. Then there's this powerful word, and. And is at the right hand of God. He's enthroned. There's a man, a human being. That reigns with the very authority of God. He was risen, he ascended, and he is enthroned at the right hand of God Roman numeral four in that lecture would be the authority and the dominion that he receives in the spiritual spiritual With angels, authorities, and powers having been subjected to him. All spiritual forces, all spiritual beings Are under him, under him, who is a man. Now that was always true about the pre-incarnate Son. When you think of God and His being, Father, Son, and Spirit. All things, all authorities, all angels were always under God, Father, Son, Spirit. And God has always been Father, Son, Spirit. But now Now after the incarnation, Christ and His work and culminating in His death, resurrection, ascension, and enthronement, now there's a The incarnate Christ, the incarnate Son of God, who wields this authority over demons. You get a preview of that in his earthly ministry in what? The incarnate Christ having authority, exercising authority over demons, demons being scared of a man, demons obeying the commands of a man. Because that man is God. And now he exercises that authority in full expression from heaven. So risen, ascended, enthroned. And complete authority. I like to say this. You've heard me say this before. Supreme authority over all things. Supreme authority over all things in heaven and on earth. All authority has been given to him. So this is this is the ascension, yeah. The the demons, are they considered to be the powers and those horses? Mm-hmm and then the authorities With angels, authorities, I would have to look that up to see what that Greek word would be, because they There is a s there's like six of these words of ruler rulers, dominions, and there's some overlap, but I believe this is talking about Spiritual beings, spiritual authorities, angels, authorities, and powers. But sometimes it's hard to map out because spiritual, evil spiritual forces, demons Even Satan, the Prince of Demons, they manifest their power on earth through people, through earthly kingdoms. And so there is going to be some exchange. Yeah. So they're not ru they're not ruling, they don't have authority, but they have power or they have delegated authority. Yeah. Who demons? Yeah. Let's go high, let's go over the face cast out, but so he cast out doesn't have authority. But what does he have? He doesn't have authority to rule the nations. He doesn't have authority to keep the nations in complete spiritual darkness. And that was always a delegated authority to him, but that's been taken away. So when we say that the enemy is working through you, so what does that mean? The enemy's working through you? or the or the uh you know Tatan's influence on people. Is that that's not a party? That's just an influence? Is that allowed by God? Trying to figure out how to separate your old. He still tempts , he still torments, he still accuses, he still does things, but He's allowed to do that. He's allowed to do that. Yeah, so I mean these this passage and this story of Daniel is on a much bigger scale than the individual. Yeah, no, I I joined that I just wanted to be uh a little clearer than some kind of Yeah, so I mean he's the devil's still active, demons are still active, but they've been restrained And in terms of geography, uh Satan's who was when Jesus said that now the ruler of this world, which at the time Christ had not yet ascended ascended and cast him out. But uh Satan did really had been given authority over all the nations, and that was judgment upon the nations. Romans one Speaks that that's God's judgment on them. So it's just a much bigger scale and it's the global picture, I think that um, you know, different uh You see regional, you'll see this later in we'll see this later in Daniel. You know , territorial spirits or territorial demons. Um but then those places are taken over by God and his time and his purpose. So that's a good question. But it doesn't mean Satan is not able to do anything I think I think often things are ascribed to Satan that's really just our own weakness and sin and corruption and temptations, and the Bible teaches that Temptations arise from within us, cause all kinds of problems and fights, and it draws us off. We chase off after our own lusts. But the supreme authority in Heaven and on earth, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to Christ. And one of the ways I think it helps to grasp really what this is about is just to think about the world. Uh before Christ and after Christ. What did you if you had a globe before Christ, you had one nation. One nation within one And within that one nation you had a small remnant of true believers who knew God. But that was but Israel didn't always exist. You know, think of the time of the Ark. Eight people were saved. By grace. And you just think of the progression and the s the gradual increase and spread of God's redemptive work on earth. So that's before Christ's work. You have one nation. And even historically before Christ came, the the kingdom had been split, the northern kingdom had been completely done away with. You only have the southern kingdom The southern kingdom now in the book of Daniel is an exile. Now they'll be restored in a provisional restoration to the land, but never to their former glory before they were exiled. And um it so the outward manifestation of the kingdom of God was always limit alwa not always, but from the Exodus to the coming of Christ, the Outward manifestation, the earthly manifestation of the kingdom of God was with was one nation. But now, what is the earthly manifestation of the kingdom of God? Local churches. Local churches and where are they? They're everywhere. They're everywhere. That's a that's only because of a real spiritual change, a real change in the spiritual authority structure of the universe. That's the Only way that that happened. It's the authority of Christ and the power which he exercises through the power of his gospel. So when I and that's what it means he's the savior of the world. He's the savior of the world. I think sometimes we you know, often we get very discouraged about the state of the church and the state of doctrine and so much persecution. so many false teachers. Well that's only because the kingdom has been so successful. You got a ton of churches, you're gonna have a ton of false teachers. You got a ton of Christians, you're gonna have a ton What would we rather have? No persecution? Well if you want no persecution, just simple answer. Just have no churches and no exercise of faith. You want no false teachers in churches? Well you You can't have any churches. But as the kingdom grows and expands, the what does the darkness do? Applaud? No, the darkness fights back and lashes out. So long answer, but hopefully hopefully it's helpful. just to get us you know reflecting on the global aspect and significance of Christ's work. You know, the sprawl. The ability to sprawl and take over territory and hearts. The the wickedness wasn't content just to stay in one or two cities. wanted to sprawl and conquer. And that all of these kingdoms functioned in that way. This is a different kind of kingdom. First of all, it's a merciful Good godly kingdom, but it's also not an earthly kingdom, it's a spiritual kingdom. It's about saving souls and reconciling them to God. But it does exercise authority, it does spread Sprawl spraws in a different way through the word and spirit. But that sprawling is a consequence of the authority change. Of the authority change that I've been alluding to. Alright, there's our ascension passages. Let's go back to Daniel 7. What I want to do is Focus in start to focus in on thirteen to fourteen. And I want to give five keys to Just understanding the basics of what's going on in this portion of the vision. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven. There came one like a son of man. So key number one. One like a son of man is talking about one Came one like a son of man. It's a one person who's entering heaven. And he came And he's up he's approaching and walks up to the Ancient of Days, which is an incredible feat. If we know anything about the vision of verses nine and and ten, this throne of God that a man could approach this one and not be destroyed is incredible to say the least. We don't have words to put on it. The dignity that he can walk up to the ancient of days and not be consumed, the power that he can do this. One Person, one man, not leaving heaven. That's not what coming on the clouds of heaven means. It means he's entering heaven to receive a kingdom. Now that's the first key. That's so very important. So does that make sense? Do you see that in the text? This is a one being entering heaven, not leaving heaven. I need to see nods or head shakes. You're all looking at the text, which is good. He's entering heaven. He's coming to the ancient of days. He's not being sent away from the ancient of days. And was presented Before him. So you can picture like a bride who walks down the aisle and is presented before her groom. Or someone's going to be brought before the king. Maybe on trial. He's brought and he's presented before the king, or maybe to be uh receive a commendation, or to be knighted. He's being brought before the throne of God. He's Entering heaven, coming to the Son of Man. If I'm being redundant, it's because this is when you get to this phrase and things related to it in the New Testament, coming on the clouds of heaven, we immediately Think second coming, it's not the second coming, it's the ascension. He's being brought, this is a man brought from earth to heaven in glory. That's uh incredible. One of the most important events in human history. That's the key number one. This is one first of all, it's one being, one man, not leaving heaven in glory, but entering heaven in glory. Glory. The key number two upon entering, he's given a kingdom, not told to wait for his kingdom. Upon entering, upon approaching Approaching the Ancient of Days, he is given a kingdom. Came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before him, and to him was given. So what What happened when he approached and arrived at the ancient days, the throne of God, something was given to him, as given a dominion? Dominion, glory, and a kingdom. One man entering heaven in glory, receiving a kingdom Key number three. His kingdom will never end and never be defeated. Of course, now we should have already we should have been able to predict that if if we read chapter two. And we've read chapter two about thirty-seven times in this class. Who's victorious? The statue and this the the feet on the statue or the stone, the little stone, not little stone, it's you know it's like a Foundation stone, not like a pebble, the stone that strikes the mountain. In the vision, it's like one of the clearest pictures of victory in all of Scripture, maybe all of literature. The statue just disintegrates and just gone like chapel in the wind. The stone becomes a mountain. As if that's not clear enough, the mountain grows to cover the whole earth This kingdom is given to the one like a son of man as he enters heaven and approaches the ancient of days. He's presented before the ancient of days. And the kingdom that he's given will never end and will never be defeated. It's given to him at that point, and from that point on, it will never, ever End. It will come to its consummate fulfillment, its complete expression on the other side of his return. Jesus is going to return in the same way he left. But that's not what this is about. This is the ascension and enthronement of the risen Christ. So let's review. You the keys. He's not it's one man not leaving heaven in glory, but rather he's entering heaven in glory. Number two, upon entering, he is given a kingdom, not told to wait for the kingdom. Number three, as that kingdom is given, It will never end and will never be defeated. His end of 14. His dominion is everlasting dominion. It will not pass away. His kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. By the way, one of my dream one of my dreams I have a lot of these. If you talk to me here and there you'll you'll notice that I have One of the weirdest bucket lists ever, is to do like a three, a three or three and a half hour sermon. Of course there's a break here and there, on all the kingdom parables Like maybe call it just call it like an all-nighter or something. The parables reveal the secrets of the kingdom for those who have eyes to see and ears to hear, for the children of God. From others it r it veils the secrets of the kingdom. But the parables Give us the mysteries of the kingdom, the secrets of the kingdom, so that we can understand the nature of what's being talked about here, like the nature of his dominion, the nature of its growth. The end, the actual end, what's going to happen when it comes to its final expression. The kingdom comes in stages and grows gradually, doesn't come all at once. Starts Like a seed, and it grows. And that's just one of the parables. Anyway, uh there's lots of New Testament. The whole New Testament really is about this. Christ coming, establishing the kingdom of God, and um then build building his kingdom, building his church and then at the at the end of the age as we know it, returning, and there's gonna be a a resurrection and a judgment and bringing in the new Heavens and the new earth and consummating the kingdom in glory forever, but we're not there yet. So there's lots of supplemental and helpful material, especially the kingdom parable. His kingdom will never end and never be defeated. Now, key four and key five Because we have to remember the context of this vision and what's happening in the vision and in the book of Daniel what's being prophesied. This isn't a vision of the ascension just floating out there in the ether of space. It has a historical context and it is portion a portion of a larger vision that's a portion of a larger book. Number four, key number four, uh as he does this, as this woman like a son of man does this, enters heaven, receives the key Kingdom that will never end and never be defeated. It's it's how the universal dominion of the Roman Empire is supplanted. I'll say that again. There's a lot of syllables. there, right? This is how and this is when the universal dominion of the Roman Empire, which is driven by uh the the wickedness and power of Satan, is Supplanted. And that is what that key prophecy, foundational prophecy really in Daniel two was about in the days of that kingdom. God will establish his kingdom. Chapter 7. Same kingdom, same story, different vision, different image But the fifth kingdom, instead of a stone, is this. It's this. It's this man. Supplanting the universe. Universal dominion of Rome. And as I said earlier, at least as I think I said earlier, sometimes when I'm teaching I've got one thing I'm saying and about three other things that I'm saying inside my head that sometimes they get the wires crossed. So forgive me for that But the supreme and sprawling and unstoppable spiritual power on earth is no longer a wicked kingdom of man. But it is the gospel of Jesus Christ. The unstoppable power, the unstoppable reign of Jesus Christ through his gospel, by the power of his spirit, through his church, his saints. And he He cannot be stopped and he will not be stopped. He is the supreme authority, the supplanted, the universal dominion of the Roman Empire And the Bible's really a story. History is really a story about com competing kingdoms. Kingdom of sin, the kingdom of God. You see stories all throughout. Story of Babel. Yeah. It's interesting that the Babylonian kingdom when it fell still s did not cease to exist in some ways. Right. Same Greek same Roman done. Yeah. Yeah, I was thinking about that today. Now the Rome is still there, the city's still there and um But you're right, the being the dominion being taken away from them doesn't mean they cease to exist completely, right? Coming under historical judgment in some instances means that, right? Noah's Ark and the Philosoph. They were judged, they ceased to exist. Sodom and Gomorrah, same thing. But there's uh lots of cities that come under judgment, but it doesn't Doesn't mean that they ceased to exist. When God sent Joshua leading the Israelites on conquest, some cities were put under the ban for complete destruction, but not all of them were put under that. Sometimes there's complete destruction, and sometimes sometimes it just means is the the authority was taken away, the dominion was taken away, and uh that's what that's what happens here and it it doesn't it doesn't only happen like in a second. It doesn't happen um immediately all the time. The taking of the promised land didn't happen in a week. It happened gradually and never fully, unfortunately, but uh that's all in God's plans. Key number five This man, right, this one like a son of man who receives this kingdom and he enters heaven, he receives the kingdom, it will never end, he supplants the Dominion of evil Roman Empire. Key number five. He then reigns in and through the saints of God on earth. He reigns in and through the saints of God on earth. Go down to verse 18. This is a further interpretation of the significance of the vision. Daniel 7 But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever and ever. This is why that Paul can write in Colossians that we We have been transferred from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. We are Philippians citizens of heaven Seven. We are citizens of this kingdom, of this one, like a son of man who's seated at the right hand of God with all authority having been given to him. And in that sense So the saints of the Most High received the kingdom authority and possess the kingdom forever and ever. Forever, forever, and ever. Three times. Now, our mode of possessing the kingdom will change. But even that then w we'll experience the kingdom different after Christ returns and we receive resurrection bodies. So again, the Kingdom grows and comes in stages. Turn to Ephesians one, nineteen I have to pick it up in the middle of Paul's prayer for the believers. At this point in the prayer, he's praying that we would know the power of God, specifically verse 20. That we would know the power of God that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. So that's resurrection. Ascension and enthronement. And now here's the authority. Far above all rule and authority And power and dominion, and above every name that is named, everything, everything. He could have just said everything. Not only in this age, but also in the one to come. So all ages, all realms, all beings, Christ has been given authority over all things. Verse 22, as if that's not clear enough. And he, God, he put all things under his feet. The ancient of days, he put all things under his feet, the one like a son of man, and gave him as head over all things to the the church. He gave him to the church. He gave Christ as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. He reigns in heaven and expresses that reign and manifests that reign on earth through his church. How do we receive new hearts by the kingdom power of Jesus Christ? It's a manifestation of his power. Now, that's where Christ is seated. Let me just highlight that part of it in verse 20, Ephesians. Raised him from the dead, verse 20, right in the middle. Seated him at his right hand. Seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Now, go to Ephesians chapter 2. Either the same page of your Bible or the next page of your Bible Ephesians chapter 2. Beginning in verse 4. Verses 1 through 3 is about our our State when we were lost. As you get to verse 4, Paul begins to write about our conversion and how we were saved. Ephesians 2, verse 4. But God being rich in mercy Because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive with Christ. That's regenerated. That's being born again. By grace you've been saved. Verse 6, and raised us up with him. That's resurrection life. Resurrection life that we already have now. And seated us with him in the heaven. Heavenly places in Christ Jesus, past tense, our spiritual status are those who've been born again, risen with Christ, and seated with him in the heavenly places. It's talking about We share in his kingdom authority. Seated us with him in the heavenly places. This is why death doesn't frighten us. This is why persecution doesn't make us This is why the guilt of sin doesn't overwhelm us and drive us to despair. This is how we can sleep at night. Of this authority. This is our hope. This is our assurance. We have an anchor firm and secure in heaven. And we've been united to Christ spiritually. Seated us with him. He reigns in and through the saints of God on earth. I'm going to skip complete section of the lesson. Lord willing we'll do that next week. It picks up on the phrase coming on the clouds and how Jesus uses it in the Gospel of Matthew. What we'll do to end for this last nine minutes is look at some things from the book of Revelation, hoping to whet your appetite. Which if it's not if it's not wedded already by the glories of the risen Christ, then call the secretary and make an appointment to see me. I've got to figure out Revelation in nine minutes. Um so the revel the um the vision in Daniel 7, where you have the throne of the ancient of days in his heavenly court, but Christ hasn't ascended yet. Then the next portion you have the actual ascension of Christ, who enters heaven in glory and approaches the ancient of the days days and receives the kingdom. That basically parallels, or that is paralleled by, Revelation 4, throne room of God. And then Revelation 5, Ascension of Christ. At the beginning of Revelation 5, there's no one to open the scroll that the Ancient of Day Days is holding. There's no one in heaven Or on earth, who who is has the authority or dignity to approach the ancient of days, take that scroll, break its seals. The scroll is the scroll of judgment. Either way, at this point in the vision of chapter four into chapter five You find out that there's no one there who's able to take it. But then there is. Then there is one who appears in heaven who is able to approach the ancient of days, who is able to take that scroll, and is Able to break its seals. He is able to redeem God's people. He is able to defeat the enemies of God and the enemies, therefore, of God's people. So that's so Revelation four and five will parallel Daniel seven, nine through five. fourteen. But that's not what I wanted what I wanted to turn to Revelation primarily for. But when we're in Daniel and Zechariah and some other areas of prophecy, we should all we should should be thinking Revelation, Revelation, Revelation, Revelation. A whole New Testament really, but also it helps us to understand Revelation. What I wanted to start with is some uh obviously controversial but clear and obvious statements in Revelation. as to the timing of its primary fulfillment. Not only, not exclusive fulfillment, but primary fulfillment. Look at Revelation 1. 1. Now picture yourself that you are a Christian in the In the first century, living in one of the seven churches in Asia Minor. And this is this is preached in your church on the Lord's Day. I want you and I want you to think to yourself, okay, well when when will these things take place? Revelation one, the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants, the things that must soon take place. So one of the things can take place? Soon or far? Soon. Alright, go to verse three. It means soon. It means it means soon. It means the time is close. The time is near. Words we're not postmodernists. Words have meaning. It means soon. Like there's nowhere else in the Bible or human life where we would question that. And this is not a difficult, symbolic, obscure vision that's really hard to figure out. This is a dogmatic literal statement as to the timing. He wants the readers of this book and the first century to believe to go home and tell their families we found out about some things that are gonna going to take place soon. Soon. Now verse three. Blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy. Revelation is a prophecy, primarily a prophecy given in a seven seal Scroll and then a little scroll or a little book. Now, blessed is the one who reads aloud the words of this prophecy, and blessed are those who hear it and who keep what is written in it, for the time is near. Near means close by. Near means soon. Now, turn turn to chapter twenty-two, six Revelation 22. 6. I call this the interpretive frame or the hermeneutical frame of revelation that John gives us. It's a frame, it's a bookend to help us understand how we're to get started, not the only point we need to know, but how to help us get started in interpreting this properly. This was written to actual people in actual churches in an actual place in an actual time going through actual things. Verse uh six of chapter twenty two, just in case they forgot from chapter one how clear it was. And he said to me, Everywhere from God is trustworthy and true. You say that when you want to make an emphatic point about it. And the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants what must soon take place. Look at verse ten. And he said to me, Do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book. You would seal up the words of a prophecy if the Fulfillment was a far off. Right in the Old Testament, a prophet's told, seal up the words, seal up the word, because the fulfillment's far off. Seal up the words, keep them safe. Don't seal these up. Don't seal up the words of this prophecy For the time is near. Soon. Verse 12. Behold, I am coming soon, bringing my recompense with me to repay each one for what he's done. Now verse 20. He who testifies to these things says, Surely I'm coming soon. Amen. Come Lord Jesus. Now one of the problems is we think the only way Jesus will come is the second coming and the final coming. Judgment. That's not the only way Jesus will come. And that's what future portions of the study will prove from Scripture. In the Old Testament, God came in judgment at different times. There's a historical judgment on the horizon for this first century audience that Jesus himself prophesied would happen in their generation. And the main things, the first things in the book of Revelation for them were going to happen soon. John was receiving visions and then was writing to these churches. That the thing Jesus prophesied was going to happen in one generation is on the threshold. It's happening soon. It's happening soon. The time is near. You know, it's so funny in Revelation there's many symbolic things, just like in Daniel, prophetic symbols and images. in the visions that uh it can be common to um try to think of them as literal descriptions of history But then you get to dogmatic literal statements and somehow try to make them symbolic or act like they don't really mean what they say. So we end up taking symbolic things as not symbols, but rather try to f force them to be literal when the bot when Revelation tells us throughout, interprets things for us and tells us they're symbolic, but then we get to literal statements, dogmatic statements, pastoral explicit statements About the timing, and we say, well, well, surely that can't be accurate. It's completely backwards. This is an interpretive frame, uh, bookends of hermeneutics to understand Understand that the main things, the prime things of the book of Revelation were going to happen or begin to happen for that first audience soon. Now one more minute. That's all that actually all was just to set you up for what I really wanted to turn to Revelation 4. Revelation 1 Five and six but I thought there was another one. Yeah five six and nine and then five six and nine. Revelation one five and six And from Jesus Christ, this revelation is uh from the Father, from the Spirits, and from Jesus from the Spirit, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of kings. On the earth. Just another way of saying he ascended into heaven and approached the ancient of days and received the kingdom over all things, ruler of kings on the earth To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood, praise God for that, and made us, past tense, made us a kingdom. Priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. He made us a kingdom And uh you may look at the beginning of chapter seven where it says he's coming with the clouds. We don't have time to address that adequately tonight, but that should make you think of the ascendant. That we just studied, but I want to look at verse 9. I, John, your brother and partner in the tribulation. Was John experiencing the tribulation? Yes. To the people he's writing to experiencing the tribulation. Yes. He is their partner in the tribulation. And what else? The kingdom and the patient endurance that are in Jesus. They're partners in the tribulation, partakers of the kingdom, which calls for patient endurance. Endurance, and patient endurance is only found in Jesus Christ. It was on the island called Patmos on account of the word of God and the testimony of Jesus. Daniel was in exile. John was in exile, prophets of exile