Let me pray for us and then we're going to launch right into it. We have a lot to cover. We're going to pick up where we left off on 2 Thessalonians 5 through 12, and then we're going to go to 1 Corinthians 15. Let me change this secondary passage. And the bulk of our study tonight will be in 1 Corinthians 15. Alright, on the resurrection body. So good topic. Important topic. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you for the hope that we have in Jesus Christ. Thank you for establishing your kingdom. Thank you, Jesus, for coming to share in our situation. Thank you for living a righteous life and dying a sacrificial death and rising to eternal life. Thank you for pouring out your spirit. Thank you for the gift of the Holy Spirit. And Father, we thank you for your word that you've given us a sure and sufficient foundation for truth and for godliness and for life and for worship and for living out our faith in community in the church Father, we thank you. Help us. Teach us this evening by your word and spirit, we pray. Amen. All right. Not first. 2 Thessalonians. Chapter 1. And I'm going to read 5 through 12. We're not going to linger on this paragraph. We've already done two full classes on this paragraph We looked at the overview and then the first week we really looked at we've looked at this point. The second week we really looked at this point. The day Jesus is revealed, the day Jesus is revealed from heaven, the day he returns, is the focus of this paragraph. And then last week we looked at one of the themes in this paragraph. this paragraph that that day that Jesus is revealed will bring God's righteous judgment. Tonight we're moving down here to number three That day will also bring God's kingdom to final glory. The kingdom will come to its full and final form. eternal heavenly glory, we will share in that possessing resurrection bodies. That's going to be our focus tonight. I'll go ahead and check off that box because I'm going to erase this and um and just Just a few minutes. So this is where we are tonight in terms of 2 Thessalonians 1, 5 through 12, zooming in on God's kingdom coming to its consummate glory when Christ returns. When we finish this review, we'll go over the 1 Corinthians 15 and zoom in on that resurrection body. Alright, let's go ahead and read the passage. 2 Thessalonians 1, beginning in verse 5. This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God. Now the this, which you should have circled or underlined, because every time I've read this in the past couple weeks I said, look at that word, underline or something. It refers to the persecutions and the afflictions that Paul had just referred to in verse 4. This This is evidence of the righteous judgment of God that you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God. Now, kingdom of God can sometimes refer to the kingdom of God that's been established now or the eternal form, the eternal glorious form of the kingdom of e of uh of glory, eternal glory, when Christ returns. And here, that's what it means, the final kingdom, the final manifestation of the kingdom. That you may be considered worthy of the kingdom of God, for which you are also suffering. That's what we're suffering toward. We're not suffering without a purpose. We're not suffering without hope. We're not suffering without an end goal. We have an end The goal of the eternal kingdom of God we're suffering in that direction It's through many tribulations that one must enter the kingdom of God, the kingdom of heaven. Verse six, since God indeed since indeed God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you. Now you see this number two that we talked about last week really comes into view strong here. Bringing God's righteous judgment where he says at the end of ver at the uh the beginning of verse six, God does consider it just. to repay with affliction those who afflict you, and to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us. Now you see come into view this idea, bringing God's kingdom to its final glory. We already saw verse 5, suffering for the kingdom of God. But now you see something is going to happen. He's going to grant relief. to those who are afflicted as well. When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. Here you see where this whole thing came from. Jesus being revealed from heaven is the focus. With his mighty angels, verse 8, in flaming fire, inflicting vengeance on those who do not know God, and on those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. They will suffer the punishment of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his might, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints. Here you see it again The relief will be brought to them, and Jesus will be glorified in his saints in the kingdom of God that they will enter in its final form. And to be marveled at among all who have believed, because our testimony to you was believed. To this end we always pray for you that our God may make you worthy of his calling, and may fulfill every resolve for every good For every result for good and every work of faith by his power, so that the name of our Lord Jesus may be glorified in you, and you in him according to the grace of God Of our God and the Lord Jesus Christ. Now, two things. And uh Just two things about the text. I want to, there's one loose end. Before we go to that 1 Corinthians 15, there's one loose end I want to tie up. It's a very important loose end. I want to tie up. It was one of the very last things we spoke about last week. But a few things from the text. Okay, so this is talking about the return of Christ, and it's talking about final judgment, and it's talking about the uh the glorification of the saints. So one of the interpretive issues or challenges that to be noticed and is brought up and should be brought up is in verses 6 and 7 when Paul uses the pronoun You. Right? He says in verse 6 that God considers it just to repay with affliction those who afflict you and to grant relief to you who are afflicted. As well as to us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. So looks like he's talking about something that's going to happen to those people, the original audience that he's writing to, and to himself And his ministry partners, because he says relief to you who are afflicted, as well as to us When the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. In a lot of the passages about the return of Christ, a similar type issue will come up. uh and we're not going to delve into all of the uh interpretive issues and options But the fact is, uh just because this is the ultimate relief that they are going to share in, does not mean that this revealing of Christ from heaven happens in their lifetime. This is their ultimate hope. Whether it happened in their lifetime, which it didn't, and it has not yet happened in our lifetime, or it happens 20,000 years later. completely arbitrary number just for illustration purposes. This is their final hope. This is their ultimate relief. The ultimate goal, the ultimate destination of the Christian is not the a disembodied soul in heaven. That is going to happen. If our bodies die before Christ is revealed from heaven, we will exist as disembodied souls. That means soul without a body. In heaven with the Lord, but that is not our final relief. That is not our final goal or destination. That is not eternal glory. That's our next stage of communion with God. If, again, only if we die before Christ returns. So, it's not a contradiction That Paul is addressing them, and then he refers to himself when he says us, uh, and the fact that this is going to be their relief. This is their relief. This is the kingdom of God in its eternal form. That is our final hope. And that's true no matter when you live throughout the church age. This is the goal. The goal of Christianity, the end goal, the target, is not so much us going to heaven as souls, but heaven, Christ bringing heaven, the heavenly realm, down to earth. And we receive resurrection bodies and the whole earth is regenerated. So that's one thing about the text. That is an interpretive issue that comes up in different Passages and topics when it comes to Christ's return and when it relates to some other things that happened in history. Chapter 2 will bring one of those really into the forefront and we will deal with it in chapter 2 Um certainly. The other thing about this passage, before I tie up that loose end, is just to highlight once again that these things are happening on the same day. God's righteous judgment. We studied that last week at length, the general judgment, and bringing his kingdom to final glory. They happen on the same day. So let's just scan through the text again and highlight. The phrases about this final glory, number number number one would be in verse five, which is considered worthy of the kingdom of God. The whole issue here is framed, or the whole discussion here is framed by this issue of entering this kingdom of God through these afflictions and through this suffering. And then verse 7 to grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us. Now, when will this relief be granted? When will this relief be granted? That's the interpretive question. And he tells us, grant relief to you who are afflicted as well as to us when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven. So he doesn't leave us hanging. The relief that he's talking about is going to be granted when the Lord Jesus is revealed from heaven with his mighty angels. That's verse 7. And then uh then uh verse 10, when he comes on that day to be glorified in his saints. Terrific and terrifically clear way of summarizing what happens to believers when Christ returns. And 1 Thessalonians 4 really lays this out and explains this. In more detail and with more clarity than any other passage, in my opinion. Christ returns with all of the saints that had already died bodily. He returns with them, he returns with that church, and they receive resurrection bodies first, and then those who are alive when that happens, they receive resurrection bodies Second. And then there's the final judgment, which happens right after that passage, on the same day, the day of the Lord, in First Thessalonians So if you read 1 Thessalonians 4 into chapter 5, you get this laid out. Anyway, the point is what's going to happen to the church. When Christ is revealed from heaven. Whether they've died bodily or they're still alive bodily, here's what's going to happen. They're going to be gathered and glorified with church, with Christ. Very simple. Gathered to Christ. and glorified with Christ, receiving the resurrection bodies. Gathered and glorified. Gathered and glorified. This is what is going to happen to the church when Christ returns Again, all saints from all ages, whether dead bodily, or alive, bodily. Alright. Glorified in his saints, verse 10. And to be marveled at marveled at Among all who have believed. Of course, you'll be marveled at in the grandest way possible. So there you have it. Let me erase this. I'll go I'll go in a certain order so that we see what point we're focusing on tonight This, right? God bringing his kingdom to final glory. When Christ returns, and we're going to zoom in on the resurrection body. Boy, that was up there for a long time. The resurrection body, and I'm not going to write this whole phrase up here, but we're specifically talking about the resurrection body, bodies of believers. Okay? The resurrection body of believers. And just so we get uniform color. Alright, this in black also. We're going to look at a few passages, but the main one will be No, that's not right. Let me tell you. Forty two to forty nine. Forty two 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 49. Hopefully, if we get there, we'll look at another passage from later in 1 Corinthians 15. And if you want to peek. And look at verse 50, you'll see that it's the same kind of language about inheriting the kingdom of God. This is the inheritance form of the kingdom. Not the provisional form of the kingdom that we share in now. Provisional does not mean it's not real, it just means it's provisional. It's not the eternal form of the kingdom of God. It's uh not the consummate heavenly form of the kingdom of God. But Christ does reign over all things. He has established his kingdom. And he is building it through his church and through his gospel. Alright. Has everyone turned to 1 Corinthians 15? So let me tie up the loose end. I'll come over here to do it. This is my loose end section. So uh one of the last things we talked about last uh last week Although it seems like forever ago. It must have been a long week. Yeah. Well maybe it's the time change, you know, that always starts me before it looks takes me a while to recover from that. That. But one of the last things we talked about was principle of law versus principle of faith. The principle principle of law is you obey unto life. If you disobey, it leads to death. The wages of sin is death. The reward for obedience is life. It really is life. And the loose end I want to tie up is We have to understand that to understand the gospel. If we don't understand that principle of law, then we can't understand really any aspect of the gospel. Right, that disobedience leads to death, but obedience leads to life. That's the way we understand Christ's life, a righteous life, a life of obedience And he earns the reward of eternal life, which he receives in his resurrection. And we cannot understand what happens When Jesus died on the cross, if we do not understand that the wages of sin is death, that the penalty, the real penalty for the guilt that we have because of our sin and disobedience against God It's God's eternal wrath, the sentence of death, God's eternal judgment, uh which is poured out on Christ. So to understand Christ's life, to understand Christ's death, his resurrection And salvation, the salvation that we received is really, if you want to simplify it, Jesus sharing with us the eternal life that he achieved. That he received as a reward for his obedience. He does all the work and we share in his reward. And that's why it's a gift of grace and mercy. So we cannot understand the gospel unless we understand the law. The wages of sin really is death. But obedience, the reward for obedience really is life. Heavenly life that Christ attained to, and in his mercy he shares with all who come to him. So, law, gospel, distinct but related. And uh you cannot really understand, well not really, I don't want to put that qualifier on. You cannot understand one without the other. Right? The the purpose of the law is to show us our sin so that we turn to Christ in the gospel. You can't understand the gospel unless you understand what's happening under the law. And that when we come to Christ, we're no longer under God. God's law. Yeah, I know I've done this before, but it was it was when we were upstairs, so some of you might not have been there, but when it when Scripture says we are not under law, it does not mean that ah Obedience doesn't matter. Commands don't matter. Live we're saved by grace. Live however you want. That's not what it means to not be under law To not be under the law means we're not under the authority of the law. We're not in a law covenant. We're in a grace covenant. And the grace covenant operates in a fundamentally different way than a law covenant. So very specific terms, very specific ways how we are not under the authority of the law. The law does not have the authority to threaten us with death Upon our disobedience. The law cannot do that. The law cannot threaten us with penalties if we are to disobey. Also, secondly, the law does not have the authority to promise us a reward dependent upon our obedience. We've already received a reward, dependent on Christ's obedience. It's been received by grace. What does the law have to promise to us? Something more than what we've received in Christ? No. And even if it did, which it doesn't, law has no authority to threaten penalty for disobedience or promise reward based on obedience But even if it even if it did have that authority to promise or hold out a reward based on our obedience, we could never attain to it. What are we going to do? Obey the law perfectly, and then somehow find a way to erase the guilt of all of our sins. And the third thing that the law does not have the authority to do, were the two things I've said so far, specifics. The law does not have the authority to what? Same as specifics. Well it can't condemn us and it can't congratulate us for doing for fulfilling you. Well you said the third one. It can't condemn us. It doesn't have the authority to bring accusations against us. For past sins. The law doesn't have that authority. But what are the two I just said? The two specific things the law does not have authority to do. Does not have the authority to reward us or even hold out a reward based on obedience. And then what's the other one? That's classic. Threat. It doesn't have the authority to threaten penalty based on disobedience. Alright. For those under grace, um But that's a different thing. Bringing an accusation, it can't condemn us. This is the beginning of Romans 8. And this is what she said. That's the third one I was going to bring So it doesn't have the authority to threaten you for your future disobedience or threaten you in any way. It doesn't have the authority to hold out some kind of reward for you based on your obedience. And then it has no authority to come in in the throne room of God and condemn you. Right? It it can't condemn you. It has no authority to accuse you. Satan's all of his weapons against the believer have been stripped away from him. He has no power, no condemning authority in the courts of God. So we're not under law. We are under grace. But we'll never understand God's grace unless we understand this principle of law. It's a very important loose end. We need to understand not just the things that happened in the gospel. We need and not just to know that they happened, but we need to understand why they happened and what's going on, the spiritual significance to God covenantal significance of what's going on in the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. He's obeying the law, he's dying, receiving the penalty of all the sins of all his people, and then he's receiving the reward of all His work and obedience. And then all of church history is this Jesus reigning in heaven as our high priest and as king over all things, sharing that inheritance with others Alright, now we're ready for 1 Corinthians 15, 35, and we're going to look at the resurrection body. And we'll look at this in three steps. Number one, creation. Number two, redemption, and number three, application. He's going to make an argument from the created order. I'm calling that creation. And then he's going to make an argument from History? Not just history in general, but redemptive history. I'm calling that redemption. So there's an argument from creation to help explain the resurrection body. Then there's an argument from redemption to help explain the resurrection body. And then there's the application. What this means for us in the in this most basic, you know, central application So argument from the created order, creation, argument from redemptive history, redemption, and then the main point of application. So first, the argument from the created orders, this is going to come from verses 42 and 40 through 44. 42 through 44 and what he's going to point 's very very simple. He's going to just argue that there's different kinds of bodies with varying degrees of glory. Easy enough, right? Different kinds of bodies with varying degrees of glory. Verse 42. Oh 35 rather. Yeah, I knew this was messed up. 35. Okay, let me adjust this. And I'll adjust this too. You guys know I'm a stickler for this. 35. I'm wiggly. Yeah, you gotta be. Alright. Well I was debating whether uh to include This paragraph where he lays out this creation argument or just deal with the redemption part. But the creation really is he brings it back to the relation. Between the created order and the order of redemption at the end of this. So I think it makes it for a good bookend. Alright, verse 35 Someone will ask, how are the dead raised? Have you ever asked that or um Been asked that or heard someone ask that? Someone will ask, how are the dead raised? So uh by the way, this is going to be 35 through 41. And that's why we're calling studies the resurrection body. Because that's the question. How are they raised? With what kind of body do they come? So there you go. The two questions are on the table. What are the two questions? How are the dead raised? And then more specifically, what kind of body do they come? You foolish person. Now I don't think he's saying, I'm quite sure he he's not saying this. If you ask these questions or if you think about these things, you're a fool. But in the context of the church at Corinth, People were doubting the reality of the resurrection. And apparently, and you can't doubt you can't reject the doctrine of the resurrection. And still be a biblical Christian. That is part of the Christian faith. That's part of the gospel. That's our hope. Resurrection But this is how worldly they were at the Church of Corinth. They were not just having questions about it, but arguing against it and being skeptical of it and even rejecting the doctrine of the resurrection. And it appears as if One of the things they would bring up was the issue of the body. Well, what kind of body is it going to be? And um so Paul launches into an argument about these very questions, about this very thing, the kind of body. What you sow does not come to life unless it dies. So what comes first? The life or the death? Death. Also a trick question. Also both. Because it it can't die unless it had life, right? So it's alive, but then it dies And then it lives. It dies and then it comes to life. That's his point. And it's an illustration from what? From creation. From the created order. It's a metaphor, it's an illustration from the created order. What you sow, like a seed, won't come to life unless it first dies And, so that's first. Alright, something that has some sort of life. Otherwise, what does it mean to say that it dies? But it dies and then comes to life. Dies and then comes to life It cannot reach its full potential of life, its full possession of life, its full expression of life unless it does what first? It dies. It's not illogical. It's not a contradiction to the created order to believe in resurrection. That's where he goes right to the created order. Now he's going to say something else. Verse 37. What you sow is not the body that it is to be, but a bare kernel, perhaps of wheat or some other grain. Now he points out. The first thing he pointed out is going to die first. Die then life. Now he's just pointing out this is going to be different. The thing that's going to come, the life that's going to come, is going to be different than the kernel that now is. It's going to be different. It's not going to be less real, but it's going to be a different manifestation of life. You have life, then you have death, and then you have new life, a different manifestation of life So he's I mean we're only three lines into it. He says some really significant, really interesting things. What you saw will not come to life unless it first dies. Death must come first and then it can reach its full potential. And full expression of life. That's first. And second thing he says, right on the heels of that, is what should we expect at that point? The same thing that that was sown and died? No, you expect a different thing The colonel is not going to die and then grow and just be the same old colonel. It's going to be something else, something different What you sow does not come to life unless it dies, and what you sow is not the body that is to be, but a bare kernel perhaps of wheat or some other grain. But God gives it a body as He has chosen, and to each kind of seed its own body. So each kind of seed, its own body. So you have something that has sown one thing. But it grows up to be another thing. It's sown, it dies, and it grows up to be something else. Something full of life. God gives it a body. That's a key phrase. God gives it a body. So where does the body come from? It's not a trick question. It comes from God. God gives it a body So the kernel dies, and it's not dependent on the power of the kernel to give life to itself. It's not dependent on the kernel on the wisdom of the colonel to design a new form or expression of life. God gives it a body as God has chosen. The colonel has but to die. Are you shocking with me? Colonel comes in general. But seriously. Um there's to me there's an implication in here that The kernel could be a wheat and different things, and therefore there's going to be different bodies in some way, shape, or form. in the resurrection. They're not going to come up all with the same. One order of bodies, one kind of bodies. Like we're we all have different bodies, right? We can count them, but it's the same kind of bodies, the same order. order. So yeah, we'll still be individuals. And one of the ways I like to say it is uh and it's it's not a quote from scripture, it's not a memory verse, so don't take it as scripture, but it helps me that we'll always be who we are, but we will not always be what we are We'll have a new kind of body, but I'll always be me, you'll always be you, we'll always be differentiated as the individuals that God has made us to be. With our still our our minds And our hearts will still be our minds and our hearts, but they'll be perfected and glorified, as will our bodies. Yeah. But that's a great point. Yeah, we're not we're not going to be some um impersonal clones of you know of bodies but it'll be the same order we'll all have different bodies good thought First thirty-nine. This gets in this is where it really gets into that introduct introductory point of is there's different kinds of bodies with varying degrees of glory. Like that's the underlying thing we gotta get. There's different kinds of bodies with varying degrees of glory. So it shouldn't be illogical or strange for us to think of the existence of a new kind of body, a resurrection body. Here's what he says, verse 39, for all flesh, for not all flesh is the same. Not all flesh is the same. But there one kind of flesh for humans Another for animals, another for birds, and another for fish. There's different kinds of flesh. We know that, right? And what's he doing? He continues to order from uh argue from what? Creation, the created order. If you look at the created order, one of the things that God seems wanted to make really, really, really clear is There's different kinds of flesh or different kinds of creatures, and he lists them here. And then he goes further, different kinds of different kinds of bodies within creation as well. Verse 40, there are heavenly bodies. And earthly bodies. And different kinds of glory, different degrees of glory too. But the glory of the heavenly is of one kind, and the glory of the earthly is of another. There is one glory of the sun, another glory of the moon, another glory for the stars, for star even star differs from star in glory. So there's different kinds of flesh, different kinds of skin. Different kinds of bodies, varying degrees of glory. One thing that we should not doubt is that God can create things. God has creative power. It shouldn't be weird for us to think of having resurrection bodies created by God. God creates things out of nothing. He created these bodies. Look at your body. Look at bodies. Look at the world. God creates things. And this is our hope. New bodies, resurrection bodies. And all throughout the created order, God is giving us living illustrations of these things. A kernel can't come to real life unless it first dies. Number one. Number two, and then what happens after it does spring to life? It's something different than what it was. Now think about bodies. Different kinds of bodies all over the place. Different kinds of flesh all over the place. Different kinds of glory all over the place. So anyone who Just by being s a skeptic because they haven't seen a resurrection body or because in because in our little minds we can't conceive of what it'll be like. If we reject this doctrine based on that, we are fools Because all around us is the witness of God that He creates things. He creates bodies, different kinds of bodies, different kinds of glory, different kinds of flesh. So Resurrection body will be different. It'll be different. Now we go to verse forty two to forty-four, and If you don't have your thinking cap on, put it on. There you go. This will be forty-two. Well, I'm just going to put forty-two in following. This is mainly I think this is mainly forty eight. Let me sh see that. Yeah 48 49. But it blends together. There's going to be a shift that happens. When he makes this argument from redemptive history. First, the first thing he does is compare the the body of believers. Specifically, I believe the dead body of believers, contrasting that with our future resurrection body It's not explicitly said as referring to the dead body of believers. And I don't, I wouldn't That doesn't uh in you know the case that I'm going to argue for and the point that I'm going to make doesn't depend on that. I think with the way he's using the metaphor of sowing and being raised implies that he's talking about the dead body of believers. I think what he's doing is comparing the body of believers to that kernel he just got done talking about, but it's not going to come to life unless at first what? Dies. So you'll see that as we read. But either way, the first section here is talking about believers. That's the key. Put that right there on the front burner because there's going to be a shift in the passage where he starts talking about some somebody else, other people. Here it's believers. Believers, and I believe the dead body of believers. Verse 42. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. Now there you go. He's picking up on what he just What he was just arguing from creation. Different kinds of bodies, different kinds of glories, different kinds of flesh. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable. What is raised is imperishable. Alright, so let's get these on the board. Son Raised. I mean it looks pretty clear like he's picking up on that metaphor of the kernel or the of the wheat. It's sown what? Corruption Did you say corruptible? Yeah. Imperishable. Perishable and it's raised what? Incruptible. Imperishable. And um I guess with some tran some translations say corruptible and incorruptible. What is that? Is that a New American standard or ESV? ESV? No ESV is perishable and imperishable. I don't know, hold on. So these bodies that we live in now , will they perish? Yes. Will they will they become corrupted? Yeah, I mean we're already corrupt in a moral sense And we're already perishing in terms of, you know, we're moving closer and closer to death. But right now, we've not died. We've not died yet. We're Perishable, we have not yet perished in terms of our bodies dying. But either way, the highlight point is The bodies that we will receive in the resurrection glory will not be able to perish. They will not be corruptible bodies. And then he says, it is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory. So it is sown in dishonor. So short of honor, lacking honor, and raised in glory. Now this is an intriguing one to me because you would think that this would be the dishonor, which looks like it's talking about our moral condition. It looks like this to be contrasted with, well, honor or holiness or purity, but it's contrasted with the glory. Eschatological glory, heavenly glory. Dishonor or lacking honors is anything that is lacking the honor of heavenly glory. Anything that falls short of final glory. So it uh it could have the implication of being um of having to do with our sinfulness , our more how we're dishonorable Morally? Probably. I mean, I'm not going to die on that mountain. But I think the point is we fall short of God's glory. We fall short of his glory. in terms of sharing in it, manifesting his glory, but the new bodies that we get will not. They will be fully in possession of heavenly glory, fully reflecting heavenly glory in a way that we cannot comprehend. which Jesus refers to as being like the angels, not becoming angels, being like the angels. Just reflecting heavenly glory in just an astonishing way. And then he says after that, what? It's shown in weakness , raised in power. Sown in weakness, raised in power. Won't get sick, won't age, won't forget things. Won't live out any of the weaknesses that we currently live out daily. Alright? So all of the All of our fallness, all of the effects of living in a a sinfallen world and being sinfallen creatures. We're perishable, we're dishonorable through and through, we're we're fraught with weakness We just parade our weakness around everywhere we go. The resurrection body will be the opposite. We won't have these things anymore. We won't be plagued by the curse of sin upon us anymore. And then he says one more thing that I believe is a summary point , although He says something a couple sentences later or one sentence later that maybe that's the summary point. Or maybe it's the same summary point saying it a different way. You'll see it when we get there. Uh what does he say in verse forty-four, the final one here, the fourth one? Natural natural body raised a spiritual spiritual body. Yeah, natural and spiritual. Fully Reflective of, fully driven by, fully defined by the presence and the power of the Holy Spirit in every way. We don't live that way now. We're indwelt by the Holy Spirit, and we're being gradually conformed to the image of Christ. But this is talking about the body now. It's a spiritual body. Wrap our heads around that. So it is a body. He's still talking about the body. He's not talking about your invisible self now What we have now is a natural body. It's part of this natural order. And what we'll get in the resurrection is a spiritual body, part of the order of the new heavens and the new earth, is the best and biblical way to summarize it. That there's new heavens, a new earth, a new creation. Right? Spiritual bodies, bodies defined by, driven by Reflective of the presence of the Holy Spirit in every way. It's a different order. That's why I say this is a Summary point because it's broader. This is the broad point. Right now we belong to our bodies belong to this natural order of the first creation. The bodies will receive, we will receive, will not belong to this fallen first creation, but will belong to the new creation. We already possess The spirit of new creation within us, but we do not yet possess bodies of the new creation. Jesus does. Jesus does. And that's why the spirit he gives us is a down payment that guarantees we'll get a body just like him. Got a fire hydrant in you here. You guys with me? Still with me? What are we talking about? Resurrects the body. Alright. So there you go So he's already said he's ordered he's argued from creation, different kind of bodies, different kind of flesh, different degrees of glory. What you have what you have this kernel can't really come to the the full manifestation of life unless it first dies, then it lives. It's going to be different than what it was. And here you have specifics. Perishable, imperishable, sown dishonor, raised in glory, sown in weakness, raised in power, sown a natural body. We'll be buried in a natural body. But when Christ returns, we'll receive a spiritual body. Glorious, glorious things. Yeah. So this is I see this as a recreation. It wasn't original creation. This is a recreation. So you can't help but try to compare those two as to where the difference lies. And I've often wondered if it wasn't the spiritual aspect of it that relies in the recreation as opposed to not. Yeah. But but it will be it will be bodily, it will be physical. It just won't be the same kind. be a different order of creation. It will be a recreation, but but it'll be um it will there the re cannot be, you know, the re is important there. It just won't be a redo. of this creation. It will be a recreation in a higher order, a heavenly order of creation. And and this is why he is going to go to his the next part of the argument to make sure that we get that. This is not going to be a return to the pre-fall state. This is not going to be a return to the state of innocence Within this order of creation. This is going to be a heavenly. This is capital S. This refers to the Holy Spirit. This does not mean invisible. This means the Holy Spirit, the order of new creation, that everything is filled by and characterized by the presence of the Holy Spirit in a way we cannot comprehend. But so let's go on. Hopefully Well we'll give this this needs two check marks because there's two sections to this We talked about the comparison between believers now or the dead body of believers and our resurrection bodies. Look at what he says at the end of 44. This is a Statement of fact. This is a propositional statement. He has ceased with the comparisons. He's given us four comparisons. It's sown this, it's raised that. It's sown this, it's raised that. Four things. And then he gives us. A statement: if there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. That is a foundational truth that he's Offering us as proof , one of the proofs, he's arguing from redemption Of the spiritual body. What does he say? It's an if-then statement. So you can close your eyes and meditate on it, or you can look at this statement in your Bible If there is a natural body, so are there natural bodies? Yes. Yes. Then there is a So it's proof. He's giving us proof. A theological proof. There are natural bodies, therefore, or There is a natural body, therefore there will be a spiritual body. So now he's kind of bringing together the order. The argument from creation, I keep saying order of creation, it's because we're talking about different orders of creation. But here it's the arguments. The argument from creation and the argument from redemption It's such a short statement. If you blank, you'll miss it. But this is the foundational truth. He's arguing from this. He's arguing from this. If there's a natural body Let me ask you, will there be a spiritual body? Yes. Yes. So we certainly know for sure. We have natural bodies. We will have spiritual bodies. Then he goes on Thus. Thus. Now what is he going to do? He's going to flesh that propositional statement out for us. That theological proof. He's gonna flush it out from where? From redemptive history. Arguing from redemption. Thus it is written, the first man, Adam , became a living being. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit. But it is not the spiritual that is first, but the natural and then the spiritual. So he's giving us the sequence. What's the sequence? Is it spiritual and then natural? No, it's natural then spiritual. And what you have, the natural body, cannot come to life unless it first what? dies and and the thing that it will be is not the thing that is. It's going to be raised like this or shown like this and raised like that. Shown like this and raised like that. So he's bookending now. He gave us those metaphors but now he's giving us the the um the concrete realities, the historical realities. And this is he's bracketing all of history for us. Because look at what he says about Adam. The first man Adam became a living being. He's talking about Adam being brought to life by God This is not Adam falling into sin. This is pre-fall Adam. This is God giving life to Adam. The first man Adam. What? became a living being when God breathed life into that body that he formed out of dust. Out of dust. He's going to mention that in just a minute. So this is now he's not contrasting the body of believers with the future resurrection body of believers anymore. That was the contrast here. Dead body of believers, it'll be raised. He's contrast he contrasted that with the future resurrection body of believers. He shifted. He's not talking about that anymore. What he's talking about now is a different contrast. Here, what's the contrast? Pre-fall Adam and the risen Christ Prefall Adam and the risen Christ. Pre-full Adam represents the created order of humanity. The first man Adam became A living being, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. A life-giving spirit. Now that's Talking about the risen Christ, the exalted Christ in heaven, who gives life to all who come to him in faith He is a life-giving spirit. You can circle, if you'd like, the the word became. This is talking about what Christ became in his resurrection and ascension, taken together as a whole. But where he reigns as life-giving spirit is the right hand of God. He did the work of redemption. He was risen from the dead. He is ascended on high and seated at the right hand of God. The last Adam, Christ. Became a life-giving spirit. Here you see something of typology, which we've talked about in the past. Adam is a type of Christ, or Adam is a shadow figure of Christ. prefigures Christ. So that's why Christ is called the last Adam. Other other places he's called the second Adam. They're both representative heads. They're both covenant representatives. Adam, a representative of all mankind. in the first order, and that's why his sin impacted everybody. But there's no one that no person that could be born that's not impacted by the fall of Adam's sin He's the first Adam. Christ is the last Adam. He's the second Adam and he's the last Adam. So you know there's no other covenant representative like Christ and Adam that comes in between. Because Adam is first, Christ is the second Adam. And since Christ is also the last Adam, you know there's no other covenant representative coming after Christ. First Adam, last Adam. This is how we're to understand history. One created order in Adam. This order of creation And a new created order in Christ, the order of the Spirit, the order of new creation. So, Adam received life from God. He became a living being. And the last Adam, who is Christ, became a life-giving spirit or a quickening spirit. Adam didn't have that power. But the risen Christ has that power. He gives life. He gives eternal life. He gives eternal life now in the inner man. And he'll give eternal life bodily when he returns. This now we're talking about the foundations. How to understand when we're talking about this body. This is not just abstract truth floating out here somewhere, just some interesting thing to talk about with our bodies. We're talking about all of history, the way God is structured all of history and has moved things to achieve his purpose, to create a people for himself, to manifest his glory and reflect his glory and behold his glory and worship him forever in Christ for the glory of Christ. This is the end goal, receiving these bodies, being gathered and glorified to Christ when he's revealed from heaven. The glorious, glorious hope that we have in Christ. So he contrasted different kinds of bodies in terms of disbelievers. We're raised this way, we're sown this way, we're raised this way, perishable, imperishable, dishonorable, glorious, and on and on. But then he gives us the foundational truth. I mean he he takes us all the way down to the foundation just to show us what does all this rest on? What does all this rest on? Understanding this. What does a proper understanding of this rest on? Well, it rests on understanding God's work. First of all, his work in creation and Adam as a representative. of this order who embodied this created order and Christ, who's a representative of the order of new creation. Who himself embodies the new creation. That means he has a resurrection body already. He embodies this new creation And one day we'll share in that, which is where he goes next. The application is the hope. That we have an understanding that we will share in this spiritual body of Christ. It is not the spiritual that is first But the natural and then the spiritual. I mean I know I'm coming at you with all kinds of stuff tonight. I know it's a lot. I know we don't, you know, spend our days meditating and contemplating the resurrection body, but essential to Christian Christian faith and it is our hope, so maybe we should. But if you don't remember anything else, and I hope that you would, remember this principle that he reiterates in verse 46. It's not the spiritual that is first, it's the natural, then the spiritual. He's mapping out the sequence of what's going to happen in this world. First, it's the natural order, and then what? Spiritual order. Spiritual order has already been attained to by Christ. It's already been established by Christ. We already can share in it by virtue of our union with Christ. But we will get bodies of that created order also. So natural order first. God creates the natural order first. Who's the covenant representative of that order? Adam. And then after that, natural first, and then what? Spiritual order second. He establishes that spiritual order not through Adam, but through the last Adam who is Jesus, who embodies this new order of creation Not in his earthly ministry. This is very important because there he had a body that was of this order. Alright, but as exalted, as risen and exalted. And he is life-giving spirit. He gives that life. He shares that eternal life. Glorious, glorious gospel picture here. Verse 47. I think that's where we are. We have verse 47? Yeah. Right. Okay, yeah. Four seven. Oh yeah. I alluded to this earlier. I think there maybe is another summary. summary way of saying this. The first man was from the earth, a man of dust. The second man is from heaven or of heaven. He's of heaven. He's of the heavenly order. I think that's more fitting and a proper a proper interpretation. A proper translation, definitely a proper interpretation of this. The first man is from the earth, of the earth, a man of dust. So now here we're just going to go like this. We'll just put earthly Heavenly. Maybe this is your summary point. Anyway, it's the Holy Spirit of God. It's God's through the agency of the Holy Spirit. Right, track with me here. It's through the agency of the Holy Spirit, as mediated through the risen Christ, that we share in the heavenly order of things. That's the only way. The eternal kingdom of God. And spiritual life, eternal life, always comes by the agency of the Holy Spirit As mediated through the risen of Christ. The way that we share an eternal life now is by the power of the Spirit. It's mediated and given through Christ And the resurrection life that we'll share that we'll experience bodily also will be through the agency of the Holy Spirit as mediated by the Christ. That's why this happens when Who is revealed from heaven? Christ. When Christ is revealed from heaven, He comes. He makes this happen through the agency of His Spirit. The first man was from the earth, a man of dust, the second man is from heaven, is of heaven. Now, as was the man of dust. Here we go. Application. As was the man of dust, so also Are those who are of the dust. And as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven And just as we have borne, past tense, the image of the man of dust, we shall also bear, future, the image of the man of heaven. Image. It's a big deal here. But uh it's eight. So we'll maybe we'll save that word. Maybe maybe next week the whole hour will be given to this word image. We'll track it from creation where man was created in the And the new creation where where we come to share in the of the risen Christ. Image, a reflection of God. So And that's why, you see, these last two verses is why we can put earthly and heavenly here. Because the first time we saw earthly and heavenly, we're still talking about Adam contrasted with Christ. But then he comes back and says, well. Those who are of well just read it. Then he brings them the two strands back together. The contrast between Adam and Christ, then he brings it back to us As was the man of dust, so also are those who are of dust, and as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. We do come to share in the new creation in this life , just not bodily. The spirit of new creation, the Holy Spirit of the exalted Christ who embodies the new creation, dwells within us. We are citizens of heaven. That's not a metaphor. That's concrete reality. United to Christ, who dwells in the invisible heavens at the right hand of God, united to Him by faith, members of the new creation, partakers of the new creation, already of Heaven. Already of heaven. But verse 49 is also very, very important To see, just because it brings out the future, the future aspect of bearing the image of the man of heaven. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, Our bodies now, we shall also bear the image of the man of heaven. Our bodies in the resurrection. We'll bear his image. We'll be like him when we see him. Philippians 3. 20, 1 John 3. 2, Romans 8. 29, and others. Maybe we'll look at those next week So, there you have it. The resurrection body. There's an argument from creation. It's creation screams many things about the glory and wisdom and plan and power of God. And one of the things that screams is We don't believe anything else about what God can do is that God makes different kinds of bodies, different kind of flesh, a different kind of glory. The fact that we'll have new kinds of bodies with new kinds of flesh with a new kind of glory should not throw us or confuse us. An argument from redemption to help us to understand that there's two orders of creation that if you want to just summarize the history in the broadest sense imaginable, there's this order of creation and a new order of creation. And um our hope, our true hope, hope does not mean wish. Well we understand that. I wish, I hope that we understand that. I think we understand that. You know, something about biblical hope is our certain future promised by God. It's not a wish and like a worldly way of using that word hope. It's a true biblical hope. We will bear his image. We will bear the image, the spiritual body of Christ, the Christ of heaven. We'll see him and be like him, because we'll see him as he truly is. Yeah. Instead of walking by faith, we will walk by sight. And it'll be a perfected sight too. It's an amazing thing. Father, we thank you. Thank you for Christ. Thank you for your goodness to us. We worship you. We praise you. We give you thanks. It's in Jesus' name we pray. Amen.