Alright, Daniel 7, 13. Let's get there and we're going to be looking at more than Daniel 7. 13. But there's a phrase or there's a concept in there that I want to be our central topic He came on the clouds of heaven. So there's the title for the class. He came on the clouds of heaven. Daniel 7, 13. Read just that verse just to highlight it, and then we will do a little bit of review. Just to catch ourselves up. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of David. This is a portion of the world. Of four beasts representing four successive kingdoms on earth, and then the fifth kingdom The kingdom of God. And for and after he sees the beasts, he sees God take his seat in his heavenly court, which is verses nine and ten. The Ancient of Days reigning on his throne of glory. And in verse 13, you have one like a son of man coming with clouds of heaven, quote, to the ancient of days. This is a prophecy of the ascension and enthronement of the risen Christ. That was last week's So if you missed that, you can catch up on it. The ascension and enthronement of the risen Christ. Let me briefly review the five keys for understanding Verses thirteen and fourteen. I didn't read fourteen yet. Let's go ahead and do that. I saw in the night visions, behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man. He came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before him. So he's not being sent out from heaven by the Ancient of Days. He's coming to heaven to the Ancient of Days And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, language, languages should serve him. Dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away. His kingdom is one that shall not be destroyed. So this is Jesus received Receiving, establishing the kingdom of God. He's ascending and being enthroned in heaven as risen Lord. Five keys quickly. Number one Jesus is not leaving heaven in glory. He's entering heaven in glory. This is not a prophecy about the second coming. When he comes, he will He will come in glory. He'll come like he left. He left in glory, he'll come in glory. He left bodily, he'll return bodily. But that's not what this passage is about Number two, second key. Upon entering heaven, he's given a kingdom. He is not told to wait for the kingdom. This is the whole point of him being ushered into heaven in glory and being presented before the ancient of days is to receive a kingdom. He is given a kingdom. Kingdom, dominion, and glory and kingdom, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. Third key, his kingdom will never end and never be The kingdom of God, the kingdom of Christ, is not in its It's uh ultimate, final, complete form, yeah, but that doesn't mean it's not the kingdom. We learn that in the kingdom parables. That the kingdom of God comes in stages and grows gradually But the dominion, the authority to do this kingdom work, the universal dominion, is given to Christ in his ascension. And enthronement. Fourth key. In the context, the point of this, the historical setting, the historical point of this is that in being given this kingdom He supplants the universal dominion of the Roman Empire. Supplants the universal dominion of the Roman Empire. And of course, behind that, and also alongside of that, the uh The dominion, the authority of Satan to keep all the nations of the world in darkness is supplant Now the dominant power, the dominant spiritual authority in the world on earth is the gospel of Jesus Christ, because Jesus Christ Has been given dominion and authority and power and a kingdom and glory. And no one can stop him from advancing his kingdom and building his church. Fifth key. The fifth key. This son of man, one like a son of man. By the way, I don't think I made that a key, but I should have made that a key. This is talking about a human being. This is one like a son Like a son of man. He is a human being. This is Christ. But the fifth key is that he reigns in and through the saints of God on earth. He reigns From heaven, but how does he reign on earth? In and through his saints. Daniel seven verse 22 until the ancient of days came and judgment was given for the saints of the Most High, and the time came when the saints possessed the kingdom. That is the interpretation, part of the interpretation of the It's not something else that happens. It's part of the interpretation, part of expounding the meaning and application of the Son of Man receiving the kingdom. Of man doesn't receive the kingdom just for himself, but for his people, for the saints of God. As John will write in Revelation 1, he has made us the kingdom priests to God. All right, let's zoom in on verse And begin this evening's study. Daniel seven thirteen. He came on the clouds of The point of this class is very, very simply just to look at the Old Testament background and if we have time. Some New Testament teaching on what it means that came one like uh the Son of Man on clouds of heaven. On clouds of heaven. In this context of Daniel, let's say this one more time before we start flipping all over the Bible. Coming on the clouds of heaven in Daniel 7 Is Jesus receiving and inaugurating the kingdom, not returning and consummating the kingdom? That's Daniel 7. 13. Now let's give some Old Testament background to that. Coming on the clouds of heaven. The one who comes on heavenly clouds or rides on clouds, clouds of heavenly glory, in the Old Testament is And he guesses? God. This is something that God does. He rides on clouds as an expression of his glory, specifically in manifesting particular city. So turn with me to Isaiah 191. I have uh five of these There could be more, I'm saving them for when we go back to Revelation at the appointed time, which I'm not sure when it is yet, and look look at look more closely at what we began last week Jesus says, I'm coming soon. There's other verses from this topic that overlap with that topic. Our first one tonight is Isaiah 19. eighteen verse one God coming in judgment against Egypt Behold, the Lord is riding on a swift cloud and comes To Egypt. And the idols of Egypt will tremble at his presence, and the hearts of the Egyptians will melt within them And I will stir up Egyptian Egyptians against Egyptians. Who's doing that? God's doing that. They will fight each against another, and each against his neighbor, city against city, kingdom against kingdom. And the spirit of the Egyptians within them will be emptied out, and I will confound their counsel. They will inquire of the idols and the sorcerers and the mediums and the necromancers And I will give over the Egyptians into the hand of a hard master, and a fierce king will rule over them, declares the Lord God of hosts. God is riding on a swift cloud and comes to Egypt. And literally, is that a physical thing that you would see? No No, it's talking about his sovereign judgment and sovereign is his providence really and bringing a historical judgment again Against Egypt. So what does it look like in Isaiah 19 when God rides on a swift cloud and comes to Egypt? He turns in judgment against Egypt, he turns Turns them against themselves and creates turmoil, and he gives them over to a hard master, to a fierce king to reign rule over them. That is God's judgment against Egypt. How did He do that? By riding on a swift cloud and coming to Egypt. It's a prophetic image that describes God's historical judgment against Egypt, riding on clouds and coming to Egypt. So now here it's not entering heaven. God the Father doesn't need to enter heaven and receive uh universal dominion because he's always had universal dominion. He already reigns in clouds of heavenly glory so he can come in clouds of heavenly glory But the risen Christ had to first receive that universal dominion and be seated at the right hand of the Father. Now he reigns in heavenly glory, and so now he can come in heavenly glory. In judgment. But that God the Father doesn't need that. He already reigns as sovereign Lord. Now, Nahum 1 3. Nahum 1-3, the same Same type of thing, God coming in judgment against Nineveh. Name is right before Habakkuk Right after Micah. Yeah, the your pages are stuck together. That means you haven't been reading Nahum. Damn what's that? House's revolution. Yeah, that's the litmus test. Name one Well you can do uh we can begin in uh one one. We'll read one one through four Or one one through three. An oracle concerning Nineveh. The book of the vision of Nahum of Elkish. The Lord is a jealous and avenging God. The Lord is avenging and wrathful. Know the theme. It's an oracle against Nineveh. We know God is jealous and avenging God. He's avenging and wrathful. He takes vengeance on his adversaries and keeps wrath for his enemies. The Lord is slow to anger and great in power, and the Lord will by no means clear the guilty. His way is in the whirlwind and Storm and clouds clouds are the dust of his feet. He rebukes the sea and makes it dry. He dries up all the rivers, Spishon, Carmel, Wither, the bloom of Lebanon Whether the mountains quake before him, the hills melt, the earth heaves before him, the world and all who dwell in it. Why? Because of his power and his vengeance against his wrath against sin. and his sovereignty. But I think it's certainly here, the imagery of God traveling, his way, his way is in whirlwind and storm and clouds are the dust of his feet. So it's a picture of God being transported and traveling on clouds in a whirlwind and storm. Mount Sinai was basically one massive Instantiation or manifestation of this. The whole mountain was engulfed, Exodus 19. 9, in thick cloud. So historical judgment against Egypt, God coming in clouds, coming to Egypt, coming in riding on clouds, and now here against Nineveh, riding on clouds in judgment. And we know we'll know what that judgment looks like if you would read the rest of Nahum. So again, prophetic Imagery to describe God's historical judgment upon a particular people or city. Psalm 97, 2 is broader. It's talking about how God destroys all his enemies Psalm ninety seven two Well w we'll read one through three. So the idea of um Heavenly clouds, clouds of heavenly glory, doesn't come out of nowhere in the book of David. Daniel. It ha has meaning. It's how God travels. Uh what did I say? Psalm ninety seven one through three The Lord reigns, let the earth rejoice, let the many coastlands be glad. Clouds and thick darkness are all around him. Righteousness and justice are the foundation of his throne. You should have the same kind of idea. You have God's sovereignty and God's reigning, and in terms of imagery, symbolic imagery, clouds and thick darkness are all around him Fire goes before him and burns up his adversaries all around. The idea of judgment. So God's sovereignty. Well that's how the Psalm began. The Lord reigns. The Lord reigns. He's a sovereign ruler. He is king. It's not just an abstract idea of a God we believe might exist, but we're not quite sure who he is. We know exactly who he is, we know exactly what he's doing, as insofar as he's told us that in the Bible. Certainly we don't have exhaustive knowledge of Those things. But sovereignty, judgment, and again, clouds. Okay. One more and no, two more. Psalm 104. This would be just a few pages over. Psalm 104. 3 Here is even more broad, talking about all of God's mighty works. All of God's mighty works. Psalm 102 Before Let's begin at verse one again. Bless the Lord, O my soul. O Lord my God, you are very great. You are clothed with splendor and majesty. Now it's gonna it's gonna Work outward with this imagery. He's clothed with splendor and majesty. That's who God is. That's his the glory of who he is. Covering yourself with light as a garment, stretching out the heavens like a tent. So the heavens are his tent. He lays the beams of his chambers on the waters. He makes the clouds his chariot. He rides on the wings of the Here you go in the imagery of God and who he is and his glory and his dominion and his sovereignty and his interaction with the world. world that he created. In this this whole uh package of the imagery, clouds is how God travels. Clouds is the imagery For how God travels. He rides on the wings of the wind. The clouds are his chariot. Quote an interesting Image. But he rides on the clouds. Go down to verse 24 of Psalm 104. O Lord, how manifold are your works in wisdom? You made them all. The earth is full of your creatures. Just wanted to give you a taste of this uh psalm is not pointedly specifically at a specific judgment against a specific people, although it still uses that imagery. It broadened it broadens it out to all of God's works It's just generally how he travels. When you're thinking about how God interacts with his creation in a special way. Verses 31 and 31. thirty two May the glory of the Lord endure forever. May the Lord Lord rejoice in his works. Again it's about his works. Who looks on earth and it trembles, who touches the mountains And they smoke. If you were to read Psalm 104 in your devotions tonight, you would see that he's riding at the beginning, it begins With the imagery of who God is and how God travels. The clouds is the chariot. He's riding in a chariot. But it's about his works of creation And about his works of providence in creation, and about his works of judgment on his enemies, and about his works of salvation for his people. All of his mighty works. Is is begins with this imagery. And you'll also see in Psalm 104, but that he carries out his works by two things. By his commands And by his spirit, by the word of his command, and by the power and working of his spirit in all of the earth. But again, the imagery for our purposes is the clouds, the clouds of heaven. It's how God travels. So you see the dignity of this man who's transported Up from her from earth, up to heaven, in the way that God transports himself from heaven down to earth is incredible. It's magnificent. It has meaning in the prophetic Body of Scripture. One more on this. One more. Psalm eighteen, nine through twelve. This is uh now this one is about judgment, but on a smaller level, God coming in judgment against David's enemies. So it's Uh not Egypt, not Nineveh, but enemies of David. Psalm eighteen, nine through twelve, he bowed the heavens and came down, and thick darkness was under his feet. So hopefully the I mean hopefully you're trying to picture this in your mind's The imagery of a being, a magnificent, glorious, heavenly being, riding on winds, riding on a cloud. mind. It's a supernatural event. He made darkness is covering his canopy around Around him thick clouds with dark water. Here you have God coming in judgment. Historical judgment over the enemies of his people. Here, David. How does he come? It's very simple. This would be the first uh question on your test next week. Clouds. He comes on clouds. We also would accept swift wind. He rides on the wind. Same thing, related thing, not the same exact thing, but it's related. Because he's on clouds moving, as it were, on the wind, transcending the power and moving Of the wind. You get some some interpretation still in Psalm eighteen, some interpretation of that and within In the psalm, how did he come? How did he come with thick clouds? Is this a literal thing that David would have seen? No. Here's how he came, verse seventeen through nineteen. He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, and for they were too mighty for me. They confronted me In the day of my calamity, but the Lord was my support. He brought me out into a broad place. He rescued me because he delighted in me. That's how He helped David. He answered David's prayer. Historical intervention. Enemies verse 37 through 42, a little bit more of interpretation of how it is that God came. I pursued my enemies and overtook them and did not turn back till they were consumed. I thrust them through so that they were not able to rise. They fell under my feet Verse 39, for you equipped me, you, you equipped me with strength for the battle. You made those who rise against me sink under me. You made my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me me I destroyed. They cried for help, but there was none to save. They cried to the Lord, but he did not answer them. I beat them fine as dust before the wind. I cast them out like the mire of the streets. Why? How? Well, David said it. Basically says to God, you did that. You made it happen. You enabled me to overcome. You conquered my enemies. You brought judgment. You saved me. You did this, God. So that's the interpretation of historically, that's what actually happened You have the prophetic imagery that came before it of God coming powerfully, gloriously, in sovereignty over all things, riding on a cloud. Now, the one who reigns in heavenly glory is the one who can come in heavenly glory in judgment. That's the prerequisite for coming in a historical judgment. You have to reign in heavenly glory in order to be the one who comes in heavenly glory. Heavenly glory in heavenly in the in the judgment, in a historical judgment against a person or particular people. So Hopefully, hopefully if we can just pause and you can pause on the uh it's kind of a fire hydrant repetition uh but it's simple imagery. God try Troubles on clouds. Not a new idea in Daniel. In fact, it's the background that gives meaning to what's happening in Daniel. When Jesus is ascended and lifted In on clouds, clouds of heavenly glory, into heaven, and he's presented before the ancient of days, and he's enthroned, seated at the at the right hand of God, he now reigns with the authority of God. He's now the one all judge Jesus said all judgments given to the Son. The Father's given all judgments to the Son. That actually had to happen. Jesus now, the risen Lord now, is the one Who will come in historical judgment when appropriate, when God purposes, and He's the one who will come in final judgment. These things are all related. Historical judgments throughout history And then Christ ascending. Now any historical judgment that's going to happen after that is going to be enacted by Christ as the reigning Lord. And then of course that all previews and foreshadows his final return and final judgment. And whenever we're thinking of coming in judgment, it's parallel and simultaneous to coming in salvation, coming in the redemption of his people He comes in judgment, he comes in redemption. The one who reigns in heavenly glory is the one who can come in heavenly glory, in historical judgments. So let me slow down. Let's go back to Daniel 7. We've seen two This has been up here for a long time, but we're erasing it tonight. We from the Bible, not from our imaginations. Not from my speculation or from me trying to be clever, not from tradition, just from the Bible. In the prophetic literature from the Psalms, that David was a prophet, Acts chapter 2, so that's prophetic literature too. Two meanings of coming On the clouds as it relates to heavenly glory. You have you one meaning is God coming In historical judgment. And you did have some of the some of those songs Was broader than that. But I think the clearest ones, the most pointed examples, are when he comes in uh judgment, coming on the clouds, and then the other meaning is from Daniel. Seven thirteen. The well that that would be too long. What I was going to write was But I'll just instead what I'll write is what that signifies historically. Christ Receiving the kingdom. Christ receiving the eternal kingdom of God, the kingdom authority, the universal dominion to supplant that fourth kingdom From the vision in Daniel two, from the vision in Daniel seven, there was four worldly kingdoms, Satan driven, world-dominating kingdoms of which Wickedness, but that's supplanted, and the authority is given to Christ to establish his kingdom. Now he reigns from heaven. It's a heavenly kingdom, and he's saving souls, not slaying bodies. It's a spiritual kingdom. It's a kingdom. Kingdom of redemption, not a kingdom of wickedness and violence and idolatry and sexual immorality. It's a different kind of kingdom, a different Kingdom ethic, but he supplants the Roman Empire, that fourth kingdom, and establishes his kingdom. Coming on the clouds, God coming in the historical judgment, and Christ receiving the kingdom. Now both of those things preview and foreshadow, did I say this already? The second coming, the final coming and the final judgment. But that's not the primary meaning of coming on the clouds Alright. Any now don't make them difficult, because we only have 27 minutes left, and I don't know everything. But any questions so far? If uh because after this we're going to the Gospel of Matthew Pretty much for the rest of the time. So go ahead, Becky. All of this was based on the web version, Daniel It's not all based on, but I'm trying to give background so that we can understand when this phrase is used in the New Testament. Gospels of Matthew and then Revelation primarily Primarily, but not exclusively. So that's why the background is important. Because so often when we see this phrase in the New Testament, our minds immediately think, second coming, final judgment, end of all things. But that's not necessarily what that means. That's not the primary meaning. It ha there's a background to it, and apart from the background, we won't be able to properly understand or apply to our lives, you know what that means. Wh or when we see that in the New Testament. So just trying to practice good biblical interpretation. Uh Jordan, what were you gonna do? most of them had a judgmental context with the clouds. Not this one though. Not Daniel seven thirteen. He's going up. That's not in judgment. So yeah. I'm gu I'm guess I'm missing like the connection between the joins make it or is that just not a little bit more than a little bit. No, I mean I I I th I was trying to say that, so I'm glad you stopped me. That they're two different things, one and two. Different Things. Just the point of this is the background of where that language comes of riding on clouds of glory, riding on heavenly clouds. But this is different. This is a human being being taken In Acts 1, it's coming back to say like this coming three and that he went. So in that part I guess that could be part of it though. Because the angels say to the disciples, he's gonna come back. Yeah, he's gonna come back in glory. Exact same way that he came in. Yeah, and so I the connection is he won't be able to do that, come back in heavenly glory clouds, unless he first does this Like that's the prerequisite. You can't come in glory unless you are endowed with heavenly glory. It's got to be given to you from the Father. So there's definitely a connection. There's there's all th there's all connected. It's all connected and it is I believe it does center on judgment um in terms of its manifestation and main application But that's a the judgment is a byproduct of this of the dominion, of the sovereignty. He's the sovereign Lord and judge over all things and all people And as the heavenly holy judge, he will not sit idly by and uh leave sin go unpunished or undealt with. So he is is going to come back. Yeah. Anybody else, Brian? Axe one is when he disappeared at that moment up in the cloud, and then he was receiving I don't know in terms of seconds or minutes or hours, but definitely the he's ascended and then he's enthroned in heaven. I would say it's hard to you know, you're you're talking about something that happens in the spiritual realm and uh something that's witnessed and manifest in the earthly realm and exactly how those two things relate. We just can't really put all that together. I think that's why the imagery is so important. We get metaphors and symbols for it. But definitely when he's ascended, he is seated at the right hand of God. God. I mean that's clear in the New Testament over and over. If you want to study that out on your own, that would be a good thing to just look up that phrase or that idea of Jesus being seated at the right hand of the Father. in the New Testament that that's where he is. He he is not waiting to be seated. And in Acts two that's interpreted as him s sitting on David's throne and fulfilling that promise That God will sit one on David's throne who will reign forever. So David's throne is just a symbol for David's rule. David's Kingdom rule, but that was a type and a shadow of Christ's rule. So that's a long answer to a short question. presented before him decided before he presented by the case. He's presented be yeah, I think you're right. I th I think it happens right away. Um what does he give up then when he comes down I hate to ask another one I'm sorry if you can if you need to answer that another time but in Philippians he's giving all of this up he's coming down to be our savior would be receiving back that which he had Beforehand in fellowship with God, or it's it's different clearly. Um is he's receiving it back as a man. And that makes all the difference. Yeah, he's God's representative king. Yeah. What you two guys are bringing up, that's really the definition of Christ, uh or the definition of Son of God. He's God's representative king. Um and He's uh man's representative before God. He's our mediator. So glorious, glorious stuff. I like the direction the comments are going. You know what this is? This is the gospel. You know Which uh the details are important, the language is important and looking at you know some of these uh deeper deeper level things is is uh i is important. It helps to stretch stretch our m minds and hopefully impress these things deeper on our hearts. But really we're just talking about the things Jesus did to save us. His as his ascension is part of that. His his reigning in heaven. is part of that. His interceding there on our behalf is part of that. We're just talking about who Jesus is and what he did so that sinners like us could dwell with God forever. So it's cool stuff. I mean it's great stuff. Lest you ever, like me, you know, start to wander in the weeds, always come back to that. This is what Jesus, this book is just Expounding, proclaiming, expounding, and applying and driving into our hearts who God is, who we who we are, sinners and rebellion against God, but what Jesus did to reconcile us to God. God and live with him forever, the gospel. Alright, now here we go. Let's get into the controversial and difficult stuff. We're done with the easy stuff. Matthew 26. Sixty three. Did you like did you like that? Matthew twenty-six sixty-three. The Gospel of Matthew could also be called the manual on I mean really the whole Bible is that, but Matthew just so pointed And just where it's located, what it deals with immediately, the person and work of Christ and the kingdom being a major theme. Matthew 26, 63 three through sixty-eight you're gonna see what Jesus says that puts his enemies over. I mean talk about last Here's what he says in the midst of this kind of joke farced of a trial, a mock trial Jesus remained silent, verse 63, and the high priest said to him, I adjure you by the living God, tell us, the Son of God. Jesus said to him, You've said so. He said, You're right on the money. You've said it. But I tell you, from now on, you, you high priests, you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power. And coming on the clouds of heaven. And the high priest tore his robes and said, He has uttered blasphemy. So we know that no matter what else we say about the meaning of what Jesus said, it was a claim to divine authority. Because as soon as he says that, they accuse him of blasphemy. What further witnesses do we need? That seals the deal. He thinks he's God. He's threatening he has the power and the divine authority of God We need no more witnesses. You've heard his blasphemy. What is your judgment? They answered, he deserves death And then they spit in his face and struck him. And some slapped him, saying, Prophesy to us, you Christ, who is it that struck you? Because all because he said, You will see. Caiaphas, you will see. Scribes, you will see. All the elders who were gathered, you will see. Chief priests, the whole council, this is The context. You will see, you will see the Son of Man seated at the right hand of power and coming on the clouds of heaven. Now, this is why I did some of this. Because it's not something that they're uh when God came in clouds for David or against Egypt or against Nineveh, it wasn't something they literally physically Saul. It was a metaphor for God coming in judgment as the divine king, the sovereign king over all things. Now, what they're going to see is they're going to See, and they are going to experience the historical reality of Christ reigning in heaven at the right hand of God. They are going to see that. They're going to experience that And also they're going to experience the things Jesus does to enter that reign. As he's going through suffering, his suffering has meaning. He's obeying his father, he's laying his life down for his people. This is how he attains his reward that he would be Presented before the ancient of days and receive a kingdom. He does the work of a conquering king first, conquering sin, conquering death They will see him coming on the clouds of heaven. It's not a reference to the second coming. They're not going to be around for him. that. They're going to and they're not they're so they're not going to see his ascension, but they're going to see and they're going to experience things That happen after the ascension, and they're going to see the things that lead to the ascension. So really they're going to they're going to be alive and they're going to witness all the historical events surrounding Jesus Three words. Jesus receiving the kingdom. Four words. Jesus receiving the kingdom. Jesus receiving the kingdom. Because that's what the prophecy, that's the fulfillment The Son of Man, Daniel seven, thirteen, seated at the right hand of power, so he's already seated. He that says after he's received the kingdom. He's seated. They're gonna see him seated. And they're gonna see him coming on the clouds of heaven. Which I would not be overly dogmatic. That I that could be a general reference to just Christ reigning as Lord, and then they'll see some of the historical outworking of that in the establishment of the church, the spread of the gospel, the unstoppable spread of the gospel. I think it is referring specifically That they'll see him coming on the clouds of heaven in judgment against apostate Israel. Particularly, but other places as well. And I think that fits best with the continuity of the background. That is first and foremost, that kind of language is God coming in historical judgment. And then Christ, it's language used for the way Christ receives his kingdom. And now he's the one who will come in judgment. Also Matthew sixteen twenty seven You know that's a difficult verse. If it doesn't all click for you, you're not alone. It doesn't all uh you know didn't immediately click for me, it doesn't always click perfectly for me, but I the key principles for all of us is just keep coming back to the text and keep coming back to prayer for insight and just keep learning and keep Keep looking and keep studying these things out from a biblical context. We're so ingrained to see that phrase in the New Testament to see what Jesus When Jesus says that, we're so ingrained our minds immediately go to second coming. But that's not what it referred to. And Again, the people he was speaking to, he was speaking straight to them dogmatically, literally, they'll see it. They'll see him. Matthew Sixteen, twenty-seven, and twenty-eight. Jordan, this is one you and I have talked about about eleven times since I've been For the Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his father, and then he will repay each person according to what he's done. The Son of Man is going to come with his angels in the glory of his father, and then he will repay. Then he will repay each person. according to what he's done. So he's saying one thing. And let's before we go to verse 2028 or 28. Verse 28. Let's just go through phrase by phrase, verse 27. The Son of Man is going to come. Lest you mis are mistaken about this, do not get it twisted. He is going to come. Number one, with his angels. Number two, in the glory of his father. Number three, and then when that happens, then he will repay each person according to what he's done Verse twenty eight. Amen. Truly. In fact, it's what I said. In fact, indeed I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death Which is uh a way of saying you'll still be alive. You'll not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. Kingdom, coming in his kingdom. When they see him coming in his kingdom, it's proof positive validation, verification of what he just said. It proves in the end He is going to come back into final judgment. Paul argues this in his sermon on Athens in Acts 17. The resurrection As proof of a final judgment Acts seventeen, thirty-one. God has fixed a day which he will judge the world in righteousness by a man whom he has appointed. God is going to judge the world in righteousness, number one, by a man, that's Jesus, whom He has appointed, that's Jesus being enthroned. And of this he has given assurance to all by raising him from the dead. Now he doesn't mention the ascension, and he doesn't mention the enthronement. He doesn't expound upon it to these Greek philosophers the way he would for Maybe some uh some of the Jewish some of the Jewish evangelism of the day. But they will still be alive when they see the Son of Man Reigning, reigning in his kingdom, coming in his kingdom, they will not be alive for the second coming, at least not on earth. Their bodies won't be alive for the second coming. Coming. But they'll see the inauguration of the kingdom. They just won't see the consummation of the kingdom. It's pretty simple. I mean that's how it's structured. Coming is the middle passive voice. It's uh it's a present middle passive voice, which means it's either already happening or about to happen. And that's the way it is in Revelation 1 seven, if if we get there where it's I don't think we will Now here then this is what Jordan and I talked about. This is the different the different things Jesus could be referring to there could be the transfiguration which follows as a Which gives a preview, sort of pulls back the veil a little bit and gives a preview of Christ coming in his kingdom and reigning. It could be his ascension. Some of them will be there for that. Literally see that. Or it could be again, it could be his judgment on Jerusalem. Which If you read uh from this point in Matthew forward , becomes as you get into the early chapters of uh either the twenties, twenty-two, twenty-three, twenty-four It's a major, major, major issue. The judgment that is going to come on apostate Israel centered on Jerusalem. Jerusalem, the destruction of Jerusalem. And that relates when we have this background of God coming in judgment, in historical judgment. And we understand what that means, it's not hard to see, it's not hard to uh visualize that the Son of Man coming in his kingdom would be Jesus coming in a historic judgment against particular people. Twenty-one, forty-two through forty-six. This is on the same point, this the same subpoint. Yes, Matthew I went right by it. Alright, uh just one example of what I just said about this Becomes a major theme. Jesus said to them, Have you never read the scriptures? The stone the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. Makes me think of uh Daniel chapter two. This was the Lord's doing, and it's marvelous in our eyes. But he said, haven't you heard this? Haven't you read the scriptures? Don't you understand this? They don't. Verse 43. Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you. Leaders of apostate Israel, representing apostate Israel The kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing its fruits. People of the new covenant. Filled with the Holy Spirit, true children of God, true Israel. And the one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces. And when it falls on anyone, it will crush him. When the chief priests and Pharisees heard this parable, heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking about them. Well, now that they get it. I mean, so, and the amount of things that they don't perceive uh it makes me think of how just crystal clear that teaching is. The kingdom of God is gonna be taken away from you. They're thinking, where i where Israel? Where the child Chosen people. The kingdom of God can't be taken away from us. The kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people bearing fruit. And although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds because they held him to be I think I have time to squeeze one more in here. Let's go back. Uh no, let's yeah, go forward to Matthew twenty three thirty one through thirty-six Still, on this idea of apostate Israel after the woes, these woes against the scribes, Pharisees, scribes and Pharisees, the the hypocrites. Matthew, we're we're nearing the end of the end of that section, transitioning into the famous Matthew twenty-four. 23, uh 31 through 36. Thus you witness against yourselves that you are the sons of those who murdered the prophets. So important, verse 32. Fill up then The measure of your fathers. The idea of filling up a cup of wrath. The wrath that the fathers deserve This generation is going to commit the ultimate sin, the climactic sin, of killing God's one and only Son. And it's going to fill up that cup of wrath against unbelieving Israel. He's going to fill it up. You serpents, you brood of vipers, verse 33. How are you to escape being sentenced to hell? Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes. He's talking about gospel ministers here. Different gifts, but still We send you prophets, wise men, scribes, some of whom you will so it's future, you will kill and crucify, some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town. Read the book of Acts. This is what happens. So, so that on you verse 35 Yeah. I was gonna ask if you're awake, but everyone is. You're all looking at your Bible, so that's good. Unless your head's down and your eyes are closed and I can't see it Verse 35, you need to be awake for this, so that on you, on you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the same and Sanctuary and the altar. Truly, truly, or truly I say unto you, all these things will come upon this generation. They're going to fill up the wrath, fill it up, complete it. He says, all the righteous blood that was shed and all these things will come upon this generation. Verse thirty seven O Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets and s stones those who are sent to it. How often I would have gathered your children, children, together as a hen gathers her brood under her wing. Wings and you were not willing. See, your house is left to you desolate. Empty, nothing, void, dead, desolate. For I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Verse 24, just a few Verses here. Two to be exact. Jesus left the temple and was going away. When his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple, But he answered them, You see all these? See all what? The buildings of the temple. You see all these? Do you not? Well, truly I say to you, there will be not left here one So he prophesies the destruction of the temple. And what he's beg the the parac the uh chapter break is unfortunate. Because what he's now doing is just expounding and explaining the detail of how those things will come upon this generation. How will that cup of wrath be How will that righteous blood come upon them? Later on they'll say, His blood be upon us, and it was upon them. And again in verse uh verse twenty four, here's your homework. 29 through 31. It's related. It's related to this phrase. It's related to what we've been talking about. It's one of the most hotly debated and one of the more difficult passages that you'll see. But go to verse 34. This is what we're going to end. Matthew 24, 34. This will be the very the very last thing. Remember in uh verse thirty-six of twenty-three he said, All these things will come upon this generation. And then in thirty-four, he gives you a book and truly, truly I say to you, this generation generation will not pass pass away until all these things take place. Heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. Here's how sure you can be about the fact that all of those things, all of those things Will take place in this generation. It is his word. Heaven and earth will po have a better chance of passing away than Jesus' prophecy has of not being fulfilled. And within those bookends, the bookends of 2336 and 2434, where Jesus says, all of these things will take place. in this generation, which is the app which is the uh his explaining how God's wrath is going to come against apostate Israel Within those bookends is a lot of debate and a lot of different interpretations and it's it is very difficult. But I think your best friend is going to be words, you know, the words that are on the page and the words That gives the Old Testament background to it. The Holy Spirit helping you in prayer, just having a learning spirit and taking the time to study it out. Because there's so many phrases in there that we'll see Uh that there's already a preconceived notion of what it means. And we feel so strongly about the language is so strong, the language is so vivid, we think it must It has to be the second coming. be It has to be the second coming. Study out the phrases. Study out the Old Testament background and what's If you accept what is clear, like when Jesus says all these things will happen in this generation, if you accept what's clear, you have a better chance of uh understanding at least the basics of what's under Unclear because there are some difficulties there. But I think I said it three or four weeks ago, right? We don't get to unclear things and act like they cancel out clear things. That's not a good problem. Principle of interpretation. Difficult things don't cancel out obvious things. Root yourself in the obvious, root yourself in the plain and straightforward and clear. And then, you know, you could always say like I say a lot of times, you know what, I'm not quite sure about that, but I do know this. I do know this. All right, let's pray