The words we'll examine tonight come out of 2 Peter 1, verses 1 through 15. 2 Peter chapter 1 1 through 15. Just a few weeks ago we wrapped up the first letter that Peter wrote to the church. And in that we saw the call for those new Christians, that newly formed church, the infancy of the church that Peter is writing to. To be prepared for a life of suffering. A life of suffering both from the world, from their employers, or from their slave masters. This idea of submission within society, it was demonstrated all throughout that letter. There's a very important letter that was written at that time for a new church. This new church was birthed. And they were going to experience a lot of oppression and persecution from the world, from society around them. But now, as we get into the second letter that Peter writes to the church. We can recognize that it's a short time after he wrote the first letter, then now the church is experiencing something a little bit different. Yes, they've gone through seasons of suffering. They continue to go through seasons of suffering. But now in this letter, Peter's focus is on protecting the church from false teachings. Teachers coming in to the church and corrupting it. And while we see Peter write quite a bit about false teachers and false Preachers coming into the church and corrupting it. We also see John and his little letters writing about this. Peter's examples of the false teachers are a bit unique. I believe that Peter is recognizing an issue with teachers coming in that at face value are hard to recognize as being false teachers. I believe that Peter is addressing an issue of people that are prof proclaiming and professing faith in Christ. They seem to have all the right answers. They're coming into the church. They seem to be connected. They seem to be all good and happy. But then they start to let out a little bit of false teaching. And it's kind of challenging for this young church, these new Christians to to catch. Well wait, are you just did I just misunderstand what you were saying? Or are you teaching something that's contrary to what the apostles have taught us? And while this letter, Peter's second letter, is quite. uh shorter than the first letter, his intention is very clear that he wants to address the false teachers. So as we start to dive into this uh letter in the next few weeks we'll be unpacking some of the false teaching that Peter is addressing, and we'll also have to unpack some of the false teaching in the American church. So come back. But not tonight. Tonight I'll wait till Jeremiah's teaching, then you'll have that. So no. No, I can't. I got I'm ready for that one, Jeremiah. I can't let you have it But tonight, we're going to be grounded in our faith in Christ Jesus and in how we mature and grow as Christians. This is what Peter starts his letter off with. You know, it's so easy, he could have just jumped into all the problems. You're you're all jacked up here, you gotta watch out, here's all these terrible, false teachers, you've got to deal with it, you gotta fight them, you gotta get them out. That's not what Peter does. He grounds the Christians in their identity as Christians. He grounds their identity as having faith In Christ. He grounds their identity as their salvation and their righteousness and their holiness comes from the will and the power of their Heavenly Father. And this grounds them and secures them in that place. So as they're in these great battles and fights against false teachers, they're grounded in Christ. They're rooted in faith in Christ. But Peter doesn't just leave it there and say, okay, just have faith and don't do anything. What he does is he also says, we have faith. And now you live out this faith and this living out of the faith, and we'll see the list Peter gives us. These things, these supplications will strengthen you. Strengthen you in Christ and prepare you for the day that you have to address the false teachers. Charles Spurgeon says this: He says, faith and life These are vital points to a Christian. They possess so intimate a connection with each other that they are by no means to be severed God has so joined them together and let no man seek to put them asunder. Asunder means to separate. I had to look it up, but it means to separate. Faith and life. Faith and life. We we we are saved by faith in Christ and now we must live that out. You cannot say, well I'm one of those Christians that has faith but I don't live it out. I don't you know I don't do the Christian things But you also can't be one of those people who says, Well, I'm a Christian because look at all what I'm doing. But that faith stuff, I don't get messed with that. No, faith and life are deeply connected. They are the two feet of which we walk. In this journey of Christianity. So as we read Peter's words and his grounding us in our faith in Christ, and then the supplements we are to take of these things and these This characteristics and activities as Christians, may we be strengthened, may we be strengthened in our faith and give more praise and glory and honor to our Heavenly Father. So let us look at 2 Peter chapter 1, starting in verse 1. Simon Peter, a servant and apostle of Jesus Christ, to those who have obtained a faith of evil. Equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. His divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. Through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence, By which he has granted to us his precious and very great promises, so that through them you may become partakers of the divine nature. Having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desires. For this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith with virtue And virtue with knowledge, and knowledge with self-control, and self-control with steadfastness, and steadfastness with godliness, and godliness with brotherly affection, and brotherly affection with love Love. For if these qualities are yours and are increasing, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins. Therefore, brothers Be all the more diligent to confirm your calling and election. For if you practice these qualities, you will never fall. For in this way there will be richly provided for you an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Therefore I end I intend always to remind you of these qualities. Though you know them and are established in the truth that you have, I think it right, as long as I am in this body. to stir you up by way of reminder. Since I know that the putting off of my body will be soon, as our Lord Jesus made clear to me, and I will make every effort so that after my departure You may be able at any time to recall these things. Such powerful words here. I was telling Pastor Matt when I started uh the the series through First Peter, I was caught off guard by how deep and theological every sentence Peter writes. How how much time y you can unpack each sentence. And this is true for the second letter that Peter writes, but here he he makes it very practical and very Clear right up front. He calls us to recognize the greatness of our God, who has redeemed us, whom we have faith in his Son, who has washed us cleansed, and now he's saying, You should live this out. And he uses this term here. He says, supplement your faith. Supplement your faith. I think about the supplements some of us may take: medication, vitamins, right? You would be wrong if you were saying, okay, God has given me life, and now I'm going to take some supplements. And once I start taking supplements, vitamin C, vitamin D , I'm sure there's other vitamins, I don't know, whatever other supplements you take, and you say, now that I'm taking these supplements, I don't have to live anymore. Right? That would that would be foolish. Well no, the the the life you have and the supplements that you're using, the the medication there, that is uh to grow your life, to uh to cause flourish within your health. Well, likewise, that's what's happening here. The faith we have is what has brought us to salvation. The faith we have is what has brought us into the kingdom of God. The faith we have is what God has used to wash us clean and white as snow by the blood of Christ. That is our salvation. So, beloved, hear me tonight. I'm not saying you must do these things in order to be saved. That's what faith is all about. By grace we have been saved. How? Through faith. Through faith Faith. But here Peter's telling us to supplement, to supplement our faith with these qualities. to supplement it, to grow in it, to nourish it, to mature it. And he and we'll see later on that these These uh qualities that he lists as our supplements will strengthen us and prepare us for the day of challenges and suffering. These qualities will help us be assured that we have been saved by the grace of God. These qualities, these supplements to our faith, will help increase our confidence in the living God. We must enjoy these and we must be challenged by them. So the first thing we see is that we should root ourselves in faith. Root ourselves in faith. And that's how Peter starts his letter. Right there in verse 1, right in the middle, he says, To those who have obtained of faith. of equal standing with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. So he starts us off with our faith Your faith, my faith, the faith over here, the faith you have, brings us into equality before God. Brings us into equality before God. Beloved, let this be an encouragement to you. So often we want to say, well, look at the missionaries, look at the pastors. They're the extra holy and spiritual Christians. They're the really righteous ones. They're the ones that God is really pleased with. How could God be pleased with me? I'm just this average Christian trying to survive in my everyday job. No, stop. Your faith in Christ has made you equal and has washed you and clothed you with the righteousness of Christ before God. There's nothing greater than that. That you are made righteous. That's what he says here, that with ours by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. With his righteousness you are now made righteous before God. Because of Christ's work, you are not a sinner bound to hell, but now you are a saint bound to be in the wonders and glory of your Lord forever. By the righteousness of Christ, you were ripped out of your rebellion against the Holy God and brought in and called child of the Holy God. Beloved, we must be rooted in this identity. That we are equal by our faith in Christ Jesus, and by the righteousness of Christ, we are brought into the family. Uh as I work through this list of faith, just notice the language. It's all about the blessing that God has given us. It's all about His work that He has accomplished our salvation. So it's by the righteousness of our God and Savior Jesus Christ. And then right here in verse 2 it says, May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus. our Lord. So it's all about Christ. Our faith and our righteousness is rooted in Christ. We grow and we have the knowledge of God and of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then in verse 3 it's Listen to this, it's his divine power, his divine power, who's that, the Lord's divine power has granted to us all things that pertain to life and godliness. By the power of God, we have all things that pertain to life and godliness. Sometimes we just pass over this, like that's not that big of a deal. Can anyone, anyone form life by speaking it into existence? Right? Women, I know you have forms you have formed life within your wombs. But God is the one that has brought that about. That's a miraculous thing. But not only the the physical life, but has has any one of you Brought yourself out of the pits of hell and out of sin and bondage and brought yourself into the marvelous light of God? No. Thank you, Vince. No. No. Absolutely not. How has this been accomplished? It's by his divine power. The power of God. He is the one that has brought the physical life into us, but he has also breathed the spiritual life of eternal life. But then he also gave us and of and godliness. So it's pertaining to life and godliness. By his power we can walk in obedience to him. By his power we can fight against sin and temptation in our lives. It's by his power and his strength that we are able to do any of this. Praise be to God, brothers and sisters. Praise be to God. That's by his power. That we have this life and this newness in our lives and this ability to walk and to live. But not only that, it continues in verse 3, through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence. He called us to his own glory and excellence. It's the Father's doing, it's the Father's love, it's the Father's calling that has brought us into his own glory and excellence, something we have no right to, something we have no right to enter into. We don't deserve his glory. We don't deserve how excellent he is. We don't deserve to be partakers of such a thing. And as Jeremiah so wonderfully said, it's because of his great love for us That he first loved us, that we have any capability of loving him. Jeremiah said it because the word Said it, Scripture said it. But we see here that we must rejoice and we must be grounded and rooted in this identity, in this reality, that the merciful, holy, just God called sinners like you and I. to enter into his glory and excellence. But it continues on in verse four. It says by which he is granted, granted, given, uh, calls access To us his precious and very great promises. And Pastor Matt addressed one of those promises, and probably the greatest promise that the Lord gave us all the way back in Genesis 3. Right? That there would be a savior. That there would be a savior to redeem this crooked and corrupt world. There would be a savior that would come and bring the dead to life. And beloved, we must recognize that it is the granting, the gifting of our Father that this promise is fulfilled. You didn't get smart enough. You didn't achieve it. It wasn't because you were so great that Christ came and died for you. It was the gifting of our Lord. And this brings us to the final aspect of being rooted in our faith. Is that so he 's with the great promises, right in the middle for it says, so that through then, so this promise, the salvation we have, you may become partakers of the divine nature. Seated in the heavenly places, that's what Ephesians says, having escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of sinful desire. Beloved, recognize this. When we are grounded and rooted in faith in Jesus Christ, we have been ripped out of our sinful nature. We have been redeemed from the sinful destruction that we once were. He has saved us. He's given us an escape from the corruption. Is this worthy? Is God worthy to be praised for all of us? This. And beloved, we must rest here for a moment. If you have faith in Christ, all of these wonderful things, all of these blessings that Peter just listed for us are yours Are yours. That's what faith has accomplished. That's what God has done. So He's He's He's given the mechanism of salvation to be through faith, and it's all because of His grace and His love for us. And he has poured out all these blessings. He's giving us all of his power and knowledge and glory and excellencies and an escape from corruption. Why? It's because of how great our God is and how much he loves us. you and I. And this has been accomplished through faith. Let us rest there that it's through faith I need to emphasize this because as we go on to the next section, the temptation for many of us is to go, yeah, yeah, yeah, I get that, but now tell me what to do. Tell me how to be the ultimate Christian. Isn't that what we want? I love lists. I've said this. If you would just give me a list of things to do, and that was how I could get into heaven, I would crush it. Why do you laugh at that? Because you know it's not true, right? Well I love the list and that's what I want. You know, we recognize that we have that list. We have the character of God, and he says, be obedient, walk in walk according to the law, and in the perfect obedience you'll walk into heaven. Anyone make it into heaven if that's the requirement? No. But the temptation is we still want that list. Sure, sure, sure. Give me the blood, give me faith, but give me the list, really. But we can't do that, beloved. Because notice it's not the now that you have faith, now we've got to make you a super Christian. What Peter's doing is he's saying, now that you're rooted in your faith, supplement your faith. Don't change it. Don't get rid of it. Don't forget it. But in these things, in these qualities that he gives, These qualities in this list he gives, and there's other lists in Scripture, but these list of qualities is to reassure you of your faith in Christ. It's to strengthen your faith in Christ. It's not to diminish faith. It actually strengthens faith. It's not to say faith plus something else. It's to say faith is what has redeemed you, what has given you new life, and in this new life. This is how you live. It's not to say, well, just forget about it. That faith, that was when you were a a baby Christian. Now you're the cool, mature Christian, you've got to do these things. No, it's saying bring that infancy, bring that childlike faith alive and mature it. In Christ. And that's what brings us to our second point: that we are to supplement this faith that we have rooted in Christ. We are to supplement the faith we have rooted in Christ. And now he goes through this list. Notice the contrast that happens here So we're coming out of verse 4 that's saying, we have been escaped from the corruption that is in the world because of the sinful desire. And then for this very reason, make every effort to supplement your faith. And then it goes to the list. Notice that we are coming out of the corrupt world of sin, and now we're brought into this new world. You've been trained in the sins of the world. That's who you were. That's what you did. You perfected the sins of the world before you came to faith in Christ. So now we're in this transition into this newness in Christ, this faith in Christ, and now we must be trained and we must be matured in the character and qualities of Christ, walking in obedience to him. It's just like that passage in Philippians we read that you practice these things. Things. You're practicing these things. You're working these out. Because you're so used to the dark world that you used to live in. But now you're in the light. And you must learn and grow in these new qualities. We're going to take each one of these qualities one by one and work through them. The first one is virtue. So you are to supplement your faith with virtue or excellence. Things that are morally good. This one should be obvious to us when we think about it. Then now that we have faith in Christ, we are to live morally righteous and good lives. We are to be seeking to be excellent in all that we do. obedience to God. This is because we want to honor God. We want to walk in obedience to God. But let us take this attribute of virtue and try to drive it down into the everyday aspects of our lives. Husbands, are you being excellent in your love for your wife? And right now, if you're with me, you're saying no, not all. Maybe you're saying on the best day only. Right? We're saying, well, no, this isn't that that's not the first word that comes to mind when I think about loving my wife. Wives, are you being excellent in your submission and respect to your husband? I'm sure you've grown in that for many of you that have been married, but there's plenty of times where you go, yeah, it wasn't perfect. Children, are you being excellent in obedience to your parents? Right? Hey, I was a child once, guys. No, absolutely not. But this is what we do as Christians. Christians, when we recognize, okay, yeah, I there are some shortcomings, there is some sin in my life. Are we seeking to grow in it? Or, husbands, have you just been okay with your failure to love your wife? Wives, have you just said, you know what, it doesn't really matter. I don't need to respect my husband. Children, have you said, well, my parents, they they don't understand how this Cool lingo we use, so I don't need to obey them. Oh, that'd be foolish. You want to do that to your boss. What we should be seeking as Christians is to grow and desire to do everything with excellence. In our worship of God, we should seek to uh uh to worship God with excellence I mean that's that's what we're seeking to be obedient to him as we gather together as the saints, sing songs and pray and study his word. We want excellence. We don't want mediocre. We don't want crummy, right? I hope not. You called me and Pastor Matt as your pastors. You want excellence in preaching in the Word of God. Maybe they already had you so like whatever whatever we bring on will be good. But no, right? You want excellence. We should be seeking to grow. And even in our shortcomings and our failures, we we repent, we turn to Christ, and we examine his word. How does Christ live? Have you ever just read the Gospels and said, I just want to see how Christ interacts with people? Let me let me bring more excellence into my re my relationships with my coworkers and my friends by studying the life of Christ. That's a wonderful place to start. Excellence. We're seeking excellence here and it grows our faith. But then he says, continued in verse 5, and virtue with knowledge. This is the knowledge of truth. Actually put it this way, because I believe knowledge is closely connected with the relationship with God and his word. So when we think about knowledge, think about your relationship with God and His Word. Once again, this should be an obvious one that the knowledge of God grows and matures us. How can we know what is excellent and virtuous if we don't know God? How can we know what are the lies of the world if we don't know the truth? How can we know when we are in sin if we don't know the righteousness of God and His justice? should seek knowledge. Beloved, never think you have gotten to the pinnacle of knowledge. You have it all figured out. Give me the the hundred multiple choice questions on the Bible and I will ace it. No, I won't. And if you think that's the knowledge you're reaching, it's you're missing the closeness and the relationship you should have with God. May you know God more and more each day. May you seek and study His Word deeper than you ever had before. May you know your depravity and sin, which causes you to cry out to God and thank him for the miraculous work of Christ on your behalf. The knowledge of God should strengthen us and should grow. It then continues in verse 6, and knowledge with self-control. Beloved, do we have control of our emotions? Our desires, our reactions, our wants, our passions. Are we people of control? Or are you known as the guy, the girl at work that just goes off the handle the moment something doesn't go right? Or are you known within your family as the parent you don't go to if something breaks in the house? Are you known within the church as someone you can't bring an issue to because you're just going to overreact to what's before you? Self-control. Well this is this is a challenge. Are we people that seek the wisdom and word of God to make all of our decisions? Are we controlled and under the supremacy of God and the new creation that He has made us that we can control our emotions? That we weep in times of sorrow and mourning. We rejoice in seasons and times of great joy and praise. Do we think logically and consistently with every decision we make? Parents, are we disciplining our children with self-control? Or are we just reacting? The problem's here. I'm going to react to it now. And then I know I did it wrong. This is classic. for someone else, not for me. That when they they overreact to the child's uh wrongdoing, they discipline and they leave the situation, they get out of the situation, then they come back and they go, I overreacted that There was no need to react that way. And then you go back and address it. That's good. But were you self-controlled in that time? Once again, I'm talking about someone else. But we see, are we self-controlled in all that we do This can only come from the Lord. His wisdom and his logic are we people known to be self-controlled? Likewise, it continues In the middle of six, it says, and self-controlled with steadfastness. Are we firm and unwavering? Are we consistent in what we do? Oh beloved, I think the times of this world and in the last few months, I think we have been challenged to see how firm we are. How unwavering is our faith in Christ. I think about the many the many traumatic events that have happened really just in the last two months That have really caused us as a nation and as Christians to go, I don't know what is going on. And there is a temptation to flee and to run away from it. There's a temptation to just give up. It's not worth it. That's not what we're called to. If we are rooted in our faith in Christ, that foundation must be steadfast Whatever the world throws at us, whatever lies they bring, whatever attacks the oppressor and the enemy brings and throws at us, are we rooted in Christ and we're unwavering? The only way we can do that is if we're self-controlled, we have the knowledge of God, we're seeking excellence in Him, and we're rooted in faith. Let us be a people that are steadfast in whatever we do. Beloved, I do believe that as we stand firm and unwavering, both in the face of trials, but also in our theology That as the world brings these new wonderful ideas that the 21st century has brought us, we can say, wait. We're not just going to change because that's what you feel like. We're not going to change because that's what pop society and psychology has told us. We're going to be rooted in the Word of God and who He is. And we'll address every problem from this point of view. I believe if we do that, the world will see it and they will seek after the our wisdom, which is the wisdom Continues right in the middle, end of sticks, it says, and steadfastness with godliness. I believe that all of these could be wrapped up in godliness, right? Excellency, steadfastness, right? This is who God is. But here we see this godliness is the obedience. The obedience to God, orc being Christ-like. Beloved, we must be seeking this So many times people will come in and say, you know, Pastor, I don't know. I'm really struggling with my identity as a Christian. I'm just not sure if I'm saved. And we go through their testimony and their story. And all that, we hear faith and this life. And I go, well, well, brother, why? Why are you unsure? And he goes, because I I want to be more like Christ, but I'm not. I fail. I sin. And I know that's wrong. And I'm seeking to be more like Christ, but I'm just not there yet. And normally in that situation, if all everything else is aligned, I'll say, amen, brother. This is actually an assurance of your faith. That you have any care in the world to be more like Christ. That it bothers you that you're not there yet. This is evidence of God's work in our lives many times. That when that's there, when you say, I'm not there, I want to be different, I want to be more like Christ, that we feel that pain and that burden, we seek guidance and wisdom to be more like that, that is An evidence of the work of Christ in your life that you desire to be more Christ-like, the godliness He has called us to. Verse 7, and godliness with brotherly affection. And then you'll see that at the very end there it says, and brotherly affection with love. I want to say both of those so we can separate them well, because they're very closely connected. But brotherly affection is unity. Are you seeking unity in Christ? Are you seeking to be gathered together with other saints? It's the brotherly affection. We're not called to be uh John Wayne's. I don't know, the Army always used that if you're doing your own thing, they call you a John Wayne, right? Is that a proper term? Senior expert of all military activities. Um But you we have this idea of like we we aren't these lone rangers. We don't become we don't come to faith in Christ and then we just go and live on our own and we do whatever we want and there's no unity with other Christians, but actually we are called to be unified in Christ and we are to be in fellowship with one another. Beloved, we must be seeking that out. The brotherly affection we have for one another, God will use to strengthen our faith, which then leads us into love. Are you seeking the success? Of others? Are you seeking and committed to the well-being of others? Are you willing to sacrifice for others? This is what love is all about, and this is demonstrated by our Lord and Savior Jesus. That he gave up his life. He gave up his throne in heaven to come down, to take on flesh, to live a perfect life, to live a life like you and I. And then he went to the cross, sacrificing his life on the cross, dying the death that we deserve. He was buried in the tomb. He rose from the dead, and now he sits in heaven, having dominion over heaven and earth. That's the God that has loved you so much. Are you following and acting like that So that's the type of love you have to sacrifice, to commit, and seek the well-being of others and of God. And beloved, notice what all of this is used for. God uses these things to protect and Mature us, to protect and mature us. Look in verses 8, or starting in verse 8, it says, For if these qualities are yours and are increasing. Now, for things to increase, that means they must be lacking at some point. Because I hope all of you right now have sat through this and said, I'm not perfect in virtue, I'm not perfect in knowledge and self-control and steadfastness. and godliness and brotherly affection and love. I'm not perfect, Anthony. What am I to do? Well, do what Peter says. Continue to increase. Grow. Mature. This is only done because of the faith we have in Christ, the Holy Spirit working within us Verse 8, they keep you from being ineffective or unfruitful in the knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ. For whoever lacks these qualities is so nearsighted that he is blind, having forgotten that he was cleansed from his former sins. This verse here makes me think about James chapter 1 And in James chapter 1, he's saying to put uh put away all filthiness and rampant wickedness, and then receive meekness and the imparted the uh imprinted word. And then he says, but don't be hearers of the word only, but also be doers of the word. When I hear this and I think about this, he's saying, don't just be a guy or gal that says, yeah, I hear the gospel, I believe the gospel, but it has no impact in my life. Beloved, uh James says, if you have faith without works, I will show you a dead faith. If you have faith, he said, No, I'm saved, I have faith, but Virtue, knowledge, self-control, steadfastness, godliness, brotherly affection, love, completely out of the picture. I'm going to show you with Dead Safe But what he's saying is when we're rooted in faith and we're supplementing these things: virtue, knowledge, self-control, steadfastness, godliness, brotherly affection, and love, these can help point to our confidence in our salvation. That our faith is effective in Christ. Verse 11, for in this way there will be richly provided for you. an entrance into the eternal kingdom of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. Not because of these qualities, but because of the faith that these qualities are supplemental to. All right, that's what is our entrance into the eternal kingdom is our faith in our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. So that's how we supplement our faith. But how do we grow in these things? Alright, thanks for this great list. Thanks for this list, Peter. This is wonderful. But I still don't understand virtue. I'm still lacking self-control. You tell me to increase, but I don't even know where to start. So how are we to grow? This is point number three, our final point. How do we grow? Peter tells us that he is going to remind the church of these qualities. AKA, you study the Word of God, and we are going to teach and preach about these things. He says, therefore, in verse 12, therefore I intend always to remind you of these qualities. Though you know them And are established in the truth that you have, I think it right as long as I am in this body to stir you up by way of reminder Beloved, when we preach about righteous living and walking in obedience to God, it is not legalism. Hear me, I've told Pastor Matt this. My desire is to rid the church of the word legalism until we understand what it means. Because what happens, and we get accused of, oh, you're just being legalistic. And I say, well, why do you say I'm legalistic? Well, you just called me and told me not to sin. Sorry? I don't know what to say to you. I really love it when it's like, well, no, I just I literally just cited scripture to you, and that's what offended you. Right? It's not legalism. Legalism would be if I said you have to do all of these things to be saved. Or if I said, Oh, oh, you didn't show perfect love. You're now not saved. You better start over. No. That's not what's happening here. What we're saying is these things are supplement to our faith, and we must teach on them. Why must we teach on them? Because we lived in the world for so long. Why must we teach on living righteous and obedient lives to God? It's because we're sinners that want to fulfill our own pride. And we must fight against it. We hate these things, yet we fall tempt and captive to them so often. So when you hear Pastor Matt or myself or any other pastor preaching and teaching on righteous living and obedience to God, as long as they're not saying that's your salvation. If you mess up a little bit, you'll lose your salvation. If they're not talking about that, they're not being legalistic, and that's good. They're talking about walking and living as a Christian. And beloved, there's plenty of times where that's gonna rub us the wrong way. It's gonna sting. I didn't like that you said that because I'm actually doing that sin. I'm actually failing and and not walking in obedience in this way. But but Peter says, I love that, I think it right, as long as I am in this body to stir you up by way of reminder. Another way I say that, as long as I'm alive, you're going to hear about this. You're going to hear me talk about these things. And beloved, we must be the same kind of people. As long as we're in unity with one another, as long as we're gathering for the worship of God, we must be stirring these things up amongst one another. Hebrews talks about that, that we are spurring one another on for uh love and good works, that we are thinking about these things, and we're seeking after the growth and maturity of others, and we're also seeking Seeking for others to stir up and spur us on. Don't just be a stir and not be a pot at the same time. Came up with that on the spot and I like it. But you must be willing to be stirred up as well. And this is how we grow. Last night at the men's gathering, uh Russell, he's I don't know, Some biker, he was cool. Some biker that came in and he was talking about how when their their bike club gets together, it's a Christian bike club, there's so many times where they're dressing sins with one another. There's no shame in addressing sin and pulling one another to the side and talking about it. I really appreciated Russell bringing that up, and and this should be the life of a Christian. That these things should be brought to our minds. We should be talking about walking in obedience and these qualities that are supplementary to our faith all the time. And the last point that will conclude this, how do we grow, is that we're teaching and talking about it, we're being reminded of it, but also that we are heavenly minded Beloved, we must be heavenly minded. He says in verse 14, since I know that the putting off of my body will be soon. As our Lord Jesus Christ made clear to me, He's about to die. And I don't hear any sadness in his voice when he says that. He says, I'm about to put off this broken vessel that God has put me in. This body that has been corrupted by sin is about to go away. And I will receive a glorious body as I enter into the presence of my Savior. There seems to be great joy. in Peter's language here. That he recognizes that he's going to be in the presence of God, worshiping Yahweh, thinking and praising his Savior that is seated before him on the throne. The lamb that has been slain, standing in victory, as the saints sing, holy, holy, holy. He's trying to remind us that when we have this on our minds, the glorious entry into heaven with our Savior. We're gonna seek more and more in this life to start to live like we're already in heaven. Do you think there's not going to be excellence in heaven? Do you think uh there's gonna be a lack of self-control in heaven? Do you think there's gonna be this unity in heaven No. As Jesus prayed, he was praying in uh in what we call the Lord's prayers that uh may your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. That we're called to search to live and to think and be minded as though we're already in heaven. Paul tells us in Ephesians that we're already seated there, we're already present in heaven. It's a present tense. And the words he uses there. So we should be seeking after these things because we recognize that one day we will enter into glory. And virtue, knowledge, self-control, steadfastness, godliness, brotherly affection, and love will be in abundance. So let us practice now. Let us grow our faith now. Let us mature our faith in Christ now. And may we give all the glory and praise to our Savior. May we be reminded of His goodness, His power, His salvation in our lives, and may we proclaim the gospel of Christ to the end Ends of the earth. Let us go before our Lord in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you have saved us, you have redeemed us, and Lord, I ask that you root us In Christ. Remind us the salvation we have through faith in Christ. And Lord, we ask that you grow us, mature us, strengthen, focus our minds on you May we seek to walk in obedience to you. May we love your law and word. May we want it in every aspect of our lives. And may we proclaim it to the world. We pray this in the name of Christ. Amen.