Matthew eight, eighteen through thirty-four. I'm calling it this the authority of Christ and the cost of discipleship. Now the authority of Christ has been an ongoing theme in chapter eight. His authority over leprosy, over paralysis, over sickness, over demons tonight we'll see his authority over the natural order of things creation nature the world however you want to say it um so the authority of Christ but there's a nice little uh uh statement in here about the cost of discipleship too. Okay. Without further ado, let's read this passage in Matthew 8 verses 18 through 34. Now when Jesus saw a crowd around him, he gave orders to go over to the other side. And the to the other side of the lake. To the other side. And a scribe came up and said to him, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. And Jesus said to him, Fax foxes have holes and birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. Another of the disciples said to him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Follow me and leave the dead to bury their own dead. And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves, but he was asleep. And they went and woke him, saying, Save us, Lord, we are perishing. And he said to them, Why are you afraid, O you of little faith? Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea And there was a great calm. And the men marveled, saying, What sort of man is this? Even the winds and the sea obey him. And when he came to the other side, to the country of the Gadarenes, two demon-possessed men Met him, coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way. And behold, they cried out, What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before the time? Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them, and the demons begged him, saying, And he said to them, Go. So they came out and went into the pigs. The herdsmen fled, and going into the city they told everything, especially what had happened to the demon possessed men. Jesus and when they saw him they begged him to leave their region. Let's pray. Father, we thank you once again for sending your Son to die for our sins, to save us from our sins, to give us the gift of eternal life. Father, we thank you for all that you've done for us. Thank you for the scriptures. Thank you for the Holy Spirit. Thank you for the church. Thank you for the opportunity to serve in your kingdom. Thank you for the opportunity to preach and bring the good news of your kingdom to others. And Father, I pray we would not have anxiety about that, but that we would Trust you that we would trust your word and not our efforts. Father, help us to rest secure in the power of your word, trusting in your power, trusting in your providence and in your timing. Father, we pray that you would help us in these things and Interesting uh just the geography of this Starts in northern Israel on one side of the lake, and then you have an incident on the lake, and then you have an incident on the other side of the lake on the basically the Gentile side of the lake So a little movement in the ministry here. The main point tonight is the identity of Christ is further revealed in his ministry and titles, and therefore the nature of following him is also further revealed. We follow Jesus because of who he is, and we're able to follow Jesus because of what he did. What he did enables us to become children of God so that we might follow him. And our submission to him is based on his identity as Lord and Savior, as God. The two titles, hopefully they stood out to you. One of them is in verse 20. Foxes have holes, and birds of the air have nests, but the son of man has nowhere to lay his head. Now that's the first time that's used. in the book of Matthew, Son of Man. So we'll dive into that a little bit this evening. And then Son of God in verse 29 This is uh the demon speaking. What have you to do with us, O son of God? Now that showed up already in Matthew. Do you remember where? Only one incident. It also was a bad guy speaking. See the bad guys know the identity of Christ at this point. It was in the temptations. Remember all the temptations centered around if you are the son of God, if you are the son of God, if you are the son of God. And then Satan would twist Scripture to try to manipulate Jesus. Of course, Jesus is too wise for that and too holy for that. So he gave the correct interpretation of Scripture. Didn't allow scripture to be misused and warped to get him to disobey his father. But you see th disciples of Jesus at this point are still learning, gradually learning, and coming to understand the identity of Jesus. Look at verse twenty seven. And the men marveled, saying, What sort of man is this that even the winds and C obey him. Now the answer is implied, but they're struggling through this and learning it. It's easier for us looking back. by having the uh having the full measure of the Spirit after Pentecost and having the full New Testament and having learned all of these things for decades But they're working through and learning this as it's happening. So the implied answer to this in verse 27: what sort of man is this that even the winds and sea obey him? The answer is: this man must also be God. That's right. Now we had a title for that. It's not used here, but we had a title for that in Matthew 1. 23, Emmanuel. Or really that's more of a name. Emmanuel. God with us. So this Roman numeral one, the cost of following the Son of Man is complete devotion. Complete devotion We do a 180 from our old life in order to live for Christ. You have this crowd Gathered around him, and he gives orders to go to the other side. Verse 18. And a scribe came up to him. Usually scribes are looped in with whom in the gospel narratives? The Pharisees, the Sadducees, the scribes, some translations say the lawyers. the teachers of the law. Usually they're plotting against Jesus or trying to trap him in a loaded question. But here the scribe comes up and says, Teacher, I will follow you wherever you go. Okay, we're going to the other side. We'll go to the other side. Let's go. Tell us what to do. He already told him what to do. Just go to the other side. We don't know all what's going on in his heart, but this is on the surface a positive thing. This is the kind of attitude we want to have Going up to Jesus and professing uh obedience to him. Jesus will obey. That's an attitude we should have when it comes to our ministry or our spiritual gift or our calling. in life. It's not my subjective feelings or preferences or ideas in a vacuum But we all must be seeking the Lord's will for our lives. So he says, Jesus, I'll follow you wherever you go. Jesus' response reveals that this scribe didn't quite grasp what he was saying. Jesus said to him, Foxes have holes, birds of the air have nests, but the Son of Man has nowhere to lay his head. The Son of Man is going to be on the move He doesn't have a home. He's not here to s he's not here. He wasn't he didn't come um to build a home, plant roots in one spot, and stay there and settle in Foxes have holes. Birds of the air have nests. But while the Son of Man, now that he's in, he's full gear into his earthly ministry, there's no going back. It's going to be Non -stop ministry. Traveling, traveling, traveling, ministering, ministering, preaching, healing. non stop ministry until he's betrayed and he suffers and dies for the sins of the world. Describe Couldn't have r really he can't blame him. He couldn't have known all that. But something about what Jesus says is Teaching the scribe the depth of what the scribe is saying. I follow you wherever. Jesus is saying, Well, that's going to be a lot of following because we're going to be on the move. And you know, following the Lord, I'll take that, which would have been a literal thing during Christ's earthly ministry, and we can apply the principle to our lives. You know, if you're trying this at all, you know it's nonstop effort to be obedient to Christ It's nonstop effort to fight against sin. It's nonstop effort to fight and ward off temptations It's nonstop effort to love others. And you could fill in many, many examples of its nonstop effort of giving our lives to Christ. We do not depend on our own strength. It's nonstop trusting in Christ rather than ourselves, just as much as it's nonstop effort to lay down our lives in service to him The Son of Man had nowhere to lay his head. Now another one of the disciples, verse 21. Another one of the disciples said to him, Lord, let me first go and bury my father. And Jesus said to him, Follow me and let the dead bury their own dead. That's one of the phrases in the Bible that should get our attention. You can't be speaking literally of physical death in both of the both instances. of using the word dead. Right? The physically dead can't bury the physically dead. Are we on the same page with that? I just want to make sure you're following me. So it's using the same word dead, talking about death, in the same sentence, but he's referring to two different kinds of death. Leave the dead to bury their dead. I I believe it's pretty simple simple that he's just talking about uh people just generally speaking in the kingdom of the world, living in the the larger society of lost man under the curse of sin and death, spiritually dead. Let the spiritually dead take care of their own dead. Those who are going to follow Christ, if you're there in that crowd, Jesus right there is calling for them to follow him from that point. Follow him now. Let the dead bury their own dead. Full devotion, complete devotion. We don't live half of life for ourselves and half of life for Christ. We don't live ninety-nine percent for Christ and one percent for self. We lay down our lives as living sacrifices. Question or comment? So that was like the reason why I put it on like a whole deck Yeah, it would have been some time. Yeah, probably. I mean even just the travel home, we don't know where he was from, but we don't know how long it how long it would take Um yeah, good point. Yeah, I'm not sure about that. Interesting, like that he but he came to the crowd. Like so he he knows that his father had already died. And he left whatever he needed to attend to there to come to the crowd in the first place. So there was something that drew him there. Of course, there was uh, you know, the fame of Jesus was unmatched. Um hordes of people were coming from all over for the power and the teaching and and the compassion. It was this was it. This was the news of the day in in the world. Um Jesus ministry So the cost of discipleship. The cost of discipleship. Um Any more thoughts or questions on that general topic of the cost of discipleship and giving everything to live for Christ before we go into this title, Son of Man, Denise? I was just reading a commentary. here and he says remember jesus is not begging for followers in Matthew 8 he's actually turning them away because he warns unconditional trust and undivided affection from those who follow him When Jesus speaks leprosy, paralysis, and fever obey, the question is do you obey? Right. Yeah, that is the question. Will will we obey. Yeah, and I don't I don't know, um I've heard that before. I don't think necessarily he's turning these two individuals away, but certainly the teaching would have turned many away and thinned out the crowds. Because he wants true belief, not just professed belief, not just shallow belief. It's uh going to be hearing and obeying, hearing his word and putting it into practice. Yeah, he doesn't just uh It's a great point. He's not uh begging for people to follow him just so he can have a big following. A size of numbers And size of the crowd and fame on a worldly measure is not his goal at all. But true devotion, true discipleship. That's gonna prioritize him above everything else. Like that's the thing about discipleship, about being Christians. Christ is not just a priority among others. He's the top priority. Christ is our all. He's our everything. He's number one one. Now Son of Man. Here we go. Letter B. Who is the Son of Man? This of course you know that's Jesus. But this is a theological question. What is the significance, the redemptive historical significance of the Son of Man in Scripture I've put it in bold, try to summarize this. There's different well, there's always different ways you can give a summary definition of theological terms because there's many different aspects. of these things. Son of man. The Son of Man is the one through whom God establishes his saving reign on earth. We'll go to the passage in Daniel that prophesies that the main son of man passage in in the uh in the Old Testament, not the only Only one, but the Son of Man is the one through whom I put that in all caps, so that must be important. It's through this individual that God establishes his saving reign on earth. Saving reign on earth is just another phrase for kingdom of God, um his eschatological kingdom via the new covenant, uh which have been different than the The covenant, a theocratic kingdom under the law, the old covenant. Um now the last part of that definition, you see, after the comma, with an emphasis on his rule from heaven as a man. And we'll see that in the Daniel prophecy. I'll read it all at once without any comment and without that parenthetical. The Son of Man is the one through whom God establishes his saving reign on earth. with an emphasis on his rule from heaven as a man. And that's Jesus now ruling from heaven as a man. He's established the kingdom of God. He's brought us into the kingdom of God. One day he'll return and consummate the kingdom of God to its final glory and final form. Son of man is the most common title that Jesus uses in reference to himself. And a really important theme when studying the Son of Man and his use of the Son of Man is that he establishes this glorious kingdom of God through suffering. He's the suffering son of man. He suffers unto death in order to establish this kingdom in obedience to his father and in love to his people in the fulfillment of prophecy. So, Son of Man, really, really simple. I think it's really really simple. It's this individual is the one through whom God establishes his kingdom on earth. But he's ruling not on earth, he's ruling from heaven as a man. Letter A, B, C, D, so the Son of Man is a man. The Son of Man, letter B, ascends into heaven. Letter C. The Father gives him all authority and the kingdom of redemption. That's what the church is a manifestation of that. Kingdom of redemption. We're under the grace of God. We're not under the law. Um letter D, the Son of Man grants entrance to his kingdom. To sinners by free grace. Now that's really just repeating letter C in a different way. He's received this authority, he has a kingdom of redemption. Letter D really just answers the question: what in the world is a kingdom of redemption? A kingdom of redemption is the one where God gives you access to it by his free grace. He forgives sins, makes us the children of God, and gives us the hope of eternal life. There's your primer Primer on Son of Man. Daniel seven, thirteen to fourteen. Now, whoever was in my Daniel class I should be able to hand the left turn over to you now and have you do this section. The overarching promise and prophecy of Daniel is that God will establish his kingdom, his final kingdom of salvation in the days of the Roman Empire. And then you get different details about that as the book goes on. And one of the details we get in The chapter seven vision of the throne room of God and then the ascension of Christ. One of the details we get is the Son of Man. One like a Son of Man is the one who um Approaches God and God gives him authority. He gives him the kingdom. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven, there came one Like a son of man. And he came to the ancient of days. Uh probably the most important Word there, just in terms of the context of how this is often misinterpreted, is the word to T -O. He's approaching the throne of God. He's not being dispatched from the throne of God to come from heaven to earth in glory. He's being ushered with the on the clouds of heaven to the ancient of days and was presented before him. Verse 14 And to him was given dominion and glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. Dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. That's the kingdom of God. Here you have the one like a son of man. Coming to the Ancient of Days. Coming coming on the clouds of heaven, coming to the Ancient of Days. And Jesus references this in his trial. something that's going to be fulfilled in him and it's fulfilled in his not only his resurrection, but his ascension and enthronement at the right hand of God, where he receives the this authority and he receives Now we don't have time to read through the rest of this vision or Daniel's interpretation of the vision. That's what you get. You get the vision, then you get the interpretation. And the significance of it. And we don't have time to look at all the New Testament cross-references to this. But if we were to go further into Daniel 7 and then look at the New Testament references. we would see that this son of man not only receives the kingdom, but he shares the kingdom with the people of God. He makes sinners partakers of this kingdom. that he's received. As a reward of his obedience, he's received this kingdom. But he shares it with sinners like you and me. Anyway, the point is this is the Son of Man. This is The one who ascends into heaven and he approaches the ancient of days, he approaches God the Father in all of his glory and holiness. and righteousness and he is given a kingdom that will never, ever, ever end. And you see it's a global kingdom, verse fourteen, that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him And it's an everlasting kingdom. It'll never be destroyed. So who is the Son of Man? It's the one through whom God establishes his saving reign on earth. All right, back to Matthew chapter eight Now eight, twenty-three to twenty-seven the really highlights the fact that the response to Emmanuel, which means God with us, the response to Jesus is the fear Fear of the Lord. He is the Lord. He is Yahweh in the flesh, God the Son. Verse 23. And when he got into the boat, his disciples followed him And behold, there arose a great storm on the sea, so that the boat was being swamped by the waves. But he was Asleep. So the the phrase being swamped by the waves lets us know it's not just rocking the boat. There's overtaking the boat But Jesus was asleep. And they went and woke him, saying, Save us, Lord. We are perishing. So there's some there's some faith here and some understanding of his power. They've seen the miracles. They've come to see the ministry in the first place, so there's something they understand where he has the ability to save him. But as you get to the end of the story, they just It doesn't seem like they expected what really do what happened. Verse 26, and he said to them, Why are you afraid? O you of little faith We'll come back to that. You have little faith. Then he rose and rebuked the winds and the sea, and there was great calm. Sometimes I feel like even myself included, we've all been hearing that since Since we've been five, some of us, and we just don't understand the significance and the power of this human being who rebukes the storm and the storm obeys him. It's incredible. And the men marveled saying, What sort of man is this that even the even winds and sea obey him? So they it looks like they express faith at the end of verse 25. Faith? Now maybe they were just upset. I've heard I've heard it's either Bible study or a sermon on this. where uh where they were like upset because he was sleeping and not helping. Maybe I'm not too convinced They say, Save us, Lord, we are perishing. Save us, Lord, we are perishing. So they believe that He can save them. That's what you're supposed to believe, right? That you're supposed to believe that Jesus can save you from perishing. Whether it's eternal perishing or perishing from a storm. That's what you're supposed to believe And he said to them, Why are you afraid, O you of little faith? So in their hearts there was, it reminds me of the phrase in James, double-minded. You know, on the one hand I kind of believe, but also I'm afraid and I'm not believing, I'm doubting. Or you could think of Peter. Attempting to walk on the water and being given by Jesus the ability to do that, but then getting distracted. How do you get distracted by that? That. By wind, right? He looked around and saw the wind. I mean just the fact that you're already walking on water, how does that not captivate your attention to even a greater faith? But they're just like me and they're just like you. Fraught with weakness. Fraught with weakness. We can't escape that It's not like we can s we've if it's not like if we make a um enough of a mental effort or spiritual effort, we can rid ourselves of our shortcomings and weaknesses. We'll always have an imperfect faith. Always we'll have an imperfect faith And that's what they have here. Uh you of little faith. Um You're in a plane and it's getting ready to crash. Who would you be praying? I'm not sure. You may be asking me on the spot. I've never thought about that before. That it wouldn't crash? Lord help us. Oh yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's right. It's the right thing to do. You're supposed to pray for the Lord's help. I didn't know where you were going with that. I'm like, Yeah. Um it's there's other passages that teach little faith is not a bad thing. Faith the size of a right. So they they have true faith. They have genuine faith, but they have little faith. And we shouldn't take it in offense if we learn a p in a particular area of our lives or in a particular area of uh our mission Ministries, we shouldn't be personally offended if God in in his providence somehow reveals to us that we're lacking in faith in this area. That doesn't mean we don't have true faith. That means we need to grow in our faith in this area. Grow in trusting Him in this area. A little faith, a mustard seed faith, can still be a true faith. We're not saved by the amount of our faith. We're saved by the one in whom we believe. Anyway, some interesting things here. They do the right thing , asking Jesus to save them He does save them, and he saves them in a way that further reveals who he is More than a prophet, more than a preacher, this is God. This man has the authority of God. And it shocks them. The men Verse twenty seven, and the men marveled. They were astonished. They were in awe at this authority. The men marveled, saying, What sort of man is this? that even winds and sea obeyed him. I wonder if they had like little side Bible studies or discussions trying to answer that question. If people having different ideas ideas and using different proof texts and prophecies. God promised in the Old Testament that He would come and save his people. That He would God promised that He would come. He promised that He would send a Messiah and He promised that He would come. Come and shepherd his people and save his people. Obviously, both of those come together, they converge, and are both of those are fulfilled in Jesus, who is God, the Christ, the anointed one, the Son of God. Fear the Lord because of his great power. Now, before I delve into the notes underneath that section, then there's a lot to turn to. Uh any any questions or insights on this little story? Like some maybe on the CMS and then all the people. Yeah, that's a that's a great point. I never thought of that before. Like they baby believing he's a great prophet with with great uh miracle working powers, but would have gone to God and cried out to God to stop it and then it would have stopped. Yeah, prob probably something like that. Um 'cause they definitely think you can do something. Yeah, they weren't awoken wasn't wetful. They knew we had power. Yep. Yep. Probably the first time that one of them recognized Yeah, you are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Yeah. And I think the only time he's literally called God, double check me on this, is ironically doubting Thomas, my Lord and my God. Check me on that, you scholars out there. But there are different different professions. The professions of faith and the understanding of his identity grows as he further reveals himself through his works and through his teachings. Um and we we live in the best age, the age of the New Testament, with the promised spirit. That's not only changed our hearts but illumined our minds to all things Christological. You know, that's uh one of the blessings of living in the new covenant era Uh they had not received the Spirit yet. Jesus says this in John chapter seven. Um the Spirit had not yet been given. But they would they have Pentecost. Um, and then Peter by the fact that there's all Jesus and Peter went Yeah, I'm not sure the timeline. I don't know if that has happened yet. We're still pretty early here. I I didn't check. I didn't think to check on that. I would have to double check that. I'm not sure. It could be parallel. Yeah, the one he's walking. Yeah. So there's there's lots of things that happen on the sea and on the water. The water has theological significance and scripture. We can't look at all that today, but we're going to look at some of it. So authority over the natural world, who is this man? That's basically the point here. Because we've seen last week, or we saw last week, authority over leprosy, paralysis, sickness, demon possession, and Now we see authority over the natural world. Number one, okay, this man is God. That's your short answer. So it's It's a miracle that reveal helps to further reveal the truth of Matthew 1. 23, that this is Emmanuel, which means God with us. Only God has authority over the waters. Now, this is actually a really big deal in the Old Testament. Well, in the world. Only God has the authority over the natur has authority over the natural elements, not just water. Calming letter A Calming the storm is a sign of God's presence and providence. Psalm 107, 2332 Now one of these cross-references is bound to be wrong because I you know I transfer these from handwritten notes to the type to the uh computer. The typewriter. Wow. Catch up. Catch up, Pastor Matt. I was on the word processor today Psalm one o seven, twenty three to thirty two Just a series of thanksgivings to the Lord for various things. Some some of the They saw the deeds of the Lord, the his wondrous works in the deep, in other words, while they're on the waters, out from For business, out for trade. the In that context they saw the deeds of the Lord on the waters, his wondrous works in the deep. For he commanded and raised the stormy wind, which lifted up the waves of the sea. They mounted up to heaven, they went down to the depths, their courage melted away in their evil plight, they reeled and staggered like drunken men Men and were at their wits' end because of the storm. And from verse 25 that God commanded, He commanded the storm. Verse 28. But then they cried to the Lord in their trouble And he delivered them from their distress. Sound familiar? Sounds like Matthew 8. He made the storm be still, and the waves of the sea were hushed. Then they were glad that the waters were quiet, and he brought them to their desired haven. Let them thank the Lord for his steadfast love, for his wondrous works to them The children of man, let them extol him in the congregation of the people and praise him in the assembly of the elders. And in that section The example for why we should thank him and extol him and praise him is because of his provision and providence. and on the waters. He calms the storm. He commanded the storm and raised up the stormy wind, but he also made the storm be still, and the ways of the sea were hushed, so that the waters were quiet, and they were brought safely. to their haven. It's a good Bible study if you ever want to give a little lesson on the rationale for when we pray for people when they're traveling. It's we pray for traveling mercies or pray for safe travel or pray that if it's God's will that you'll bring them there safely, there's precedent for that. And this is in that culture at that time, well you s people still say else you could Still use this today. Um, but tradesmen on the waters is the context, and God is the one who calms the storm and gets them to safety and saves them. So when Jesus does this in Matthew 8, it's obvious, obvious, that he is God. The presence of God, the saving presence of God on earth. Also, the waters of creation. First paragraph of your Bible is about God 's sovereignty over waters in his creation. What did I say? First paragraph? Yep. It should say um because the uh the sheet has only Genesis one one, but it's really Genesis one, one and two In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and Now looking at that phrase and other places in the New Testament, it means it's desolate. You can't live there. It's uh uninhabited and uninhabitable wasteland. But it isn't earth. Sometimes I know I used to do this when I was younger, I would hear the f the phrase formless and void, and I would just think of like an invisible Nothingness just kind of floating in space, but this is an actual earth that's not been Filled in such a way that there can be life on it, and then it's not been filled with life. The earth was without form and void, and darkness was over the face of the what? Deep. It was covered in waters. That's what the word deep means in scriptures. There's gonna in just a second there's gonna be confirmation that that's what this is. The whole earth is covered in waters. Uh the darkness was over the face of the deep, and the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of The waters. Okay, so you have an earth that's covered in a flood. Base not basically, I mean that literally, that's what you have. Covered in the deep waters. Darkness is over the face of those waters, but the Spirit of God is hovering, poised. To work. Skip down to verse six and seven. As God now is going to take this place that's empty of life, and He He's going to Form it and fill it. He's going to make it livable and fill it with life. Verse 6. And God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters And let it separate the waters from waters. God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse and the waters that were above the expanse. And it was so. God called the expanse heaven. There was evening and there was morning the second day. The direction here is so important. He's separating the waters this way. He's creating the atmosphere on the earth. He takes some of the waters and he separates it up into the atmosphere, and the other waters he leaves down below. Now go to verse 9. Because you still couldn't live in that kind of world. But verse nine, and God said, Let the waters under the heavens So now we're only under the heavens. We're not in the water that's above the heavens. We're only in the waters under the heavens. Let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place and let the dry land appear. See what God's doing He's taking this earth that's covered in water, and he's going to make it livable. So he separates what some water up, leaves some water down, and now he separates the water that's down sideways. And dry land appears, and it was so. God called the dry land earth, and the waters that were gathered together he called seas. And God saw that it was good. Who's sovereign over water? Who can move water? Who can command water with the word of his power? God can. First chapter of the Bible. Sometimes we Take these things for granted. But I think it's really cool. Water's a really big deal in the creation account. And it's it'd be a really big deal in other parts of scripture too. Like Noah's flood, where it's basically a decreation because of the rampant sin, they lose the earth that's been given to them. Just like when we sin, we lose uh the life that's we forfeit the life. The wages of sin is death. Or who shut in the sea with doors? When it burst out from the womb, when I made clouds its garment. In other words, first of all, who shut in the seas? Who made seas when it burst out from the womb? When I made clouds its garment, and thick darkness its swaddling band. I believe that's referring to the waters Up above clouds the garments, and prescribe limits for it, and set bars and doors, and said, Thus thus far shall you come and no farther And here shall your proud waves be stayed. God is sovereign over the seas, He's sovereign over the water in the seas To have power to command the natural world is beyond imagination. It's just beyond Anything we could comprehend to have this power, to have this authority, and to see it in person of of uh Jesus would have been Been quite a sight. We're just one more Jeremiah five twenty-two. Do you not fear me? declares the Lord. Do you not tremble before me? I placed the sand as the boundary for the sea, a perpetual barrier that it cannot pass. Though the waves toss, they cannot prevail, though they roar, they cannot pass over it. God establishes the boundaries for the sea, and the sea obeys. And this is an interesting one because the way that this verse begins is pretty much how the story in Matthew ends. With their astonishment and marveling and fear of Jesus and his power in a proper way. Do you not fear me, declares the Lord? Do you not tremble before me And the first one is he has sovereignty over the seas. Now letter C D E F real quick back in your notes. Of course he controls the waters of the flood. There's a psalm that references that, but you could just go to the story of the flood and the waters of the Exodus, of course, that should have already come to mind. The waters of redemption that also were the waters of judgment against Pharaoh and his army. So the waters of redemption are also the waters of destruction. Letter E, the waters of entering the promised land. Remember he held back the river so that Israel could come through and waters whenever, wherever. Uh one book of the Bible that gives a really great example of God's sovereignty over the waters to command a storm and then to still the storm is the book of Jonah. Yes. Jonah. God commands a storm by the word of his power to use that storm in a very particular way, and then when he decides, he calms the storm And he's even sovereign over the creatures that live in the ocean. So he uses one of them to save Jonah and bring him to safety. Yeah. I sure was. Yup. Um So Jesus is God in the flesh. You know, not everybody believes that, not all professing Christians believe that. And we should never forget it that this man is also God. Alright, 820 back in Matthew 8 Twenty eight to thirty-four. Little a little showdown, a little well it's not much of a showdown. It's a confrontation With demons. But there's no battle, there's no struggle. There's again just commanding, and it is so. There's a little discussion, a request by the demons. But the water is coming again. Um verse twenty three, verse twenty-eight. Right, verse twenty eight. And when he came to the other side to the country of the the Gadgarenes or the Garacenes, some of your Bibles might say. A two demon possessed men met him, coming out of the tombs, so fierce that no one could pass that way. So violent, uh maybe with some supernatural strength or just so out of control and so violent, nobody went that way And behold, they cried out, What have you to do with us, O Son of God? Have you come here to torment us before So they know they're under judgment in the plan of God. They know that the time of their final destruction is coming, and they know that Jesus is the Son of God. And I've heard this before. I don't have the background or study notes on this right now, but I've heard this before that they have that knowledge because of the temptation event where Satan had this. um attempted temptation for Christ, but Christ was the first man who ever overcame Satan's temptations and proved himself to be the obedient Son of God. Um and Satan uh does believe that God exists. He doesn't love God, he doesn't have a saving faith, but just intellectual knowledge, he knows God exists. We don't know all of what his limits of knowledge are, what he knows or doesn't know. But he certainly knows something of the Son of God. He knows that Jesus is the Son of God, and now demons know that Jesus is the Son of God. One of the ironies the way it's laid out in Mark is the de it's uh it's repeatedly that how the demons know who you're gonna do. Jesus is, and everybody else is just trying to figure it out along the way, and that's the question at the end of the day. Who do you say that Jesus is? And do you believe him and love him with all your heart? Verse 30 Now a herd of many pigs was feeding at some distance from them, and the demons begged him. Uh oh, that's another reminder or clue that we're in Aside from the demographic, which makes it clear, but another clue that you're in Gentile territory because of the pigs, they were feeding some distance from them. And the demons begged him, saying, If you cast us out, send us away into the herd of pigs. I think they're just looking for anything so that They don't be destroyed. They're afraid of being destroyed and brought to final judgment. So they're asking for some more time. Just let us do let us go somewhere And he said to them, Go. So they came and went, they came out and went into the pigs. So those two men are now healed. A lot of focus on the demons. Of course, focus on Christ's authority. That's where it needs to be. But let's not forget the people, the actual human beings here who are now healed of this demon possession and have their right minds back. Um Behold the whole herd rushed. So they came out and went into the pigs, and behold the whole herd rushed down the steep bank into the sea and drowned into the waters. Now we don't get commentary on what the demons were thinking and why exactly they did that. But I've what I've heard in different sermons over the years is this just gives us one more example of that demons destroy. Whereas God brings to life demons kill. destroy and whether that's in people wreaking violence and injury and destruction or in these pigs killing the pig. Because why who why wouldn't they just be asked to uh be cast out of the realm altogether? Why asked to go into the pigs and then just kill the pigs I don't know. Um, we're just not told. But you do see you definitely see this um impulse to kill and destroy, whereas God 's is to bring to life and nourish and ch Verse 33, the herdsman fled. So this these poor guys That's their livelihood. They're probably upset. Their pigs are gone. They had to watch all this happen. And going into the city, they told everything, especially what happened to the demon-possessed men. Quite a story. You have the demon-possessed men. So these herdsmen, I've never heard a sermon on the herdsmen but the herdsmen right first of all they probably saw these demon possessed guys more than anyone because they're in some proximity. Um Um to the demon-possessed men. And they see Jesus command the demons to come out. Whatever it looked like, they saw the demons go into. I'm sure it was invisible. Well, I'm I'm not sure. I wasn't there, but we're talking about spiritual realities here. So whatever it looked like, they saw the pigs become demon possessed. And they saw their herd of pigs uh run off into the sea and drown in the waters. So they see both of these things. So they run into the town, and they're just reporting everything that happened. Verse 34: Behold, all the city came out to meet Jesus. And when they saw him they begged him to leave their region. That's really the point that makes me think that these guys were upset. They might have been a little impressed, but they were more upset and really just mustering The troops. We've got to get this guy out of here. So that gets the whole city to come and beg Jesus to leave their region. Now put that on the list of opposite things you're supposed to ask Jesus. Jesus to do. Yeah, that's right. That's right. And they do n so they knew something was up. The chargemen knew something was up. Yeah. There is. You know, power power can be a frightening thing. Pow power can be a frightening thing. I mean they don't know Jesus. Yeah. They they don't know him. They don't know what he's about. This is uh this is incredible power on their land doing uh exercising authority over the spiritual realm. So Uh yeah. So the work of the Son of Man, the work of God with us , part of it includes destroying the works of the devil, exercising authority over the devil and his demons Only God has the dominion to do that. Now, the title that's used here is Son of Man. I'm gonna have to just do a little bit of this. until we get to eight o'clock, but um I put a lot on here for you to read through and study. Most of it's Bible verses. I just outlined it in the organized way on a biblical theology of sonship. What does it mean to be the son of God? So I'll start these notes and then you'll have to finish them on your own. But the idea of sonship being God's Son on earth develops all throughout Scripture. And then Jesus is the Son of God, and then we are children of God through our union with Him. The son of let's do the definition. Letter B number one, just like we did a little definition for son of man. They are closely related, but not exactly the same. The Son of God is the one through whom, there's that through whom in all caps again, through whom God establishes his saving reign on earth. That's pretty much the same, isn't it? So there's a different emphasis. The emphasis of Son of Man is the one who ascends into heaven and is seated at the right hand of God and rules over the kingdom. Son of God is the one on earth, the representative ruler on earth who obeys God the way he's supposed to obey. God. That's the Son of God. Sonship has a rich significance in Scripture. It's a representative ruler under two. There's a typo in under letter B number two. It should say it signifies a representative ruler that God has put on earth to love him and to obey him and to exercise godly dominion on earth for the the name and glory of God. That Son of God, he exercises dominion on earth as God's representative in a godly manner. And I'll just give you the the headings for these. We won't look at the subpoints and we won't look at the verses. But Adam was a son of God. Letter A Letter B. Israel was a son of God. I've given you arguments there. Right? Representative rulers on earth that are called to obey God and represent God's dominion on earth. Adam, Israel. Now this is just supplementary letter C. God is Israel's father. The idea that God is father is a Is a radical, innovative idea in the New Testament era is wrong. It's revealed in the Old Testament that God is a father to his covenant children. So there are your verses of of Israel as God's son, which implies God is their father. But do you also have verses just straightforward, God is their father? C. Letter D in the Davidic covenant, uh the Davidic in the Davidic covenant in 2 Samuel 7, you have a promised Davidic king. Will be this a son of God. Of course, that's fulfilled in the short term in Solomon. It's fulfilled in the long term in Christ. Flipping over letter E, the church. Those united to Christ. Are sons and daughters of the living God, children of God, heirs of the covenant promises. And so I put verses on there about adoption, aka sonship. And just some really important points about understanding our adoption. Our adoption was the mission of Christ. You can read the verse on your own. The spirit of adoption is a present possession. We are children of God now, 1 John chapter 3, and then I put another verse on there for you. But total adoption is a future inheritance. 823, the redemption of our bodies. That's also called our adoption. And letter did I say letter three? Number three. And number four Adoption is a work of God's grace. John 1, 12 and 13. To all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. Of God, who were born not of blood, nor the will of the flesh, nor the will of man, but of God. Now this Roman numeral four, that's just for your meditations and prayers, to if you want to More of a deepening study looking at how Son of Man and Son of God are related but also a little bit different And then also looking at how all of this is God's way not only of redeeming sinners, but also of revealing his triune nature. Redemption of sinners is God's revelation of his triune nature. The Father sends the Son, the Son does the work of redemption, and the Father and the Son send the Spirit. So this eschatological redemption that we have through faith in Christ is God's climactic revelation of Himself as Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Son of God, Son of Man, Emmanuel, practical application, he's our only hope. Let's pray.