Alright, let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapter 9. Today's passage is Genesis 9, 7 to 17, the Noaiic Covenant Part. Alright, Genesis 9, 7 to 17, the Noaiic Covenant, Part 2. We will be focusing on aspects of a covenant or components of a covenant. A covenant is a legal agreement that forms and governs a relationship. You can think of a pact. Or you can think of a treaty, a marriage relationship, is a covenant relationship, a formal agreement or a legal agreement that forms a relationship and governs a relationship. A covenant. We'll be looking at aspects of a covenant. Now, last week's message, which was part one on the Noaic Covenant, we really talked about the essence or the nature of the Noaiic covenant as a whole, which was The P-word, preservation. Preservation. God preserves his people through judgment. He saves his people. The Noaiic Covenant was about preservation. Also preservation of mankind, preserving mankind. until the Savior would come. God's preservation of His purpose, His preservation of His people, His preservation of humanity until the Savior would come and the fulfillment of all things in Christ. Today we'll be looking at aspects of a covenant, and as I said earlier, we'll talk about the aspect of the covenant from the original context, the Nowaiic Covenant. But then for each of these points, we're going to hop in a time machine and flash forward to the new covenant so we can make application for ourselves. Genesis 9, 7 to 17. It's a Noaic Covenant Part 2 focusing on aspects of a covenant. Let's read this passage before we go any further. Genesis 9, beginning in verse 7. And you, be fruitful and multiply, increase greatly on the earth and multiply in it. Then God said to Noah and to his sons with him: Behold I establish my covenant with you and your offspring after you, and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the livestock, and every beast of the earth with you As many as come out of the ark, it is for every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood. And never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. And God said, This is the sign of the covenant that I make between me and you And every living creature that is with you for all future generations. I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth When I bring clouds over the earth, and the bow is seen in the clouds, I will remember my covenant that is between me and you, and every living creature of all flesh. And the waters shall never again become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bow is in the clouds, I will see it And remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant that I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. God, we pray now as we come to your word that you would humble us, each and every one of us. Humble us under the authority of your word Open our eyes to our need for your love and grace. Turn our hearts and turn our minds to receive your grace By your word and spirit would you show us Christ and conform us to his likeness. We ask in his name. Amen. Well, if you're preaching a sermon on this passage, or if you're teaching a Sunday school class on this passage Or if you are leading a small group Bible study or discussion on this passage in your living room, one of your key words has to be covenant. Yes, amen. Covenant, and that's what we're talking about, the Noahic covenant. God makes covenants with sinners because he loves them and wants to save them. Now let's just camp out there for a few minutes. This is the encouragement. This is the reminder. This is the message. Of while we're talking about the Noaiic Covenant and then also the new covenant this morning. I want us to know why. God wants us to know why He enters into covenant relationships with people. God makes covenants with sinners because he loves them and wants to save them Now store those two things away in your heart because they will get you through life. God has a love that he offers to sinners God has a desire to save sinners. And for those reasons, God comes down to earth Supernaturally, miraculously, out of his great love, out of his great desire to save sinners, God enters into a covenant relationship with them. The covenant is a huge deal. Covenants are a massive deal in understanding history and understanding the Bible. But, beloved, understanding God's love. We understand there's nothing outside of God that obligated him to seek our redemption And to save us. It was only the love in God's heart. Only the grace, the eternal, infinite grace in God's heart, where He's so purposed To save sinners for his own name and glory. Amen. And salvation is for his name and glory. It's for our blessing and our benefit and our enjoyment and for our good. But ultimately Brothers and sisters, salvation manifests the glory of God, and that's what makes it so grand. Scripture talks about his exceeding greatness. And his great goodness. God makes covenants with sinners because he loves them and wants to save them That will be on the final exam. So if you're a leader of your study group, make sure you have that on your review notes. Why does God do this? Why does God come to earth and enter into a covenant relationship with sinners? Because of his love and his desire to save. That's what we're about as a church. Brothers and sisters, we're about God's love. We're about his desire to save sinners, and we're about singing his praises and giving thanks to God because he's loved us and he has saved us, and he's done that through covenant. Psalm 25, 14. The friendship of the Lord is for those who fear him. And he makes known to them His covenant. That's a great verse, isn't it? Psalm 25, 14, the friendship of the Lord is for those who fear him. Now, we all know the importance of having good friends. And we all know how hard it can be to have bad friends or to have someone you thought was a good friend, but then betrayed you or slandered on you. But the best friend you could ever have is the Lord God Almighty And the only way you can have friendship with the Lord God Almighty is through faith in Jesus Christ, by the blood of the covenant, entering into the new covenant. God makes covenants with sinners. Because he loves them and wants to save them. 1 John 4 10. And this is love. Not that we have loved God But that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Amen. Propitiation to be the atoning sacrifice for our sins. Not for his sins. Jesus didn't have any sins. But for my sins. And for your sins, Jesus died on a cross to turn away the wrath of God, to satisfy divine justice. That's the definition of love. That's what John says, 1 John 4:10. And this is love. Not that we've loved God. But that he loved us. You see, that's how it all got started. That's how the church got started. That's how our salvation got started. Not our love for God. Not our love for God where we moved toward him, but his love for us. That even in our sins, God, beloved, moved toward us, and he's brought us into the new covenant. Now what we're going to do is talk about four aspects of God's covenant with Noah. You see that on your outline very clearly, very easy to follow. Four aspects of God's covenant with Noah. For each of these aspects, we'll first look at the Noahic covenant in this passage. And then we'll jump in at Time Machine and flash forward to the new covenant and talk about the new covenant and have some insights and encouragement and application for us as we live. Under the new covenant, still under the Noaiic Covenant and its promises, but the fulfillment of all God's covenants, the ultimate the new covenant Four aspects of God's covenant with Noah. Number one, the parties of the covenant. The parties of the covenant. That just means who's involved in this relationship? The parties of the covenant, verses eight to ten. And then God said to Noah and to his sons with him, Behold, I establish my covenant with you and your offspring after you, and with every living creature that is with you The birds, the livestock, and every beast of the earth with you, as many as came out of the ark. It is for every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all the flesh Be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. Looks like there's lots of parties of this covenant. First of all, the most important party is God. Himself, who establishes the covenant. And then you have Noah, the human mediator, because this covenant is being made established by God, being put in place by God to Noah and through Noah. But as you read verses 8 through 10 There's more beneficiaries. There's more recipients ultimately than just Noah and his family. Look at it again, to Noah, to his sons. And then he says, not only with you, but your offspring after you. And then he says, verse 10, every living creature that's with you, birds, livestock, every beast of the earth, as many come out of the earth. It is for every beast of the earth. Ten B, the last part of verse 10. The parties of the Noahic Covenant is God who establishes it, Noah, the first recipient and the mediator, and then all the world for all of history. All the world for all of history, to your offspring, and the offspring after you, and all the creatures of all the earth, that's the Noaiic covenant. These are the parties of the Noaiic covenant. You see, God's love for Noah. Saving Noah. Saving his family. Saving Noah physically. Also, Noah was saved spiritually. And we don't have as much evidence on Noah's family, whether they were saved spiritually as well, but Noah certainly was a believer. Noah was a believer in God Almighty. He believed the promises of God and was saved by grace through faith, the same way that you are saved if you are saved, by grace through faith. God has a love for Noah seen in this covenant. God has a love for the world through this covenant. There's a mercy of God that's revealed in the Noaic covenant. The mercy of preservation. Some of us who weren't saved until later in life. And we can look back at this huge chunk of life before we were saved. And it's filled with blunders, often dangerous blunders. Maybe some things, not even blunders, but just things where we could have died. Maybe you're off at war, or maybe you were involved in some real dangerous stuff that you sh shouldn't have been involved with. And now that you're saved, and you can look back on that huge chunk of life, and one of the things you can see, which is part of your testimony, you can see God's merciful preservation. And you can say, thank you, God. How in the world did I live through that? Why in the world did I survive that? And you can say, God's mercy preserved me. That's one more thing where you can praise God for. His preserving mercy. When you come to the narrative of the Noaiic covenant, you see God's preserving mercy on a larger scale for the world and for mankind. Part of God's love is being long suffering with sinners. If you're going to have any true relationships in this life, you only have one option. It's going to be relationships with sinners. And one of the things you're going to need to have a true and growing relationship with a sinner is patience. Amen? To have a long suffering, to have a patience with sinners, and people who are in relationship with us. They'll need to have patience with us because we all sin And we all fall short. And brothers and sisters, yes, in the grandest scale, we all need grace from God. But you know what else? We also need grace from each other. People need grace from you in your relationships because people are sinners I need your grace because I am a sinner. I will never outgrow sin until this body dies, and you'll never outgrow sin until your body dies. And then we'll go home to be with the Lord, and our souls will be made righteous forever in the presence of God. And then we won't sin against each other anymore. To forgive each other. But in the meantime, let's devote our hearts, brothers and sisters, and let's devote our lips to having grace toward each other. Grace And long-suffering and patience toward others, whether it's at home or school, work, wherever it is, in the neighborhood Let's have grace. As a reflection of God's grace, let's have grace. Church, are you with me on that? The parties of this Noahic covenant, God, Noah, and the world for all of history. God established this covenant out of a love and a desire to save. Out of love and a desire to save. A love for Noah, a desire to save Noah, a merciful love for the world. a desire to continue to work out his purpose of salvation in the world in history. Now let's flash forward to a different time in history until after the coming of Christ, and Christ established what's called the new Who were the parties of the new covenant? First of all, God the Father, who sent the Son to accomplish our salvation Secondly, you have Christ, the incarnate Christ, the mediator of the covenant, the human mediator of the covenant, who then will represent everybody else who's in that covenant. You have God the Father who establishes it, Christ the mediator who accomplishes salvation, and then you have spirit-filled believers, or you could just say the church. Alright, spirit-filled believers or the church. They are the beneficiaries. We are the beneficiaries. Hebrews 8:6. But as it is, Christ has obtained a ministry that is as much more excellent than the old, as the covenant he mediates is better, since it is enacted on better promises. Without getting into the context where the author of Hebrews is making a comparison and contrast between the old covenant with Israel and the new covenant in Christ, I just want to highlight this phrase: the covenant he mediates is better. The covenant he mediates. Christ is the mediator of the new covenant. Now, later when we get into the promises of the new covenant or the blessings of the new covenant, This point about Christ is the most important point because it's only in spiritual union with Christ That we receive the blessings of the new covenant. It's only in being made one with Christ through faith that we become beneficiaries of the new covenant. So for example, the forgiveness of sins. How do you get that? By coming to Christ. The hope of eternal glory. How do I get that? Come to Christ. He's the mediator of the covenant. He's the one you go to to receive the blessings of the covenant. He's like the ark. He's like the Ark. If you want to be saved from the flood, go in the Ark. If you want to be saved from sin. If you want to be saved from death, if you want to be saved from the judgment of God to come, go into Christ through faith. Enter into a relationship with Christ. through faith. He is the mediator, and he alone is the mediator. You do need a mediator between God and And you, as a sinner and a holy God, we need a mediator to reconcile us to God. But you do not need a mediator to get you to Christ You do not need the church as a mediator or religion as a mediator or a priest or a pastor as a mediator or sacraments as a mediator. You come directly to Christ with nothing in between. Come immediately to Christ, and Christ brings you to God. Christ is the only way to God. What does this mean for our lives? That Christ is the mediator of this new covenant, that we belong to this new covenant. First of all, holiness. Holiness, the people of God should be zealous about holiness. And what that means is that God has set us apart in the world to represent Him. God has given us the Holy Spirit. And God, by his power alone and by his grace alone, God is gradually cultivating holiness within our hearts and within our lives. Are you thankful about that this morning? And God is gradually taking a sword to sin and killing our sin gradually in our lives. God isn't He's sanctifying us, He's purifying us, He's set us apart to live for Him, He set us apart to no longer chase the fleeting things of this world. To no longer be enslaved to sin and the lies of this culture, but to live holy lives devoted to Jesus Christ. That's our calling is holiness in the new covenant. Are you praying for holiness? Are you striving for holiness? Is it on your radar? Are you grieved by your sin? Are you calling upon the name of God for repentance? Are you trusting in the blood of Christ for forgiveness? Holiness, holiness must be a priority in our lives because that's our calling. Holiness Secondly, identity. Identity. Being united to Christ and being in the new covenant is our identity. It's where we get our identity from. In the midst of a world, in the midst of a culture, where the spirit of the age is to find your identity in earthly things or find your identity in your sexual lusts and desires. Find your identity in this or that. We are people who locate our identity, which means what it means to be us, we locate our identity in the exalted Lord Jesus Christ. Who we are is based on our union with Him. Are you with me? Who we are is not based on what other people think about us. Who we are is not based on how much money we have. Who we are is not based on our sexual lusts and desires or any other lusts or desires. Who we are is based on Jesus Christ. We belong to Him. He purchased our souls for God. Amen? Our identity must be shaped and is shaped by our relationship with Jesus Christ. Now, we'll only progress in the holiness. If we embrace by faith the identity. Does that make sense? If we embrace and understand our identity in Christ first , That will enable us to make progress in the holiness and growing in the things of God. That's what it means to live under the new covenant through faith in Christ. A third thing, what this means for us living under the new covenant, holiness, identity, a third thing, I mean, there could be fifty things we could list, but just giving you three right now. A third thing that this means for us is our witness. Our witness to the watching world. Because as members of the new covenant, as beneficiaries of all the blessings that are found in Christ, we need to always remember that God is inviting others into this covenant. covenant. Amen. God wants others to come to Christ. God wants the gospel to spread. God wants his kingdom, the good news of the kingdom to spread. spread so that other sinners can come in and have what we have, which is Jesus Christ and all that is in him. We have to remember our witness. Otherwise we become too inward-focused as a church. And we're and we're like consumers. We're just worried about what we're doing and what we like and our personal preference. And I'm coming so I can do this, and I'm coming so I can get that. Let's not forget our Call our duty of evangelism and missions. And you haven't, and we haven't, but we have to always be reminding ourselves to remember our witness. God wants to bring other sinners. into this new covenant. And then God gets the glory for that. Well, back to the Noaiic covenant. The second aspect is the promise. The promise of the Noaiic covenant in verse 11. Verse 11: I establish my covenant with you, that never again shall all flesh be cut off by the waters of the flood, and never again shall there be a flood to destroy the earth. You also see that later in the passage too. The promise of the Noaiic covenant is probably the easiest thing in this passage, right? The promise is that God will never again destroy the earth with a flood. He'll never destroy humanity and all other life with a flood to where you'll need to have an arc of salvation. Remember the purpose of the flood was divine judgment in history. The flood was not an accident. It was not an accidental occurrence of a universe of random chance. And it was not unjust, and it was not unrighteous. The flood was the penalty for a humanity, for a human society that had become completely corrupt in every way. That's the narrative. That's the story. And so the flood comes as a historical judgment on the world. And in that and through that, Noah and his family. Was saved. One of the keys to understanding world history is that God is restraining final judgment God is restraining final judgment. Now that's just the same, that's saying the same thing as God is preserving all things. It's just saying it from the different side. God is preserving humanity. And he's restraining judgment. Why is he restraining judgment? Because he's provided a whole lot of time to get the good news of salvation out to as many people as possible. That's God's plan for this era in history. It's for the gospel to keep spreading and spreading and spreading. For the kingdom of God to keep advancing and advancing and advancing, for missionaries to keep going and going and going, for new churches and new areas to keep preaching and teaching and praying and worshiping. That's God's purpose. is to spread salvation all over the world to save many sinners. And that's exactly what God is doing. He's saving many sinners. And the promise, the promise of the Noeia covenant in particular, don't think this is not a big deal. This is a huge deal because of how much sin is in the world. God promises that He'll never bring a global flood again. He'll never wipe out all of life again in a historical judgment. That's the promise of the Noahic covenant Now, flash forward to the promise of the new covenant. It should be promises. There's lots of promises in the new covenant. I'll just give you one phrase: salvation in Christ. That's the promise of the new covenant. Salvation in Christ. And in Christ is a prepositional phrase that comes from the Bible. It's one of the most important phrases in the New Testament. And in Christ is talking about that spiritual relationship, that spiritual union that you have in Christ, as your covenant representative, to be in Christ, and that's how we are saved. is to be saved in Christ. Salvation means being delivered from sin, being delivered from death Being delivered from coming judgment based on the work of Christ. Based on the work of Christ, his righteous life. His sacrificial death, his glorious resurrection, on the basis of the work of Christ, we put our faith in him and we're delivered from sin We're delivered from death, and we're delivered from the coming judgment of God. If that's good news, would you say amen? That's the gospel. That's the gospel. It's the heartbeat of the church The promise of the new covenant is salvation in Christ. Hebrews 9 15A, just the beginning of verse 15 in Hebrews 9. Therefore, he is the mediator of a new covenant, so that those who are called may receive The promised eternal inheritance. The promised eternal inheritance. That's what we're talking about. The promise of the new covenant. It's an eternal inheritance. Look again to the end of Hebrews 8:6, which we read earlier. And the end of Hebrews 8. 6 says of the new covenant that it's enacted on better promises. Plural. It's enacted on better promises. Plural. That's making a contrast to the promises within the old covenant that were conditional earthly promises. It's contrasting that with the promises of those in the new covenant that are unconditional spiritual promises, the promise of an eternal inheritance. Salvation is like a diamond. It has many facets, many faces to it to appreciate the full glory of the diamond. Also, I've compared it to a museum. A good museum will have multiple corridors, different displays, different wings, even And it takes time to explore and to enjoy and soak in all the glory and information of a museum. It's like a diamond. There's these different facets. And that's the way salvation is is like. That's what salvation is like. It's not like there's one thing you can look at and then you're through and then you know it on and then you can can just move on because there's nothing more. Salvation is multifaceted. And what I want to do is get through the rest of our points There's two more aspects of the Noe Covenant, and then we are going to return to salvation and this point of salvation. And we'll look at A few, not all, a few of these different facets, or a few of these different wings in the museum of salvation. So we'll come back to that. But for now, let's go to the sign of the covenant. This is the third aspect of the Noaic Covenant. We've looked at the parties. Which were God and Noah and the world, and we looked at the promise, which is to never again destroy the earth with a flood. Now we look at the sign, which you already knew before coming in here. The sign of the Noah Covenant is the everybody say it? Rainbow. We learned that in kindergarten. No, before kindergarten. We learned that when we were four or five at vacation Bible school. This is from verses 12 to 17 in the passage. The rainbow is the sign of the new covenant. And for our purposes, I'll just read 12 and 13. And God said, this is the sign of the covenant that I make between me and you and every living creature that is with you for all future generations. See that for all future generations, right? For all of history. Verse 13, I have set my bow in the cloud, and it shall be a sign of the covenant between me and the earth. So you see, I did not make up the concept of a sign of the covenant that comes right from the text. That's the exegesis. And it's interesting as we read through that, we saw that this is a reminder. Reminder to God. God said, When I see this, I remember my covenant. That's God's way of saying He remains faithful to His covenant. One of the things I really love about Um understanding the covenants is how God will take a simple thing in the natural order and use it as a sign and symbol of a supernatural thing. in the redemptive order, in the grand order. And he takes a rainbow. And the sign of the covenant is a sign of remembrance. It's every time you see a rainbow, you should remember the Noahic covenant. And you should remember that history continues and history Corrupt mankind is not blotted out because God is faithful to his covenant promises. God is faithful to his promise. The sign of the Noaic Covenant is the rainbow, and its purpose is to help us remember God's mercy and God's preservation and God's promise. Now flash forward again to the new covenant. Just say it out loud. Don't be bashful. Everyone's so bashful in church. What are the signs? There's two signs of the new covenant. What are they, church? That was the worst. You know, I gave you ten seconds to wiggle out your bashfulness. John McDonald, what are the two signs of the new covenant? No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. We're not making this complicated. We're not making simple things complicated. That's not good. What are the two signs of the new covenant? No, the signs, the signs of the new covenant observance. Signs, not real things. Baptism and communion. Baptism and communion. Boy, I'm glad we did this. Wow. Study group leaders remember this for your review. No, it's I know you know this. In church, we overthink things. We think there's some trick question. Um baptism Is an outward sign of God's inner work of salvation. The Lord's Supper is an outward sign of Christ's death on the cross Signs to help us remember God's grace. Signs that teach us about salvation. Simple, everyday things that provide the gospel in picture. That provide an experiential even experiential picture of the gospel of God's great love and salvation. And every time we see a rainbow, we should remember God's mercy and preservation and promise. in the Noeya Covenant, and every time we witness the baptism or think about our baptism, and every time we share and partake of the Lord's Supper, we need to remember God's grace. Remember his covenant. Remember his promises of the new covenant that we are bound to Christ by faith. God 's love, God's desire to save sinners. These are the threads for the whole history These are the binding agent of the whole story, of the whole Bible. God's love for sinners, God's desire to save sinners. The sign of the Noaic Covenant is the rainbow. Now, the duties. The duties of the Noaic Covenant Comes from verse 7. We talked about this last week, but I at least want to touch on it this week. The duties of the Noai covenant was to fill the earth and subdue it. And in the larger context, what that means is you do that not according to your own will, but according to God's will. And we talked about how that was the original commission given to Adam. Where Adam failed, now that original commission is being given again to Noah. Fill the earth Subdue it. Rule over it. Be a steward. Be a caretaker of God's creation. But do that according to God's will, not according to our own will. Which is the same way we want to be stewards of our own homes, right? We want to be stewards and caretakers of our homes and of our families, not according to our own will, but according to God's will. And that's the commission given to mankind. You subdue, you fill, you rule. This comes from verse 7. And you be fruitful and multiply, increase greatly on the earth and multiply in it. And if you want more on that again, we talked on that extensively last week. The duties, the duties of this Noaiic covenant. It's to fill the earth and subdue it. In the larger context, that means you do that according to God's will, which means you fill the earth and subdue it while believing in God. You fill the earth and subdue it while worshiping God. You fill the earth and subdue it while obeying God and striving to obey God in all of life You fill the earth and subdue it, representing God. Because we're made in his image. We're made to be his reflection, his representation on the earth. Not to go off and do our own thing, but to stand for God. And to honor God and to walk in the fear of the Lord. The duties of the new covenant. Let's flash forward again. The duties of the new covenant. Three broad categories. Number one, biblical Christian living. That's just called discipleship. Seeking to honor God in all of life, biblical Christian living, learning to live for Christ and not for ourselves. 2 Corinthians 5:15. Biblical Christian living, discipleship, learning to honor God in all of life. Secondly, biblical local churches. biblical local churches, because individual, privatized Christianity is alien to Scripture Completely alien to scripture. We're called to honor God and live for Him in all areas of life, and one of those areas is membership and fellowship in the local church. In a biblical local church. So biblical Christian living in all of life, involvement in biblical local church. just more narrowly. And then number three, biblical evangelism, evangelism and missions, which really is just one arm of the local church. Biblical evangelism and biblical missions. Striving to do things God's way and not our way. Amen? Because if we do things our way, who gets the glory? We get the glory. If we do things God's way, God gets the glory. And we become less. We fade into the background. And God becomes more prominent. The preaching of the gospel becomes more prominent. And affection for Christ, repentance from sin, the spiritual things become more prominent, more prominent when we do things God's way. Biblical Christian living, biblical local church, involvement in a biblical local church, and faithfulness in evangelism and missions. Now I know those are three broad categories, but hopefully that's a good reminder for all of us. To help balance things out. And if you're new to this, hopefully that's simple enough where it can help get you started in the right track. Three broad categories: living for Christ in all areas of life, just starting that journey. Involvement in a biblical local church, which God designed the church, and then just one arm of that, missions and evangelism, spreading the gospel, sharing our testimony of faith These are the duties of living under the new covenant. Now, at the close, I want to return to the promises and the blessings of the new covenant, and we had talked about salvation. The salvation that's found in Christ, that is the umbrella blessing or the summary blessing, but it has many facets, or like a museum has many corridors. Luke 5, 31-32, Jesus said, Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick. I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners, to repentance I like that verse because it's a metaphor for a spiritual condition. Those who are well have no need of a fit a physician, but those who are sick, that's a metaphor for spiritual things. And I like that verse because I'm one who is sick, and I need to be healed by God. I need a remedy from God for my sin. I need strength from God for my weakness. I need a peace from God in my restless heart. I need God to help me. That's what this is about. Those who sense their need for God. Those who are well have no need of a physician, but those who are sick, what do they do? They get on the phone and they call the physician. And they get in their car and they drive to the physician. If they're not strong enough to do that, they call their friend and say, I need someone to take me to the physician because I need help. Brothers and sisters, that's where we all need to be Knowing that we need God's help. Knowing that God loves us and that He desires to save us. Do you know that this morning? I want you to know this this morning. That nobody is twisting God's arm to love you. Nobody is twisting God's arm to desire to save you. You and desire to bring you to heaven, a desire to erase your guilt. Beloved, that's from God's heart. Sometimes it's hard to believe, isn't it? But God loves you Loves you, which means he seeks your good, not your harm. He wants to bless you, he wants to save you. I'm gonna close with Just a few of the facets of salvation. Number one facet, the forgiveness of sins. The forgiveness of sins because of Christ's blood. Erasing of our guilt, the blotting out of our guilt, because of the blood of Christ where he died on the cross, he took our sin upon himself. He took our guilt upon himself. Beloved, he took the judgment of God that we deserve upon himself. He took it upon himself. In body, in soul, he died in our place so that we could have the forgiveness of God. Sins. That's a blessing of the new covenant. The forgiveness of sins. Secondly, a right standing with God. A right standing with God. One of the things we need, the thing we need. To enter into fellowship with God that will never end is righteousness, a right standing with God. Well, we've not lived like that. Where are we going to get that from Jesus He lived a righteous life. He lived an obedient life. And then he gives that righteousness to us as a gift. So that now when we stand before God, God sees us as innocent and blameless and holy and righteous. And he accepts us into eternal fellowship with himself. The forgiveness of sins can be yours because of the blood of Christ. A right standing with God can be yours because of the righteousness of Christ. Number three, reconciliation That means brought together with. That means spiritually united to. Reconciliation, to be reconciled to God. The removal of hostility between us and God. The creating of an eternal friendship between us and God. Reconciliation, the forgiveness of sins by the blood of Christ, a right standing By the life of Christ. Reconciliation by the power of Christ. Number four, sanctification that we talked about earlier. Sanctification To be cleansed inwardly by the Holy Spirit, to be washed spiritually, to be purified in our minds by the Holy Spirit. Do we understand The power, the cleansing power and mercy of the Holy Spirit to be released from the bondage of sin within our hearts. Sanctification is a facet, is a corridor of salvation. And number five, and finally, the gift of eternal life The forgiveness of sins by the blood of Christ, a right standing with God by the life of Christ, reconciliation to God by the power of Christ. Sanctification within us by the Holy Spirit of Christ and the gift of eternal life in the presence of Christ. That's coming for us one day. When we receive the gift of eternal life through faith in Christ, we have hope for the life to come. And because we have hope for the life to come, we can have an authentic inner peace, which is something the world cannot give us. An inner peace that will get us through the toughest trial and not lose heart. An inner peace that will get us through the darkest day. And not become a cynic. An inner peace that will get us through our absolute lowest moments and biggest failures, and still believe God loves us. Wants to save us. An inner peace that transcends any situation you will ever face. An inner peace that transcends all the fluctuating emotions that we experience. Experience in life. An inner peace that transcends any persecution or any ridicule that will come your way. An inner peace that comes from lasting hope. And where does the lasting hope come from? Eternal life that's found in Jesus Christ. And that's our invitation to everyone: come to Christ for eternal life, for the forgiveness of sins. For a right standing with God, to be reconciled to God, to receive the Holy Spirit and be sanctified, which means purified inwardly, to receive the gift of eternal life and the hope and peace that come from That. Turn to Christ in your heart. Put your faith in Jesus Christ, and every single blessing of the new covenant is yours forever. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Christ, for his life, death, resurrection. For his grace, mercy, and love, for his wisdom, power, and presence with us If there's someone here who's burdened for their soul, wrestling with the guilt of sin, convinced or beginning to be convinced that they need a savior We pray that you would in their hearts be their shepherd and guide them to Jesus Christ. To believe in him for the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. It's in his name we pray. Amen.