The text for our time in the Word is 1 John 4 verses 7 through 12. Again, that's 1 John 4 verses 7 through 12. I'm calling this message God's revelation of love, really talking about God's love, the greatest topic we could ever talk about. I'm so thankful I'm so humbled to have the opportunity, whenever it is, to preach about or teach about God's love. Apart from God's love, I would still be living as a slave to sin. But by his love, God has set me free. Apart from God's love, I would still be living with the guilt of my own sin hanging over me in judgment. But by God's love, he has forgiven me. Apart from God's love, I would still be alienated from God. But by his love, God has reconciled me to himself by the blood of his son. I'm so thankful for God's love poured out into my heart. I'm so thankful for God's love poured out into your heart. I'm so thankful for God's love that we get to reflect One to another, and that we get to share one with another. Praise God for His love. Without God's love, there'd be nothing but torment and judgment. Apart from God's love, I'll give you just one more of these. We will get to the sermon text. Apart from God's love, all we'd be able to muster up in this life would be the illusion of meaning. the illusion of purpose. But by his love, God has revealed to us the true meaning and the true purpose of life, which is his glory and his honor and his kingdom in the world, now into eternity. Praise God for his love. God's love is this is the fountain source for everything, anything and everything else that we talk about or experience as children of God. So God's revelation of love from 1 John 4. 7 through 12. Let's read the passage and then we'll go to the Lord in prayer before we open it up. Beloved, let us love one another. For love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In this, the love of God was made manifest among us that God sent his only son into the world so that we might live through him. And this is love, not that we've loved God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Beloved If God so loved us, we also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God. But if we love one another, God abides in us. And his love is perfected within us. Let's pray. Father, we join our hearts in faith and in prayer. And we bring these requests before you that you would empower the preaching of your word. By your spirit, and by your spirit also, that you would empower the hearing of your word. And whether the preacher Or whether the hearer that you would show us your love, make it clear, make it impactful in our hearts Give it a renewing effect in our minds. Show us Christ. Show us his sacrifice on our behalf. Show us his compassion for weak sinners like us. Show us the sufficiency of his work on our behalf, the sufficiency of his sacrifice. Sufficiency of his ministry in heaven. Father, open our hearts to your word and change us by your word and by your spirit. For your name and glory we pray. Amen. Well, don't forget the series that we're in. The series is Confidence in Christ. Going through 1 John and being reminded and hopefully Being exhorted to have confidence that in Christ our sins are forgiven. We have been reconciled to God. We need nothing in addition to Christ to reconcile us to God. Amen? Are we there? Can't move on if we're not there In Christ, our sins are forgiven. In Christ, we've been reconciled to God. In Christ, we are recipients of eternal life that we possess now. by the deposit of the Holy Spirit given to us, but we'll possess fully in the age to come in the resurrection body, in the new heavens, and the new earth. Now that list has grown of these things we have confidence in. We also know we have confidence in Christ that we have victory over the evil one. Chapter two, verses twelve through fourteen. And then we added another one a couple weeks ago. We know that in Christ we have we have confidence We have confidence on how we can overcome the self-condemning heart. When our own heart condemns us, we come back to God and His promise in the gospel that in Christ there is No condemnation for sinners. So confidence in Christ is the series, and now we get to really something of a hub. For all these different topics, kind of the spokes come in and meet at this hub of God's love. The reason we have these comp this confidence in all these different areas is God's love. Now the main point comes from verse 9. Remember the title, God's Revelation of Love. Look at the beginning of verse 9. In this the love of God was Made manifest among us. You can underline the phrase made manifest. It means to reveal what was hidden. It means to take the cover off what was covered You can think of if you have a surprise that you have for someone, a surprise party, a surprise gift, a surprise dinner, you want to make sure that it remains secret that it remains hidden until the time you want it to come out. You want it to be made known. You want it to be made manifest. And if somebody gets to jump on you and makes it manifest Before you want it manifest, you get upset. But that's what we're talking about. Something that's made known that brothers and sisters otherwise would not be known if God Does not manifest his love to us, we would never ever have any fruition of God's love. God's love made manifest. The uncovering of what's been covered. I'm really going to front load some personal practical application. For each one of us in terms of the goal of the sermon. It's the same for everyone. To hear of God's love and to be changed by it. To hear of God's love. And to be changed by it. Some of us are discouraged. And you need to hear God's love this morning and be encouraged in the love that God has for you. Some of us in the room are hurting deeply and for various reasons. Life on earth, under the curse of sin and death, brings pain and brings suffering and brings trials and brings hurting. And the goal for you is to see God's love and in God's love find consolation. That God loves you despite what you're going through, despite the sufferings, despite the grief. To be comforted and consoled and lifted up by God's love. So please don't think of God's love as an idea to memorize. this morning. Think of God's love as a supernatural power that you need and that I need for spiritual life, health, and growth. The love of God. The body needs natural things, vitamins, minerals, proteins, but the soul needs supernatural things. The soul needs God. The soul needs God to administer His grace to our minds and to our hearts, to grow us spiritually, to bring us forward in our sanctification, to help us move forward in practical discipleship. So see God's love and in your heart, seek for God's love and seek, and you will find, and God's love will spiritually serve you this morning. Some of you are caught in a snare of sin. And need to be convicted of your sin and need to hear of the love of God that would bring about repentance and rescue from the snare of sin. Some of us have never heard Or never maybe never heard, maybe heard, but never believed in God's love. Well the spiritual change for you this morning would be to be saved to for the first time hear of God's love, to believe in God's love for you, that he forgives you in Christ, then you can have the gift of eternal life. The details might be different for each of us, but the goal is the same for every person in here to hear of God's love and to be changed by it in some way. Let me give you the roadmap for the message. The first thing we're going to talk about is the fact that God is love. So if you're taking notes and you want to get yourself organized. Here you go. Number one, first destination on this little trek. God is love. Number two, God has loved us. That's number two. What's number one? And what's number two? And number three, God's love lives within us. God's love lives within us. Pretty basic concept there. If we the only way we could share A godly love one with another, as if God has love lives within us. And then the love we have for one another is not just a human what we would call love out in the world. But a love born of the Spirit, a love created by God, a love that reflects God's love for us, now lived out, practically applied in the way we relate to one another. So the first point, what was the first point? God is love. Look at verse eight Anyone who does not love does not know God because God is love. And then cheat down and look at verse 16, which is below our passage. So we've come to know and to believe. The love that God has for us, God is love. And whoever abides in love abides in him. Or abides in God, and God abides in him. God is love. Love is an essential attribute of God. God is love. This is not talking about something that God does. You could say that the ball bounces, but that's something the ball does. That's not something the ball is. If you say the ball is round, that's different. That's something the ball is. Being round isn't something the ball has to go out of its way to do. It just is a round ball. And if it stops being round and is made into a square or something, it's no longer a ball. It's something else. We're not talking on this first point, we're not talking about something God does for us or does it all. Only thing we're talking about on this first point is something God is from eternity past. God is love. It's an essential attribute of God. In contrast to that, you can think about God's wrath or God's anger against sin. That is not an essential attribute of God. That's a response to sin. God responds to our rebellion in wrath and anger, and then thank God also in mercy and grace to forgive us of our sins. But wrath and anger, judgment against sin, is not an eternal, essential attribute of God, but love is. Another one, this is not a contrast, this is a similar essential attribute of God, his infinite power. Is an essential attribute of God. The fact that God is infinite in power, that He's unbound by any external force to him That's an eternal, essential attribute of God. In other words, if God didn't have that, he wouldn't be God. If God didn't have his love, he wouldn't be God. These things define who and what God is. God is So If you want to meditate for just a few seconds on the nature of this topic that we're delving into this morning, what kind of topic are we entering into? What territory is this? We're talking first about the eternal nature of God. We're talking about God. And we preach on all kinds of things. As preachers, as teachers, Sunday school teachers, we talk about all kinds of things. Right, what the church is, Christian living, prayer, all kinds of things. How you're supposed to behave at home, all kinds of things. But the center of our preaching is God. We're preachers of God. We're teaching the young ones about God. The reason we preach the gospel is so that people can come to know God. It's all about God. And before we talk about anything that God does in love, we must first have our feet firmly planted here, that we understand this. God is love, an eternal, essential attribute of God. Now, for the keen thinker, you should be thinking something along the lines of, how can God be love from all eternity if love requires more than one party? And it does. Love requires more than one party. How can God be love? Essentially, from all eternity, if love requires more than one party, and I'm sure some of you are predicting the answer in your heart right now and praising God within your heart right now, that God exists eternally in three distinct persons. God the Father and God the Son and God the Holy Spirit from all eternity in a perfect relationship of love, God is love. That's the origin of love. The Trinity Is not only the definition of love, but the origin of love. And the the origin of love and the definition of love existed before the world was created. Long before we ever heard the word love or heard the word God or had any notion of anything, God is love from all eternity, Father, Son, and Holy Spirit So I want to dive into that and talk about that for a little bit because the Father from all eternity has lived in perfect harmony and peace with both the Son and the Holy Spirit. Perfect relationship from all eternity. And that's that's what we want, and that's what we strive for in our relationships, right? If they're going to be relationships of love, we want to strive for harmony and we want to strive for peace. We should go home, and that's how we relate to our families. Not being troublemakers, not being quarrelsome, not being divisive, not being brats, not always losing our temper But striving for harmony and the peace in the home. That's love. That's a relationship of love. The paradigm for that is the eternal nature of God. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, in a perfect relationship of harmony and peace. By the way, you can make application for the body life of the church as well. Relationships of love. Every one of us proactively striving for harmony and peace within the church. That's a biblical command, in fact. So the one aspect of this eternal love is a relationship of perfect harmony and peace, Father, Son, Spirit. But another aspect of that love is sincere affection. Sincere affection. Love does not equal emotions, but love does involve emotions Husbands, you have a different set of feelings and different set of affections and different set of emotions for your wife over against every other woman in the world. And parents to your children. You have a unique set of emotions and affections and feelings for your children rather than o other children of the world. It's not that we don't love other people. But the marriage bond is unique and it's a unique love. And the parent-child relationship is unique and it's a unique love. There is a sincere affection. From the Father, for the Son and for the Holy Spirit. Love is not mechanical. Love is a lot of things, but love is not mechanical. It's not just doing chores around the house so you don't get in trouble. Love, a heart of love, has an internal affection set on the other party. From all eternity, the Father, Son, and Spirit living in perfect harmony and peace with each other, and having a sincere affection one to another. One way you can think about affection is that this person for me is a source of joy and delight. There's an affection for that person and it doesn't make me miserable when I'm in their presence. It doesn't make me miserable when they're talking to me The idea of growing closer to them is not a torment to me, but it brings me joy and it brings me delight because this person for me is a source of delight and joy. That's one way to gauge the affection of true love Do you just want to get away from each other? Do we just want to get away from this person? Or draw nearer? Or know more deeply? Or cling more closely? That's love. And again, the paradigm. It's the Father, Son, Spirit. Relationship of harmony and peace, sincere affection, and then one more, just the last one here, on love. On just love. The nature of love. Continual faithfulness. Continual faithfulness. The Father, eternally, faithfully committed to the Son and the Spirit. The Son perfectly, eternally, and gladly. Faithfully committed to the Father and the Spirit. And the Spirit faithfully committed to the Father and the Son. For all eternity. Faithful to work for their joy, to work for their delight. There's no selfishness in love. Love puts selfishness to death, doesn't it? Now, thinking cap time. Did you bring your thinking cap this morning? A few of you did. For some theological and practical application. If God is love, then when God reveals love, God reveals Amen, Vince. See me after for a gold star. Right, yeah, well in one perspective that is putting our thinking caps on. It's just because we don't think about that a lot. But from another perspective, this is Simple. This is simple mathematics. If God is love, for God to show us what love is, God has to show us who He is. God's revelation of love is God's revelation of Himself. This is redemption. This is what redemption is. This is why eternal life is knowing God. God makes Himself known to us by saving us, and He saves us by making Himself known to us. It's the same thing. Because the way God saves us is by sending the Son, and then the Son completing his work, and then the Father and the Son sending the Spirit. So the revelation of the Son and the revelation of the Spirit is our redemption. So God's revelation of love is God's revelation of Himself. That's why this is the greatest topic. That's why it's impossible to preach the gospel without preaching about God's love. And it's impossible to preach about God's love without preaching the gospel. It's impossible to understand what love is apart from the eternal nature of God. It's impossible. You can't do it. You cannot understand what love really is apart from the eternal, essential nature of God. God is love. Few verses. Sister maybe drive the nail a little deeper into our hearts. John seventeen three And this is eternal life, that they know you, the only true God, and Jesus Christ, whom you have sent. What is eternal life? Eternal life is knowing God. It's being brought from I don't know God, now I know God. Second Peter one, two and three. May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. His divine power has granted unto us all things pertaining to life and godliness. Through the knowledge of him who called us to his own glory and excellence. That's an intriguing verse, verse 3 of 1 Peter. Or 2 Peter rather chapter 1. His divine power has given us, has granted us everything that we need for life and godliness. Well how does how has he done that? How does that come to us? Through the knowledge of him who has called us to his own glory and excellence. Christian, is this what your life has become consumed with? The love of God. Is this what we really get excited about? That God has bestowed his love upon us? God has loved you with an everlasting love. And nothing in the world No doubt within your own heart can take away what God has given you. If you have put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, you are a recipient of God's love. In one sense, you can talk about our salvation as God enabling us to join this relationship of love Between the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. Isn't that incredible? God brings us into this relationship between the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit And God enables us to share the mutual affection of the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. And God enables us to adopt a commitment to the Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. His love lives within us, which is the final point. But these are all connected. God's love lives within us, but Since it does that, it's reflected through us. So God is love. Verse 8, and then we stole from verse 16. God is love. Love is an essential attribute of God. Now, number two. God has loved us. Verses 9 and 10. And verses 9 and 10 should really stir up A fervent zeal, taking that phrase from our Sunday school passage, a fervent zeal for God And for the kingdom of God. God has loved us. Verses 9 and 10. In this the love of God was made manifest among us that God sent his only Son into the world so that we might live through Him. In this is love. Not that we love, not that we have loved God, but that he's loved us and sent his son to be the propitiation for our sins. Now I've got five sub points for you on this. So again, for you note takers, if you want to stay organized, file that away. We've got five of these First of all, God's love is a self-revealing love. Now this is, we just said that. This is a transition point. You see this at the end of verse 8, end of verse 9, that God's love is a self-revealing revealing love. That's the structure of the grammar as you move from verse 8 into verse 9. God is love, and in this the love of God was made manifest among us. So that's just right where he is. God is love And in this the love of God was made manifest among us. So he's just getting us positioned. He's just getting us poised for telling us how God has manifested his love among us. God is love. And in this the love of God was made manifest among us. God's love is self-revealing. Number two, God's love is a sun -sending love. It is a sun -hyphen -sending love. The centerpiece of God manifesting his love to us is God sent his son to be our Savior. Praise the Lord. Glory. Hallelujah. The Father sent the Son to accomplish our salvation. God's love is a sun -sending love. Any notion of God's love that's not focused on Jesus Christ is a false notion of God's love. Jesus Christ is the manifestation of God's love to us. Verse nine, starting at the middle of verse nine, he says, That God sent his only son into the world. It's the first thing he says. The very first thing after he says, in this God's love was manifest among us, where does he go right away? Where does he go? God sent his son, and that's where we should go in our discussions. Right in our witness, if we're talking about God, talking about God's love, go right to the Son. God sent His Son. It highlights our greatest need, doesn't it? What's our greatest need on earth? Our greatest need is a capital S. Savior. We need to be saved from sin. We need to be we need to be forgiven of our transgressions against God. We need to be set free from being enslaved to sin. We need to be spared and delivered, redeemed from the final Judgment against sin. We need a Savior. So since that's our greatest need, that is this is the center point of God's love, the Son God 's Son sent from heaven to be our Savior. This is the heartbeat of Christianity And woe to me, woe to us, if the heartbeat of the pulpit ever becomes something different than the preaching of Jesus. The heartbeat of all of ministry is proclaiming God sent His Son to be our Savior. It's a Son sending love. You also can look at the end of verse 10. God loved us, or says he loved us, was talking about God. He loved us and sent his son. Now that's a hint to the eternal sonship of Jesus. That's lurking behind the scenes there, but it's a very important part of theology. Because you can't be sent from heaven unless you're already in heaven. You can't be sent from God unless you're already with God. So when Jesus came, it was the incarnation of the eternal Son of God. from that eternal relationship of love, now in history, sent to the world as a human to be our Savior. God's love is a self-revealing love. God's love is a sun-sending love. God's love is a life-giving love. I love this. While we're on the topic of love, I love the end of verse 9. So that we might live through him. Right? So you track through verse 9. Verse 9 by itself would make a great sermon. Here's how God has manifested his love. He sent his son into the world. Well, why did he send his son into the world? Now you have the purpose, so that we might live through him. And live is not just talking about natural life. We already have natural life. That's done. We're here. What we need is spiritual life. God sent his son to reveal his love. And here's the motive of that love so that we could live through him, live by faith in Jesus If we don't come through Jesus, because that's what it says, so that we might live through him. If we don't come through Jesus, we have no access to spiritual life. If we don't come through Jesus, we have no access. to being reconciled to God. If we don't come through Jesus, we have no way to receive the forgiveness of sins. If we don't come through Jesus, Through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, we have no way to attain to the resurrection from the dead, to the gift of eternal life We live through him. We already have received spiritual life in this age. It's not come to its full expression. It will come to its full expression at the end of the age. That doesn't mean we don't have life already. We already live in the Son. Look at next chapter. Some of you may not even need to turn to turn the page to 1 John 5, 11. Some of you may need to turn a one page. 1 John 5 11. And this is the testimony that God gave us eternal life, and this life is in his Son. Whoever has the son has life, and who whoever does not have the son does not have life. And if you hear that and you think, well I don't have the son, so I don't have life. I haven't believed in Jesus. Yes, but you can right now. In your heart, you take this one step that saves your soul for all eternity to believe in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins. Not two steps. Not two steps. I'm not going to have a secret meeting with you after this and spring on you some additional steps so that you can make sure that you really have received the gift of forgiveness. If you come to Jesus in faith, you have the gift of forgiveness. of eternal life, and all your sins are forgiven. And that guilt, that condemnation that hangs over you is removed. I don't know why I have this simple mind. Whenever I talk about forgiveness, I picture a blackboard. I think one of my teachers in a Catholic school used this illustration actually, so it's coming back to me of where this comes from. But I remember They took the time, the teacher took the time to either do it themselves or have the students do it to cover the whole blackboard in chalk. And then said the chalk represents our sins, and then had someone come up and do all the work of erasing the sins, and now it was just no chalk on the blackboard, and the teacher said, now that's forgiveness. That's what Christ achieves. Christ erases all the guilt of all our sins before a holy God. And just because you woke up this morning not believing in Christ and not having forgiveness, Doesn't mean you can't go to bed tonight having believed in Christ and having received forgiveness. In fact, you can have the forgiveness of sins before lunch. You can have the forgiveness of sins within the next five seconds if you look to Christ and believe in Christ for the forgiveness of sins. He is a sufficient sacrifice, a sufficient and mighty and gracious Savior who receives sinners. You mean even if I bring nothing, I bring no good works , I don't bring a life of morality and devotion? Yes. Now you're getting it. That's the whole point. We bring nothing, but we throw ourselves down in desperation and needing a savior. And Jesus saves. And all of that is what this phrase means, life-giving. Life-giving. It's a love that takes us out of spiritual death into a state of spiritual life in an eternal relationship with God through faith in Christ. God's love is Self-revealing. God's love is sunsending. God's love is life-giving. And this has been alluded to the whole time. But number four, just to highlight it, God's love is self- Set on sinners. The very beginning of verse ten. Oh how true it is. Oh how tragic it is. The very beginning of verse ten to prove that God's love is set on sinners, which means it's a merciful love. Verse 10, and this is love, not that we have loved God. I'll just stop there. And in your mind's eye, circle the word not And in your mind's eye, circle the phrase loved God, not loved God. This is where we show up in the passage. It's not that we have loved God, isn't it true? We've loved things. We've loved prestige. We've loved ourselves. We've loved our hobbies Have we loved God? Naturally speaking, now I'm talking naturally speaking. Have we loved God? Not that we've loved God. I love this passage because it's just clarifying where we get our definition of love from. If we're going to get our definition from of love properly, we start here. God is love. If we want to make sure we guard against the wrong definition of love, let's just get this on the table. So that we can move on. Here's his love. Not that we've loved God. Amen. Amen. Not that we loved God. God's love is set on people who have not loved him. Wrap your mind around that. This is the merciful love of God. We've not loved him, he set his love upon us. We've rebelled against him, yet he sought us out in love. We've wanted to do things completely for ourselves. Stealing glory from God in the world that is rightly his. And he shares his love with us. It's an incredible thing. The gospel blows the mind. If you really grasp the gospel It's mind-boggling, I mean it's liberating. But it so confounds human logic. It so transcends the natural man's thinking and the way we think things operate in the world. We've not loved God, but God has loved us. That's the gospel. You know, I hope we all know this. You're not saved. By loving God. Do you know that? Do you know that you're not saved by loving God? This is a natural way of thinking about Christianity. Well, if I if I can start loving God And start reading my Bible and start praying and start going to church and fill my life with religion and fill fill my life with good deeds. If I can start loving God in this way, then God will love me. It's completely opposite. God 's love is set on rebels. God's love is set on the wicked. God did not come, Jesus did not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. If we're going to be a gospel people, we have to understand that God doesn't love us because we loved him. We love God because He first loved us. And His love to us creates within us a love for Him and a love to each other and a love for our enemies. God 's love is set on sinners. It's not that we've loved God. And finally, number five, God's love is a sin erasing love. Now we already preached that, but here's the word where it comes from. God's love is a sin erasing love. End of verse 10. Send his son to be the propitiation for our sins. A propitiation is a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of sin that will be on the final exam. So when I distribute the study guides at the end of the semester, and one of the questions for the final exam is, what's propitiation mean? Someone has to stand up and say, propitiation is a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God against our sins. It turns away the wrath of God. It's a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. Now , put two and two together, and most of you are already thinking about Jesus dying on the cross. That's what this is talking about. Without Jesus dying on the cross, we would never know God. We'd never know God's love. We'd never know, we'd never care about what propitiation means. Don't get thrown that it's a long word. It's no bigger than initiation. You know what an initiation is. An initiation is when you start something or enter into something. Propitiation. What is it? One syllable longer. Is it one syllable longer? Someone do the math. Big deal. Big deal that you haven't ever used this word in your life. If this weren't true, propitiation weren't true, we'd have no salvation. This would just all be fake religion. Jesus Christ died on the cross. And his dying on a cross in our place turned away the wrath of God against our sin. That's how we have forgiveness. Now Number three, God's love lives within us. God's love lives within us. Verse seven, beloved, let us love one another, for love is from God. Whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. John kind of works through it backwards there. He gives the result first. We love one another. He says where that comes from. Love is from God. And then he gives a little a little proof. This has been a recurring theme in John. Our Christian love is further evidence that we truly are God's children. Whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. kind of works backwards in the logic. But if you if you want to read verse seven with me now backwards, you can see the flow of things. First it says, whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. So that needs to happen first. We need to be born again. We need to be born of God. We need to know God. And when that happens, now we're a recipient. of God's love. Love is from God. And now, as recipients of God's love, we love one another. He starts with the command and then just gives the reasons for the command. Let us love one another. Because love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. So what about the person who does not love? Right. Are they born of God? Do they know God? Or whoever loves Has been born of God and knows God. And then also, verses eleven to twelve, God's love lives within us. Beloved, if God so loved us, We also ought to love one another. No one has ever seen God, but if we love one another, God abides in us, and his love is perfected in us. Which means Not that we love each other perfectly. In Scripture that means something's coming to maturity. His love comes to maturity within us. And think just think about what happens to each one of us. Think about what happens to you as you mature. Your discernment grows. So God's love lives within us and comes to maturity in us. And I'm going to end this on one verse from Matthew 7. 12. You probably know it as the golden rule. There's so much we could say about Christian love. We already did one message on it. And to finish the sermon series in 1 John, I'm sure we'll revisit Christian love again. But I want to read Matthew 7. 12 to close this sermon. So whatever you wish that others would do to you Do also to them, for this is the law and the prophets. And that golden rule summarizes the law of love You want others to be kind to you? Be kind to them. You want others to be patient with you? Be patient with them. You want others to be forgiving toward you? Be forgiving toward them. Brothers and Sisters, that's the love of God living within us. God is love. God has loved us And God's love lives within us. And you can receive God's love today. In your heart, by faith, by believing in the Lord Jesus Christ, that he died in your place. To turn away the wrath of God for your sins. You can have the gift of eternal life. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Thank you for loving us. And I pray that each one of us would grow and grow and grow and grow in an appreciation and knowledge of your love. And appreciation and knowledge that you've loved us, and in appreciation and knowledge and the seriousness of how important it is that your love lives within us. Therefore we live out that love one to another. And it's in Christ we lift this prayer. Amen.