Well let's take our Bibles and turn to Genesis chapters 10 and 11. And no, we will not be doing Uh a ver a phrase-by-phrase exposition of Genesis 10 and 11. This is more going to be a satellite image sermon rather than microscope really zooming in on the details. But Genesis 10 to 11 Seventy sinful nations. All right? Seventy sinful nations. And we'll come back to this later. when I do an overview of Genesis 1 to 11. But this is where the story is by the time you get to Genesis 11, you have a world that has 70 sinful nations, 70 nations under the judgment of God, small nation states I remember that from elementary school you learned about society and its development over the uh centuries. You learned about nations We have 70 nation states that developed after the flood, and in chapters ten and eleven we'll see how that happened. We'll see why that happened. But this is where we are, Genesis 10 and 11, 70 sinful nations. Let's go to the Lord one more time in prayer. Prayer for the message, for our time in the word, and then we'll launch into it. Father, we ask that you now would focus our minds on your word to be good students, to be good listeners, to meditate, to contemplate what we hear. We pray that you would use your word. By your Spirit, in our minds, in our hearts, conform us to the likeness of Christ. Help us to see our need for Him. And help us to see your great provision for us in Christ, that we would cherish Him. Look to him, believe in him, love him, serve him, to know him more deeply, to be more and more astounded with all that he is and all that he's done for us, Father. Fix our hearts on Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Even after a third major rebellion against God, this is where we are in Scripture, you've had the rebellion of Genesis 3, you've had the rebellion. of Genesis chapter 6, and now you have you'll have another rebellion in our passage today. Even after a third major rebellion against God, mankind is really good at doing that, yes? God does not abandon his purpose. And that is what gives us hope. And that is what keeps the story going. That's why the Bible is not just 11 chapters long. Alright? Even after man's rebellion, this third major rebellion in Scripture, and you're just a little ways into the Bible, God remains faithful to his purpose. God has not abandoned his purpose. Did you ever, I know you have, did you ever start a project but not finish it Even before I finished the question, you already knew where it was going. Did you ever plan a project and not start it? Right. Did you ever purpose to talk to somebody because you knew it was really important and you knew the right thing to do was to talk to them, but like me, you chickened out. And you didn't follow through. I mean, there's so many different ways we don't follow through. Sometimes just we forget, sometimes we just change our mind. Whatever. We start these projects and don't finish them. We plan them, but don't start them. And I just want us to know that God is not like this. Okay? God is not like this. God, from all eternity, had a purpose. He created the world. He began to work out his purpose. And despite man's rebellion, God does not give up on his purpose. Brothers and sisters, God will finish what he started. And he'll do it in exactly the way that he planned it out, exactly according to his blueprint. Exactly according to his plans. God began his purpose. He continues to work out and achieve his purpose, and he will bring his purpose to its perfect conclusion at the end of the age. And aren't you happy that God's brought you on board with him and his accomplishing his purpose? God has brought us into his kingdom. He has saved us. He's brought us into the church. He's using you, church, to accomplish his purpose in the world. Even after another rebellion, God does not abandon his purpose. And you knew that, even before I started talking about it. You know God is still forgiving sinners. In the world. Amen. He's still pouring his Holy Spirit into the hearts Of sinners, so that we can live for him and not ourselves. Amen? And not the fleeting treasures and pleasures of this world. But for God and his glory, God is still spreading the message of Jesus despite all opposition. Despite all skepticism, despite all hatred for the truth and for biblical morality, God is faithfully, powerfully, graciously Spreading the message of Jesus and bringing lost sinners into his kingdom to be with him forever. God has not, will not, cannot abandon his purpose. Because he's faithful to his word, and that would contradict his character. The one thing God does not do, he does not and will not contradict his own character and who he is and what he's about. That's what gives us hope. Well, we are not going to read both chapters in total to get started, but to springboard us, I do want us to read Chapter 10, verse 32. That's the last verse in chapter 10. And we'll read through chapter 11, verse 9. Alright, 10, 32. through 11, 9. And then we'll back up and do that satellite image sermon, satellite image view of both chapters, chapters 10 and 11. But just to get us started and in the right frame of frame of mind. Genesis 10, 32 through 11, 9. These are the clans of the sons of Noah, according to their genealogies. In their nations, and from the nations spread abroad on the earth after the flood. Now the whole earth had one language In the same words. And as people migrated from the east, they found a plain in the land of Shenar and settled there. By the way, that's southern Iraq. Right. Verse three, and they said to one another, Come, let us make bricks and burn them thoroughly. And they had brick for stone and bitumen for mortar. Then they said, Come, let us build ourselves a city and a tower with its top to the top in the heavens, and let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth And the Lord came down to see the city and the tower, which the children of man had built. And the Lord said, Behold, they are one people, and they have all one language And this is only the beginning of what they will do. And nothing that they purpose to do will now be impossible for them. Come, let us go down there and confuse. Their language, so that they may not understand one another's speech. So the Lord dispersed them from there over the face of all the earth. And they left off building the city. Therefore its name was called Babel, because there the Lord confused the language of all the earth. And from there the Lord dispersed them over the face of all the earth. Well, we'll come back to that part of the passage, but you see what's trying to be achieved is just an authoritarian regime over all mankind, a a one world government that's tethered to man-made religion. Can you think of a worse thing? for human society, then authoritarian regime over all mankind, and also the principles and the governance of that authoritarian uh regime is tied to and based on man-made religion. A false God, false worship, false religion, that would be horrible. This is the third major rebellion in Scripture. You have Genesis 3 and the fall into sin Which brings sin and death into the world. And then you have Genesis chapter 6, that intermarriage from Genesis 6, the whole world, all the thoughts of every person was only evil all the time except for one man Noah and God saved Noah and his family. Now you have this third major rebellion in mankind and God will come in judgment. You see this pattern is emerged in scripture. You have man's rebellion, and then God comes in judgment, but he also comes with grace to preserve and grace to save. Chapter 3, you have rebellion, and so you have judgment, but you also have grace that preserves and grace that saves. Chapter 6. You have rebellion, but you also have and then you have judgment because of the rebellion, the flood, but you also have grace that preserves and grace That saves. Same thing here. You have rebellion, so you'll have a judgment. This is dispersing. This is this dividing. God is disinheriting Mankind in in dispersing them into these nations, you have judgment, but you also will have grace that preserves and grace That saves. And this is the nature of history. God's preserving grace and God's saving grace in the midst of judgment. for mankind's rebellion. That's history. That's the story of Scripture. Right there. And it finds its high point in Christ. The Savior. You have this third major rebellion against God. God does not abandon his purpose, but rather he keeps things going and he sets the stage for the rest of the Bible Now, you'll see on your outline three simple points to give us this satellite image sermon on Genesis 10 and 11. And you'll see number one, we'll look at the 70 nations of the world. Alright, that's Number one. We'll look at select verses for chapter 10 to do that. By the way, interesting tidbit here. Chapter 10 of Genesis is the first time we see the word nation. In scripture. That's interesting. Maybe you never thought about that. You don't have nations before this. Genesis chapter 10 is the first time we see the word nations. For the rest of the Bible, nations are very Very important. If you don't understand nations, you can't understand the rest of the story. But it starts in chapter 10 of Genesis. Number one, the 70 nations of the world. Number two, we'll look at a little bit more uh closely at this third major rebellion of the world, and then number three on your outline, you can see that God continues advancing his purpose in the world. That has to be true, because the Bible keeps going, right? You can there's still pages for you to read. Read after this. God advances his purpose in the world. So, number one, the 70 nations. Number two, this third rebellion. Number three, God advances his purpose. Now In chapter 10, we see the genealogy of Noah and his three sons. Who in here, raise your hand if you've ever looked up your genealogy? I know there's websites you can can do this. There's uh I think some companies you can send in some information, they'll do it for you. I see lots of heads nodding. You can look up your genealogy. And that was the word at the end of chapter 10 and verse 32, according to their genealogies. These are the clans of the sons of Noah according to their genealogies. All right, that is um just your heritage. Your genealogy is where you came from. It's the list of your family going back, going back. Genealogy. And in chapter 10, we see the genealogy of Noah and his three sons. First of all, Japheth. Look at chapter 10, verse 1 2 and 5 for Japheth, all right? Genesis 10, 1. These are the generations of the sons of Noah. Shem, Ham, and Japheth, sons were born to them after the flood. So verse 2, it starts on Japheth, the sons of Japheth, Gomer, Magog, Madai. Javon, Tubal, Meshach, and Tiris. And you can skip down to the end of it in verse 5. From these, the coastland peoples Spread in their lands, each with his own language, by their clans in their nations. Generally speaking, this will be Western Asia and then into Europe. The coastlands, that that northern coast of the Mediterranean. You'll see a map on the back of your outline if you flip that over. It doesn't list all of these nations. It doesn't do an exhaustive um mapping out of the genealogies here. But I'll give you a general idea of the area of the world we're dealing with and with the color coding you can get a general area of the nations, the genealogies of each But anyway, that is Japheth. And then in verse 6, you'll see the genealogy of Ham. So look at verse 6, the sons of Ham. Cush, Egypt, Put, and Canaan. I like that one put because in uh a book where there's extremely difficult names of people and extremely difficult names of places Every once in a while you come to a nice three-letter word, put. Alright, so that's ham begins in six and then go down to verse 20. These are the sons of Ham by their clans, their languages, their lands, and their nations. So you You see this now. Chapter 10 is giving you the full scope of it. And once you get into 11, 11, chapter 11 is important because 11 tells you how you got there. How did you get these different nations? in these different lands with these different languages. How did you get there? Chapter 11 tells us that. You see chapter 10 is giving you the full picture of the bird's eye view. But that is Han from 6 to 20, and then Shem, Shem, look at verse 21, to Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber. Which most scholars think that this is the background of uh the word Hebrew, where the Hebrews comes from, and that there's a good reason for that. We'll see in just a few moments here. To Shem also, the father of all the children of Eber, the elder brother of Japheth, children were born. Go down to verse 30. The territory in which they lived extended from Mesha in the direction of Sefar to the hill country of the east. These are the sons of Shem by their clans, their languages, their lands, and their nations. You see? Different clans or or family units and their languages and their lands and their nations. This must be an answer to prayer for you. I know for a lot of you you probably woke up this morning thinking, I really hope he does the genealogies of Ham, Shem, and Japheth for search tomorrow. Like that's one thing that's really missing from my devotional life. Really praying, Lord, let it be. Well, here you go. Your prayer has been answered. But it is important, especially this line of Shem , a blessing had already been spoken upon Shem Which was hinting at that this is where the Savior will come from from the line of Shem. And in Genesis chapter 12, well actually even toward the end of Genesis 11, but once you get into Genesis 12, you're just full gear right into that from with Abram. The narrative of Abram, this is the fulfillment of God, is going to bring the Savior from the line of Shem Anyway, you have these genealogies that led to these different nations, different languages, different Lands. Now, one more verse on Genesis from Genesis 10, and that is verse 25. Genesis 10, 25, it's extremely important. Because it tells us when chapter 11 happens. Alright, I'll say that again. I'll say that again. Genesis 1025 tells us when chapter 11 happens. Chapter 11 is very important. And uh this Tower of Babel story. Most of you know the story of the Tower of Babel and how important it is. 1025, to Eber were born two sons. The name of the one was Peleg, for in his days the earth was divided, and his brother's name was Jochtan. So it's in the days of Eber that the Tower of Babel incident happened, and actually he named one of his sons after it. He named one of his sons Peleg, which is means division or divided. So the Tower of Babel incident of this authoritarian regime connected to a man-made system of worship and religion, God comes in judgment. and disperses, uh confuses their language, disperses them, disinherits mankind, uh divides them into these different nations and different different lands with different languages happened in the time of Eber. And so that's why most scholars think this name Eber, those of Eber, the Hebrews, took Took to be the name, the traditional name for that particular group, the Hebrews, the line of Shem, the Hebrews. And um that's the seventy nations of the world from the genealogy of Noah and his Three sons. Just trying to get some practical application from this, the general point that God does not abandon his purpose is extremely encouraging for Christians. Because as his beloved children, we still fall short in many ways. Amen. We fall short in many ways. But God sticks With his purpose in our lives. Are you with me on that? There's a rebellion in Genesis three, God sticks with his purpose. There's a rebellion in Genesis six, God sticks with his purpose. There's a rebellion in Genesis 11. God sticks with his purpose. And we still have these little rebellions in our hearts where we love things we shouldn't love. And these little rebellions in our mouths, where we say things we shouldn't say. And we have these little rebellions in our minds, thinking things and wanting things. And pursuing things and being about things that we should not be about. We still have sin living in us. We have these little miniature rebellions all the time. So take heart that God does not abandon his purpose with us. Because God's purpose with us is based on his love and his faithfulness. And his grace and mercy upon us in Christ. There are some days that we feel like giving up, but God sustains us Because he's going to fulfill his purpose for us. There are some days when you feel completely alone, but God consoles you and consoles you. Comforts you and reminds you that you're not alone, that He's with you. That's because He hasn't given up His purpose for your life. There's some times maybe where you feel not worthy At all that you should be saved and have assurance of salvation. But he strengthens us by his grace. He strengthens us by his grace and he reminds us that we are correct. We're not worthy. To be saved. But salvation is a gift of his grace that is not earned. It's It's not purchased with money. It's not purchased with good deeds. We don't barter with our religion. We do this much religion, God saves us. We are not worthy. We are unworthy sinners saved by grace. And we need to remember that. Remember that God will never abandon his purpose for you. He will, if I if I had the time to do two sermons this morning, which I don't, I won't, don't get scared. This is just a joke, okay? I would have a little four points to summarize God's purpose for you as a Christian, that He will not abandon His purpose for you. Number one, He'll keep you to the end. He will keep you to the end and present you before God, holy, blameless, justified. According to his purpose, he will keep you to Keep you to the end. the end. According to his purpose, he will conform you to the likeness of Christ. He will conform you to the likeness of Christ, putting sin to death and bringing holiness to life. According to his purpose, he'll keep you to the end, he'll conform you to his likeness, according to his purpose, he will answer your prayers and provide for you all of your needs. He will answer your prayers. That's what the Bible teaches, that God answers the prayers of His children. He will answer your prayers according to His perfect wisdom, according to His perfect plan. He 'll provide for you all your needs. Because he's faithful. And the fourth point would be, according to his purpose, God will use you in the world for the sake of his name, for the sake of his kingdom. He will do that. Sometimes we don't feel that way, do we? Actually, a lot of times we don't feel that way. But that's because we're observing things and we're evaluating things from a worldly mindset, from an earthly perspective. But when we get in a biblical mindset, in an eternal perspective, God will enable us to see that He is using you. For his kingdom. He is using you, church. He is using you, child of God, to represent him in the world and to accomplish his will in the world. That's how God accomplishes his will. It's through his word and through his people. through his word, through his people. So take heart that you belong to Christ through faith, by virtue of his blood, by virtue of his resurrection life He will keep you to the end. He'll conform you to his likeness. He'll answer your prayers and provide for your needs. And he'll use you in the world for his name, for his glory, for his kingdom. Now, what better way to live is there than that? I mean that's what life is about, brothers and sisters. God accomplishing his purpose in our lives for his glory. It's all, Vince, am I right or wrong about this? It's all about God's glory. It's all about God being glorified, being seen For who he is, being known, being loved for who he is, being cherished for who he is. This incredible God, his glorious grace, his infinite power, his perfect wisdom, perfect justice. Righteousness and on and on and on. His goodness, his unending, unfailing goodness. God's glory to be seen, known, loved, and worshipped. That's the reason we exist, beloved. Get on board with that. You won't go wrong. Are you looking to him daily? Are you growing more and more Astounded with Jesus Christ over the years, over the decades? Or have you sat back and if you're honest in your own conscience, have you just pretty much gotten bored with Jesus Christ? Don't get bored with Christ, but grow in cherishing him and seeking him , being more astonished at everything about him. The seventy nations of the world. God keeping his purpose going. Secondly, the third major rebellion of the world. This is chapter 11. Verses nine and one. This is about, this is just an estimate, okay? This is about Uh 2400 BC, okay, in southern Iraq, where this dispersion occurs. This third major rebellion of the world from chapter 11, verses 1 to 9. Just for, we already read this, but just as a representation, look at verse 4. Then they said, come, let us build ourselves a city. And the tower with its top in the heavens, let us make a name for ourselves, lest we be dispersed over the face of the whole earth. Now you can summarize what the leaders are trying to do for mankind right here. First of all, they're trying to determine their own way to God. Because this tower is a ziggurat or a stepped pyramid. It was a place of worship. It would have been the capital city, the capital building. It will reach the heavens. We will make our way to God. And anyone else who will come to God will come through us in our man-made worship and our man-made religion. And you also see they're all about their own glory. We'll make a name for ourselves. We're not going to pursue the glory of God. We'll not be about the name of God. We'll make a name for ourselves. Our own power, our own influence, our own wealth, our own name, our own control over other people. Totalitarian regime. Tethered to a man-made religion and system of worship. So God comes down in judgment. Verse 8. So the Lord dispersed them from there over the face of all the earth. And they left off building the city. So in a special act of providence, God puts a stop to this rebellion. And that actually is an act of kindness for mankind, isn't it? Because you don't want to live in a society under a totalitarian regime of Leaders who have explicitly set themselves against God and His will for the world. What we want is godly leaders. We certainly don't want a totalitarian regime that's centered on Man-made pagan idolatry and worship. And if you can engage your imagination and your mind's eye, you can just think of maybe some examples. From history where that's happened, or you could just in theory understand just how horrible that would be to live. So God comes down in judgment, but also in a greater kindness for mankind to preserve them. He disperses the nations Now an overview of Genesis 1 to 11, which is called primordial history or primeval history, which just means from the beginning. Alright, you have from creation To 70 nations under judgment. That's Genesis 1 to 11. This this first history, this primordial history, the first chunk of narrative in Scripture from creation To a world of sinful nations. Now, in the rest of the Old Testament is a story of God making his own nation Alright, you knew that, right? But this is 1 to 11, from creation to 70 nations under judgment. The rest of the Old Testament is God making his own nations in the midst of the sinful nations. And On the count of three, the name of God's own nation in the Old Testament, one, two, three. That was weak. One, two, three, Israel. It's gonna make sure you're tracking with this. A lot of information. This is like a fire hose of information. So I've got to take these little pauses and just make sure I have not lulled you to sleep. That's not on you, that's on me. Right. Creation to a world of sinful nations, and then beginning with Abraham, Abram, God changes his name to Abraham, you have the story of God making his own nation to be a light among the nations. To be a light in the darkness, to represent God, to know God, to love God, to serve God, to worship God properly, and represent God to the world, the nation of Israel. And then in the New Testament, with the coming of Jesus, is God bringing salvation to the world, first to his own nation, and then to the rest of the nations. That's the story of Scripture right there. John 8 12, again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. Maybe you have not believed in Jesus and turned to Him for salvation yet. But you can do that today. Right where you sit in your heart, you can turn to Jesus And believe in him for salvation. Enter into his kingdom and have new life. Have the forgiveness of sins. Have the hope of heaven. The hope of eternal life in the presence of God. If you've heard the message of Jesus dying in the place of sinners, if you've heard the message, the historical truth of Jesus' resurrection so that you know You know that Jesus died for sinners, and you know that Jesus rose from the dead so that he can save you because he's still living. He's not dead anymore. He's still living as a source of salvation. And you come to him, you come to Jesus in faith, and you're saved. And that's the only step to receive salvation. There's no other, no additional steps We say almost every week, if you come to faith in Jesus, if you've been saved, come to us. We want to help you with the next steps of faith. Right. Those are steps of obedience after salvation. Those are not additional steps to get you saved. Does that make sense? Right, the only step you need to take to be saved is in your heart put your faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the true gospel. That's what this church is about In a world of false gospels, in a world of superficial gospels, we want people to come here and hear the light of the true gospel that Jesus died in the place of sinners rose to eternal life, and if you believe in him, you are saved for all eternity. That's our message. There's no additional steps. Don't add religion to it. Don't add steps to it. Don't add obedience to it. Salvation is received by grace through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's important to remind ourselves of that and think about that when we're talking about rebellion in the world and sin in the world, and that's where we are. We had number one, the 70 nations, number two, the third rebellion. Number three, you have God advancing his purpose. God continues to advance his purpose. Look at chapter 11, verse 10. These are the generations of Shem Just reminding us again that we're in the line of Shem. Look at verses 26 to 32, which is a transition paragraph to chapter 12. What it's doing now is at the end of these two chapters, the last thing that happens in this Genesis 1 to 11 historical chunk, the last thing that happens is God zooms in on a particular family because it's within that family that God will fulfill his purpose of salvation. So the last thing you get is a zooming in in the line of Shem to a particular family. Um chapter 11, verse. Let's go 27. Now these are the generations of Tirah. And this is in the line of Shem. The generations of Tirah. Tirah fathered Abram, Nahor, and Haran. And Haran fathered Lot. Haran died in the presence of his father, Tirah, in the land of his kindred in Ur of the Chaldeans. And Abram and Nahor took wives. The name of Abram's wife was Sarai, and the name of Nahor 's wife, Milkah, the daughter of Haran, the father of Milkah, Anishkah. Now Sarai was barren, she had no child. Tirah took Abram, his son, and Lot, the son of Haran, his grandson, and Sarai , are you memorizing all this? There's a lot there, I know. But just just keep reminding yourself, this is just one family. He's just zooming in on one family. That's all he's doing. Alright, his uh in the middle of verse 31 Sarai, his daughter-in-law, his son Abram's wife, and they went forth together from Ur of the Chaldeans to go into the land of Canaan , But when they came to Haram, they settled there. The days of Tarah were 205 years, and Tarah died in Haran. Now this is a relocation of a family. You're in the line of Shem, in the line of Torah, but ultimately ultimately it It's bringing them closer to the land of Canaan, and it's going to focus on Abram, as you well know, in chapter 12. Which begins the story of the patriarchs, the story of Abram, and it's it's through Abram and in Abram that God's own nation will come, Israel, and then it's from God's own nation, Israel, that the Savior of the world comes. It's very simple. You have nations, and then you have Abram. From Abram you get Israel, from Israel you get the Savior, Jesus Christ, and from Jesus Christ salvation goes to the whole world, first to the Jew, then to the nations, then to the Israel to the Gentile. Alright. No, there's a lot there. That's what happens when you want to finish a series and do two chapters in one. morning. But hopefully, and I mean this, this is what I've been meditating on all week as I've been getting ready for this. Hopefully this Personal application reminder sticks with you and is an encouragement for you all the days of your life that God is faithful. He will not abandon his purpose in the world. He will not abandon his purpose in your life as a child of God. He will not abandon his purpose. For the church. There's all kinds of forces in the world that do not like the church, that do not like the kingdom of God, and they're on assault And scoffing at what God is doing in the world. But the church will not only go on, but continue to increase. Continue to grow, continue to spread, because Christ promised to build his church and he will build it to completion. So no, there's not going to be an exam with the genealogies of Ham, Shem, and Japheth They're locations in all of this. Well maybe they're locations. But remember that God is faithful. And let that be your guide, your guiding light. In this world, that God is faithful to all that He's promised you. Let's go to Him in prayer. Father, we thank you for your purpose. We thank you most of all for Jesus Christ. His righteous life, his sacrificial death, his powerful resurrection, and his Holy Spirit that dwells within us. It's in his name we lift this prayer. Amen.