2 Thessalonians 2 7 through 12. Now, we did not meet last week, but the week before we did the first part of the chapter, and the point that we Did not get into, but the point we left off on was the nature of the work of the man of lawlessness. The passage does talk about the nature of the work of the man of lawlessness. That's what we're going to study tonight. It's mainly going to be 9 through 12, but I want to include verse 7 because of the phrase, mystery of lawlessness. And as soon as I'm done praying, I'll summarize what the mystery of lawlessness is, give you our three main points. But what it is and how it fits into God's purpose. See, that's the thing. God's purpose. and that God's purpose is unstoppable and unalterable, and the mystery of lawlessness falls under that category, like everything else does. And so that's what that's what we'll look at this evening. Sound good? Sound great. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you are bringing all things together in Christ. We thank you for his incarnation. What a miracle. Blows our minds that the eternal Son would become flesh to be our Savior, to live a righteous life, to die a sacrificial death, to come back to glorious eternal life. To ascend into heaven and from there to give us the Holy Spirit. Father, we thank you for the Holy Spirit. We thank you for salvation. The forgiveness of sins, a relationship with you that nothing can take away from us, the hope of eternal life, the hope of resurrection glory We praise you. We thank you. We remember tonight your power and your grace toward us, lowly, helpless sinners. We pray this prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. The mystery of godliness is that God uses the wicked to judge the wicked within history. We'll see that in our passage. And I'll give you some Old Testament cross-references where you see that same principle in history in the Old Testament God uses the wicked to judge The wicked in history. At the end of history, who's going to judge the wicked? Christ. God in Christ. In Christ, the head of his church. So I don't have room to fit the qualifiers, but God uses the wicked to judge the wicked in history according to his purpose. Not everything that is happening through and in the wicked is God's judgment. This is One of the things God does in history. The first topic we'll look at will be the man of lawlessness. And though it may disappoint, we're going to focus on what the passage focuses on, which is the nature of his work. The man of lawlessness and then the mystery of lawlessness Which is revealed and which comes to historical expression In the man, at the mystery of lawlessness. So obviously we'll talk about what mystery is in general, and then we'll talk about the mystery of lawlessness in particular. And then the final point we'll look is actually another passage The mystery of lawlessness, what would be the opposite? It's another phrase that comes from Scripture. in First Timothy, written by Paul, who also wrote Second Thessalonians. The mystery uh think of phrases in 1 Timothy, for great we profess is the mystery of godliness. The mystery of godliness. So here we have the man, the mystery, and then the mystery of God living. So here's our outline for tonight. Overarching point. God uses the wicked to judge the wicked in history according to his purpose. Let's go ahead and read. 2 Thessalonians. We'll begin in verse 7. 2 Thessalonians chapter 2. We'll begin in verse 7 and go through verse 12 and see if you can spot this idea that even though This is satanic activity through a man of lawlessness. Behind it all, and in it all, and through it all, is God Enacting his judgment. Verse 7. For the mystery of lawlessness is already at work. Only he who now restrains it will do so until he is out of the way. We're not talking about that clause tonight. We did last class. That's just not the focus tonight. the restrainer. Verse 8, and the lawless one will be revealed. We also talked about that two weeks ago. It is a man. It is a man It's not an unknown spiritual force. It's not a demon. It is a man, a man of lawlessness. Whom, middle of verse 8 now, whom the Lord Jesus will kill or will bring to nothing with the breath of his mouth, literally the spirit of his mouth. And destroyed by the appearance of his coming Now you get into the nature of the work of the man of lawlessness. Verse 9. The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan. With all power and false signs and wonders. Not true signs and wonders. What kind? False. Pseudo. Pseudo -signs. Pseudo -wonders. Verse 10, and with all wicked deception for those who are perishing, because they refused to love the truth and to be saved. It's a mockery is a counterfeit version of how God testifies to his goodness and spreads his kingdom through signs and wonders and through the power of his word and the truth. The man of lawlessness and the power of Satan, satanically inspired and motivated, uses false signs and false wonders and false teachings. Verse eleven. Therefore, God sends them a strong delusion. So that they may believe what is false, in order that all may be condemned who did not believe the truth, but had pleasure in unrighteousness. The activity of the man of lawlessness, which is a satanic activity, does not happen outside the umbrella of God's eternal purpose It does not happen outside of the realm of God's sovereignty, as nothing does. God uses the man of lawlessness to bring judgment It's the beginning of judgment. Judgment does come in different ways. In history and throughout history, final judgment, climactic judgment, will not happen until the end of history. Well you see that God uses the wicked to judge the wicked is a underlying principle here. Who is the one that sends this strong delusion? Look at the beginning of verse 11. We should have no problems with this, at least seeing it. We might have intellectual problems of how all this fits together, God's providence and God's sovereignty. We don't have all the answers. There because we're just not as smart as God. Okay? We'd have the mind of God if we had all the answers on those things. But who is the one who sends the delusion? God sends the delusion. And it is an act of judgment against the wicked. It's fully within God's rights. To use his enemies to bring judgment against his enemies. And this is not a rare occasion. And we'll flush this point out When we get here. Alright? So just store that away in your back pocket. And then when we get on point number two. But for now, let's look at point number one. The man of lawlessness and focusing on his work. And this comes from verses 9 and 10. And if you look down at 9 and 10, you'll see there's Three aspects of the work of the man of lawlessness that's given here And by the way, this is either a man who was to be revealed in the tribulation leading up to the destruction of Jerusalem in A. D. 70. Here, I have to read it again. A D seventy. You know, for those of you who've come to my classes before know that I'm so self-conscious about that. Every time I say it, I feel like people hear this. 8070 And I feel like it's going to be so confusing. So I always come up here and write, the year of our Lord 70. Demand of Lawlessness was, and that actually is my view, and I gave the arguments for that view two weeks ago, and that is on sermon audio, if you want to see those basic arguments Or it is a man who's going to be revealed in the final tribulation before the end of the world as we know it. So most likely one of those two. Alright, so I'll at least say that. And maybe both. The provisional Man of lawlessness and then a climactic man of lawlessness. I think in principle that's not out of the question, although that's not explicitly written in the text. Um but three things of the nature of his work, see if you can spot them. Number one, it's satanic Did you see that? Verse 9. The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan. The adversary, the adversary of God, the adversary of God's people, the adversary of God's truth, the devil, the deceiver, the accuser of the brethren. Just you and me. Satanic activity through a man. Satanic activity through a man. Keep a marker in 2 Thessalonians 2 and flip to Luke 22, 3 and 4. Luke twenty two, three and four, just an example Well that's that's definitely the wrong passage. I know it is. Just looking at it, it's not it's not far enough along. I am looking for let's do this Ukrainian Oh yeah, it is right. I was just in the wrong chapter. Yeah, that's the right one. Just an example of Satan-inspired work in a man. Luke 22, 3, then Satan entered Judas called Iscariot, who is one, who was of the number of the twelve. And he went away and conferred with the chief priests and officers how he might betray him to them. And they were glad and agreed to give him money. So he consented and saw an opportunity to betray him, to betray Jesus to them in the absence of a crowd. So Judas under the influence of Satan. The satanic wicked activity of plotting with the enemies of Jesus. To betray Jesus, and he's the one, he's the man from an earthly perspective who made this possible for them to capture Jesus without a public outcry, which is what they were trying to avoid. So that they did not get in trouble, and the whole thing got put down. Satan entered into Judas called Iscariot. So Satan is active. In this world. But he is not the King of Kings and Lord of Lord. He is not sovereign God over all things. He does not have absolute power. Satan and God are not equal but opposite forces. Not even close. Satan is a created being. And any authority or power that he has is delegated and allowed by God for God's purposes in God's plan. But Satan is active. We need to be on guard against his schemes and lies in our own lives, in our homes. in the church. So we avoid division and infighting and false doctrine and all kinds of things. Going back to 2 Thessalonians 2. The coming of the lawless one is by the activity of Satan. So it's a satanic ministry, ministry in quotes, right? It's not a biblical, a true biblical, godly ministry. But it's a satanic counterfeit. The second thing that you see of the nature of the work of the man of lawlessness is that it's Characterized by false signs and wonders. And there are false signs and wonders Even today, the sign of tongues is faked All the time. How can you make such a judgment? Well, by observing and measuring it against the Word of God. What the what the gift of tongues and the miracle of tongues is in Scripture is speaking other languages When someone is speaking gibberish that's not a language, it's a false sign, it's false tongues. That's when you measure it by the word of God, you know that it's false. It's easy to fake that. That's why it's the most common one that's done by false teachers. The other reason I know uh that it's false is if the doctrine that's being taught in conjunction with it is false doctrine, then I know that that's a false sign. In a false wonder. There are fake miracles. It's easy to dupe people psychologically And spiritually, it's easy to fake miracles, it's easy to trick people. People love to fall for that stuff because of the psychological benefits and the psychological high that's connected. With it. What's the application for us? We must take our stand on the Word of God. We must measure all things. by the word of God. We are people of truth. We stand on the truth. We're people who love the truth. We've been changed and transformed by the truth. We've been captivated by the truth of God because God's truth reveals God. So if we love God, we'll love His truth. It shows us who He is. If we want to live for God, We'll love God's truth because it shows us how to live for God. And you can multiply the examples and the practical applications. We are a people of truth. God's truth that He's revealed to us. It's not a human invention. It's not just the traditions of man. It's God's word to us. In In human form, in a book, written down, printed on pages in a book. But it is God's word. It is God's revelation. This is our standard. This is our standard, and we do not need to be ashamed. We better not be ashamed of measuring all things by the Word of God, whether it's teachings or whether it's practice. And friends, not just the practice of others, our practices , the way we live in our homes. The way we speak in our jobs, the way we treat each other and talk about each other, our church traditions, our church practices, everything must be measured against the word of God's truth. It is not just one set of truths among a whole host of equally valid truths. It is the source, the standard Of truth for all things in life, faith, practice. And if we sacrifice that, either theoretically Which would which just mean in our beliefs or the way we think, or practically or functionally, which means you know the way we're doing things. Uh that that's the first domino that's gonna fall on the way to just outright denying God, not living for God, not worshiping God as He's called us to. And I make no bones about it. I'm not ashamed to say the Bible is my standard, and the Bible is my only source book, and that does not guarantee that everything I teach or say about the Bible is going to be Correct because I am a man, I am sinful, I am limited, I am fallible, my practice of exegesis is not going to be perfect. My use of hermeneutics and interpretive principles is not going to be perfect, but I'll tell you this, I'm not going somewhere else for a source book of truth. So I'm not ashamed to say that there are false tongues, false signs, and false wonders that don't measure up to the teaching of God's word or if the teaching that's uh being advocated in conjunction with those things. If it violates the gospel and violates God's word, I do not want any part of it. It's not of God. It is not of God. Are you with me on that? Am I too strong on this point? We're a people of The word. And that makes us the opposite of the first point, satanic activity, right? We want to be filled and led by. A spirit, but what spirit? The Holy Spirit, not Satan. We don't need false signs and wonders to try to attract people to church to make it look like it's cool or something's going on over here. We have the gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of the Holy Spirit, the love and the unity of the Holy Spirit, and the miracle of salvation, the new birth that comes from the preaching and teaching of God's Word and the gospel. That's where we're planted. So satanic activity, number one , characterizes the nature of the work, the man of lawlessness. Number two, false signs and wonders. And number three Been alluding to this. Wicked deception. Verse 10. And with all wicked deception For those who are perishing. Because they refused to love the truth and to be saved. Now that'd make it interesting. Private devotional for each one of us or a discussion with you and your family and your friends. Those last two phrases. Loving the truth and being saved. Can't have one without the other. You can't have one without the other. We love the truth, and we are saved. We've been reconciled to God through Christ, aka saved. And we love the truth of it. We love the truth of it. But there's a wicked deception that comes for those who are perishing. That phrase makes me interpret this as The people in view are those outside of the church. If you were to study through 1 John, the only uh 1 John and 2 John The word Antichrist is used, but first John mainly and study the uses of Antichrist. And his ministry, it appears as if that is within the professing church and is false doctrine within the church that's the danger. An adversary. Doctrinal adversary within the church. This appears to be more focused on those outside the church with all wicked deception for those who are perishing. They refused to love the truth and they refused to be saved. They refused to love the truth and they refuse to be saved This is the nature of the work of the man. Satanically inspired, number one. He's doing false signs and wonders to get attention and to dupe people. Number two. And number three, lies. Tells lies. And that may not sound like a profound point for a deep spiritual Realization. Well, it's not meant to be. That's the work of the devil. He's been a murderer since the beginning. He's been a liar since the beginning. He's the father of lies. Lies destroy people. Lies destroy lives. Lies destroy families. Lies can destroy a job. Lies can destroy a nation. Lies can destroy and divide a church. Lies can destroy a pastor. If he falls for a lie, for a heresy, he starts preaching and teaching a heresy, he'll destroy himself and bring destruction upon others, maybe. They would destroy his family. Lies kill. It was a lie in Adam and Eve falling for a lie that plunged the world into this sin and death cursed state. Praise God for his mercy that this is not the final chapter. There's a story of redemption that transcends the story of the curse. And you're glad there is. Amen? Right? But this is not our final destiny here Satanic activity through men, through a man, false signs and wonders, wicked deception. Now remind me. Lorna, sister, remind me at the end if there's time, say you forgot your diagram, and it'll it'll ring a bell. There is a diagram I'd like to get up on the board. But it's not absolutely necessary, so I'm not gonna do it now. But if we have time at the end and if you remind me, we'll do a little diagram. It's a timeline diagram. It's not one of my best. Just write a diagram at the bottom A diagram. Eventually you'll turn around and be like, oh yeah. Alright. Diagram. Is that spelled right? No. Project name. Yeah. It doesn't look like it should be a that looks weird. That looks like diagonal. Someone Google that. That's bugging me. That's an R. Yeah, that's right. That's right. You're right. That is an R, but then it's all lowercase and then a capital R. Yeah. That's a capital R, that's why it's from your own. Looks like a small E, doesn't it? No, it's anyway. Anyway, look at the mystery. Oh that I could have just I could have just drawn the diagram already. No, I couldn't um no I couldn't um it'll take at least it'll take four minutes, sorry. So, the mystery of lawlessness. The underlying spiritual realities, some of the underlying principles behind this Just to put it in context, look at verse 7. The mystery of lawlessness is already at work. So it was already at work at that time in a man. That's important. I don't want to go down that rabbit trail, but Hone in, hone your mind in on this phrase, the mystery of lawlessness that was already at work. just had not come to its fruition, come to its revelation in this man, in uh in a fuller form or in full form. The mystery of lawlessness. And I believe, okay, so first of all, let's just talk about the word mystery, how it's used biblically. It's really simple. A truth that was hidden in the Old Testament, but it's now been revealed in the New Testament. Now that's a standard summary definition of the word mystery in its biblical sense. It's not a puzzle that God has tasked us with figuring out. It's a truth of God that had been hidden, often revealed in shadows and types, but not fully made known. So the gospel, the mystery of the gospel. hidden but now revealed in the New Testament. But I want to add to that simple and common definition of mystery It's a truth that was hidden in the Old Testament, but it's now revealed in the New Testament, pertaining specifically to how God accomplishes his purpose It pertains specifically to how God accomplishes his purpose. The mystery of lawlessness is connected to how he uses the lawless one in bringing judgment against his enemies in history. Judgment against the perishing. So this is it's not just an abstract truth. We're talking about historical truths. God reveals Himself in history. The work of redemption is a historical thing. God works out his redemption in history. Christ's work of salvation was a historical work. On this earth, in a human body, doing things on days with the sun in the sky. It's a historical work of redemption through which God reveals himself and also historical acts of judgment. And it all culminates at the climactic Glorious resurrection and redemption, and the climactic and tragic but truly righteous and holy judgment. at the end. So the mystery is a truth that was hidden in the Old Testament but now is revealed. Don't think in abstract truths. I know when this anything like this comes up, I know, look, I know I get on the hobby horse. I know I jumped down the rabbit hole on this because I'm convinced that one of the chief issues and chief problems of Christianity today in our culture is that it's viewed like it's a s just a set of ideas. And if I can ascribe to these ideas, but keep living life however I want, but I think that I'm forgiven, I think that I'm a child of God, I think that I'm going to heaven, that's not Christianity. It's not a philosophy. to ascribe to. It's not just a set of ideas. What I'm saying is it's not abstract. It's concrete. It's concrete. And the mystery of lawlessness is that same way it's God bringing judgment through a man against Those who hate him and hate his truth and refuse his truth and refused to be saved. And I get that from verses 11 and 12. Therefore, God sends them a strong delusion. So that they may believe what is false. Alright? So just let it sink in God sends them a strong delusion for a purpose. What's the purpose? Paul says it. So they believe what is false. That's right. In order that they may be condemned. It's bringing them to judgment. It's a judgment that they deserve. Who did not believe the truth but had pleasure in unrighteousness. You realize that Every lost person on earth today is being shown a mercy today because the judgment that they deserve is being withheld from them. And when we were lost, and we were God haters, and we were haters of the truth, and we were living for sin, God was showing us mercy. And praise the Lord, he intervened in our lives with redemptive grace to bring us into fellowship with himself through Christ. There is a day of grace still for those who are lost. If they would come to Christ. So God's goodness and God's kindness and God's mercy and God's grace to keep this thing going is It's a wonderful thing. It's according to his purpose. But God is the one who sent that delusion. So they may believe what is false, in order that they may all be condemned who did not believe the truth, but have pleasure in unrighteousness. It's an act of judgment in history. Alright, here we go. Old Testament background for this idea. Of God using the wicked to judge the wicked in history according to his purpose. Isaiah 10, 5 through 7. The book of Isaiah. Chapter ten, verses five through seven And here, it is not the man of lawlessness that God uses to bring judgment. It's a lawless nation, a Syria. Ah, Assyria. Isaiah 10. 5. This is God speaking, and here's what he says. Ah, Assyria. The rod of my anger should be clear enough. God used Assyria as a disciplining rod, as a judgment rod, a rod of his anger, a rod of his wrath. The staff, in their hands , is my fury. The staff, the spear, in the hands of the Assyrians. Is God's fury, it's God's wrath. Against the godless nation I send them. I send him And against the people of my wrath I command him to take spoil and seize plunder and to tread them down like the mire of the streets. Who's doing this? God is doing this God is using a godless nation to bring judgment against a godless nation. But he, Assyrian, he Does not so intend. See, Assyria didn't grasp what God was doing. He does not so intend. And his heart does not so think, but it is in his heart to destroy, to cut off nations, not a few. And then that's why Syria comes under judgment, too. They are not attacking Israel with righteous motives and holy motives Because they're not righteous and they're not holy. No, it's God who's sovereign over and in and through all things that's using Assyria to bring judgment. Against his rebellious people. Habakkuk, no, we'll do that one second. Jeremiah. Jeremiah 25, 8 and 9. Jeremiah Chapter twenty five, verses eight and nine. Now it is not the man of lawlessness. Now it is not Assyria. Now it is Nebuchadnezzar slash Babylon. Who God uses for judgment. Verse eight in Jeremiah twenty-five. Therefore, thus says the Lord of hosts, because you have not obeyed my words, behold, I will send for all the tribes of the north, declares the Lord. So who's going to send for the tribes of the north? Who's going to call for them? Tudicre's villain is it's his servant. Yeah, he's gonna use the he's gonna use Nebuchadnezzar as his servant And behold, I will send. So God is sending for all the tribes of the north, declares the Lord, and for Nebuchadnezzar, the king of Babylon, my servant. Which is high praise in the Old Testament, maybe the highest in terms of men. Moses was the servant of the Lord. Israel was called to be the servant of the Lord. A representative of God on earth. And in an ironic twist, you know how a pagan nation, a pagan king over a pagan nation being called the servant of God To bring judgment against the so-called would-be servant Israel, his chosen oppressed people. And I will bring them against this land and its inhabitants. God says, I will bring them, the Babylon, against this land, Judah, and its inhabitants, and against all these surrounding nations. I will devote them to destruction and make them a horror, a hissing, an everlasting desolation. Who is coming in judgment? Who is coming to destroy? The Lord God Almighty. Using Babylon is led by Nebuchadnezzar. And then the same This is the same one. We had Assyria, we had Babylon, and the same uh cross-reference to that Habakkuk I. Turn to Habakkuk I Micah Naum Habakek. I think that's right. Habakkuk 1 5 and 6 Look among the nations and see, wander, be astounded For I am doing the work in your days that you would not believe if told. For behold, I am raising up the Chaldeans, aka Babylonians. I am raising up the Chaldeans, that bitter and hasty nation, who marched through the breadth of the earth to seize dwellings not their own. And then go down to verse 12. Are you not from everlasting, O Lord? Are you not from everlasting? O Lord, my holy one, we shall not die. O Lord, you have ordained them as judgment, and you, O rock, have established them for reproof. You who are of purer eyes than to see evil and cannot look at wrong Part of the book of Habakkuk is Habakkuk's struggle with why God would use this pagan nation to bring judgment. All I want to point out is God uses a pagan nation. To bring judgment, he uses the wicked to judge the wicked. He uses lawless as a servant to judge the lawless. He uses his enemies to judge his enemies. Turn to Matthew 23, 34. This is a massive and massively important Topic of New Testament study and understanding the kingdom of God, understanding the nature of the church, the nature of Christ's work, the nature of What God is doing in the world. It's a massive topic. We're only looking at one passage or one verse. I mean it's two verses. Matthew 23. 34 through 36. And you understand I'm plucking a few verses out of a Large section in Matthew that's all about this. Therefore, I send you prophets, Jesus speaking. And wise men and scribes. Now you would think that that would make a people happy. Right? And rejoice. Celebrate in the streets. God has sent us prophets and wise men and scribes. But then he continues, some of whom you will kill and crucify. Some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town, so that on you, all right, now listen, on you People on earth with Jesus to whom he is speaking. On you may come. All the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel, which would have been the first child of God killed, murdered. To the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. And um why he's the other one listed there. Double check me on this, triple check me. I think he's the only one who was murdered in that place. So it's a representative of just how vile, just how hateful This persecution, this murderous spirit. But now he already said, beginning of verse 35: On you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth The judgment that that blood demands for it. The justice that that blood demands is going to come on them. Verse 36 confirms it Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. And as you read on and into verse 20, into chapter 24. And looking at the cross-references in the other gospels, the judgment is going to be destruction and invasion of Jerusalem destruction, desolation, the desecration and the desolation of the temple, by whom and through whom Rome, through the armies of Rome, God using his enemies to judge his enemies, apostate Israel, not true Israel, not spiritual believing Israel, but apostate. Israel. Think of those in the book of John where they said Abraham is their father, and Jesus said, No, your father is the devil. But again, whether it's the man of lawlessness, God using him according to his purpose to bring judgment, or Assyria, or Nebuchadnezzar, or Babylon, or the Roman armies, the Roman Empire. It's God using the lawless to judge the lawless in history according to his purpose. Now, what about this? My sin and your sin. Thinking cap on. If you didn't bring your thinking cap, we have them available. Just uh When and where for those in Christ, right? For those in Christ, I'm not asking this in a j in a generic way or an abstract way. When and where was judgment brought against Our sin. For those in Christ, when and where was judgment actually brought against your sin? At the cross. Alright. Through whom? Now remember, now not ultimately from whom, of course, from God, but through whom? The Romans and the Jews. The Romans and the Jews. The Romans and the apostate Jews. Alright. So even our sin, judgment was brought in history, in history, the historical realm, through lawless Through the lawless Acts twenty two Acts two twenty-three. Acts two twenty-three This Jesus delivered up according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. Well that we must have in our minds. All that's happening is happening according to the definite plan and foreknowledge of God. You crucified and killed by the hands of lawless men. So you see both of these aspects. Now we don't set these two things against one another. God set plan, God's definite plan, God is sovereign over all these things. We don't set that against what's happening in the historical level. No, it's God using the lawless men to uh betray Jesus, arrest Jesus. Torture him. Put him through this farce of a trial. And Nailed to a cross. You see, you crucified, you killed by the hands of lawless men That's how our judge, our sins came under judgment in the body of Christ. And again, please, now you've heard me preach about this. If you've heard me preach at all, you've heard me preach it about what happens on the cross. It's God pouring out judgment on his son. His judgment, his wrath, is a supernatural event. It's the miracle of Christ bearing our sins There's a supernatural element and there's a historical element. And we're Christians. We don't set those two things against one another. They're both true They're both true. Just as true as that Jesus is fully God and fully man, both of those things are true. Just like God is sovereign over salvation, and individuals have a responsibility and a duty to turn to Christ for salvation, both of those things are true. Just like this book. Was written down by human beings and was authored by God. Both of those things are true. And maybe the ultimate, no, definitely the ultimate, right? It's going to be. the uh foundation for all of these incomprehensible but nevertheless true not contradictory but incomprehensible truth. This is the foundational one. This is the fundamental one. God is one eternal essence who exists in In three eternal persons, equal persons, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. Not three beings, not three gods, one God existing in three persons Co-equal, co-eternal, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And the work of redemption reveals the nature of this God. Because he redeemed us by sending his son and pouring out his spirit. Father, Son, Spirit, the work of redemption is God's revelation of his triune nature. And it is incomprehensible, but it is understandable. And it is knowable because God has made it knowable. It wouldn't be knowable if God didn't reveal it to us. We're not that smart But God has revealed himself to us in his word. He's changed our minds by the power of his spirit. We can know God. What a miracle. What a blessing. We can know God. Not just know about him, but know him. So understanding the cross and understanding how God uses the wicked to judge the wicked, don't try to peel back the layers in an arbitrary and speculative way to try and Really figure out, well, how can that be? That's not fair, that's not right, I don't understand it. God is sovereign over all things, and He's sovereignly present in all things. And he's sovereignly working through all things. All things are from him, in him, for him, and unto him. However you want to say it, there are different passages that use different combinations of that. But God is working out everything in accordance with his purpose. Everything. The nitty-gritty of our lives. There's some difficult things going on in your life. I just heard a wonderful sermon. Uh earlier this week. I think it was earlier this week. It might have been last week. They blend together sometimes. on God's goodness. And don't think because bad things are happening in your life. Don't use that as an argument in your mind. to think that God is not good, or that God has not shown you goodness, or that God has not shown you kindness, or that God has not been faithful to his promises, or that God doesn't care for you. Bad things happening doesn't mean God is bad. God is good and God wants good for us. And anything bad that's happening within us, because that's what real bad stuff happens, amen. Or to us and around us, God is using all that for His purpose. One of those is to purify us, to purify us. Another one is to humble us. To show us we're not as great, we're not as smart, we're not as holy and good as we thought we are, or act like we are, some other people think we are. To purify us, to humble us To make us lean on him more, look to him more, depend on him more, pray to him more, which we all need. A, B, C, D. We all need all of those things more. God wants to draw us closer to him, to trust in him more, not less. So God uses everything. All things work together for the good of those who love God and who have been called according to his purpose. All things The mystery of lawlessness, that topic is no different. God is using the lawless to judge the lawless And that's exactly where going back to 2 Thessalonians now, that's where that discussion ends. And that's why I wanted to focus on that. The nature of the work, and then the mystery and how God uses it. God's using this for judgment And hopefully that will, you know, that there's even there's even a further purpose in that. That will have an effect to stir up and wake up onlookers And to bring some under the conviction of sin, to see that God is real, to see that God's judgment is real , stir to conviction of sin, and then where do we want to go from there to Christ? Right? Just having a conviction for sin doesn't mean we're saved. We need to go to Christ for forgiveness. Saved by faith. Saved by faith Not saved by feelings of guilt, not saved by feelings of sorrow, but from that place, going to Christ in faith and resting in him All right, this is oh it is no The Mr. Godliness, I just wanted to give uh The opposite phrase. There is a mystery of godliness too. The true and full and final way of godliness was not fully revealed in the Old Testament, but it has been fully revealed in the New Testament. 1 Timothy 3, 16 First Timothy. It should be like two pages , maybe three pages, three or four pages in your Bible. First Timothy three, sixteen No cliffhangers here. The mystery of godliness is that God uses the humiliation and the exaltation of his son to redeem sinners. And the only way I can be holy, and the only way you can be holy, the only way any sinner anywhere can be holy is to go to Jesus Christ. Who suffered unto glory for the redemption of sinners. That's the mystery of godliness. It was not fully revealed. The way of salvation was revealed in shadow and type and promise in the Old Testament, but not fully revealed to the coming of Christ. First Timothy three sixteen. Great indeed, great indeed, we confess, is the mystery of godliness. He was manifested in the flesh. Who's that talking about? What's that talking about? Christ. Christ and his It's almost Christmas time, you should know this. Incarnation. Right. The mystery of godliness is great. Sorry, I'm getting all revved up. The mystery of godliness is great. He was manifest in the flesh. You right to Christ, right to the incarnation of the eternal Son of God. Vindicated by the Spirit. That's his resurrection and ascension. That's his glory. So we go, suffering unto glory, manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels. Reigning in heaven. That's where Christ is right now. He suffered unto glory, the glory of his resurrection. ascended to heaven where he reigns as the great high priest over the people of God. And all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. He reigns as King of kings, Lord of lords, ruler of the kings of the earth. Revelation 1. 5 Manifested in the flesh, vindicated by the Spirit, seen by angels reigning in heaven, proclaimed among the nations. So what's happening as he's reigning in heaven? He's being preached among the nations. His kingdom is being heralded among the nations. There is a salvation. God came in the flesh. God suffered for sins. God reigns in heaven, in his son and through his son. Proclaimed among the nations, believed on in the world Taken up in glory. And those last two phrases there, the traditional, and I believe it's right, interpretation of those is that that is that that parallels The first two lines. He was manifested in the flesh Right. Parallels, at least on this view, he was believed on in the world. Because he did come, and not all believed in him. Many rejected him and killed him, but some did believe in him. Believed on in the world, and then taken up in glory. I believe taken up in glory parallels vindicated by the Spirit. So what you have here are Three couplets. The first couplet and the third parallel each other. And the parallel is Jesus' earthly ministry and then his resurrection and the ascension. And then the middle of that couplet, you have basically what's happening from that point on. That he's reigning in heaven, he's seen by angels, he's worshipped by angels, they're singing his praises. Not only as creator, but now also as redeemer, and he's being preached among the nations. This is how God brings sinners into eternal fellowship with himself, the preaching of the gospel in all the nations. Church, uh, we should never see ourselves as a as a self-contained closed group and make it make it really hard for people to come in. We should be quite the opposite. We should be the opposite. We're heralds. We're messengers. We're ambassadors. We're welcomers. We're calling and urging all to come to Christ. For salvation. We proclaim him among the nations. And guess what, friends? We are in a nation. We are on the mission field. Our true home is in heaven. So we're on a foreign mission field because we're in the fallen world. This isn't about hemispheres. This is about planet Earth. We are on the mission field and we must see ourselves as missionaries for a lost and dying world. Diagram. Let's do it. So the mystery of godliness that uh was not fully revealed until the coming of Christ and the New Testament um is That God redeems sinners through the suffering and glory of Christ or the humiliation and the exaltation of Christ. This is how this is the path to godliness. This is the way Godliness is possible, and this is the only way we can be godly. And if you want to grow in godliness in your life, you must be living in daily living fellowship with the exalted Lord. It's the only way. He's the only source of godliness. Jesus Christ who lives and reigns in heaven. You must go to him. You must cry out to him If he doesn't transform us into the likeness of God, we will never be transformed to the likeness of God. Oh boy, I'm really, really making a bad Teaching decision here. This is bad pedagogy. You can look that word up. For a minute left in class. It was two minutes when I began that statement. Now it's one. Uh we're g the last days. We are in the last days The first coming of Christ, the last coming of Christ, or the return of Christ, the last days are marked by four monumental milestones. Now this is one of them, okay, the final judgment. The final judgment The return of Christ, his final coming, his final judgment, and also resurrection, final glory. So that's number four. There's three other Major, no, not major, monumental, right? Major and monumental milestones that um That move history along in the last days. And the first would have been the day of Pentecost in Acts 2. The outpouring of the Spirit, the outpouring of the promised Spirit to initiate the church age. And then also you have that in Acts 10 On the Gentiles, I'll just put Cornelius. Cornelius' home. Now those theologically, those go together The outpouring of the Spirit that was promised in the Old Testament, as central to the new covenant that God had promised. And it's not just for Jews, it's for the nations, it's for the Gentiles. Jews who would believe, Gentiles who would believe, by the power of the outpoured Spirit. So theologically connected, but historically unique. They do not need to be repeated, these things. The third one would have been a judgment on apostate. Who? Israel. Israel. Not true, Israel Not spiritual Israel, not the true heirs of the promise, judgment on apostate Israel in the year of our Lord. 70 in the destruction of the temple. And then here, final judgment On all those who are alienated from Christ. This is why it's so important that we tell people about Jesus and pray for people. And we should be the most the warmest, most welcoming people and the most honest, most open about the truth people in the community when it comes to salvation and we should be the most urgent people, the most sober-minded people, urging people, pleading with people. To come to Christ for salvation. Now these two also are theologically connected. Different events, different days, but theologically connected. That judgment, final judgment, as it were, on apostate Israel to once for all do away with the old covenant system, formally and finally, the destruction of The temple. The final. Now it was abolished and brought to nothing truly and spiritually and substantially at the cross when that one sacrifice for sins was made. But outwardly, formally, visibly, brought to nothing when God brought Roman armies in judgment against apostate Israel invaded Jerusalem, desecrated, devastated the temple, and left it desolate. God came in judgment. And God will come in judgment again. And the reason I brought this up is because it's the connection, the theological connection of these two things. Here, judgment here, and judgment here. The theological connection of those two things that make some of these passages and some of these topics of end times difficult. And a lot of times the debate will come down to is he talking about something here? Or is he talking about something here? And that's why it's difficult from a theological, from a hermeneutical standpoint, because they are connected And I know Pastor John has used the illustration of mountain ranges. Like if you're from a distance, you see two mountains, you different mountains, but they look like they're the same range. They kind of blend together at some point. Well I'm just doing that same thing in a timeline here. They are connected. But either way, the issue is judgment. And for us the issue needs to be missions. It needs to be prayer. And it needs to be um Working together, standing on the truth of the gospel and trusting in God. Trusting in God to save sinners according to his purpose. Father, we love you, and apart from your grace, we wouldn't know you. So humble us. Help us to remember that. Transform us to your likeness, which means we'll uh love you more and more deeply, love each other more and more deeply, love the lost, love our enemies, and pray for those who persecute us. And we do pray. We pray for our nation. We pray for the world. We pray for an era of a gospel fruitfulness. And let it begin here in Jarrett'sville. Let your gospel be heralded and rejoice in and And let your son be worshipped. And that's our prayer, Father, that Christ would be exalted and loved and worshipped in this world as he is in heaven. It's in his name we pray. Amen.