Alright, you'll see on your outline, the first section is uh kind of comical that there's a section on one of my outlines called Concise Review. 'Cause probably if you look at uh my skill sets and strengths and weaknesses in ministry, probably the thing I'm worst at is doing a concise review. But that's what I wanted it to be, so I'm calling it a concise review. And on top of that, it's a concise review of the topic that the whole Bible is about, of God establishing his kingdom through the person and work of his son. But as we do the structure, before we get into the structure of Matthew, I want to give a concise review of the kingdom of God, because the story of Matthew is just Jesus coming to establish the kingdom of God, which is a global kingdom of salvation. Let's just get that out of the way first and understanding what kind of kingdom that Jesus establishes. It's not a geopolitical kingdom. It's not an earthly or a worldly nation. It's a spiritual kingdom of redemption. So here's our concise review. The kingdom of God is God's saving reign in all the earth. That's the way I summarize it. Of course, there are different ways to summarize it because there's different aspects of the kingdom. saving rain in all the earth. And then you see your subpoints under that by which he brings about the new creation Within this old fallen creation. So that's talking about what the kingdom achieves or what it's about, and it says the setting of the kingdom If you are in Christ, you are a new creation. You have within you the Holy Spirit of the Exalted Christ, and the Exalted Christ is the embodiment of the new creation. When he came out of that grave, it was not just the same kind of body. He inaugurated the new creation, and as we are united to him and as his spirit lives within us, We have entered into the new creation, but we live still in the old fallen creation. But this is the case Kingdom of God. God's saving rain and all the earth that's bringing about new creation. The second subpoint: when we talk about the kingdom, we are talking about quite simply Christ's Redeeming work and the results of his redeeming work on earth. We're talking about the realm of redemption. It's not like here's the story of redemption and here's the story of Jesus over here, but now over here is the story of the kingdom. No, it's the same story He is the king who presides over the kingdom of God. And he's the Savior who grants sinners access into the kingdom of God. The kingdom is. There you go. Second major bullet point there. Well, I guess I can't call them bullet points. I didn't put bullet points there. What's just a heading? The second major heading. The kingdom is established by Christ in the past. That's what the gospel narratives are about in the book of Acts is life, death, resurrection, ascension, and Pentecost. What's the significance on the day of Pentecost? I'll give you a hint. It's the day when Jesus poured out. The Holy Spirit, right? The eschatological blessing of the Spirit. Second hash mark there, the kingdom is presided over by Christ in heaven presently. So it presided over by Christ in heaven presently, seated at the right hand of the Father. Third hash mark: the kingdom is entered into through faith in Christ on earth presently by the power of the We also would have accepted by the power of the gospel. Either one. Because it's the spirit that uses the gospel to change hearts and transfer us out of the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son, which is an irreversible work of Almighty God. I just forgot something I've got to do for the live stream. I don't like this because it's too hot and you may not like it either, but it does help the live stream. So emphasizing a couple different aspects of the kingdom. Now second hash mark is heavenly Point, Christ ruling in heaven. And that third hash mark is about the manifestation of the kingdom. On earth. On earth, it's the saints of God that possess the kingdom. Both of those are presently happening. Jesus is reigning presently Sinners are entering the kingdom of God presently through faith in Christ. Fourth ashmark, the kingdom advances unstoppably on earth by his word and spirit. Not easily, not quickly Parables of the kingdom do not teach that the kingdom advances like wildfire, and it's just so amazing. Slowly, gradually, through suffering, through spiritual warfare, battling through persecution, battling through heresies trying to sneak into the church, battling The schemes of the devil, not easily, not quickly, but according to the promise of Christ unstoppably. Nothing can stop Christ from building his church, advancing his kingdom In all the world. Fifth hash mark, the kingdom is possessed by and made manifest in his people on earth Go right, we can roll right into that last hash mark. These people on earth who are organized for worship service and missions in the outward form of fill in the blank for me. It rhymes with, yes, local churches. God 's idea, not mine, not yours. So there's a little overview of the kingdom. Starts with the broad the broad uh definition, God saving reign in all the earth. And it ends with the most practical and um relevant and the most personal way we can talk about this, the local church. This is how we get in on it. We join the local church. We worship and serve and participate in the local church for the glory and name of Christ and the advance of his kingdom. Now, since that's just supposed to be a review, I'm not going to take time in class to field questions, but if you have any questions, just email me or contact me in some way afterwards. Let's get into the the material for tonight overview. This is an overview of Matthew. I had so much material for the structure of Matthew I thought to myself, let's let's do uh let's before we get into all the details and all the various cross-references, because Matthew is a huge Huge book. Let's do an overview first, and then we'll start to zoom in. And what when we zoom in, the thing we'll focus on is the structure. So the theme of Matthew is the good news of the kingdom. That has come in the person and work of Christ. Now you need both of those things. Because if you just say the good news of the kingdom, you're left to what does that mean? What is the good news? What is the kingdom? Um how is it established? How do we enter into it? All kinds of things. What kind of kingdom it is. So you have the good news of the kingdom, but it it comes In the person and work of Christ. That's what the whole Bible is leading up to, the story of who Jesus is and what Jesus accomplishes, and then how we share in what he accomplishes. That's the story of God's gracious redemption. The whole Bible is about this. So that's the theme of Matthew. Again, there are details and cross-references. If you skim down on that page, you can see some of them. But before we get into those details, still in the overview, number two, the structure, the structure of Matthew. is the progressive arrival of the kingdom that's structured around five major teaching sections commonly called discourses. Any commentary, any lecture, or any sermon that's an introduction to the book of Matthew is most likely going to start here. The book of Matthew is structured around five major discourses. A discourse just means um what I with the language that I put in it Um it's a teaching section. A sermon literally is just a an oral public discourse. That's what sermon means. So a discourse is just uh an oral teaching or it could be a written teaching, which is what we have in the gospels. I just call the major teaching sections. That's the sh the structure of Matthew. And you have in between you have narrative. For example, narrative of Christ's miracles, but you also have, of course, Matthew's commentary, as Matthew teaches the significance of What's being done, and he'll relate what's being done to the Old Testament as the fulfillment of a verse or of a passage or of a promise in the Old Testament. But the movement The movement is carried along through these five major teaching sections. Number three, which I think is really neat, helps really helps the Enter into the book of Matthew in a digestible way, the narrative moves from the incarnation to the essential Which I think is great. I mean the book of Matthew starts with the genealogy to give you the identity of Christ, but that whole first section is about the incarnation of the eternal Son of God coming to the world, right? Eternal son of God coming to the world as a man, and then the book ends with The man Jesus Christ, who's still and always will be God in the flesh. But he's the book ends with him already on earth, um, having been crucified, having been risen. A man who ascends back into heaven to be seated at the right hand of God. So you can see the movement of the book is basically down from heaven accomplish redemption, go back up to heaven, but now as a man to preside over the kingdom of God and to grant sinners access into that kingdom. So down, accomplish redemption, back up to heaven, and that's where Christ is reigning. As our great high priest. The storyline. Now, there's different ways to say this. Number four The reason I use this as the storyline, because, well, first of all, it is accurate to the text of Matthew, but in l In passages in the New Testament that summarize the message of the Old Testament, is that a does that sound like a tongue twister or a riddle? I'll say that. Again. Passages in the New Testament that summarize the teaching and the promise of the Old Testament. They summarize it as that Christ would suffer and then enter his glory. The Christ would suffer and enter his glory, and then salvation would spread to the ends of the earth. Suffering unto glory. It's Luke 24. It's said twice. It's 1 Peter 1. That's also said this is the apostolic way of summarizing the Old Testament's promise. The Christ will come, he'll suffer unto glory, and thereby achieve salvation. So you see these things of suffering and glory in the book of Matthew, in terms of his identity and the fulfillment of prophecy. And I'll just read what I have here. Jesus is the suffering servant of Isaiah, who dies in the place of sinners, and he is the son of man of Daniel, who ascends to the throne of God and inaugurates the kingdom. The suffering servant that's prophesied in Isaiah is the Savior, the ascended, glorious Son of Man who approaches the ancient of days and is given a kingdom and a dominion that will never end, is all fulfilled in Christ, his suffering unto glory. You see a couple things coming together there and uh number five apostolic method. This is such a huge topic. I mean whenever I'm in Matthew, it's just every paragraph almost. It's It's just screaming the apostolic method. You see the word, this is written so that the scripture would be fulfilled. This was written so that the scripture would be fulfilled. And when he said he said this to fulfill the scriptures over and over and over again. From prophecy, from narrative, from the Psalms, over and over. It's fulfilled in Christ and His person and His work and His kingdom. It's the the age of fulfillment when Christ comes to inaugurate the kingdom through suffering unto glory. So I'll just read what I have there on this apostolic method. All of the above, which is one, two, three, and four, all the above is interpreted by Matthew as the fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. Ultimately, Matthew teaches how Jesus establishes the new covenant. And does away with the old. In the new covenant, all that was promised and prefigured in the old covenant is realized. And then as you get into the Pauline epistles and the general epistles, especially the book of Hebrews, but also the book of Revelation, all the rest of the New Testament. works out the implications of that, that the old has passed away and is being made obsolete and the new covenant is now established. So that's the apostolic method method, is to s basically to see Christ and what he's doing and what he's achieving, the kingdom that he's establishing, to see all of that as the fulfillment of Old Testament promise and prophecy. Let's I'm going to keep plowing through because I really want to get to the actual verses in Matthew. Right, and then as we do this I'll slow down and stop here and there for questions. The theme. Remember I said on the theme is the good news of the kingdom that has come Well I've I can't just say that. I mean got to prove that. Jesus is the heir of David whose kingdom will have no end. Just another way of saying the Christ that's a fulfillment Of the Davidic covenant in um 2 Samuel 7, Matthew 1:1, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David The son of Abraham. It's the heir promised to David that will inherit the kingdom, but will his kingdom will be one of righteousness and justice and will have no end. Also the son of Abraham, but we're not talking about that point right now. We've talked about that in the past. He's the heir of the promises of Abraham too. Letter B. John the Baptist heralded the coming of God and the good news of God's kingdom. Important to remember about John the Baptist's preaching. He preached that the kingdom was coming and he preached that God was coming. He was to make way, make straight uh the path of the Lord. He was preparing the way for Yahweh to come, and Yahweh did come in the Matthew three, one through three. In those days, John the Baptist came preaching in the wilderness of Judea. Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Kingdom of heaven is just another way of saying Kingdom of God or kingdom of Christ. For this is he who was spoken of by the prophet of Isaiah. When he said the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord and make his paths straight. So in fulfillment of Isaiah's prophecy Came John the Baptist, who was heralding the kingdom of heaven, verse 2, and verse 3, heralding the arrival of God. Let her see. Jesus preached the nearness of the kingdom. Matthew 4:17. From that time Jesus began to preach. Saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. The kingdom of heaven is is upon us. The kingdom of heaven has arrived and is arriving. It's It's near. Uh letter D. Jesus' ministry proved the presence of the kingdom. And I think we'll get to this later. Uh chapter twelve, twenty-two, and thirty. Jesus says, if the Spirit, if it's by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of heaven is upon you. Letter E. Jesus taught about how to enter the kingdom, and he taught that people were already entering it. It was a present reality. You can't enter a kingdom that doesn't exist. Now I remember I mean this is going way back. I think I did a couple lessons on this from the parables of the kingdom in Matthew 13 And from in Mark Mark as well, that the kingdom of God comes in stages and grows gradually. It doesn't come all at once and is here in its final form fully gradually. It comes in stages and it grows gradually. Matthew 19, 24, again I tell you, it's easier for a camel to go through the eye of a needle than for a rich person to enter the kingdom of God. Uh and Matthew twenty one, thirty-one, which of the which of the after after a parable, which of the two did the will of his father. They said, the first, Jesus said to them, Truly I say to you, the tax collectors and prostitutes go into the kingdom of God. It was already happening. And how are they doing that? How were tax collectors and prostitutes going into the kingdom of God? Faith in Christ. Faith in Christ as a as a savior. And that parable was one where uh the one son said the f said to the father, Yes, I'll do what you ask, but then he didn't, representing the nation of Israel. Israel apostate Israel at least. And the other son said, No, I'm not gonna I'm not gonna do that to his dad. But in the end he ended up doing it, which represents Salvation going to the Gentiles. Lowercase Roman numeral three under E, so E3 Just remember, we've also studied this before, that the kingdom of God for us, right now, is both a present possession and also a future inheritance For believers. We are citizens of heaven. We're citizens of the kingdom of God. We've been transferred from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of God's beloved Son. Uh the book of Colossians. We're co-workers for the kingdom of God. You can be workers in the kingdom if that kingdom has not been inaugurated or if you've not been granted access into it. But the Kingdom is also a future inheritance because the kingdom itself has not reached its final form yet. Even the way we possess redemption hasn't reached its final form yet. We don't have resurrection. Bodies, our mind, heart, and will aren't fully sanctified yet. We are we have not reached the final destination. There is a glorious inheritance Completely free of the presence of sin, completely free of the causes of sin, completely free of the effects of sin, and of course completely free of the penalties of our sin. sin against us. So there is a there is a kingdom, a form of the kingdom that does not exist yet. I was going to make this clear because um You know, we don't we don't want to we pit those two things against each other. That the kingdom is truly existing truly exists now and we truly Belong to the kingdom now, and we possess kingdom blessings now, but just not the full, final, glorious inheritance that's awaiting us in the age to come. Now, letter F finally heared, and I'll slow down and see if you have any questions or insights on this. Letter F: Jesus prophesied a change in the stewardship of God's kingdom on earth And you just decide if you think he's right or wrong. That's a joke. He's right. He was right. He didn't get this wrong. You see if you're awake. Uh Matthew twenty one, forty-three Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you and given to a people producing fruits. Cross reference there would be 812, where son the sons of the kingdom will be thrown into outer darkness. That's just talking about um natural born Israelites who never repent and never Never enter the kingdom. They're sons of a kingdom in an old covenant sense, but that stewardship is going to change. He's going to take away the kingdom, the outward expression of the kingdom on earth, the stewardship of the kingdom on earth. Will be taken away from old covenant Israel under the law and given to the church under the new covenant of grace in Christ blood. So that is prophesied and again that's one of the things that the rest of the New Testament fleshes out. That histor that unique historical era of this overlap of transition of the doing away with the old covenant and bringing apostate Israel to its historical judgment and the establishing of the church and the beginning of the Great Commission. Taking the gospel to the ends of the world. The historical progression is so important when we think about the kingdom of God. It's not this static reality that shows up all at once, but it happens historically, gradually, in different stages different phases. Um all right. That's all number one. Number two, we're going on to a chart and that's when we get So let me stop before that. Do you guys have any questions or um insights that could be helpful or maybe practical applications that you thought of while we're studying that? Okay. We'll go to structure. This will be fun. Initially I was gonna draw this on the board and then I thought, man, just make a chart. Insert chart. Tell it how many columns, tell it how many rows, plug in some information. we can all look at it. Again, on the structure, the progressive arrival of the kingdom, structured around five major teachings. So it's actually not on the back. It's on that facing page, I believe. So this chart in the left column is discourses. In the center column is the narratives or the commentaries. That go in between these courses. But I also put in that middle column like the traditional name Of each discourse, because if you so that you'll recognize it, if you do some reading on this or in your study Bible, or if you're listen listening to a sermon on this, they call it something different. In those parentheses, I put just the traditional accepted way of referring to those discourses. I put my own titles in that left column. And then in the right column I put key verses for everything, for both the narratives and also for the discourses. So the first thing we I want to do is just go straight down the left hand column. it just this overarching structure, this architecture really, this skeleton of Matthew, these five discourse. The first one we have been studying for a while, chapters 5 through 7, the Sermon on the Mount. I call that the way of the kingdom. Um it deals with the Beatitudes, so the blessings of the kingdom and the nature of life in the kingdom when we're living in a fallen world, how it will bring persecution. and bring rejection, but it's still a blessed life because it's life in communion with God. And then you have Jesus. uh contrasting his law or his teaching in ethics with some things in the Mosaic law, Jesus is a superior lawgiver. He's the lawgiver of uh for a new covenant Then you have sections on true devotion. What does true godly devotion look like? A hypocritical fasting. Versus true fasting, hypocritical praying versus true praying, hypocritical alms giving versus true godly, God-honoring alms giving So and then there's sections on discernment in the kingdom and being able to discern false teachers, to know them by their fruits. And Just all things concerning the way of life in the kingdom of God. So I shortened it to put to be the way of the kingdom. But this is very significant. This is the first major discourse. And it is really a man, it's a challenging passage, it's a it's a convicting passage, it is an encouraging passage And it summarizes and crystallizes life in a fallen world for children of God. That's five through seven. Then you have eight and nine, which is basically miracles summarizing. I mean, we're only on the left column now. So we'll go right down to the second discourse, which is which is chapter ten. It's called the missionary discourse. I call it the limited commission. Now others have called it that too. It's the limited commission. Does anyone know why? Which is different than the what commission. That's very common. The Great Commission is what? What are the boundaries of the Great Commission? All the world. And what's the time frame on that? Right, until he comes back. That's right, forever in this age. So it's great, there's no boundary. Now the limited commission is not like that. It's it's uh only to the lost sheep of Israel. So it's limited. It's not to go Jesus says don't go to the Gentiles, don't go to the Gentile Aries. This is to only go to the lost sheep of Israel. Salvation comes first to the Jew and then to the Greek. So there's a time frame on that, and there is a boundary limit on that, and And of course this difference between Jew and Gentile, that there was a difference in the audience, the target audience So you go from discourse number one, the way of life in the kingdom, the nature of the kingdom, and you go second discourse right there is bringing the message. That's the point of the limited commission. This was an intense Missions effort to go to the lost sheep of Israel, and they would have been teaching what Jesus taught them to teach. And in fact, they were they were given spiritual Spiritual authority. Jesus gave them spiritual authority to perform signs that he had performed too, to prove the presence of the kingdom and to validate their message. And you can go down to discourse number three, which is chapters 13, 1 through 52, the parables of the kingdom. So more teaching, more detailed teaching of of the nature of the kingdom, but also zooming out and there's more teaching on the historical scope of how the kingdom will grow, how the kingdom will have an impact. How the kingdom advances in the first place through the word of God that changes hearts and bears fruit through that. Uh what's going to happen at the end of the age? There's going to be uh there's going to be this age of uh of fishing. I just take one of the parables, the parable of the of the dragnet. Parable uh an era of gathering fish, and then there's going to be a time of separating the fish, good from the bad. There's going to be a time of judgment. So the kingdom will have two major, two major phases, a missionary phase, a gathering and growing phase phase, and then a time of judgment and eternal separation. So you can see the progression through these discourses. The ethics of the kingdom or the way of life in the kingdom, and then a missionary effort within Israel. I'm sure about that. That's right after the limited commission that is in the narrative at least the reason for the first reason for appointing the twelve apostles. And he equips them, empowers them, and he sends them out to the lost sheep of Israel. And then you get the parables of the kingdom. Discourse number four, chapter 18, stewardship of the kingdom. That's called Discourse on the Church. It's it all connects. That's gonna when Jesus talks about his church in chapter sixteen and then more on the church, chapter eighteen, and then in other places he talks about handing the king taking the kingdom away and giving Well obviously in the story, the people bearing fruit is the church. It's his church. The keys of the kingdom are what grant people access into the church. Matthew 16 So you see the relation, the s the church is the outward expression of the kingdom, stewards of the kingdom. That's stewardship of the kingdom is the fourth discourse. And then the fifth one. So the first one is three chapters, it's long. The fifth one is three chapters, it's long. Now that's that should be chapter 23 to 25. That's an error. A typo now some Scholars do not include twenty-three because there is a small portion of commentary in between twenty-three and twenty-four. I'm perfectly fine if you want to just cross out twenty-three and put twenty-four and twenty-five. But thematically, they are related. Twenty-three is the seven woes against the Pharisees, and then judgment. spoken of and prophesied judgment against that generation of unbelieving Israel. And then you get into 24 The fifth uh which I guess you could call it technically spe speaking or properly speaking, the Olivet Discourse, because it's on the Mount of Olives. And it's about coming judgments. Not coming judgment, coming judgments. Now there's debate about this, and we've studied this before. We can't go into this today, but this is my interpretation, and this is one of the common interpretations. There's two or three major interpretations of this. Uh but you have first judgment actually no, I I'm getting ahead of myself. We're uh we're s just in the left the left column. We'll get to that juicy stuff toward the end. So you see the progression. Now it ends in this discourse. The book doesn't end on this discourse, but the discourses end on this discourse Part of the coming kingdom is the redemption of God's people, but that's just part of it. The other part of the coming kingdom is judgment against God's enemies, subduing and destroying and doing away with, bringing to final judgment God's enemies. That's what the kingdom does. The kingdom delivers God's people by defeating God's enemies and bringing them to judgment. And just like we've not been brought to our final inheritance yet, the enemies of God have not been brought to their final destruction and judgment yet. But that doesn't mean that Jesus has not begun to subdue his enemies on earth. He must reign until his enemies are a footstool, made a footstool at his feet, and then comes the end. Corinthians fifteen. So coming judgments are a very important part of Jesus inaugurating his kingdom, setting up his kingdom. Remember the book of Judges, and the key figures in the book of Judges were judges. But they were saviors. They were commanders, soldiers, or at least put in that role to subdue God's enemies and deliver God's people. They brought victory. They brought victory over God's enemies in order to deliver God's people from oppression. It was an issue of dominion. Would the enemies of God have dominion over God's people, or would God's people be free and would they enjoy the dominion? So that's what bringing enemies to judgment entails. It's not it is it includes a j judicial aspect. And suffering the punishment that fits the crime. But it's more than that. It's about who has dominion on the earth that God has made. And part of subduing his enemies is Christ, through his gospel, by his spirit, through his church, advancing his kingdom, subduing darkness in all the world. And how does he do that? By saving sinners. Like we should know that like this. It's not don't let our when we s when we start talking that way, don't thank tanks and bullets and guns and armies and generals and nations and And wars, did I say wars yet? It's not that kind of conquest. It's not Israel in conquest in the promised land driving the Canaanites out. It's It's a different kind of kingdom. It's a different kind of conquest. Jesus subdues darkness now by the power of the gospel by saving sinners. So, there you go. Sorry, I didn't mean to get preaching there, but sometimes it just happens. I feel like that's a really misunderstood part of the nature of the kingdom of God. And I hear a lot of Christians talking as if Satan is the sovereign ruler over all the earth and Jesus maybe we'll just get a few scraps if if If we could just do a little bit better. That's backwards. That's backwards. Darkness is not overtaking the light, and the light can't do anything about it. Light is overtaking the darkness, and the darkness cannot do anything about it. Satan is the ruler of the realm of darkness, of the the world of unbelief, but ever since his first coming, Jesus Is chipping away more and more and more and more at that because he has all authority in heaven and on earth and rant now. Let's go to the narrative slash commentary column. Although I snuck in there those you know the official titles in parentheses. Hopefully that's not confusing. But the narrative commentary section is important for various reasons Uh just because it's not the main structure or backbone of the book doesn't mean it's not important. Structure is just one element of a story. Um This first section moves from the incarnation through the baptism of Christ. to through the temptation of Christ, to the beginning of his ministry. Now the book starts with a genealogy, and that's to theologically and historically Link Christ's incarnation and what he'll accomplish with the promises of God in the Old Testament. Jesus is the Christ, He is the Son of David, He is the Son of Abraham. And of course, Matthew 1 21 , his name is Jesus because he'll save his people from their sins. And he's also Emmanuel, who is God with us. Some key verses for that first section. 3, 11 through 12. We can look at some of these. Let's look at Matthew 3:11 to 12. This should be relatively easy as these are mostly going in order, and a lot of them are on your sheet. The prophesied blessing of the Spirit. And the promised final victory over God's enemies will be realized in Christ. I baptize you with water for repentance. But so that was a water that it was a baptism in water that represented repentance. But he who is coming after me is mightier than I. Whose sandals I am not worthy to carry, he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit and fire. Fire representing judgment. And in pretty much the whole Bible. His winnowing fork is in his hand, and he will clear his threshing floor and gather his wheat into the barn. But the chaff will burn with unquenchable fire. Don't you see two things mingled together? Salvation and judgment. Salvation and judgment. And that final That full and final aka eschatological blessing of the Holy Spirit, which you now possess in Christ, comes from him. He had to attain unto that. And In Acts chapter 2, Peter's sermon, he preaches that the poured out spirit on Pentecost was received by Jesus and Then that Jesus then poured it out. That was his reward and his resurrection, the prophesied eschatological blessing of the Holy Spirit. And John couldn't give that. Saints in the old under the old covenant didn't have that. Not that the Holy Spirit was not active, of course the Holy Spirit has always been active in the plan and providence of God, but that doesn't mean the Holy Spirit always does the exact same things in the ex You can't have the spirit of the exalted Christ living within you if the if Christ has not been exalted yet. His Spirit fills our hearts. That is a unique blessing of the new covenant era. I hope we appreciate that. It's the closest communion with God that a person has ever been able to have on earth save Christ, the incarnate Son. It's a really big deal. He brings the spirit that had been promised, and he brings the final judgment. Another uh Look key verse or key passage four twenty-three to twenty-five. And he went throughout all Galilee. Easy to remember that Jesus early ministry is his Galilean ministry. Teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom. He was the preacher. He preached the gospel of the kingdom and healing every disease and every affliction among the people. So his fame spread throughout all Syria, and they brought him all the sick, those afflicted with various diseases and pain Those oppressed by demons, epileptics, paralytics, and he healed them. And great crowds followed him from Galilee to Decapolis, which is Gentile. group of cities uh and from jerusalem and judea and from beyond the Jordan. So basically all over. Preaching, power, and popularity. There's your three P's if you ever preach on that. He was a preacher. I guess you need w you need a P word for the healings. Well that's power. Yeah, the preaching power and popularity. That covers it all. Every once in a while I'll hear something on this and talk about how the gospel and the kingdom are different things. What is the gospel of the kingdom? How can they be two different things? The good news is the kingdom is the good news. It's the good news. What's the good news? The kingdom. The kingdom is the good news. Preaching the kingdom and preaching the person and work Christ you better be the same exact thing. Better be the same exact Oh yeah. Uh key verse for that first discourse, Matthew six thirty-three Uh you all know this. Say it with me if you know it. Seek first the kingdom of God, righteousness, and all these things will be out of you. That's right. Self-conscious pursuing of God's kingdom and of his righteousness. A couple different ways you could talk about pursuing God's righteousness. uh I mean if we were in the book of Romans the main one would be um attaining a righteous standing before God. We do that through faith, not works. But then there's another way, a practical righteousness that we can talk about, just prioritizing obedience. Yeah, righteousness is not the same as self-righteousness. To seek to be righteous means to seek to be godly, and it means to seek to apply biblical principles. and biblical ethics in our life. That's not being self-righteous. If you think you're saved by that, then that's self-righteous. If you think you have the power within your own flesh to do that, then that's a form of self-righteousness, at least pride. So seek God's kingdom and seek his righteousness. Seek it first by faith to be righteous in his eyes and then seek practical righteousness. By the Spirit through prayer, as one under grace, not under works. That second narrative, this is the one we've been currently studying This is the narrative right after the Sermon on the Mount, chronicling his miracles. And then it moves from the chronicling of miracles all the way up to and ends with praying for kingdom laborers. Pray to the Lord of the harvest, right? To send out workers for the harvest. And then a key verse there would be 933 on the power and compassion of God. Let's look at that. Hopefully you remember that as we were going through those miracles, those two main components of Christ's ministry was He ministers in word and deed. And the two main components of his heart in ministry is not only a power and ability to be able to help the hurting, but a compassion and a caring love to want to help the hurting And that's the same it's really a nice little two-tiered paradigm for our ministry. For Christian living, we minister in word and indeed, not in word only. We can't love each other in word only. We can't love the community and reach out to the community in word only. We minister in word and deed, and we we understand the spiritual authority that we have in Christ. And authority based on the Word. That's why we can preach with confidence and share the gospel with confidence and speak with authority as to what's right and what's wrong. Not on our authority, based on the Word's authority, but we can't do that unless we also have a compassion and a love and a care for people. Or we will at the very least, even if we're not this in our hearts, we'll come across as self-righteous hypocrites. So word indeed, but then authority and compassion. What was that verse? 933? Oh yeah, good verse. And when the demon had been cast out, the mute Man spoke. And the crowds marveled, saying, Never was anything like this seen in Israel. That isn't that a crazy statement. Have you read the Old Testament? Have you seen what God did? There is nothing ever on earth like the power of Jesus Christ. Nothing. Even come close. Yes, God manifests his power all throughout history in various times in various ways. Um at least in the Old Testament, climactically and most commonly in Israel, but never was anything like this seen in Israel. God in the flesh. The uniqueness of the incarnate Christ and his power on earth, the full historical manifestation of the power of God A key verse, oh yeah, yeah. Just so you don't think I was making this up. A key verse for the second discourse on the mission, the missionary discourse or the limited commission. Chapter 10, verse 5 and 6. You can see chapter 10, verse 1, he is when he calls the twelve and gives them authority. To work miracles, and then in five and six tells the commission. These twelve Jesus sent out, instructing them Go nowhere among the Gentiles, and enter no town of the Samaritans, but go rather to the lost sheep of the house of Israel And proclaim as you go, saying, The kingdom of heaven is at hand. So John preached it, Jesus preached it, Jesus equipped the disciples to preach it The presence of the kingdom of heaven that they could then enter through faith. It 's the structure, not the structure, the uh the order of verse 5 is pretty neat It's basically you see the opposite in Acts 1, verse 8. Here it's don't go to the Gentiles, don't go to the Samaritans, only go To the lost sheep of the house of Israel. It's not exactly the same or exactly the opposite, but the great commission as it comes in Acts 1 8 is you go first to Jerusalem And Judea and the Samaria, and then even to the ends of the earth. Good to all nations. That after this limited commission and Jesus that whole discourse is giving instruction to them About their mission that he's sending them on. That whole next narrative section basically describes Israel's response to both John 's and Jesus' ministry. Which is a good time in the book to do that. Because you have John's ministry, you've had Jesus' ministry, and not only that, but then you have the twelve going to all the towns and villages. Preaching that same kingdom message and calling the lost sheep of Israel to repent and receive the Savior. And you could probably guess What by and large, not absolutely every individual, all right, people did get saved in these ministries. But by and large, which means the majority, you could probably guess whether they believed or didn't believe believe. Go to chapter eleven, sixteen and seventeen But to what shall I compare this generation? Which means that generation of people of Uh Israel, who is living at that time. It's like a child sitting in the marketplaces and calling to their playmates, We played the flute for you, and you did not dance We sang a dirge and you did not mourn. So we wanted to play a happy game. We wanted to dance. You didn't want to do that. We wanted to play this make-believe sad game. We sang a dirge. You didn't want to do that. Nothing will make you happy. Basically is w what he's saying. Verse eighteen confirms this. Because John came, neither eating nor drinking, and they said he has a demon. He doesn't party like us, he doesn't spin it up like us. There must be something wrong. The Son of Man came, eating and drinking, and they say, Look at him, a glutton and a drunkard, a friend of tax collectors and sinners. And wis yet wisdom is justified by her deeds. In other words, John and Jesus don't need the approval of lost people to justify her Justify themselves. They're not worried about that. Their deeds prove that they are righteous. And John and his character and his ministry and his deeds prove that he didn't have a demon. And Jesus' deeds and his preaching and his ministry gave evidence and proved that he's not a glutton and a drunkard. It's right that he's friends of tax collectors and sinners. Why is it right that Jesus would be friends of tax collectors and sinners? Let me just ask you. Because the sign needs a doctor. Right, just in the camp where you can't just save sinners. You can just save tax collectors. Now the righteous, right, in quotes. That's right. Yeah, sometimes that word righteous is used in scripture as a shorthand way of referring to the self-righteous, right? People who think that they are righteous and don't need a savior. That's absolutely right. So he so those aren't the people who are gonna hear but nothing made them happy. Right? They didn't John um was was too holy, but he has a demon Because he's not eating or drinking. Jesus eating and drinking, and he's not holy enough Well, there you have it. Now you go to I guess we can look at the keyverse to this discourse On the kingdom, the parables of the kingdom. This is a really great one. Chapter thirteen, verse fifty-one and fifty-two. As Jesus concludes the parables, and there's lots of rich teaching in there. I mean there's a parable about parables. There's interpretations of parables, um, there's discussion about the meaning and significance of parables, both for the lost and for the saved. Then you get this bit at the end. Um About how the parables are part of the disciples' training. Have you understood all these things? They said to him, Yes. And he said to them, Therefore, every scribe It's which is another way of saying a teacher. In that age, the scribe could have been just a teacher. Every scribe who has been trained for the kingdom of heaven. I love that phrase. Trained for the kingdom of heaven. is like a master of a house who brings out of his treasure what is new and what is old. Old revelations of God Old works of God, you can interpret that properly and apply that properly. New revelations of God in Christ, new teachings of God in Christ, you can interpret that properly and apply that properly. If you understand the kingdom, If you've been trained, this is a great verse for the necessity of training for ministry or training for teaching. No one just rolls out of bed and is fully equipped for these things. We have to learn these things and continue to learn these things and continue to cultivate a learning spirit and a growing heart. They had to be trained to be preachers and teachers and laborers in the kingdom of heaven. Training is not a bad thing. We all need training. So there you have it at the end of the parables of the kingdom. Now the section between Discourse 3 and Discourse 4 is a large section and a lot of things happen and a lot of big things happen. I've just picked out some highlights here for you Um from his rejection at Nazareth, the execution of John, the feeding of the five thousand, and the feeding of the four thousand The transfiguration, these are some biggies, right? You see things are progressing, things are moving forward. John is now dead. Jesus even in his hometown was re- Rejected. All they're trying to do is reach the loss, but at this point now, this growing motif of opposition against Jesus, it it it is just re it's amping up. Uh opposition against him and Scribes and Pharisees trying to trick him and trap him and all kinds of things. To the disciple it ends, it after all that, this section ends with the disciples arguing who's the greatest in the kingdom. So there's kind of a little bit of a comedy in there as you're reading through and reading through the disciples, the disciples have faith, and the disciples are empowered for ministry, they're working miracles, they're going out preaching, they understand the parables, they're equipped. And they understand so much and they do have faith and they do have understanding, but they're still people. They're still like us. They don't have perfect faith, perfectly formed faith, they don't have perfect understanding. And they still have pride lingering inside and it wells up at these different points in the gospel where they start thinking about the kingdom in an in a carnal sense and therefore they start thinking about discipleship and leadership in the kingdom. kingdom, also in a carnal sense, and it's all about them and all about their position. The disciples are arguing over who's who's greatest in the kingdom of heaven. And let's look at a key passage there. Matthew sixteen, eighteen I think earlier I said we would come to this. Matthew 16, 18 to 19, I tell you You are Peter. Um so you have to go back and read the full context in your devotions tonight, but this is this the movement is interesting. Peter makes a profession about Christ, and then Christ makes a profession about Peter. Peter is a representative leader within the disciples, who are representative leaders within the church. But he's talking to Peter. You are Peter, and on this rock I will build My church. Church. It says church, right? Alright. Who's building it? Jesus goes to church on Peter the Rock. Um and the gates of who preached the first sermon in the Christian era? Peter. Yeah. This is the day of this is Acts chapter two. This is it, man. When Christ from the throne of God pours out the promised blessing of the Spirit in the new covenant era Peter is the one who preaches and interprets, not only for that crowd, but for everyone who would come because it it's in the Bible, but for everyone who would come after that, Peter's the one who preaches from the Old Testament and interprets what's happening in that moment. Uh so Jesus is going to build his church. And now let's just find out if he'll be able to do that or if he's not powerful enough to do that. And the gates of hell, literally gates of Hades, either way, it's a representative metaphor of the forces of evil. The gates of hell shall not prevail against it. So I used to ask this all the time in Daniel 2. When this little When this stone uh representing the kingdom of God hits this enormous statue of the kingdoms of man, who wins? Stone, and it's not even close, and then the stone turns into a mountain, and then the mountain covers the whole earth. Who's victorious in accomplishing his purpose? It's God through his son in establishing his kingdom to the ends of the earld w to the ends of the earth. Not earled. It could either be earth or world, but it can't be earled. Um gates are defensive or offensive. Defensive. So who's laying siege to territory that someone else already has dominion in? Who's the one laying siege and overtaking gates? The king, the kingdom of heaven. Which you picture the world before the coming of Christ, which is covered in darkness. Covered in darkness. That's the story pretty much of the Old Testament. You know, with within a world covered in dark covered in darkness, you have God's chosen nation, Israel, the kingdom of God. Within a world covered in darkness with nations in allegiance with Satan in rebellion against God, and kings and rulers and judges in allegiance with Satan. Rebellious against God in opposition to God. With the coming of Christ, now Christ establishes his kingdom, and all he's doing is infiltrating the darkness. These uh this world of darkness and enemies of God cannot stop Christ from establishing his kingdom to the ends of the earth, building his church Um I will give you the verse 19 keys of the kingdom. And for time's sake we'll have to stop there and I'll make a note that we left off here. But if you're into this, circle my church and circle Keys of the kingdom of heaven. And you see Peter is the rock. It'll be it'll Specifically, it's Peter and his profession of Christ and preaching of Christ. If you want to put details on it, that's fine. And it's not Peter alone, it's Peter as a representative leader in the apostles and then of the church. So you don't want to just rip it out and interpret it in isolation. We don't want to we don't want to try to make it say something other than what it's saying It's on this Peter and this apostolic ministry as a whole that Christ is building his church. And another way to say that is simply to say that Peter and the apostles and the church are given the keys of the kingdom of heaven. You're saying the same thing in different ways. If the church is built on the foundation of the apostles, which the New Testament says that, church built on the foundation of the apostles and the prophets. Actually, uh, yeah, in that order, the apostles and the prophets, with Christ himself being the chief corner Stone. But you have the kingdom of heaven. Coming into the kingdom of heaven is coming into the church. Building the church is the advance of the kingdom. It's one and the same. Brothers and sisters, you're not waiting to enter the kingdom of heaven. You're not waiting to be granted citizenship in the kingdom of God. That is who you are in Christ. Your citizenship Is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly bodies to be like his glorious body when he returns. Let's pray.