Well, tonight our sermon comes out of Second Peter chapter one, verses sixteen through twenty-one. 2 Peter chapter 1, 16 through 21, the revelation of God Tonight we'll see, and Peter will explain to us how we know God, how we can know truth. And it's so important that we know this in our day. And Peter believes it to be valuable in his day as well, because what he is about to do in chapter two is he's about to start to call out the false teachers. And the false prophets. But what he's doing is he's establishing the foundation of truth, where truth comes from, why they should even be listening to Peter. Why is he valued to be heard and understood? So he's building up the foundation that truth comes from God, and we can know God because we have his word. So ask yourself tonight if you're at a coffee shop tomorrow or with friends or family and they say, Why do you believe what you believe? Why do you believe that Jesus died for you? Why do you believe that God created everything? Why do you believe that Jesus is God, that he came down out of heaven, took on flesh, lived to fully man, died on the cross? was buried in the grave, three days later rose from the dead, and is now seated at the right hand of the Father in heaven. Why do you believe that? And I think for most of us we'd have similar answers to that, but often it's based on tradition. Well, I grew up. I've heard uh the stories. I was in VVS one time and I heard uh the story of Jesus and I believed. And that's true for many of you. That's that's when that all kind of came together, and that's what happened. Or we say for some it may be, well, I've I've experienced a lot of things in life, and the only thing that seemed to really work was this this Jesus fellow, this this Christianity. That's the only thing that seems to really work. There's some reality there of truth, but ultimately we must recognize and realize that the only way we know God and we know Jesus to be true Is through God revealing himself through his word. John Flavel says this. He says, There are two ways whereby the blessed God condescends to manifest himself to men. his word and his works. Make me nervous behind me, John. I'm sorry. Will you hold me? Yeah, you're good. Thanks, brother. His word and his works and what we'll see here is that's exactly what Peter's saying. Peter's starting off in this section saying We, you can trust my testimony. You can trust the testimony of those that have told you about Jesus because they have witnessed his works. But then he continues on. He says, We can trust the testimony of Jesus and who he is, because the prophets have been telling us to be waiting for Jesus, and that Jesus is the fulfillment of all the prophecies. We see that it's both his word and his works that reveals God to us, and we know salvation through his word and his works. And now, post-Christ, post-the 66 books being canonized, we can say that his word and his works are summarized in the Bible Alright, and we must be rooted there. So tonight we'll do a little bit of an apologetics of Scripture and how we can defend that Scripture is reliable. It's valuable. It's what we should trust. It's how we should be living our lives. We should be using Scripture as our base. This is where truth comes from because it is the Word of God and God is truth. It's interesting that today is really all about apologetics. We had this morning. If you missed, let me just put a uh a promo out there, if you missed the Sunday school with Creations Ministries, that's going to be posted on our website or on Facebook. And this coming week, watch that. That was wonderful, wonderful work. He did a great job of talking about science stuff that's really confusing and then bringing it down to to uh a fool's level my uh me being the fool, bringing it down to a fool's level and showing how this is not contrary to the Bible, but in fact science is And then he did a wonderful job at sharing the gospel. So check that out. And then I also give credit to Pastor Matt. He did a wonderful job at showing the value and the truth and the reality of the of the new covenant, which we see glimpses of out of the Noaic covenant. And and we see the fulfillment in Christ and there's Beauty here. So all of this is Apologetics, and tonight we're going to talk about the re uh re that word of Scripture, that we can trust and rely on Scripture. And this is where we get truth from. So without further ado, let us look at 2 Peter 1, starting in verse 16. For we did not follow cleverly devised myths. When we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we were eyewitnesses of His majesty. For when he received honor and glory from God the Father, and the voice was borne to him by the majestic glory, this is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven, for we were with him on the holy mountain. And we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed. Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation. For no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but man spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. Brothers and sisters, if someone asks you tomorrow, why do you believe what you believe, you say, well that's a great question. Let's turn to 2 Peter chapter 1 and read verses 16-13. Because what Peter is doing is he is explaining why we believe what we believe. He is testifying, he's showing the evidence. that he is trustworthy in his account of Jesus, but he's also pointing back to the Old Testament and saying we can trust the prophecies as well. The late pastor Vodhi Bakam says this. This is how he summarized. He summarized 2 Peter 1, verses 16 through 21. This is Vodibakam's summary of this. Scripture is a reliable collection of historical documents written by eyewitnesses during the lifetime of other eyewitnesses. They report supernatural events that fulfill special prophecies and claim that their writings are divine rather than human origin. Did you get all that down, Denise? No. He's summarizing this passage that we're in. When we think about scripture, we must recognize the first aspect Is that it is his works. Alright? It's the works of Jesus. So this is what the New Testament is all about. It is the works of God. And it's the works of Jesus. And it's the collection of historical documents. It's very important that you recognize that. It's a collection of historical documents. I mean that's what Peter is saying in verse sixteen. For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of the Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of his majesty. This isn't fairy tales. Right? These aren't just, oh that's a nice story, it's enjoyable, it makes me feel good. I get an idea of what life is about and some moral some more m moral little uh tricks or trades that I can take out of it. That's not what the Bible is. Much of the New Testament is eyewitness accounts, eyewitness records of the life of Jesus Christ. And then we have the Old Testament, and there's so much historical writing in there. And then we have prophecies pointing forward and calling sinners to repent of their sin. And then there's some poetic language. Which is clearly defined in Scripture, but we must recognize that Scripture as whole, in total, is a historical document. It's a collection of historical writings. 66 books, right, is in the Bible. Arguably over 40 different authors. Now why is that important? Why is that important that there's over 40 different authors? Well, let me say this: they're all saying very similar things. They're all saying the same thing. They're not contradicting one another. And in the courtroom today and in Scripture, you need at least two or three witnesses. Right? That's what you want when you go into a courtroom, you have two or three witnesses as They have witnessed and they can lay claim to the testimony of what's being said. Well, here we have scripture, we have over 40 different authors spanning over 1600 years of writing. All saying the same thing. We can't do that in American history. We can't get a consistent witness over the 250 years of America, who did what, you know, what who said what. We don't even know who first shot and started the American Revolutionary War. You know, that's still debated today. Who was the first person that shot? Was it red coats or was it red-blooded Americans? That's the question But here we have over 1600 years, a span of 1600 years, different authors writing the same thing. Now, another argument that is often brought up is that, well, we don't have the original manuscripts, we don't have the original writings, and you're reading it in English. Have you ever heard that argument? You guys are reading in English, so it's been translated and translated and translated and translated. So how do you know it hasn't been corrupted throughout that translation process? Well part of that problem there is that logical thinking that they're trying to argue from, they're trying to argue that it was written in Greek. Most of the New Testament is written in Greek. We have Hebrew and Aramaic. That is written in Greek. And then what has happened is it was translated from Greek to let's say Latin and then from Latin then to uh another language and then from that language to another language and then from that language into English, but that old uh hard to understand English and then that was then translated into what we are reading today. But that's a logical fallacy because that's not how this works. You know what we're doing, and not we, uh that makes me sound way too smart. The translators of Scripture, they're going back to as old as manuscripts that they can get their hands on. And they're taking other manuscripts of the same text, same writings, manuscripts, writings. So you have a collection of writings in uh as uh original language, old, and they have this other group of the same text. Old, and they're comparing them, and they're seeing all the unity between them, and they're translating it from the original language into modern English for us. So it's not this long daisy chain. Of translation, but it's going back to the original manuscripts. Now, arguably, we have somewhere between 5 to 6,000 manuscripts or writings of the New Testament. alone. And you go, well, that's not that impressive. Well you it actually is. If you would do some research and study on historical writings on historical figures within recent history. George Washington, you don't have five to six thousand manuscripts. near his lifetime as eyewitnesses of what his life was like. Yet if we open up uh our our history books from school and read about the life of George Washington and what he did, no one questions it. We go, yep, that's true, it's accurate He was a great man, wooden teeth, horse teeth. I don't know all about it, but he had teeth, right? He cut down a tree and he led America from the beginning But we don't have near, we don't hardly even have a thousand copies, a thousand writings of the life of George Washington. But here in the New Testament, we have five to six thousand manuscripts. So I just want you to understand that's some some high-level facts and data, but I want you to see that we are talking about a collection, a historical collection of writings. This isn't just fairy tales and myths and ideas, as Peter says. It's not what it is. But it's truth. It's historical writings. But it's not just one eyewitness account. Notice back in our text, verse 16, it says, For we, mark that, we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we, that's three, were eyewitnesses of his majesty. Why am I emphasizing the we there? Because this isn't just Peter saying, I saw this, believe me. I saw this, believe me. That's what Muhammad did in Islam. I was in a cave. I got a special revelation. I wrote it down. Believe me. It's not uh that's this is what the the Mormons believe is uh Joseph Smith, he got special glasses, a special stone. With special tablets, and he, only he, could look into a hat and see the mystery of the tablets revealed to him. One person. Now, what's the issue with one person? That's it 's proof, yeah. It's always interesting. That one person does it in secret. That one person got the the the mystery of the revelation revealed to them when everyone else was asleep. It's so interesting that all of the miraculous thing happens when you're by yourself. But here, that's not how scripture works. That's not how the New Testament works. It's a collection. The New Testament, the Gospels, Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, is a collection of eyewitness accounts. Written during the time of other eyewitnesses. The youth will know this because on Wednesday they probably get sick and tired of it when I'm in when we're reading through the Gospels or when we're reading through Acts. Right in the middle of one of the stories, this happens a lot in Mark. Luke does it because Luke is definitely a historical writer. He's collecting multiple eyewitness accounts of the life of Jesus. He says that in Luke and In the book of Acts. That's the purpose of the books. But right in the middle of some of these wild stories, these miracles that Jesus does, the author will name the person and their father or mother. And to us we're like, well, that's cool. You know, that that's great. Thanks for telling us that. But why is that so important? The youth were here. I know they won't say it. Why is that so important? It's because during that time, all right, think about this. In that time they could have received that letter. They read that letter and said, wow, that's a crazy story. That miracle is amazing. Oh, I know that person. Oh, I know their cousin. I'm going to go talk to them. I'm going to go connect with them. And it allows the opportunity for the original reader to validate the claims of what was being said. This is important. It's not just one eyewitness, it's a multitude of eyewitnesses. Beloved, when we are reading about the testimony of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ in the Gospels We are seeing a multitude of eyewitness accounts written during the time that other eyewitnesses could have contradicted it, could have said, that's a lie, that's not true, but that's not what we have. Everyone's saying, Yeah, this is true. I was there, I witnessed it. Yeah, yeah, take my testimony, write it down. I want people to know what I have seen and heard and witnessed for myself. We must be strengthened by this. Because the challenge is we don't get to see Jesus walking on this earth right now. We didn't get to witness Jesus dying on the cross. We didn't get to witness Jesus raising from the dead and ascending into heaven. And so much of us, don't we just, ah, I wish I was there. Oh, the day of Pentecost. Who would love to bend there at the day of Pentecost? When the Holy Spirit comes flooding down on people and the preaching of the gospel goes forth in one language, but the multitude of languages hears it. And thousands are saved. We're just going, I I I wasn't there. I can't. You have the testimony. You have the testimony. This is what is recorded for us is a multitude of eyewitness accounts. Telling us of the wondrous works of Jesus Christ. Now, this is what they tell us. We see a Peter says, still in verse 16, we may known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Some translations may say the powerful coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. But we must see there's two things that are told. It's the power and the coming of Christ. The coming of Christ, this is the advent. This is This is Christmas. This is what we celebrate. But we're not just celebrating, oh, he he has arrived as a little baby. How cute and cuddly. We love that. No, this is the The king has arrived. The savior has arrived. The prophecies are being fulfilled by this little child arriving. And the eyewitness accounts there, you can read in the Gospels of the coming of Christ and that God sent his son down to this earth to take on flesh. It's important. And then the power. Remember who Peter is. Anyone think of some miracles that Peter has witnessed or been a part of? Some big deals, right? What someone's whispering something. What's some things Peter has done? What's some miracles that Peter has experienced? Healings? He's witnessed people raising from the dead. Feeding 5,000. Walked on water. That's Peter himself. Did we forget the man that we're talking about? The man that denied, denied Jesus. Yet Jesus called him. He was said, this is where the church will be built, this rock. And so we see this life of Jesus in the eyewitness account. And it's so important that we're hearing Jesus' word, just like the original audience needed to hear it Because it helps us fight against the lies of the enemy. Because the enemy wants to come in and say, did that really happen? Did God really say that? And you know what? We have to go. I actually don't know because I wasn't there. But we do have the testimony. Of eyewitnesses. And we'll see later that's also inspired by the Holy Spirit. So we see the power in the coming of our Lord and Savior. That's what He is, an eyewitness of His Majesty. He's an eyewitness of this, and he's testifying to that. But then in verse 17 he says, For when he received honor and glory from God the Father And the voice was born to him by the ma the majestic glory. This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Sometimes we forget that people were present at the baptism of Jesus. You know, we kind of think, oh, this is a private event. and the Father speaking out of heaven, booming down. That's just a private thing. That was just for Jesus to hear. But here Peter's recognizing that something wild happened at the baptism of Jesus And he is a witness of it. But not just him. He's saying, We, he's recognizing there's a multitude there. But then verse 18, he continues on and says, We ourselves heard this very voice born from heaven. For we were with him on the holy mountain. Now what's what's being talked about here? This is the transfiguration Alright, so remember, Peter is one of the few disciples that got to go up onto the mount and be present in the transfiguration of Jesus. The story there is is majestic, it's it's amazing, and you can just see this this presence of deity, the holy God present with these mere humans, these beings and flesh. And just the chaos of the situation and and they're s they don't even know what to do. They start saying, Maybe we should build we could build altars to to all these other things. And no In the presence right now, they are experiencing in a very historical and unique way the presence of Yahweh. Peter is an eyewitness of that. Peter was there. Peter saw it. He heard the voice of the Father expressing his love for the Son. This is the man whose words we are reading right now. It's trustworthy. It's true. We can rely on it. Now, some of you may have heard this, or you may be thinking this yourselves right now. But Anthony, aren't you just saying that his testimony is true because Peter has said that his testimony is true? This is what the the the argument of circular reasoning. And I would say, sure, I'm okay with that. I'm okay if you say it's circular reasoning. Here's the response. This is a classic apologetic response is by what standard is does truth come from? By what standard? So sure, you could say, Anthony, you're just circling around and you're saying the Bible is true because the Bible says it's true. Uh you're saying the eyewitness accounts are true because the eyewitness accounts are Say that they're true, and I'm saying, yes, you're correct. It also says that it's breathed out by God, but you're correct. I'm saying I'm believing it because it's the word of God. And I'm okay with that. The question to the atheists, the question to those that are challenging the circular reasoning is saying, where do you get the ground and the base and the foundation of your truth from? I can point to mine. I can identify where truth comes from. It's the word of God breathed out by the Holy God. So truth is God is truth, and we have truth here in the Bible. Let's argue from there, and they say, well, it's based off of my feelings. Anyone ever have a mood swing? Because you didn't eat in time? Right? Oh, it's based off of what I have experienced in my life Well friends, your life experience is very different than my life experience. And we grew up, I grew up on the better side of the river, but we didn't grow up that far away from each other So, how much different is the experience of those in Russia, Korea, the tribes in Africa and South America? So we can't say experience because that's different all over the world. Well, it's just the common, you know, everyone, this is just the common consensus. We've all agreed on it. This is how we've come to truth. Go through history and see what the common consensus on is on some of the worst things that have occurred in American history. in world history. The people agreed on slavery. The people agreed on dehumanizing others. So we can't say that's where truth is founded. This is why I'm okay saying, oh, you're you're circular reasoning because you're saying the Bible is true because it says it's true, and so you're going back to the Bible and saying, yes, this is my foundation. If you can show a better foundation. That's not changing. It's not based off of your wishes and your wants and your feelings. It's not based off of popular opinion. Then we can talk about it. Scripture defeats all of this because it is the truth. It's grounded, it's rooted, and it's breathed out by God. So don't put down your weapon Don't put down your weapon and say, oh, I can't. They don't believe in the Bible, so we're not going to address, we're not going to talk about the Bible. No, this is where truth is. This is how we know truth. We have the eyewitness accounts of the works of Christ, the one who died and was raised and seated at the right hand of the Father. Who has assembled his bride, the church? We have eyewitness accounts of what he has done. I'm not putting this down. I'm not putting it down. You can't come and say, oh, well, that's just what you believe because of religion. Make an argument outside of religion. Well, atheists, you can't make an argument outside of religion. Your atheism is just a self-religion. Your religion is worshipping yourself and your pride. Everyone's arguing from religion. We are grounded in our religion. So turn to the Word of God. See the works of God. Last argument on the works in the New Testament that will be brought up is that. This is a common one. Oh, you just keep citing this guy Paul. He didn't even know Jesus. He never saw Jesus. And so he just he has a totally different mind than Jesus. He's writing his own thing. This will come up when you're talking about men and women's roles. It's one of the most common arguments of well that's you're just following Paul's writings. I'm going to follow Jesus. Cool, great argument. Yeah, what a novel idea. Do we forget that Paul heard and witnessed the presence of Jesus after he ascended? Kind of a big deal, right? Do we forget that there's three years of Paul's life in the wilderness where he's being discipled and trained? He's been tested. Oh, Acts tells us, Acts tells us that he has been sent by God to the Gentiles. So don't allow that argument to come in and say, well, that's Paul. He wasn't even present with Jesus. He witnessed Jesus. He heard Jesus, and Jesus sent him, appointed him to go on his mission. His writings are valuable and true and they're eyewitnesses. Actually, uh some of the gospel writings are from partners of Paul that have witnessed what he has done, has been part of Paul's ministry, and they're writing the gospels, and we see this bridge between People that have witnessed Christ and witnessed Paul and their writings are presented here. So we must see that the Word of God, the New Testament, reveals the works of Jesus So does the Old Testament. Don't hear me say, oh, the Old Testament doesn't do that. It does. It absolutely does. We see the works of God. Creation? The work of God? Maybe. Right? So we see the work of God in the Old Testament, but the New Testament is we're seeing the work of Christ in the salvation plan for sinners. Which then brings us to the second point, his word. So we see we can rely, and God has revealed himself to us through the eyewitness accounts of the works of Christ. But now we get to this point of his word. This is found in verse 19. And we have the prophetic word more fully confirmed, to which you will do well to pay attention. As to a lamp shining in a dark place, until the day dawns and the morning star rises in your hearts. We have the prophetic word more fully confirmed This language is crucial for us to grasp that the Old Testament is more fully confirmed. The prophecies prophesied in the Old Testament are clearer or better understood post Christ. Christ. Post-Christ. He is the fulfillment of many, many prophecies in the Old Testament. We actually, one of the clearest examples in the earliest examples is out of Genesis 3, right? We see the curse coming upon all of creation. But what's the hope? What's the glimmer of hope and the promise that God gives them after the fall? is that the seed of the woman will conquer. Who's the conqueror? It's not you and I It's Jesus. We see this fulfillment happening here. Beloved, may I encourage you tonight to be strengthened and encouraged and to value the Old Testament. It's old just because of when it was written. It's not old because it's worth nothing. I don't think the older we get, we're worth nothing. Actually, the older we get, often there's more wisdom. comes out of us. There's more experience in our lives and uh we can speak into things better. I'm 35, I know. I'm hitting my midlife crisis, folks. Sorry. Miss Belma, I never saw your eyes roll so hard. Right, but it's not to it's not old and devalued. It still is valued. Unfortunately, there was a season of pop Christianity in America where this term of unhitching the Old Testament From the New Testament was being used. And and the Stanley was using it. Um I think his heart was maybe in the right place. I think he fell for a lot of lies at this time. But he was trying to say, oh, the Old Testament's so confusing. It's so it it's so confusing, it doesn't make any sense, and if we can just get unbelievers to forget about the Old Testament and focus on the New Testament, right? Just focus on Jesus. We're just Jesus Christians We just want to talk about Jesus, and Jesus is the only thing we need to talk about. We don't need to talk about sin and and uh rebelling against God. We don't need to talk about the history of Israel. That's all confusing. these laws and you want to talk about clean meats and dirty meats, we're not going to do that. We've got to unhitch from the Old Testament and just get them into the New Testament. And then sooner or later, you know, once they're in the church for 20 years and maybe on their deathbed, we can then introduce the Old Testament to them. I maybe added that last piece. But that was the idea. Was that it's too confusing. The Old Testament's too confusing. And we want to focus on Jesus. Beloved, the Old Testament is all about Jesus. That's what it is all about. There's nothing else. You can say, oh well, the Old Testament gave us history of Israel. Yes. The Old Testament gave us the law, yes. The Old Testament told us about creation, yes. The Old Testament has a lot of good poetry and songs, yes, and wisdom and proverbs, yes. But it was always, always was, and always is pointing and about Jesus. And if we forget that, if we do this unhitching thing and say, we don't need to worry about that. The New Testament and the work of Christ doesn't actually make sense. Hear me. If we say we're not going to deal with the Old Testament, you can't share the gospel. Because when does sin enter the scene? Was it was it was it Matthew 1? No? I mean we get we get glimpses of it, right? We we see testimony pointing back to it, but it's Genesis. What about the law? Ooh, the scary law. Gotta get rid of the law. Actually, uh Scripture, the New Testament. You know, we'll be New Testament people, and let's be a Jesus person, since the law is good. He didn't come to abolish it, to fulfill it. Paul tells us that the law, the law is for the unrighteous. So, oh, well, what do we do about the law? Why is the law? How does the law talk about Jesus? Um, has anyone broken the law? You don't have to raise your hands. I know the answer. Because you're like me. The answer is yes, absolutely. Both in my deeds and my actions, but also in my heart and my thinking. So we s so now we have this problem, this conundrum, and then we have all this these these crazy scenes of a tabernacle and a temple and a priest. cutting open animals and bleeding them out and then burning them and cutting them and this is all chaos and crazy. We don't want that. Do you understand what Jesus has done? Do you understand the blood that flowed out of Christ? Do you understand his body, which is broken for you? Oh, all of that tabernacle and temple stuff was pointing to the perfect sacrifice. All this priest stuff was pointing to the ultimate priest. All this law stuff was showing the perfect obedient son. Beloved, the Old Testament has been talking about Jesus the whole time. You don't believe me? Read Matthew chapter 1 through 4. You can't go hardly a paragraph without seeing an Old Testament citation. You can't. It'll say Jesus did such and such to fulfill this prophecy. Prophecy, to fulfill what it was said in the Old Testament. Or if you don't want to read Matthew 1 through 4, read all of Hebrews. Well friend, if you take the time, here this is your homework, you take the time tonight, you read Hebrews, every Old Testament citation in Hebrews You go back to the Old Testament, you read it, you mark it down where it is in Hebrews, and you have a cross-reference in your Bible so you can see that. I promise you, you won't be able to finish that before midnight tonight. Because it's packed full. I wouldn't, I read slow, but it's packed full of all these cross-references. Because what Hebrews is doing, the author of Hebrews What he's saying is, you've heard it in the Old Testament, and now you have seen it fulfilled in Christ. You've seen Christ, and now you understand what it was saying in the Old Testament. That's what it's all about. Arguably, Jesus fulfilled over 300 prophecies from the Old Testament. Over 300. And that's why we must see here we have the eyewitness accounts written during multiple eyewitness accounts, but they're reporting supernatural events. That's what he's saying, it's the prophecies and the prophecies being fulfilled. It's easy to tell a lie that at least makes sense. Right, it's easy to tell a lie. I saw two cars run into each other and crash. Got it. That's a lie, but logically that makes sense But now if I came in here and I said, I saw a man walking on water, and I saw a man take bread and break it into pieces and feed thousands, and I saw a guy raised from the dead. Start to see the challenge there. But this is what the prophecies have been pointing to, his fulfillment of that. So these supernatural, these miraculous events have eyewitness accounts, and they're also fulfilling what was told. Many, many, many, many years prior to Jesus fulfilling them. And he says this He says, which you will do well to pay attention as to a lamp shining in a dark place. They foretold of Christ's coming and being the Savior, and then in the New Testament we see the fulfillment of what was told. The darkness was shattered when the light of God came into this earth. The darkness was crushed when the Son of God arose from the dead. The light shine bright. And verse twenty says, Knowing this first of all, that no prophecy of Scripture comes from someone's own interpretation, for no prophecy was ever produced by the will of man, but man spoke from God as they were carried along by The Holy Spirit. Now, friends, this is vitally important to understand and to rely and trust this truth. That the Bible was written by men. Yes and amen. Yes, physical men physically wrote the words in the original language onto a piece of material. And what the world, the enemy, wants to say is, because man wrote that, then it's corrupted. But here we see, both here, Timothy tells us this as well. Right? That is breathed out by God. Or here he says, but men spoke from God as they were carried along by the Holy Spirit. So while men physically wrote the words down, they are inspired by the Holy Spirit, God speaking through them in what they are writing. So why is this important for us to grasp is that the words we have here have been inspired and spoken by God. Is God a liar? No. Easy answer. Absolutely not. So if he is saying that he has written this, he has inspired men to write this, We have a multitude of eyewitnesses to prove that this one person didn't just get uh a feeling when hiding in a cave or looking in a top hat, but that this is A multitude has witnessed this, and a multitude is writing this, and a multitude testifies to the inspiration of God in the testimony. Now we understand how and why we trust and believe. That the Bible is the Word of God. This is how God reveals Himself to us. It's by His word, by the works that we see, and by His words written down by men. For us. Do you understand the great love of God? God loved us so much that in our rebellion he sent his son. Yes and amen. But his love goes is also that he loved us so much that he wants us to know about Jesus. He wants us to know about the law that we have broken. He wants us to know about his work throughout all of history and he's given us his word. He's preserved his word. Arguably the oldest manuscript we have is right around the 100 to 150 A. D. That's a long time ago. It's about 2,000, almost 2,000 years ago. So we have the writings that God has given us. The youngest writing is right around 1900 years old. Let's argue that. Nineteen hundred years old. A long time ago, God has preserved his word. And then the the first writing is many years before that. Right? You have a you have a long gap now. You have thousands of years betwe between the first writing and what we have in our hands today. And God has preserved that for our benefit. It's His grace, it's His mercy upon us to give us His word. To trust it, to believe in Him. As we continue to study the letter of Peter, we must always go back to the Word of God. Because in two weeks, next week we won't be in Peter, but the following week I think we will be. I may have that off. But when we get back into Peter, we're going to start to be challenged with false teachings. And we're going to have to address false teachings in our own day. And beloved, if we just say, well, this is the tradition I have, this is what I know from what I grew up and heard, we're going to fail and the lies are going to be Be easily brought into our lives. But if we are rooted in standing on the truth of God revealed in His Word, we now have the proper weapons to fight against the lie. We have the proper tools to hear the lies of the enemy and say, absolutely not, that's a lie. Get it out of here. We have the tools to call out the false teachers. And so we must use the Word of God and trust his testimony. I encourage you if you have more questions, this is a deep topic. There's great resources out there and to talk more, but maybe this is the first time you've heard this or you've you struggled in understanding what is this You know, I know I believe the Bible, but I don't know why. Please come talk to me. Uh talk to Pastor Matt or Jeremiah. We'd love to help you wrestle with this, to walk through this. That's a uh a lot there. There's so much encouragement when we're rooted and grounded in our confidence in the Word of God. You will be strengthened as a Christian when you do that. So please, that invitation's open.