The words we'll examine tonight come out of 2 Peter chapter 2. Matt gave you two chapters this morning. I will only do one chapter. But you get three whole chapters in one Sunday. You guys are getting your money's worth out of us today. Thank you for someone laughs at us. Poor sense of humor But as we examine 2 Peter chapter 2, we have to talk about false teachers. And arguably, this is the entire purpose of Peter's letter. We saw in the first letter that he wrote, it was talking about being strengthened and encouraged for the day of trial to understand what this new identity as a Christian should look like and how you should live in society as Christians and to fight against uh the the lies that you're not anything different now that you're in Christ, but you're a new Christian creation. And here in 2 Peter, this letter really is focused on chapter 2. This is the premise of the letter that there's false teachers, false prophets, And you must, hear me, you must not fall for the lies. Because the lies will bring destruction. It's a very serious conversation that Peter has here. And we're going to see his language. He's not pulling punches at all. He's not saying, yeah, they're they're a problem, but you know, we gotta We we gotta we gotta just welcome them in and and love them and they won't be too bad. Oh no, when we get to the heart of this chapter, you're gonna see what Peter says about them. You're going to see that there's a great destruction awaiting those that are teaching heresy. And if Peter's telling us, through the inspiration of the Spirit, how dangerous false teachers are and what we should be doing about them, how about we hear the words of Peter and we too take it seriously? Seriously. We too recognize that false teachers aren't just a thing we can maybe coexist with, but that we must reveal the lies and we must fight against them with the truth. of the gospel. Now before we dive in this chapter, I want to lay out some groundwork for us just to understand some categories here. Because the temptation when we start to talk about false teachers is to take any doctrine or theological topic that you disagree with someone else and immediately call that person a false teacher. That's wrong. Alright? Don't do that. that. We have lots of disagreements that is healthy for the church to have those. It allows for good debate and in good debate, healthy debate, there should cause us to study and examine the truth of God's word more and more. Alright, so just because someone disagrees with some theological point you have doesn't automatically make them a false teacher. Everyone good with that? Alright. I'm just trying to get you guys to tell to give me some. some grace sometimes. That's all I'm asking for. And at the same time, that you may have a teacher, a pastor that teaches Or proclaim something that you don't fully agree with. There's limits to that. I can't give all the categories, but I think the classic one is the timeline for the end times. Right? Everyone have all thousand years of whatever we're talking about all figured out? Some people are saying yes. Most of you are saying I don't really know. Right? We can say, okay, just because the teacher disagrees With me on that. It doesn't make them a false teacher. It doesn't make them a heretic, right? I think what we need to focus in on, and what Peter's doing, what we need to do is when we're talking about dangerous False teachers, dangerous false prophets. It's someone coming in and teaching contrary to the word of God and contrary to the character and nature of God. And often I think the examples we'll give today, well I'll give today about modern examples of false teachers, we will set see that they are compromising and false teaching false doctrine on the reality of the gospel and salvation. That's probably the main ones we'll see today in our society. Now let's also put some boundaries on it or our range fans on this, that uh there may be a false teacher. Teaching a false gospel or a false doctrine about God. And when they are challenged about their false teaching, they recognize the the lie that they have been teaching. They recognize the corruption of their doctrine and they repent and correct. That's what we would want. Right? You're coming in here, you're saying that uh there's only uh one person of the Trinity, the Trinity's not real, there's just one person, it's just God and however we see him either in the Father, the Son, or the Spirit, that's how God is in that moment. But they're never three persons at once. That's a heresy. It's a heresy. It's very dangerous. Heresy. But if we would come and we would address that with a person, they say, Wow, I never realized that. This is what scripture says, they immediately correct and And move away from that false doctrine, there's grace there. I would say there's a warning though with a teacher that that's maybe not the person to have in that position. But I believe many times the false teachers and prophets we see both in Scripture and in our own day when faced with true Of scripture, not truth of my tradition, my family has always done this, this is what we do as good conservative Americans. No, when faced with scripture, they see scripture and They continue to proclaim the lie. Friends, don't deal with it. Call it out. Reveal it with the truth of God's word. and fight against it and get rid of it. So with those categories, as we start to think about, I hope, you know, those categories may be fluid for us. You know, you may have somebody in your mind right now or some situation in your mind. And as we work through this, you need to examine God's word and see See what what are those categories? How can we operate? But we must recognize the heretic is the one that's teaching contrary to the word of God, contrary to the character and nature of God, and contrary to the Contrary to the gospel. Alright. So as we work through this, I'm not going to read the entire chapter as I normally do at once. We're going to work section by section. So starting in 2 Peter chapter 2, verse 2 Verse one. But false prophets also arose among the people, just as there will be false teachers among you Who will secretly bring in destructive heresies, even denying the master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction destruction, and many will follow their sensualities, and because of them the way of truth will be blasphemy. And in their greed they will exploit you with false words. Condemnation from long ago is not idle and their destruction is not asleep. Let's pause here. The first reality we must understand is that there are false teachers. We must recognize that there's false teachers. I remember when uh Kenzie and I first became missionaries and We had these rose-colored lenses that we saw missionaries in, right? All missionaries are the greatest, most holy, righteous people No missionary has a disagreement with another missionary. Right? Okay, let news flash. That's not true. And it was it was my very first meeting as a missionary That I heard missionaries talking about heresy, promoting heresy. I mean, can you just imagine young Anthony? I was 20 Nine? No, I was thirty. Young Anthony. The very first meeting I've ever had as a missionary. I'm I'm I'm I've done it. I've become a Christian worker. I'm I'm doing the labors of Christ. I'm and I'm with my brothers in Christ and we're in this together to proclaim the gospel to the nations. And on that Zoom call, I hear people blaspheming salvation and the gospel. Saying that different races have different special salvations, and different races have special sins that they must deal with the rest of their lives. The year was 2020, if you haven't noticed. Notice the time frame there. Right? Those lies were everywhere. We can't lie to ourselves and say that there's not false teachers. We must have the reality. We must recognize that there are false teachers in this world. And the reason we must hold on to this reality is that it allows us and prepares us to Be on the lookout for them, to be aware of them, and not to allow the lies to sneak in So there's going to be false teachers, we we recognize that. But notice the false teachers that Peter is talking about Right in the beginning of, or right in the middle of verse 1, it says, just as there will be false teachers among you, how? Who will secretly bring in destructive heresies. Friends, just hear me. I'm not talking about Islam right now. Is Islam a false doctrine and a false teaching? Of course. Hinduism. Atheism. Right. All the isms we can we can put categories in and say, here they are, false teachings, false doctrines. We're dealing with that. But that's not what Peter's dealing with. No, he's dealing with those that are saying, we are Christians, and they're secretly bringing in the destruction and Why is this more of a challenge? It's easy to see the mosque and see the false worship of Allah. And say that's a false doctrine and false teaching. But when someone's saying, I am a Christian and I want to partner with you, and they're the ones bringing the false doctrines. It's dangerous. Right? That's the insider threat that we must be aware of. And those types of false teachers, though those that are bringing it in the Bringing in the doctrine secretly are using scripture terms, phrases that when we hear them, we go, yeah, absolutely. Absolutely, I absolutely I agree with you. But then as they continue on and work out some of their theology, you start to hear, well wait, when you say faith, you don't you're not talking about faith like I'm talking about faith. When you say salvation, you're not talking about salvation the way that Scripture says salvation. This is a very dangerous aspect of these. false teachers is that they're using the same lingo as we do, as even Scripture does. Isn't that what Satan's whole plan was in the garden? Did Satan come in with a whole new doctrine and fancy words that Adam and Eve had never heard Heard of? of the earth? Or did he use the very words of God and just twist it slightly? Just challenge it a little bit. Just question it In the most minor way that cause mass chaos and destruction to the world. So we see that we must have the reality that there are going to be false teachers. This will allow us to be prepared. To fight against them. We must recognize that those teachers will come in secretly, meaning they will be amongst us. I don't want us to be scared of every single person around us, but we must be aware that the secret Teachings of the liars will come in amongst us. And they will proclaim to be Christians. They will proclaim the name of Christ. Notice that's what he says. At the end of verse 1, he says, even denying the master who bought them, bringing upon themselves swift destruction. Here they are saying, I'm a Christian, I'm a Christian, I'm a Christian. Been saved by the blood of Christ. Now, let me teach you this false doctrine. Now, let me tell you about how God's going to make you rich. Now, let me tell you about how all of you are racist because of your skin color. Do you start to see how, well wait, we were on the same page just a moment ago, but then the lies start to come in. And then the last aspect here is the reality of the false teachers. If they are not removed, many people will follow after them. So we see the false teachers coming in, teaching their secret doctrines and lies and blasphemy the name of God. And if it's not dealt with, if the false teacher is not dealt with, the masses will join in The masses will join in. I had a bad habit for a while, I love to watch documentaries about cults. Alright, just that's what I did. It's strange. And one of my favorites, I don't think I can say it's my favorite, but Jonestown just grips me. Uh many of you are alive and and experience that. I remember Tom McNeil actually worked on Dover when they They they brought back the almost thousand uh murdered back to Dover Air Force Base and he was there with the bodies. I remember him telling me that. Um but Jim Jones used scripture Jim Jones talked about Christ. Jim Jones talked about bringing all the races together to be unified and to save the whole world. And what kind of salvation happened was uh over 900 people Committed suicide or were executed through a false doctrine and teaching that at first it sounded good. It sounded really good. It was unifying. Everybody was going to come together. But then we just saw it uh led to destruction. Over nine hundred people followed after him. It's not just a minor thing. There's one man's teaching that just flourished in that community and uh Nearly a thousand people died because of it. We must be aware that the reality of false teachers coming into the community, if not dealt with, many people will follow after and will be destroyed. So let me give some examples of modern-day heresies and false teachings we see in our society today. I'm sticking to the Western American church culture. Number one, which is probably the the most obvious to many of us, is the Health and Wealth Prosperity Gospel. Health and wealth, prosperity, gospel. These are those people most of the time on TV. proclaiming that if you come to Christ and you give to Christ financially, he will bless you and make you rich and healthy. They always have nice Nice suits, nice smiles, nice calming voice. Write books that sell off the bookshelves But what they are proclaiming is that your salvation has nothing really to do with sin, but your salvation has everything to do with you becoming rich and healthy and having a perfect The Health and Wealth Prosperity Gospel. This was very much fought against over the last probably two decades. And we've seen it go away in some aspects, but we do see it flourishing back up. This is one of the destructive doctrines that is destroying the African churches And that makes sense, right? You go into a a place that is hurting financially, is hurting um spiritually, uh the health care is not there, and you promise that, hey, if you become a Christian and you give everything you have to me. You will be healthy, you will be rich, and you will have no problems. Sign me up. This is a destructive lie that is draped under, cloaked under the name of Christ in Christianity. Christianity. We must hate it. We must fight against it. This next group, I don't have a name for it, but it's the group that there's some cultural sins that are okay. There's some cultural sins that are okay. And this comes in the form of they are preaching the gospel. And they are proclaiming Christ and are preaching out of the Bible. But then when we start to talk about cultural issues and cultural sins , Right? Homosexuality, abortion , divorce , transgenderism. They start to preach and say that they are saved by grace, therefore they don't need to deal with their sins. Just allow those sins to go. We don't need to deal with sins, aren't we? Aren't we saved by grace? Isn't God forgiving? Isn't God loving? Do you see how well that twists? Because when we say isn't God when they say isn't God loving, we say, Yeah, absolutely. Isn't God forgiving? Yes, absolutely. Right? And then so what they do is they drive it all the way down to the point that then they're saying There's no sin. And people don't need to fight against sin. People don't need to get rid of sin. Often this is uh brought on by whatever the culture is saying, what makes us feel good, what brings in the masses. You see statistics, the idea of homosexuality and the multiplication that it has had in the last decade alone, it makes sense that false teachers are going to start to preach And say that marriage isn't just between one man and one woman because a lot of people like that and a lot of people will come into their doors. This lie is causing destruction. But we see this type of thing in many ways that we we just say, no, don't don't worry about that sin. Sin 's okay. It's not that bad. Many of these people will never even use the word sin. It's probably one of the greatest warnings I can give you. If you hear a teacher or a preacher preaching and they share the gospel and they don't mention sin, your antennas better be up. Now, the third group is actually the opposite of that. So we have those that say their sins, and their sins are okay. We're not going to call them sins, we're not going to deal with them. This other group Is the teacher that declares something as sin that God has not declared a sin. We like this group a lot often We, I'll say it for myself. I don't speak French. I like this group a lot sometimes. This this okay, yeah, give me a category. Make make this line that I can follow. A lot of these will come in the form of the King James only. If you are not reading the King James Bible, then you have not heard the true gospel. That's a lie. Doesn't logically doesn't make sense. It doesn't work out. Well here's another one, and this is what Paul was dealing with. Oh, you're doing something that at one point a a pagan culture did Uh, you can't do that. That's a sin. You're acting like the Pegans. Well, that's what Paul deals with in Romans 14, those that are eating meat that was sacrificed to false idols. Paul's saying, no, you have the freedom of your conscience. To eat that meat, as long as you are not worshiping the false idols. But what does the false teacher want to do is say, no, you can't eat that meat. You are sinning by eating that meat. And you have lost your salvation, or you are not saved because of eating that meat. Start to put some categories in your mind of modern-day situations. That are like that. We do not get to determine what is sin if God has not already claimed it is sin. You do not get to say that is a sin. Thus saith the Lord, you are sinning unless the word of the Lord has said it is sin. And this one really can be dangerous because it 's It brings people in and they want to live a righteous and holy life. They want to be obedient to God. So when there's a teacher and A a leader that is saying, This is sin, avoid it, get it away. Uh this is sin, get it away. What they're doing is they're acting like the Pharisees, but to that person, that young Christian That wants to be obedient, that's very attractive. It's very attractive and brings them right in. So that's the the the group that says they determine what it's in. Even though the Lord has not called it a sin. That's a heresy. We need to fight against. And the fourth group, there's many more that we could deal with, but the fourth one that I've thought of is the different ways of salvation. The different ways of salvation. This one comes in many different forms, but one of the most common ways I hear it in the church, I'm not saying North Hartford, but I'm saying in the church universal within America. Is that we are Christians and we believe that Christ is the way, but you can go find God a different way. And you think that's not That 's not really true. No one's really saying that. Uh Bel Air? You you want the names of the churches in Belair that have preached such a gospel? A false gospel that that just being generous is the best thing you can do. And it doesn't matter what religion you go worship or what God you go worship, as long as you're generous, you're good, that church has a Christian title on it. That's a false teacher. Beloved, we should hate that. And we must recognize that these types of false teaching are creeping into the So we have the reality that there are false teachers. Now let's hear what Peter says about the seriousness of the Join me in verse four as we read this. For if God did not spare angels when they sinned, but cast them into hell and committed them to change And if he rescued he rescued righteous Lot, greatly distressed by the sensational conduct of the wicked, for as that righteous man lived among them day after day, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds. Then the Lord knows how to rescue the godly from trials, and to keep the unrighteous under punishment until the day of judgment. Especially those who indulge in the lust of defiling passions and despise authority. Do you hear the seriousness of false teaching? Here's what Peter does. Peter goes back to the Old Testament and he starts to deal with some powers and mites. Alright, what am I talking about? Well, notice he starts with angels. Angels, heavenly beings, spiritual beings, those that rebelled against God, what happened to them? When they sinned, he cast them into hell and committed them to death. Chains of gloomy darkness to be kept until the judgment. Good situation for the angels or bad situation? Bad. Terrible situation. That's the angelic beings that have sinned against God. God. These are the these are special beings. They're they're they're created in a very unique way. Uh the author of Hebrews deals with them and he tries to put them at a pinnacle. There's a there's a hierarchy within God's creation, and the angels have some kind of surprise. Supremacy, and that's why he's saying Jesus is higher over the angels. He's showing the supremacy of Christ. But here he's saying these high angel beings They're receiving judgment. They're receiving, they're cast into hell and committed to uh committed them to chains. Not a good situation He continues on. What about the whole world? So Pastor Matt has led us through in the last few morning sermons about Noah and the flood. This is the all of creation. God's creation had rebelled against him. And all of creation received the judgment of the flood, except for Noah. The whole world. The whole world received God's judgment and destruction By the flood. What about the great cities, Sodom and Gomorrah? We know those stories. They're wiped off the face of the earth You know, uh it's it's very interesting when you read Sodom and Gomorrah in the Old Testament at their destruction. We see about the destruction that God pours out upon them for their wickedness, for their sin. He rescues Lot out of there, but in their destruction, every time after that, when you see Sodom and Gomorrah, it's always used as a reference for great, great punishment from God. So now what Peter's doing is he said, angels received a punishment from God when they rebelled. The entire world received a punishment from God when they rebelled. Great cities received a punishment from God when they rebelled. And what here's what Peter's doing. Just so you know, he's he's It's a very great way of communicating. He's laying out all these great things, these wonderful things, these massive, powerful things that have received the judgment of God. And then he goes, Well, what about these puny little lying teachers? What do you think is going to happen to them? Oh, they're going to receive the judgment of God. This is the seriousness that Peter wants us to see The seriousness that anyone that's coming in and teaching, contrary to the nature of God, contrary to the word of God, contrary to the gospel of Jesus Christ, will receive a judgment from God. If it's worth God taking his time and his effort to completely destroy and discipline the false teachers, do you think they're a serious problem? Right? Do we see the seriousness of this? This is why Jesus in his earthly ministry is regularly teaching against the Pharisees. Why? It's because the Pharisees Are teaching contrary to the Word of God. They're actually the ones that have made the categories of we are saying something is a l uh is a sin that God hasn't declared sin. Sin. And at the very same time, they're also saying we don't want to call call what God has called a sin because we want to make money, so we're going to remove that and say that's not a sin. Uh they're falling into two of these categories. And Jesus promises them great destruction. False teachers are they are a serious issue, and they will receive a serious judgment from God. Look at verse 6. This is making them an example of what is going to happen to the ungodly. The destruction of Sodom and Gomorrah, the destruction of the world by the flood, the punishment of the angels. is an example for us to see what will happen to the ungodly. And beloved, we must recognize that false teachers They refuse to repent of their false teaching, are the ungodly. They're teaching contrary to God. So we see the seriousness of the false teachers. and God's promise to destroy them, God's promise of destruction. But notice woven in throughout all these promises of destruction is a glimmer of hope. Did you cat catch that? You know, he's talking about the flood, but what's Peter do? Peter loves Noah. If you didn't catch that in uh his first letter he talked about But what's he do? He talks right there in verse 5 if he did not spare the ancient world, but preserve Noah, a herald of righteousness. And then a little bit later further down, as he's talking about Sodom and Gomorrah, what's he do? Peter can't help but talk about the saving grace of God. While he's talking about the destruction of the false teachers, he's talking about all this destruction of the ungodly, he weaves in the hope we have in Christ. Why does he do this? Is because when we hear about the seriousness of false teachers, we can get really scared. Right? We can get very scared, and it may cause us to say, I'm not going to interact with anything. anyone. I'm not going to church. I don't want to get anywhere close to these false teachers. But notice here is what God does is he he reminds us that even in the destruction of the ungodly there is hope for the righteous. And the righteous are righteous because of the blood of Christ. He wants to make sure we see that and we recognize that. Even Lot, I mean, we see Lot really on the line of sin Right. At times you think, no, no lot, like you sinned. You were wrong here. You you you were living in the gates. You were you were too close. But we see that in this, look at verse 8, he was tormenting his righteous soul over their lawless deeds that he saw and heard. Beloved, let that be an encouraging statement to you. Let that be an encouraging statement to you because if you are a Christian and you are in the Word of God, you are studying and di uh desiring to know God more and more, when you hear the lies of the false teacher, your soul will be tormented. You will feel that conflict in you. You may not be able to put your finger on it, oh, they're saying this and this is This is that great historical heresy that some old guys talk about. You may not be able to do that, but you'll know there's something there that's not right And it'll drive you to the Word of God. It'll drive you to the cross of Christ more and more. So even in the seriousness of the destruction of the false teachers, we also see God gives us hope. His word and living righteous lives according to Scripture and by the blood of Christ. This brings us to a third point, the character of false teachers. Let us understand some of the characteristics of the false teacher. Join me, I'm going to pick up right in the middle of verse 10. It says, bold and willful, they do not tremble as they blasphemy the glorious Whereas angels, though greater in might and power, do not pronounce a blasphemous judgment against them before the Lord. But these, like irrational animals Creatures of instinct, born to be caught and destroyed, blaspheming about matters of which they are ignorant, will also be destroyed in their destroyer. Destruction. Suffering wrong is a wage for their wrongdoing. They count a pleasure to reveal in the daytime. They are blots and blemishes revealing in their deceptions while they feast with you. They have eyes full of adultery. Insatiables for sin, they entice unsteady souls, they have hearts trained in greed Accursed children, forsaking the right way, they have gone astray, they have followed the way of Balaam, the son of Boor. Who loved gained from wrongdoing, but was rebuked for his own transgression, a speechless donkey spoke with human voice, and restrained the prophet's mess. The character of the false teachers will become evident over time. The character of false teachers will become evident over time. We see the first issue is that they do not fear the Lord. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. So, what happens if you do not fear the Lord? The failure to fear the Lord, this is Anthony Proverb. The failure to fear the Lord keeps you a fool. Keeps you a fool, an idiot. You're foolish. You're you're ignorant to the ways of truth, but it's because you lack fear of the Lord. The Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And we see that the false teachers do not fear the Lord. They don't fear his judgments. They don't fear him rightly to follow after him and study and seek his word. They're teaching their own passions, their own ways. Most of the time, we'll see this later, but most of the time, the reason they're teaching contrary to the word of God, contrary to the nature of God, is because of their own pride and their own love. They're trying to build themselves up. But we see they do not fear the Lord. They do not tremble, as Peter says. But notice this language in verse 12. But these, like irrational animals, creatures of instinct born to be caught and destroyed, blasphemy about matters of which they are ignorant, will also be destroyed in their destruction. Do you hear that language that Peter uses? He calls them animals. Beast. Beast. They're animals. And I think there's there's two aspects that Peter's calling them animals. One is because of their foolishness. Remember King Nebuchadnezzar when he was foolish when he rebelled against God? What did God cause him to do? Started eating grass like a beast. He lived in the wilderness. The rain came down on him. It wasn't until he feared the Lord that his eyes were opened. So I think Peter's directing and saying these are these are fools. They're acting like animals I don't get mad at my dog for not going to church. I get mad at my dog for a lot of reasons, but it's not for failure to go to church. Right? We don't expect animals to be in obedience. The way that Christians are, those that fear the Lord. instinct is to show what drives them, what motivates them. What what's and and what motivates them is a prey, right? Something they can devour. Something they can take and consume. That's what animals just they exist and their day their daily life, the the true animals, the ones in the wilderness, not the the Yorkes we have in our house. But the the true animals in the wilderness, their whole life is all about them just surviving for the next day, finding the one thing that will keep them alive, will keep them going. And that's what the false teachers are doing. When the false teachers come into the church, they're looking for the most vulnerable person here to devour them, to pull them away, to eat them up. Now, I'm not saying physically eat them. But what I'm saying is they're pulling them away from the rest of the flock, and now this false teacher is the sage. The false teacher is the one that brings them all wisdom. And the false teachers, they're mentor, and they are their leader, and this builds the pride of this false teacher up. They're beasts, they're animals. But notice they're born to be caught and destroyed. That's that's how God has has designed them is to be revealed. Okay, we see who they are and destroy them, get them out of there. That's that animal imagery there. The third aspect that Peter uses to describe the characters of the false teachers is found at the end of verse 13. He says they are blots and blemishes. They're pimples. Pimples. You got that? Remember Picture Day? Of course, the morning you wake up for Picture Day, you got the big pimple on your face. Do you want that? No, no, right? No. That's what the false teachers are. They're the blemish, they're the blot within the church. Uh that they're revealing themselves because of how disgusting they are. But it's hidden. That's the challenge. It's hidden. it it creeps out slowly. But we see that there are the blots and the blemishes. It's not a good name for them. But notice that they're with you That's what's one of the hardest parts. They are blots and blemishes revealing in their deceptions while they feast with you. They're gonna try to blend in. The false teachers want to blend in, they want to be part of the community so that then once they get into the position they can then start teaching and proclaiming. Their false doctrines and lies. They have eyes full of adultery. Full of adultery. They're lusting after something. They're following after something. They entice unsteady souls. That's how they they attract the weak and the vulnerable, the young Christians often. They have hearts trained in greed. They want. Give me, gimme, gimme. Give me more. That's what fuels the false teacher. It's one of the great defenses of the false teacher. If you know someone's a false teacher, uh and uh they're not within your realm to deal with, ignore them. Stop watching their YouTube videos. Each YouTube click they get, they are they are filled up with it. Stop buying their material and usually you're saying, well I just want to see what What they're doing. Stop. You're building into that. That's what they want. They want the followers. They want the crowd. They want the respect of others. It's their greed that drives them. And we see Peter continues to talk about how there will be judgment. And notice this that he he points back to the Old Testament prophet and the donkey that speaks. The donkey that speaks this is Bob Berman brings up the donkey that speaks every men's breakfast, 'cause I think he he gets an opportunity to say a word. But in that time we see that so Peter called them animals and beasts, but then he shows that a donkey was what God used to change. Change the prophet, the way of the prophet. So these beasts aren't even as good as the donkey. These beasts aren't even as good as the beast of the wilderness. These false teachers are dangerous, and we must be aware of them. They are prideful, they're like the animals, and they do not fear the Lord. So let's deal with the problem of false teachers. It's probably very clear already. But let's look in verse 17 These are waterless springs and mist driven by a storm. For them the gloom of utter darkness has been reserved. For speaking loud boasts of folly, they entice by sensual passions of the flesh those who are barely escaping from those who live in error. They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption For whatever overcomes a person, to that he is enslaved. For if, after they have escaped the defilements of the world, through the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ, they are again entangled in them. and overcome. The last state has become worse for them than the first, for it would have been better for them never to have known the way of righteousness than after knowing it to return back from the holy commandment delivered. To them. What the true proverb says has happened to them. The dog returns to his own vomit, and the sow, after washing herself, returns to wallow in the mire. One farming term I messed up. The problem of false teachers. The first problem is that they just follow the trends. Verse 17: These are waterless springs and mists driven by Storm. What is the trend of the day? What will get the crowds in the door in that time in history? It's always changing. It's always changing. It's always moving. It's always shifting. We see the constant shift of what's the culture saying. I'm going to win people over in the culture by telling them what they want to hear, and it's going to be the lie, and this is going to be the new way, the new trend. Be aware of that Be aware of that. Christian bookstores. They're one of the prevailers of this issue. Whatever sells, they're promoting. And it just is making money, but often it's the newest, trendiest thing, it's the cool thing. The gospel 's old But it's good. Right? All old things are good, right? All old things are good. We don't need trendy teachings. Oh, we have this new insight, the new perspective of Paul. We finally figured it out. Well, thank you. It was 1970 when the new perspective perspective of Paul came around. It's a little late, don't you think? We we the trendy the moves and the the shifting with the culture. Be aware of those teachers. They're shifting with the culture. They have a motive which is not The problem with the false teachers is they're consuming. It's not enough for them just to voice and say their thoughts. It's not enough for them just to teach their ideas. They want to bring everyone into it. They want to consume all of your time and all of your thoughts, and they want to consume you to the point that your soul is deprived of the living water of Christ. They're all consuming. And notice this: this says right in the middle of 18, they entice by sensual passions of the flesh those who are barely escaping, those who live in Error. They promise them freedom, but they themselves are slaves of corruption for whatever overcomes a person, so that he is enslaved. They're consuming. They're enslaved and they're consuming. It's a destructive pattern they have, and it's how they they fulfill their own pride. They're consuming and taking over whatever they can. They're very dangerous in this way. The last problem of the false teachers is this: they promise great things. If the false teachers were teaching something that didn't make us feel good, it'd be really easy to reject them. You don't make me feel good, and you're lying about God. But what they do is they make you feel good while they're lying about God. And that's hard. That's hard. They promise freedom. Anybody want freedom? Yeah. Of course. Oh, to have freedom you must be circumcised. Oh, now this freedom's changed This is what Paul was addressing in other letters in the New Testament. That same false teaching is in our world today You want true freedom? You want eternal freedom? This is what the liars will say. Come follow my teachings. Give me all your money, and you will have eternal freedom because you will be so Rich, you'll have a jet. You want true freedom? You want true peace in this world? You must always recognize that you are a sinner because of your skin tone, and you will never escape that sin. Does God talk that way? Does Scripture talk about being eternal sinners that can't ever get escape your sin? The answer is no. We actually see there's true freedom in Christ. The false teachers promise you freedom. That can't bring freedom. Oh, the true freedom. Don't worry about the family. Don't worry about the child. Get rid of them. You need to go to college. You need to make Make money. That child's gonna be a burden. Sacrifice him to Mullock, it's no problem. Is that freedom? That's what the world teaches. The world teaches that if you get an abortion, you have freedom. That comes from the church often. There's Christian leaders teaching that in America. That's not true freedom. We see that the lies and the promises , the lie is that they promise great things, but we know the promises they give cannot be fulfilled. They cannot be fulfilled. Beloved, we must see the dangers and the problems of these false teachers. We must be aware. So how can we be aware? I'll finish here. What should we do? We must call it out when we see it. Address it to that false teacher immediately. Address it with them. Deal with it. If they reject your truth, make sure you're using the word of God to address it. If they reject you, bring others. And if that happens, then you bring others Bring it before the church. If nothing is being done with it, and that lie continues, the false teacher continues to teach, and their ways flee from it. Get away from it. You're not the one to save the world. You need to save yourself in Christ. You need to get away from it. And the last thing, this covers all of them, but you must trust the Word of God. You must trust the word of God. This must be our foundation. This must be the lens that we examine the lies of the false. Teachers. This must be what we use to defend and fight against the false teachers. We must rely on the word of God and trust it because it is true and it is the very word of God for our people. benefit. Beloved, may we hate the false teachers. May we call them out when we see them. May we reject the lies of the false teachers. And may we confess when we have fallen for them. Let's be honest. Many of us have fallen for those lies. We confess it knowing that we are forgiven in Christ. Let's go before our Lord. Holy God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the truth of your word. We thank you that you are truth. You have revealed yourself to us. And Lord, I ask that you strengthen us against the lies. Bring good, godly brothers and sisters into our lives that will Help us study your word. Help us hear the lies of the enemy and fight against them. May we seek to honor you with all that we do. May we tremble before you Out of wisdom may we know you, and may we love you and follow after you. We pray this in the name of Christ. Amen.