The title that we gave to this entire series on Daniel was The Promise of the Coming Kingdom. That's where we're going to start. Just with a reminder that the central prophecy in Daniel is the coming kingdom Of God established on earth in the days of the Roman Empire Now there's a lot to be said about the kingdom of God. We don't have time to go over all of it tonight, but just as a Quick reminder, there's two senses which we could use the phrase kingdom of God. First we can talk about God's providential kingdom, and that's just talking about an In the most general sense possible that God is king of the universe. He rules over all things. That's one way to talk about the kingdom of God. Reign in providence, his providential kingdom. But another way to talk about the kingdom of God, or another way that phrase is used rather, is his redemptive kingdom. This special work that God is doing saving sinners through Jesus. That's his redemptive kingdom. That's what we're talking about here. And uh what we're talking about in the prophecy of the coming kingdom. Kingdom is God's uh final and climactic reign of salvation in all the earth. His reign of salvation, his climactic reign of salvation in all the earth. And that's taking his message of grace and redemption to all nations and all tribes and all peoples and tongues. and cultures. That's what's happening in the church age. Now, was that the case before the first coming of Christ? Heads should be shaking. No, that was not the case. The world was in darkness. God had revealed Himself in a special way in Israel and revealed promises of redemption to Israel, one nation in the midst of the world, but now in the church. That's what we're talking about when we say the coming kingdom of God. So first of all, Daniel 2 verse 44, looking at this promise that God would set up his kingdom. During the reign of the Roman Empire. This is our first section today, probably our longest section. The central prophecy of Daniel is that God would set up his kingdom during the reign of the Roman Empire. Chapter 2, 44. And this is Daniel interpreting a dream, really a nightmare, that Nebuchadnezzar had. And he says, and in the days of those kings, in the days of those kings, the God of heaven Will set up a kingdom that shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms And bring them to an end, and it shall stand forever. Just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, that's referring to the actual nightmare that Nebuchadnezzar had. We'll look at that in just a moment Just as you saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand, and that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold, a great God has made known to the king what shall be after this The dream is certain and its interpretation is sure. Verse forty-four, it's clear that he's talking about the timing when God in history will set up his kingdom. In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom. It 'll never be destroyed. It'll never be taken away. And it's going to bring these other kingdoms to an end. End. And those kingdoms, just to make a long story short, would in Daniel's time when this vision was given, or this dream was given, and then the interpretation was given. It was the Babylonian Empire, after that was the Medes and the Persians, after that was the reign of Greece, after that was the Roman Empire, and that's when God would set up his kingdom on earth. And of course that's when Jesus came during the reign of the Roman Empire. Now that's the interpretation. Chapter 2, verse 4 44 and 45, where Daniel clarifies the the ultimate meaning of Nebuchadnezzar's dream about the timing of God setting up or establishing his kingdom. On earth. Back up to verses 34 and 35, just looking at something from the dream itself to see actually what Nebuchadnezzar saw. In this dream. Chapter 2, verse 34. As you looked, a stone was cut out by no human hand What does that mean that it's cut out by no human hand? Well it's uh it means it's a supernatural work. It means it's something that God is doing. And that's the interpretation Daniel gives. He says, God is going to sit up And that's the significance. That's the meaning or the interpretation of this stone is cut by no human hand, and it struck the image on its Feet of iron and clay, and broke them into pieces. So the stone breaks into pieces this large image or this large statue that Nebuchadnezzar had seen. Broken into pieces and became like the chaff of the summer threshing floors. And the wind carried them away so that not a trace of them Of them could be found. But the stone, now the stone represents the kingdom of God. The stone that struck the image became a great mountain and filled the whole earth. So you have God establishing his kingdom. It's a supernatural work of God. In the days of the Roman Empire, God sets up his kingdom. It's Nullifies the world sprawling wicked power of Rome at the time. Ultimately that kingdom is Brought to an end. The Roman Empire has been gone for a long time. The kingdom of God continues to grow and cover the earth, and that's what Nebuchadnezzar saw. This stone not only destroyed the image, But it became a great mountain, and then that great mountain filled the whole earth. So there's going to be worldwide success of the spread of this Kingdom that God set up. And that's what we've been seeing throughout history since the day of Pentecost when the Holy Spirit fell on the church and gospel ministry began. The church has been spreading and multiplying and growing ever since, and it continues to do so. What's happening? That stone has become a mountain, and that mountain is filling the whole earth. The image is what represented those other kingdoms, those progressive kingdoms throughout history. Babylonian, then the Medes and Persians, then Greece, then Rome, and then In those days God sets up his kingdom. God promised to Daniel and through Daniel to his people that he would set up his kingdom on earth during the reign of the Now, what I want to do is uh give you six points on contrasting the kingdom of God with those other kingdoms. It's not like the Roman Empire. It's not like Greece. It's not like the Babylonian Empire. These are different kinds of kingdoms. First of all, in the most general sense, uh the Babylonian, Medes, and Persians, on and on, these are kingdoms of men. Established by men, ruled over by men, and God's kingdom, of course, is the kingdom of God. But in detail, number one, first difference Those kingdoms were wicked kingdoms. God's kingdom is a righteous kingdom. It's a matter of righteousness, it's a matter of holiness, it's a matter of uh godly ethics. It's a matter of loving each other and finding unity in the truth of God. It's not a wicked kingdom that God sets up. It's wicked kingdoms that God tears down. In his own timing and power, it's a kingdom of righteousness. Secondly, uh those other kingdoms were earthly kingdoms. God's kingdom is a heavenly kingdom. Which means the power source of those other kingdoms originates on earth in the hearts of men. In terms of their ethic and what they're about. But the kingdom of heaven is different. The kingdom of God is different. So we right now are citizens of heaven. We've already been transferred into the kingdom of heaven. Well, how can that be? Is that from some power within us? No, it's from the Holy Spirit. It's a heavenly power source. We're empowered. We've been born again by the Spirit, and we're sustained and sanctified by the Spirit. Spirit. So God's kingdom is not wicked, but it's a righteous kingdom. It's not earthly, but it's a heavenly kingdom. And uh third difference, all these are connected. You're going to see overlap on all of these. Those other kingdoms had the impact of sprawling terror and oppression on earth. God's kingdom is not like that at all. It's a matter of sprawling grace and redemption. We want to spread the kingdom. We want to advance the kingdom, but not in terror, not in killing people, not in enslaving people, but in bringing people the good news of God's grace. Bringing people redemption as God's messengers. Sprawling is uh only bad for those other kingdoms because they're Driven along by darkness and oppression. But sprawling for the church is a good thing because people are being saved, God's being worshipped. Fourth difference, I've already alluded to this, uh the power that's that drives and builds these different kingdoms. The power that's at work in the kingdoms of man is the carnality and corruption of man. You see that in the the imagery of Revelation, in terms of uh the Roman Empire and the Roman Emperors, what's really at work behind them is satanic influence Manifest in this corrupt kingdom of man. But the power of the kingdom of God is the Holy Spirit and the Word of God. The Holy Spirit and the Word of God Now that's just for basic Christian living. I mean, this is our paradigm for growth: the word and the spirit. This is how we grow. It's also a paradigm for the health and for the upbuilding of the church. The preaching of the word, the teaching of the word, and the power of the Spirit. We want to be a people who walk in the unity and the love of the Holy Spirit. Spirit. God's Word and God's Spirit is the power that drives and builds and advances God's kingdom. A fifth difference is the difference regarding the weapons, weapons of the kingdom. Or you could say strategy if you want to be general. about it. Uh the what are the weapons of worldly kingdoms? Military weapons, weapons of coercion, weapons of seduction. Oh uh p using political alliances or political strategy. What are the weapons of the kingdom of God? Number one, prayer. Number two, preaching and teaching the word. Number three, worshiping God. Being just individually being people who worship God in the way we live. But gathering is a congregation to worship God. God's the one who came up with that idea. Pastors didn't come up with that idea. God's the one who organized and designed for his people to gather in local congregations all over the world to worship. Him to sing to him and sing about him to learn more about him. So we do not fight like worldly kingdoms fight. The church is not a nation. And the kingdom of God is not an earthly kingdom. We fight with prayer and preaching and worshiping and re Repenting. We repent of our sins. That's the kingdom of God manifest in our lives by the Word and Spirit As we repent and the fruit of obedience comes more and more to life in us and through us, that's part of how God witnesses to the watching world of his transforming power. That stands out in the world. That stands out in a corrupt world, a dark world, a world given to selfishness, a world given to material Materialism in a me first world. It stands out when the power of God is at work in us, in our words. We'll talk differently. We'll prioritize differently. We don't fight like worldly Kingdoms fight. And another uh weapon would be the weapon of enduring even in the midst of suffering and persecution. Enduring in the midst of suffering. And the final difference, at least the one that I have listed, is just in general in general the goal or the aim. What is the goal? What is the aim of these kingdoms of man, it's their own glory, it's man's glory. If we see anything in the stories about Nebuchadnezzar, we see this that Nebuchadnezzar was about Nebuchadnezzar And his glory and his name and his power, and he wanted to take all the credit, and God humbled him. But the goal or the aim of the kingdom of God is whose glory? It's God's glory. That's peculiar. I hope that never gets uh boring to us. I hope that never gets old to us. How peculiar and how sp Special this is that our hearts are fixed not on our own glory, but on God's glory, for Him to shine forth, for His grace to be made known, for His power to be experienced, for His kindness. This is all about God's glory, people seeing God's glory and being transformed by it, and then praising Him for His glory. Praise of God's glory. That's the opposite of the heart of corrupt man, which in Daniel, in the beginning of Daniel at least, is embodied in Nebuchadnezzar. Another goal or aim of kingdoms of man is to secure power. But the kingdom of God is not about securing power. It's about becoming servants , striving for the salvation of souls. We don't want to rule over bodies. We want souls to be saved. We want souls to be reconciled to God. Because, friends, that's eternal. Everything we see here is all going to be gone one day. In the grand scheme of things, I don't want to sound morbid, I know Becky's gonna chuckle when I say this because I talk like this all the time at home. But in the grand scheme of things, if we're to zoom out, we're all going to die very soon. In the grand scheme of things. I'm not trying to terrify C is just for the record, she is chuckling at me. But Lord what does the scripture say? What is your life? We are just a vapor that's here for a little while and then disappears. That doesn't mean it's insignificant. That doesn't mean life is meaningless. That doesn't mean that at all. It just means keep it in In perspective. Keep it in perspective, and let's live for the eternal. The kingdom of God is not about securing power for ourselves, but it's for the salvation of souls, because that will last and that will That's what brings God glory. Finally, Kingdom of Man 's goal or aim is about building wealth. Building wealth Building a platform for self. But the goal and aim of the kingdom of God is the building and then the upbuilding of the Church of Christ. The building And the upbuilding of the church of Christ. The church is the body of Christ. The church is the bride of Christ. Christ shed his blood for his church. To cleanse us, to purify us, to reconcile us to God. The church is a wonderful thing. And right now we're all throughout the church age. The kingdom of God is organized Provisionally, which means temporarily, not not permanently, provisionally in local churches all over the place. But when Christ returns, the whole church from all ages and all places will be gathered glorified in resurrection bodies forever. The church will be complete once the church is completed with people who we will be there who are saved from all cultures, all nations, all tribes and tongues. Completed, gathered, and glorified, receiving resurrection bodies. There will dwell in the new heaven and new earth with Christ forever. And right now on earth, ever since the first coming of Christ, the uh the kingdom of God is the dominant force On earth. The gospel of Jesus Christ is the most powerful force on earth. It has the power to Save sinners and reconcile them to God. And it's proven just like Jesus said it would, and just like it's prophesied in the old old Testament. It's proven to be unstoppable. It's proven to be unstoppable. between the kingdom of those kingdoms, those wicked kingdoms of the world, and then the kingdom of God. Let me try to bring it down to a nutshell to summarize the nature of God. God's kingdom. Just to drive home this point and make sure we're not thinking of the kingdom of God as if it's an earthly nation. It's not. America is not the kingdom of God and never will be. The kingdom of God is not an earthly nation. The church doesn't replace Israel in that way. Israel was an earthly nation. And that was the in the old covenant the outward expression of God's kingdom. But it's different in the new covenant. Local churches is the outward expression of the kingdom of God. The nature of this kingdom is number one, spiritual and number two, heavenly. Number one, spiritual, and number two, heavenly. This is the invisible essence, invisible essence, or the invisible nature. of the kingdom of God. Think about this. How do you share in the kingdom of God? By the Holy Spirit within you. Is the Holy Spirit visible or invisible? Invisible, right? Now you're in the kingdom of you're in the kingdom of God. Who's your king? God, right. Through Christ. Is he invisible or invisible? He's invisible. So the invisible essence of the kingdom, the nature of the kingdom is spiritual and it is heavenly. It's spiritual in that it's about souls being reconciled to God. That's what spiritual means. It's about souls being reconciled to God. And it's heavenly kingdom because it's ruled and empowered by Christ who reigns in heaven. And we'll get let's forget if this is the next point or later. Oh, this is later. Just to whet your appetite. That doesn't mean that the That the kingdom has no outward manifestation. The kingdom certainly has outward manifestation. Your own obedience is outward manifestation of the invisible power of the kingdom. But uh in its nature, in its essence, it's a spiritual kingdom, it's a heavenly kingdom. All right, there's your first section. I told you that would be the longest We'll see. It's seven that took twenty-two minutes. I told you that would be the longest section. Let's see if that holds true. Nebuchadnezzar's dream and then Daniel's interpretation of that dream. This is the central prophecy of Daniel that God would set up his kingdom during the reign of the Roman Empire. That kingdom would never be destroyed. It would never be taken away from the people of God. It would not only destroy the kingdoms of wickedness, the kingdoms of darkness that up to that point had ruled the world, but itself would grow to become a mountain, and then that mountain would grow to cover the whole earth It's so I keep going back to this over and over again. I was doing this before we went to the book of James, too. As you get as we get deeper into Daniel, some of the historical details and passages will become increasing. It's not because it's not clear, it's because of our ignorance in terms of history why it becomes more difficult. But everything that comes is just giving us more detail on how this prophecy comes about, how this promise comes about. You have the four kingdoms, right? What are they again? The Babylonian and then what? Medes and Persians and then Greece, and then and then in those in that day God will set up his kingdom. As you get further and further in Daniel, it divisions and teachings Teachings just zoom in on different portions of those transitions. And so if we l and when they get difficult, we've got to keep coming back to At least the things that we are sure of, that we are clear of, and what was taught in Daniel's Daniel chapter two is not going to change. Roman Empire through the life, death, the resurrection, and ascension of Christ. Second second point is that so this is number two, that this kingdom was set up By the Son of Man, capital S, the Son of Man, and was made manifest in the saints of God There's two things on this point, but we'll see why. Go to Daniel chapter 7. This kingdom is set up by the Son of Man. In other words, in chapter 2. The stone cut from a mountain represents the kingdom. And it destroys this image, it becomes a mountain. That's what symbolizes, that's what represents God setting up his kingdom In Daniel 7, we get another vision. Daniel has a vision that gives us more detail on exactly what that's going to look like. God's going to set up his kingdom through the Son of Man, and that kingdom will be manifest in the saints of God. So chapter seven, verses thirteen and fourteen. fourteen. This is just zooming in on when God sets up his kingdom By the way, the beginning of chapter seven is another vision that symbolizes those four worldly kingdoms And then you have the throne of God. God is ruling over history. And then you have this in verse 13. Daniel says, I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he He came to the ancient of days. The ancient of days is God ruling on his throne in heaven. Is the Son of Man going away from him or coming to him? He 's coming to him. Does anybody remember? We did we did a whole class on this. What this or how this is fulfilled, how this prophecy is fulfilled, what is this pointing forward? to the Son of Man coming to the ancient of days and being presented before him. And then in verse 14 he's going to be given a kingdom. Yeah, the ascension. Nicholas is you were Nicholas was just pointing up, so I just say the exaltation. Yeah, the exaltation, also called the ascension, right? Which theologically is Christ's enthronement at the right hand of God. That's the significance of the ascension. That's what this is. This is the Son of Man, having completed his work of redemption, is now ascending, approaching God's throne in heaven, and what happens when he gets there? Verse fourteen. Upon approaching the Ancient of Days in his ascension, verse 14, to him was given dominion And glory and a kingdom that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. That's that stone becoming a mountain, and that mountain filling the heart whole earth. He's given dominion, he's given glory, he's given a kingdom, and all peoples, all nations, all languages which serve him. His dominion is an everlasting dominion which shall not pass away, and his kingdom one that shall not be destroyed. Christ is a a man. He's also God, but he's a man who reigns in heaven with the authority of God. He is ascended to the throne of God and is stationed or is seated at God's right hand as God's representative king He reigns and rules on God's behalf. Though this is God setting up his kingdom, it shouldn't be uh surprising to us through Jesus. Right through Jesus. And this is why we have the hope of heaven. Because we know Jesus by faith. And Jesus is the Lord of heaven. He's the King of Heaven. All authority in heaven and on earth has been given He's been seated far above every authority, every name that can be named. Jesus, our Savior, our shepherd, our brother, and our master, our king. The ascension of Christ. It's God establishing his kingdom. And then, still in Daniel 7, go down to verse 16. This is within the interpretation. And once you get to the interpretation, now we start to get a little idea of How the reign of Christ or the kingdom of Christ will be made manifest on earth. Because the fulfillment of that part of the vision Is the ascension, Christ's ascension into heaven? What's going on on earth? Who's gonna be stewards of the kingdom on earth? Where are there going to be citizens of kingdom, uh citizens of the kingdom of heaven only in heaven, or will there be citizens of the kingdom of heaven? on earth. Daniel 7 verse 16. I approached one of those who stood there. It's an interpreting angel. And asked him the truth concerning all this. So he told me and made known to me the interpretation of the things. These four great beasts are four kings. Who shall arise out of the earth. But the saints of the Most High shall receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom. Now grab hold of those phrases and lock them away in your mind because when we get to some verses, some things that Jesus says, this imagery or this these ideas will come back up again. He said he says the saints will receive the kingdom and possess the kingdom forever, forever and ever. Also in Daniel 7, look at verses 21 and 22, just reiterating, as I looked, this horn made war with the saints Prevailed over them until he didn't prevail over them forever, didn't persecute them forever, until the ancient of days came and judgment was given for the Saints of the Most High. And the time came when the saints possessed the kingdom. Saints receiving the kingdom, saints possessing the kingdom. Obviously, the only way they could do that is by virtue of the Son of Man. Because the kingdom was given to the Son of Man. So it's in there it's in our union with the Jesus. We're united to Jesus by faith. It's in our union. Union with Jesus that were heirs of the kingdom. Finally in Daniel 7, verse 27. And the kingdom and the dominion and the greatness of the kingdom Kingdoms under the whole heaven shall be given to the people of the saints of the Most High. His kingdom shall be an everlasting kingdom, and all dominions shall serve and obey him. These are things that are prophesied to take place in history, beginning in the days of the Roman Empire, are brought about by Christ's first coming. It comes to this climac this climactic moment when Christ is ascended and exalted into heaven at the right hand of God to receive this kingdom authority, and then it's in him and through him that the saints come to possess the kingdom. And there's no there's no time gap when the Son of Man, verse 13 and 14 , Is ascended into heaven and is presented before the Ancient of Days. At that point he receives the dominion of the king. And and uh then it's on the day of Pentecost, if to be historically literal, it's the day of Pentecost when he pours out the promised Holy Spirit on his church. And the saints of God come to possess the kingdom, and we've been possessing the kingdom ever since. And the kingdom has been advancing ever since through the power of that same Holy Spirit that was poured So there you go. The whole church age is this this it can be seen as this stone that uh destroyed these wicked kingdoms. Became a mountain and is now filling the earth. And you saw that even in this interpretation of uh in of the vision in Daniel seven. So the first point, just reviewing from Daniel Daniel 2, the major prophecy of Daniel. God is going to set up his kingdom in the days of the Roman Empire. Second point we see in Daniel 7, he's going to do this through the Son of Man. And but then this will be manifest on earth in the saints of God. The saints of God come to possess the kingdom. We're stewards of the kingdom of God. Stewards of the outward expression of the kingdom. Kingdom of God on earth. Ready for point number three? How long was that? Twelve minutes. So we went twenty-two, then we went twelve. Um well the third point, I've already alluded to this The third point is that the kingdom, right now, as the saints possessing the kingdom, uh, the saints are gathered and organized in local churches Gathered and organized in local churches. This is God's wisdom, God's mechanism. Simply for the way he sets up his kingdom. It says God will set up his kingdom. Not as an earthly nation, not as a league of nations. But but in local gatherings of Christians, that's transcultural, that's transnational. You can have Christians In any culture, any nation, any language. But if they're Christians, they're gathered together as a church, they're citizens of the kingdom of God. So kingdom gathered and organized in local churches, or citizens of the kingdom rather, rather, saints of the kingdom, saints of God gathered and organized in local churches. I have five passages to look at. Well verses really five verses. Let's go to the Gospels. Luke 12 32. Here we'll see the kingdom stewardship promised to the disciples. Luke 12, 32. Fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom He says that to his disciples. You can know that because in verse 22 it says this, and he said to his disciples He's talking to his disciples. He calls them a little flock. It shows the tender care of Christ as a shepherd over his flock, over his sheep. Fear not, little flock, it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Those are followers of Jesus and what's given to them. Kingdom. They come to possess the kingdom. Remember I said latch onto that language in Daniel seven where the saints come to possess the kingdom? How do they come to possess the kingdom? The Father gave Not in isolation from Christ, but in Christ and through Christ. Now, also on the same point of the kingdom promised to the disciples, Luke 22, 29. And I assign to you, as my father assigned to me, a kingdom, that you may eat and drink at my table in my kingdom. And sit on thrones judging the twelve tribes of Israel. The believers, believers in Christ, followers of Christ Are assigned the kingdom. And they will eat and they will drink at Christ's table in his kingdom, and be giving a place of authority, ruling authority, and judgment. In the kingdom of heaven. And when we did our study on the kingdom parables, I think we did a few of them These, at least two, maybe three, on the kingdom parables. One of the things we learn about the coming of the kingdom is that it comes in stages and it grows gradually. things it went it will be fully manifest. And all things will be seen for what they really are But anyhow, the reason we went to this verse is simply just to point out again that the Father, through Christ , gives to And assigns followers of Christ the kingdom. The kingdom. So the kingdom promised to disciples. Secondly, the kingdom taken away from apostate Israel The kingdom taken away from uh rebellious or apostate Israel. Matthew twenty-one forty -three It's important that we say apostate Israel or rebellious Israel that the kingdom's taken away from, and not just Israel, because there were true believers in Israel. They're referred to in Scripture as the faithful remnant, and they form the foundation of the church, of the disciples. And in scripture, they would be called the The Israel of God, the true Israel, true or true Jews who are Jews inwardly, not just outwardly, using the language of Scripture True children of Abraham. Children of Abraham are children not just by flesh but by faith. So that's why we have to say kingdom authority taken away from apostate Israel or rebellious Israel. Not just Israel. Um there is a a change in a historical development in the outward form of the kingdom from a nation to local churches. But we're saying something different here. We're talking about the kingdom authority, and we don't want to wrap all of all of national Israel into one category. So we've got to see the discontinuity and we've got to see the continuity. Matthew 21, 43, talking to the representative leaders of apostate Israel. Therefore I tell you The kingdom of God will be, what does your Bible say? Taken away from you, and then what does it say? Given. Given to a people producing fruits, right? Taken away, given to a different people. Producing fruits are true believers. That means the fruit of obedience. It's going to be taken away from these leaders in Israel who were lost and rejected Jesus. And led the charge against him. And they had been given stewardship Of the outward form of the kingdom of God on earth, which prior to Christ's coming was a nation. It was a nation and their worship and their law. And Jesus tells them, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you, given to a people produced by you Fruits. And those people were his disciples. That was the first couple verses that we looked at. He said, Your father 's going to give you a kingdom. You'll receive the kingdom taken away from them. Third As the church, we already hold the keys of the kingdom. Any guess what chapter this comes from in Matthew? Keys of the kingdom, Matthew sixteen, eighteen Keys represent authority. If you hold the keys to something, you represent authority to grant entrance and authority to keep out. So it's representative of kingdom authority. That was first stewarded by the apostles, and ever since the age of the apostles, just apostolic churches, churches that hold to the teaching. of the apostles to the gospel of the apostles. The kingdom authority. We already hold the keys of the kingdom. In this age. And this passage is important because you see that the kingdom authority coincides with church authority. Church ministry is kingdom ministry. Kingdom ministry is church ministry, church authority is kingdom authority, vice versa. Matthew sixteen, eighteen, and I tell you, you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. So what is he talking about? Building his is church. And the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. Right? Again, the church is victorious, not evil. It's the church The kingdom of God that becomes a mountain and it's the mountain that fills the whole earth. Verse nineteen, I'll give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven. Well wait a second. What is he talking about? Is he talking about building the church or is he talking about granting entrance to the kingdom of the heaven? Of heaven. It's both. It's the same thing. The keys of the kingdom of heaven: whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven. So they're on earth exercising authority, but it's a heavenly authority. What you bind on earth will be bound in heaven, and what you loose on earth will be loosed in heaven And then he strictly charged the disciples to tell no one that he was the Christ. You have the kingdom of heaven , authority of the kingdom of heaven, to grant entrance. It coincides with Christ building his church. You also have a heavenly authority that's stewarded on earth. We do that. primarily through the gospel, centrally through the gospel, ministries of evangelism also based on Matthew 18, the same kind of language is used. You can use church discipline Or excommunication for this same thing. Remember the key, the key opens the door, let in or shut out. But he's talking about the building of the church. As the church or church holds the keys. To the kingdom. We've possessed the kingdom. The Father has been pleased to give us the kingdom. Number one, kingdom promised to disciples. Number two , Kingdom taken away from rebellious Israel. Number three, church already steward of kingdom authority, already holding the keys. And number four and five, two of my top ten favorite verses. Colossians 1, 13. And fourteen We've got to understand our identity. We've got to understand that we've already been transferred into the kingdom. Of heaven. You can't be transferred into a kingdom that doesn't exist yet. You can't be transferred into a kingdom that hasn't been established or set up yet. We've already been transferred into the kingdom Kingdom of Heaven. Brothers and sisters, this is our identity. Here's what he says. Paul says in Colossians 1:13, He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. Raise your hand if you're happy about that. And transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption to forgiveness of sins. Now this is spiritual kingdom because this is talking about redemption, the forgiveness of sins. It's talking about the Salvation of our souls. That's how we've been transferred into this. God saved us. Jesus saved us. But it's a heavenly kingdom also. He's in heaven. He's reigning in heaven. He sits at the right hand of God. And it's It's again, it's not a kingdom of terror. It's a kingdom of grace and redemption. It's not a kingdom of bad news and oppression. It's a kingdom of good news and liberation. God has good things to offer us. Not bad things. World has bad things, God has good things. Uh already transferred into the kingdom of God And now Philippians three twenty. So turning backwards four four or five pages. Philippians three Verse twenty, basically saying the same thing But our citizenship is in, everybody say it? Our citizenship is in heaven. And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. Who will transform our lowly bodies to be like his glorious body by the power that enables him even to subject all things to himself Our citizenship is in heaven. Now wait a second, wait a second. Where are we? We're on earth. Where's our citizenship? In heaven. Alright, so it's the kingdom of heaven. We have been already granted citizenship in that kingdom. And that in this verse, that's the basis of our hope. We're waiting for A Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ, who will transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body, that's looking forward to our future bodily resurrection by the power that enables him even to subject us. all things to himself. That it will come at the end of the age when Christ returns and the church will be completed, the kingdom will come to its consummate, glorious form. And how will you and I share in that resurrection? Resurrection bodies. Resurrection bodies. That'll be a happy day, to say the least. And that took 14 minutes. 22, 12, 14. And that leaves us about 12 to do our final point. Uh not all oh yeah, this is the one I said earlier, I'm gonna get to this. And we have. We've we got to it The power of the kingdom does manifest outwardly on earth. The essence of the kingdom is invisible, it's a spiritual kingdom, it's a heavenly kingdom, but the kingdom power does come to outward expression on earth And I don't well, I don't think we'll have time to look at all the verses. So what I'll do is I'll run through the four points on how that happens. And then go back and look at as many verses as we can. First of all, the power of the kingdom of heaven comes uh comes to outward expression Through the fruit of obedience, Christian obedience manifests the power of God Christian living is not living on our own strength. It's not living by our own wisdom. It's not depending on ourselves. It's looking to God, trusting in God, being trained Transformed and carried along by the power of God. The fruit of Christian obedience is the power of God manifest on earth. Kingdom authority, kingdom power coming to outward visible expression that other people can see and can experience and can be impacted by That's what we're saying. Number two, through local churches. That's huge. I mean you can break that up into so many, you you can flesh that out with so many subpoints. Local churches are a visible expression of the reign of Christ. When we gather, we're coming together, presenting ourselves before God by faith God presides over our worship assemblies. He presides over us through his word, and he presides over us by the power of his spirit The pastors and anyone else who's uh leading or praying or teaching or anything are just to be representatives of God. Ministers of His Word, filled and led by His Spirit, local churches as gathered congregations. showcase and show forth the reign of Christ because we're a people who submit ourselves to Christ as King. King. Our worship, uh, in celebrating the Lord's Supper, it does this. In administering baptism, it does this. The preaching of the word does this. Christian love and mutual care does this. It should be a unique love in the church shown for one another, a self-giving, self-sacrificing love and care for one another. That 's should be unique on our That manifests the kingdom power of Christ. The fruit of obedience, local churches, and all the different aspects of that. The uh increasing expansion Of the gospel, what Paul will call the advance of the gospel. We call it today missions. That word's not used in scripture, but that idea is there of the mission to bring this gospel To the ends of the earth. The advance of the gospel, the outward expanse, or the outward expansion of the kingdom is seen. Is seen And then finally, now this connects to this connects to some other things we've said. The Christian witness of being saw and light in the world. Christian witness of being salt and light in the world. And even though we're not smart enough and we're not wise enough to see into all the secrets, we're not going to be able to do that. details of God's providence and exactly how He uses our example and exactly how um our example can impact the heart of somebody else. We know that God says in his w in his word that Christians will be like salt in the world and will be like light in the world to have a preserving impact and influence. and we'll have a an enlightening, guiding impact and influence in the world. That's from Matthew 5, 13 to 16. We won't be able to to get there, but Matthew 5, 13 and 16. We are salt and light in the midst of a dark and dying, corrupt perverse. World. That's the kingdom of God manifest in us. We can never be that on our own, and we would just join in the party of wickedness and darkness. But God has saved us, He's given us new hearts. We are His witnesses. Which ones do I want to look at? Let's turn to Matthew 13. Look at the fruit of obedience first. Matthew 13 is the kingdom parables. Seven main kingdom parables of the book of Matthew, not the only parables in Matthew, but Matthew thirteen are the The main ones, the central ones of the kingdom of God. The first one is the parable of the sower. And since we don't have time to go through the whole thing, we'll just tell you that there's a sower who went out to sow seed on all different kinds of surfaces. The seed represents the word of God. Technically, the word of the kingdom. The word of God is the seed. It's sown in the hearts of men. Matthew 13 23. As for what was sown on good soil, this is the one who hears the word and understands it, and he indeed bears fruit. And yields in one case a hundredfold, in another sixty, and in another thirty. Remember it's a parable about the kingdom of God. Specifically, this parable, it's the first one, it's the basis of all the other parables because it talks about the way the kingdom spreads. It's talking about the way the kingdom comes to expression on earth. What's the power of the kingdom? The power of the kingdom is the word of God. And what's the purpose of that word being sown in the hearts of people to produce fruit, which is a metaphor for obedience. It's just a metaphor for living for God. The word of God comes into our heart, changes our hearts, and now we live for God. We've been reconciled to God, we're His children forever. The fruit of obedience is the outward manifestation, the visible Expression of the kingdom of God on earth, at least one of them. And since we're in Matthew thirteen, we'll end on this other point of the out the expansion, the increasing expansion of the kingdom. Matthew 13, 31 through 33. He put another parable before them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed. You can't have much more of a smaller beginning than that. Then a man took and sowed in his field. It's the smallest of all seeds. But when it has grown, it's larger than all the garden plants. And becomes a tree, so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches. So uh shocking and perhaps unexpected growth like that stone that was cut from a mountain and became a And then it shattered the kingdoms of the world, itself became a mountain, and then spread to cover the whole earth. Here you have the same idea of the kingdom growth, kingdom expansion Is a manifestation and a glorious manifestation through history of the power of Christ's kingdom. Finally, verse 33, he told them another parable: the kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour till it was all leavened. So a little bit of leaven. In three measures of flour, eventually all the flour was leavened. The increasing influence The increasing impact of the kingdom of heaven. Wherever it is, it will have an impact and a spreading, sprawling influence on the world around it. Much Much like uh a completely different nature and completely different different ethic, but in terms of the sprawling and impact and influence and growth, much like those wicked kingdoms of men. That's what they Wanted till they were overcome by whatever the next kingdom would be Babylon, Medan Persians, Greece, Rome. But thank God that in the days of those kings, the God of heaven set up his kingdom. His kingdom will never be destroyed, and it will be never taken taken away from the saints of God. It's not secured by our power. We possess the kingdom by God's grace, but the kingdom is secured by Christ's Power, Christ is the king.