The words we'll examine tonight come out of 2 Peter chapter 3. 2 Peter chapter 3. God 's judgment, his patience, and truth. These three aspects is how Peter concludes his letter, wrapping it all up in this understanding that God is a just judge. A patient God, and that his truth is essential for us to live our lives as Christians. I want you to think about this. How often does the idea of judgment come in a positive light in your mind? You think about judgment. Jud standing before judge. It's not often a positive thing. We get nervous when we get jury duty, right? Like, oh no, we got they got me. I think you make like twelve bucks a day jury duty, so it's a good little good little business you can do. College students, start doing jury duty, sign up. I don't think you can. But we see that this isn't often what comes to mind like, oh, I've been called to stand before a judge. Uh that's not a positive thing often. But we must recognize that God's judgment is righteous. It's just. It's holy. We should actually understand God 's judgment in such a way that it motivates us to live in obedience to him and it motivates us to proclaim the gospel to the world. But as we talk about his judgment, we are also going to have to understand how patient our God is. And beloved, if you understand God's judgment, you must also rejoice in how patient Patient our God is is. That his anger is slow. He's caring. He's patient. We see his work throughout history, and we'll rejoice in that But if we understand God's judgment and we rejoice in God's patience, how much more will we thrive and enjoy God's truth? In our lives. And so interesting, this is, as we understand, the second letter that Peter has written, and this is what he concludes this letter on: is these three categories: judgment, patience, and truth. And if we remember in chapter two, Peter was addressing false teachers coming into the church and sneaking their way in and deceiving So, how important and how vital it is to remind this young church that Peter's writing to, and to remind Christians today that God is a God's judgment, God's patience, and God's So, beloved, my desire for us tonight is that we leave here encouraged in the Lord. We leave here as we go into the Thanksgiving weekend, giving thanks rightly to the Creator of the universe. Not to just cast our thanks into the void just to make a noise around the table, but that we generally are praising and thanking God for all of his goodness, from his judgment, his patience. and his truth. So join me as I begin reading in Second Peter chapter 3. I'm going to start in verse 1 and I'll just read a section and then we'll unpack. So chapter 3, verse 1. This now, this is now the second letter that I am writing to you, beloved. In both of them I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder. That you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles, knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing following their own sinful desires. They will say, Where is the promise of his coming? For ever since the f the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. Creation. For they deliberately overlook this fact that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of the water and through water by the word of God. And that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged with water and perished. But by the same word the heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire. Being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. That verse seven there, that's where we're going to focus in for a moment. Being kept until the day of judgment and destruction. Of the ungodly. Why is this so important for us to think about? Is because we must be reminded that God will judge everybody. That someday all people will stand before a holy God and be judged. This is probably what convicted many of us of our sin. Is it not to think back to your your own your own testimony and how God has has brought you to faith in him? There was some moment that you recognized that you were a sinner. Right? Hopefully. If you're like, no, I've been a Christian for twenty years, I never thought about me being a sinner. Come talk to me. There's a problem here. But we see this, that we're sinners, and we've we've broken the law of God, and there's this fear, a right fear, in the recognition that one day we will stand before God and we will We will be held accountable for our sins. And this is what God uses to convict us of our need for a Savior. It's what God uses to stir up in us, to draw us to see the beauty of Beauty and the glory of what Christ accomplished on the cross. It's because we are convicted of our sin, recognizing that one day we will be held in the courtroom before God and be judged for our sin. So that's what God uses to draw us, but it's also what we use for the world. This is what we proclaim to the world. You are a sinner, just like I am, breaking the law of God, and the only hope we have is in Christ Jesus. This is our message. You're a sinner. Turn from your sin and turn to Christ. That's your only hope. It's the message we have. But does the world think about God's judgment? No No. The world doesn't think about God's judgments. The world has no thoughts, no ideas that one day they will be judged. And even if we do think about it, or the the world does think about it, they push it off to this far obscure area that's not real. It's a theoretical maybe. I'll one day stand before God, and maybe one day He'll maybe judge me, but I think I've done pretty good, so I'm not too worried about it. That's an issue. It's an issue when we say that God's judgment is not real, or people just completely deny that there is a God and deny that they will ever be held accountable for anything. But that is the world that we find ourselves in. It's the same world that Peter is writing to as well. It's a little bit different, but I think the the premise is still the same today. What's happening is the people in the day that Peter wrote this letter is they're saying, well, where is your God? You keep talking about all this judgment. You keep talking about God coming, God dealing with us. But it's been a long time. I mean, we're reading your text, Jews. We're reading all about your forefathers. And that was a long time ago. Where is your God? Right? This is what the world is saying. And I think the world today has a very similar message or question for the church to answer. When we preach to the world that they are sinners offending and sinning against the holy God, they're saying, where is your God. Where is he? If this is such a problem, where is he? If God doesn't like my pride and my lust, then where is he? Why won't he deal with me? Have you heard that kind of language from the world? From them saying, well, this can't be true because I haven't dealt with it now. God hasn't come and dealt with it here and now. Look at verse 4 with me. It says, They will say, Where is the promise of his coming? So the false teachers or the worldly in the church that Peter's writing to, or around the church that Peter's writing to. To. They're saying, where is it? You keep talking about the coming of the Lord. You keep talking about this judgment, but where is it? And this is the lie that the enemy tries to drive into our minds. God's judgment is not a reality. It's not a real thing. But friends, we must recognize two aspects here. There's two judgments that we must deal with. One is the final judgment. This is the final judgment. This is what I read out of Revelation. And this one is the judgment that the world tries to deal with, to say, because it hasn't happened yet, then it cannot be true. I feel that way with money. I don't think a million dollars actually exist. Hasn't been in my bank account, so it can't be real, right? That's the way we think. Nathan's like, yeah We we push this off and say, because it hasn't happened, then it can't be real. Well Peter wants us to draw draw our minds to understand that there is fire stored up for the day of judgment The fire stored up for the day of judgment. There's destruction for the ungodly. And we've got to hold to this reality that even though we haven't seen Seen the fulfillment of that. We don't we haven't seen it bl bloomed and blossomed into the fullness that it is. We know that there is a final judgment coming. And we know that judgment is against sin that all of us have committed. That judgment is death and eternal separation. This is a similar question that some will raise in regards to Genesis 3. Remember the promise that that God makes and and there's death promise when you break the law, when you break his commandment not to eat from the tree, and then what happens? We see Adam and Eve eat of the tree, and then they continue to live. live. Right? And so then the world says, see God's alarm. There wasn't death there. Well A, we're we're bleeding into the patience and the grace of God Of God. But B, they're not thinking about the spiritual death that happened, that has entered the world, that all of us are partakers in, the spiritual death outside of Christ. For the world, the only thing that's important is what's right in front of them. It's what's right in front of them. And they can't conceive and think about the future. They can't deal with the abstract and the theoretical that they can't physically touch and see yet. Beloved, I don't want to just bash the world. I want us to think about that as well. I think too many Christians, we know that there is a judgment day, and we know that God will judge all. We we have that. You can answer the test, you can pass the test, but it's still not future safety. Is death real? And it's the same idea. Like I haven't died yet, so maybe it's not real. Maybe it won't happen to me Or maybe it really I sure I'll face God one day, but it's really not that big of a deal. It's not we just we can't conceive That's why we must be reminded as Christians, even though we're saved by grace through faith in Christ, we must be reminded that one day there will be a judgment. This stirs us on, as Peter says, this stirring us up in our minds to be reminded that we should be walking in obedience to God. Walking in obedience to him, being reminded that one day we'll stand before him in judgment. So that's the first aspect of judgment. That's the final judgment. But we must recognize that there's also what we would call historical judgments. So we have the final judgment, all people will stand before God and be judged. But we also have historical judgments. These are judgments that God has poured out throughout history to judge the wicked and punish the wicked here on this earth for their wicked actions and sins against God. Alright, that's this is something we don't love to talk about as well, but we see that God allows and orchestrates things to happen throughout history that is a judgment against the wicked. Alright. Anyone big fans of the Babylonian Empire? Right? Who's the president of Babylon right now? There is none. They've been judged. They've been wiped off the face of the earth. We see God's judgment. God used them to discipline Israel, and then God destroyed them for their wickedness. This is what we call historical judgments. And it's so interesting in verse 4 where they're saying, oh, where is the promise of his coming? Where is it? Right? This is what the world's saying. Where is the promise? Where's your God? Have you read Genesis? There was a flood Right? That's what Peter's laying out here. Peter loves Noah. Read both of Peter's letters he talks about Noah. He loves the story of Noah. There's something Special in Peter's mind about uh Noah, but he's he's making that connection. Do we forget God's judgment on all of creation for its wickedness that he flooded the earth? Continue reading through the Old Testament. Sodom and Gomorrah. Anyone getting some tickets to go visit Sodom this summer? It's gone. God's historical judgment has been poured out upon it. Israel themselves recognize this. Israel was taken into captivity. Talked about Babylon. Read Daniel. The story of Daniel is about God's historical judgment against his people for their wickedness and rebellion against him. We see the historical judgments throughout history. And I believe in our own times we see God's judgment upon a people that rebel and sin against him. We don't need to unpack the political landscape of our day, but if you don't recognize God's judgment against the nation that has blood on their hands, you don't understand what's happening in society. You you just miss it. That that God is judging a people and judging them for their wickedness. And that we can't say, oh, it's only a future thing. God's not going to deal with it. With us now. He's just God's just shaking up the snow globe and he's letting it set, and then one day he's going to come and address all the issues. But we see here and now there is historical judgments that God is pouring out. And we need to proclaim this to the world. We need to proclaim that sin has consequences, both here and now, and eternal ones. Right? Both here and now, sin has consequences and eternal ones. The eternal consequence of sinning and rebelling against God is an eternal separation. It's much more severe. than the here and now, but it is what we often preach in the gospel. But we also must recognize that sin has consequences here and now Go steal a car and get caught. Right? There's a consequence there. That's a sin, you're stealing, and then there's also a physical earthly consequence that happens in a just system. There's a consequence there. Right? And we see this that the judgment of God should stir us up to live in obedience to him. And should spur us on to preach the gospel and call for sinners to turn from their sin and go to Christ. Beloved, don't separate the judgment. Don't say, oh, that just sounds mean. God's a mean guy. When we use that judgment language, the world doesn't like judgment language. Let's not use it. Of course they don't. Neither did you before Christ. Neither did you. So we must rest and see that God's judgment is coming. It'll bring destruction for the ungodly, and that's to stir us up to walk in obedience and spur us on to pray preach the gospel. This brings us to our second point. It actually helps answer one of the questions that Peter brings up here. And what the world's bringing up. Remember verse 4 saying, where is the promise of his coming? What Peter now does is talk about the patience of God. Peter already addressed that there is a consequence. The judgment has already come in different ways throughout history. There's a promised eternal judgment day that will come. But here he's now going to talk about the patient. So join me in verse 8 of 2 Peter chapter 3. But do not overlook this one fact, beloved. That with the Lord one day is as a thousand years, and a thousand years as one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness, but is Is patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. But the day of the Lord will come like a thing. Thief. And then the heavens will pass away with a roar, and the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness Waiting for and hasting the coming of the day of God, because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. But according to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. What imagery here, and how important it is for us to see God 's patience. God 's patience. What is the purpose of God's patience? Right, we see all the problem And the sin around us. We see problems in sin in our own lives. And there's so many times that we just cry out and say, Why God? Why are you allowing this to happen out there? Why do I continue to struggle with the same temptation? The same anxieties, the same sins. Why, God? Why can't you just address it? Why do you let the evil just continue to be prosperous in all that they do? Just deal with them, Lord. So why? What is the purpose of God's patience? Well, it's found it's found in verse 15, actually, which we didn't read yet, but it says, and count the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you. Count, here it is, and count the patience of our Lord as salvation. Jump back up in verse 9. It says, The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise, as some count slowness, but is patient towards you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach Christ repentance. So what is the purpose? The purpose of God's patience is for sinners to repent of their sin and for us to be saved. You go, Anthony, how's that possible? What do you mean God's patient is for our salvation? The moment you sinned, the very first sin you ever committed, you probably can't even remember it. You can't even think about it. But that very first moment you sinned, you deserve the just punishment of death and separation from God. You were probably a few months old A year old. Me, I was probably like thirteen by the time my first in happened. Okay, yes. God, that was a joke. Right? That we should have been struck down the moment we've sinned. We should have stood before the just judge on our very first offense But God's patience is there. God is patient. We don't understand exactly how He works it out throughout history. But God is patient so that the gospel is preached, that we hear the truth of Christ. The Spirit works within us and stirs us up and brings us to faith and gives us hope. The purpose of God's patience is to save sinners. Now think about this. If it's to save a sinner like you, why then can it not be to save a sinner like the world that we We're so disgusted by. Right? Think about that. When we think, come on, God, why won't you just deal with X, Y, and Z? Just deal with this cultural issue. Just crush them. Get rid of them. That's a wrong way of thinking. What we should be doing is going, well, the same gospel that saved me, I need to be taking to those wicked people And having confidence and hope that God's patience and not destroying those people is so that they hear the gospel and they come to faith in Christ. Not according to my plan and my timeline, but according to God's will and what he's doing. I love this language that Peter uses and really helps us think and If you you can really start going in circles. But in verse eight he says, um, beloved, that with the Lord one day is a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. You know, don't don't overthink that in the logic of how that works out. Don't try to calculate your age according to the years of God and the time frame of God. But what we're seeing is how we gauge and how we calculate time. God's not pressured by that. Right? We think of some the the older family. And we think, oh, oh God, these These people, this world, they're just ravished in sin and they're just continuing down their destructive path. That's only a blip in God's timing. He's in control, he has it figured out. So the purpose for God's patience is to bring repentance and salvation to the lost and the sinners. What are two dangers that we've got to address? What are two dangers of how we can react to God's patience? There's two Missteps we can take with understanding God's patience. So we hear this language: one day is a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. And this is two temptations that we're drawn to. One is slothfulness. We're going to be slothful. Alright, well if if you know just today is this weird time in God's understanding and you know we have all this history. I'm just gonna sit back. I'm just gonna sit back. Don't get worked up. I'm not gonna do anything. God's in control. I'm not working out anything This timeline is really long. I'm here for eighty years, ninety years. I think I got a hundred in me. Why why do I got to do anything? Just sit back. You know, God's timeline's too long for us to deal with That temptation for slothfulness is very common in the church. Oh, God, and here's where it gets very dangerous, and I think we are very tempted to this type of slothfulness. God's patience is so great. That we're not going to deal with a sinner's sin. We're not going to call them out of their sin right now. God's so gracious. He's so patient. And and you know, I could address it, I could call them, I could share the gospel, but you know, I got tomorrow. I got tomorrow, I'll just wait. But what happens? Car crash. You never see that person again. Something something breaks that relationship And in that moment, when we were being slothful in our proclamation of the gospel, we said, well, maybe I'll have tomorrow. We were misunderstanding God's patience. We 're misunderstanding God's patience. We do that with our own lives. I have this sin in my life that I know I need to deal with. I'll deal with it tomorrow. Oh, once I get 30, then I'll deal with it. I hear this one very often for young men. Once I get married, then I'll deal with lust in my life. Good luck. Right? Good luck. We are slothful in our dealing with our sin because we just assume that God's patience allows our sins to be passed over. We're misunderstanding God's judgment, His dealing with our sins in the here and now, but also misunderstanding what Christ accomplished on the cross. So the first danger that we can do with God's patience is be slaughterful. No you're gonna say I'm just speaking out both sides of my mouth, but the second danger is hasting. Being too hasty Being too hasty with it. Okay. The judgment's coming, so we're going to grab people and force them to say a prayer. We're going to grab people and force them into the waters of baptism. We we gotta get things done now. The the judgment it could be tonight. We gotta we gotta deal with every issue right now, every sin the biggest problem and we've got to deal with it right now. We can't go have Thanksgiving because we've got to go deal with sinners. We don't have time for that. We don't have time for resting. We don't have time for joys. We don't have time to gather together and sing songs as We gotta go out there and preach. Well wait. Remember, remember what God says: that the Lord one day is a thousand years, and a thousand years is one day. This temptation to be hasting and that the day of judgment is right at us. It's right there. It's a good thing to have on our mind, but may we not abuse it. And mistreat what God has given us. Mistreat the people God has placed in our lives. So, how do we rest between slaughterness and haste? How do we rest between those two? Well look with me in verse twelve. Actually let's start in verse eleven again. It says, Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, he's saying that judgment will come, destruction will come for the ungodly. He says, But what sort of people ought you to be in lives of holiness and godliness? Verse 12, waiting for and hasting the coming of the day of God. Wait, aren't you just telling me to be slothful and hasting at the same time now? Well no, what he does is he roots us in to be Christians. He roots us in walking in the likeness of Christ. He says live lives of holiness and godliness. And then when we live lives of holiness and godliness, we can both wait for and haste. Brings excitement and zeal, action to the coming of the day of the Lord. The coming of the day of God. We see that we can rest in both of those. So, what is the answer? We must walk and live lives of holiness and godliness. How is that possible? We must first recognize that we have been made righteous by the blood of Christ. The only way that we are saved. The only way that we can both wait and haste the day of God, the coming day of God, the judgment day, is if we recognize that the we will be righteous when we stand before God, not by our own works, not by the books of deeds, not by our actions, but and only through faith in Christ Jesus That's how you can both wait and haste at the same time. This is part of that holiness. But it drives us further than that. It's not just the, well, we said a prayer, we're good to go, we have the title of Christian. But that we're living lives of holiness and godliness. It's a way of living. Beloved, when we are seeking the wisdom of the Lord, when we are gathering together. in worship of God with other believers. When we are fighting against sin and temptation in our lives, when we're putting on the character of Christ, as Pastor Matt talked about, putting off and putting on this morning This is the holiness and godliness that's talked about. And when we're doing those things, you're naturally just going to be waiting and hasting at the same time. You're not getting anxious about what tomorrow brings. Because you can rest and trust that God is good. You're you're He's sanctifying you, He's making you more like Christ. That's that rest, that's that waiting that's happening. But at the same time, it's spurring you on to proclaim the gospel. Because you have been saved by the grace of God. You want the whole world to be saved by the grace of God You want the whole world to hear this truth in common faith to Christ. So now you're you're hasting, you're preaching, you're proclaiming. And in this moment of holiness and godliness, you're both waiting and hasting at the same time. Time. You're actually dealing with the dangers that were mentioned previously. Beloved, holiness and godliness are not bad words. They're not legalistic words The words that we should be seeking and living by as Christians. That's the difference. As Christians, we're seeking to live holy and godly lives. We're not calling people, come live a holy and godly life, to be a Christian. But because we've been washed by the blood of Christ, we have the The Spirit living within us and making us new, we then are living these new lives of holiness and godliness. And we are then celebrating the patience of our Lord. But do not be deceived by God's patience. I'm telling this to you, I'm telling it to myself, I'm telling it to the world. Do not be deceived by God's patience, that though he will not judge. Because what we see. is this language of a complete renewal. The new heavens and the new earth. You see in verse 12 that the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved, and the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn. I know all of you want me to unpack exactly what that means. means and help us understand. I think I'm joining you in saying I don't have a clear picture of what that is. I can't draw out on a map what that means, but what we do see is that God's judgment will come and make all things new. And we see that God's judgment is upon for destruction of the ungodly. That's out of verse 7. So we're talking about the new heavens and new earth and things being dissolved and destroyed. We're talking about unrighteousness. we must be wanting and ready to stand in righteousness to enter into the new heavens and new earth. And the only way that can happen is through the blood of Christ, through faith in Christ. The only way that we can be part of the righteousness that dwells is to be made righteous by Christ. And this is our message to the world. So do not be deceived by God's patience, thinking that it won't he won't ever deal with anything, but believe that his patience is bringing salvation for the lost, and that one day all things will be made new. Which then brings us to our third and final point, God's truth. God's truth, we hear all this, and this language is It can be crazy at times when we think about new heavens, new earth, dissolving, burning. All this is complex in our human minds, but to the glory of God, we can understand It. And the only way that we can do that, the only way that we can live holy and godly lives and wait and haste at the same time is to know the truth of God. This brings us to verse 14, the conclusion of this letter. Peter writes, Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him without spot or blemish, and at peace. And count the patience of our Lord as salvation, just as our beloved brother Paul also wrote to you, according to the wisdom given him As he does in all his letters when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things in them that are hard to understand. You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people. and lose your own stability, but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen Amen. I love that there, the very end. But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. This is the truth that we must stand on as Christians. This is what matures us and grows us. This is what gives us the ability to deal with the scoffers and to face tomorrow. Where does truth come from? That's how we must understand it and think about. Where does truth come from? come from. We have the Word of God. We see truth revealed from the Word of God because it's breathed out by God. And we also have truth revealed through the life of Christ. So the Word became flesh. And in this, we now understand God in a clearer way. I won't go too long down this rabbit trail, but Peter's little comment about Paul is quite interesting. Is it not? Look at verse 16. He says, as he does, he's talking about Paul, as he does in all his letters, when he speaks in them of these matters. There are some things in them that are hard to understand. Well, thanks, Peter. We just read your two letters, and you were talking about new heavens and new earth and dissolving away. Sometimes it's hard to understand what you're writing, Peter. Right? Like maybe I'm the only one that's like, Peter, you're pretty challenging to read at times. But what he's doing is he's acknowledging, hear this. He's acknowledging that we don't have it all figured out yet. Right? We don't have it all figured out. When we're reading scripture, and this, you know, you maybe are reading through the Bible, and this is your fifth, seventh, hundredth time reading the same verse and section, and you go. Oh man, I never thought about this thought right now as I'm reading it. I never made this connection of the Old Testament and the New Testament. I never saw what Christ did in the story like I'm seeing it right now We must recognize that we don't have it all figured out. And this should drive us to want to grow more. And the way that we grow is to study the Word of God. What Peter does is he says in our ignorance, which isn't a negative thing, we use ignorant in a wrong tense often in today's world. calling someone stupid. No, being ignorant means just a lack of knowledge. It's an okay thing. Like I'm ignorant in a lot of things. You are also ignorant in a lot of things. That's not a wrong thing. It's a problem when we sit in our ignorance and we allow that to be our identity. We allow, well, I just can't know it. You know, I'm just a simple guy. I'll never understand what God's saying. No. He's given you his word. And what happens is when we act that way, we allow the scoffers and the false teachers to come in, twist things, and deceive things. And that's what Peter says. Look in verse, still in verse 16. He says, There are some things in them that are hard to understand, which the ignorant and unstable twist to their own destruction as they do the other scriptures. They twist them. And what's on the do? It's not just, oh, well, you have some bad theology. That's okay, we'll do it. No, it it's it's to their own destruction. So, friends, don't sit in your ignorance and say, oh, it's just fine. It's okay. Want to grow. Want to grow and learn and know God more and more. Seek to be more obedient to God than you ever have before. And the only way you can do that is by examining the word of God You can't base it off traditions. This creed, this confession, they said it, so it must be true. No, seek the word. Creeds and confessions, they're good as long as they're in alignment with the word of God. Well in my household, this is just how we always did things. So this must be the right way. Well, seek the word of God. Is this is what you're commanded or doing, is this righteousness before God, according to his word, or is this just a made-up uh tradition in your family which can be fine but also can be dangerous. We must seek the word of God. Never say, well, I'm not educated enough. I'm too young as a Christian. I'm too young as a human being. I had just, I don't know enough to be an excuse. Allow that to drive you to the Word of God. Likewise. No matter how old you are, how long you've been a Christian, don't say you have it all figured out. Continue to seek and to know the Word of God You've got a lot figured out. God has blessed you with a lot of wisdom. The older we get, the longer you've been a Christian, God has blessed you with a lot of wisdom. But never think that you have peace. Never think that you have gotten to the top of the mountain. You have it all figured out. Seek the Word of God. Allow it to be fruitful in your life, to mature you, to strengthen you. And this is what Peter tells them. Let's jump back in verse 14. He says, Therefore, beloved, since you are waiting for these, be diligent. to be found by him without spot or blemish. This is going back to that holiness and godliness. And the only way that we can know this is by studying the word. And I love this. So he tells them without spot or blemish, and at peace And at peace. Beloved, I believe that this is one of the shortcomings of many American Christians we don't understand peace. Which is so ironic for a nation that hasn't faced war, you know, in our homeland really in any of our lifetimes. That we can't understand peace. We're always anxious. We're always fired up about something. We gotta get on the news, we've got to get on social media, and we're concerned by it. And something somebody said in California keeps me awake at night. Does that sound like you have peace in your life? No. We're always worked up about something. But what we see here, and what Peter's instructing us, is that when we recognize that we have an eternal peace, How is that because we are not warring against the creator of the universe any longer. We do not fear the day that we stand before the just judge. Anymore. We have peace. If we have an eternal peace with the creator of the universe, can we have a daily peace in our lives? Can we rest a little bit? Take confidence in who God is and what he's doing. Twitter's still gonna happen, Facebook's still gonna happen, the news is still gonna happen. But let us have peace in our lives, everyone Once in a while. Let us rest in who God is. And the only way we do that is if we know who He is. We know who He is, and we love what He has told us. And then verse 17, we'll finish here. You therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own own stability. This is that warning there. So we're finding peace and godliness and holiness and rest and we're not allowing our ignorance to be an extreme Excuse, but we're designed to grow. And when we rest on the truth of God, knowing his truth, we're not deceived by the world. And we're not deceived by false teachers. That's such a big piece of what Peter was writing about in this letter. Was warning about the false teachers, preparing them to deal with the false teachers, that are sneaking. in. And he's concluding his letter with this. How do we deal with bad doctrine in theology, knowing the truth of God? How do we deal with liars coming in and teaching false doctrines, knowing the Word of God? How do we deal with the voices in the world that sound so loud are the loudest and they sound so kind of good because they're using Using language and words that we like, but we know there's something wrong there. The only way we can do that is knowing the word of God, knowing the truth of God and resting in that. And dealing with the world with the truth of God. This is one of the things I really want us as a church, individual Christians, but as the church globally, especially in America, to mature in. is to deal with problems in the world with the word of God. I want us to deal with problems in the world with the word of God. Often our first temptation, we have a problem, we see a cultural issue, and what do we do? We jump onto this is tradition. We don't do this. This is just not how we do it. Or we jump on and say, well, logically, biologically, this is how you have to deal with something. We can't do that. Or, if you're good Barrel-chested freedom fighters, you jump on, well, this is what the U. S. Constitution says. So we can't do it that way. Why are we just jumping to the Word of God? This is what the Word of God says. I don't care what some old guys in seventeen seven D six said, five, the the date when it was written changes constantly. It doesn't. We just celebrate different times. That's not where our focus is and our political parties and our traditions. This isn't where our identity and our defenses, our apologetics for the world and cultural issues should come from. from. It should come from the very words of God, the very truth of God. And I want us to be strengthened in that. As we deal with issues, we go to the word. Sure, biology is good. Sure, I love the Constitution. It's a good little paper that they wrote. But we must focus and use the Word of God as our foundation. Arguing from the Word of God, arguing from the truth of God, defending truth from the words of God. We can't go down the the foul the the lies and the the false traps of what the world says. Well you've got to use my logic, you've got to use my way of arguing, you gotta you gotta use my defense No, we're using the very truth and word of God. Start there And when we do that, we'll be able to fight against the scoffers and the liars. We'll be able to deal. I truly believe that we would deal with all of the cultural issues if we relied on the word of God. And our my prayer and desire is that we as a church grow in this, and this is what we want people to know. I want you to know the Word of God. I want you to know God. I want you to know Christ, and that will deal with so many other issues. This is how Peter concludes his letter. I want us to be encouraged by this. All the problems he dealt with, all the concerns, all the liars and the liars he's dealt with, the scoffers. The dangers of false teachers sneaking in. This is what he does. In verse 18, but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. You hear that? Grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. That deals with the lies. That deals with the dis deceivers, that deals with the false and corrupted doctrines and theology. When we grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord Jesus Christ, it will be to him, to him be the glory. Both now and to the day of eternity. You hear how Peter can't get out of eternity. His mind's always on that, but he also deals with the present. To the glory of God. We deal with the truth of God. We we want the truth of God in our lives, and we want to saturate every aspect of what who we are and what we do. We want the knowledge. of our Lord and Savior. We want the grace of our Lord and Savior to be in us so richly that we can't help but just spew it out when we talk and when we care and interact with one another. And all of that will be to the glory of God. God today and into eternity. Friends, I hope this study of Peter's letters has been encouraging. It's challenged you to fight against lies. And false doctrines in your lives. It's encouraged you to live in obedience to Christ and to look forward to the day that you are in His presence, worshiping Him, enjoying Him for all of eternity. Next week we'll start a series, probably a three-week series in Philemon. And you think, oh, that's a short letter. Three weeks, yeah. We're going to unpack some of the the great details and the depth of that letter. Um and I want us to unpack some cultural issues that come out of that letter. That should encourage us as Christians. It'll drive us to love one another more. And it will drive us to think of how gracious and merciful So I hope you'll be able to join us for that. And let me conclude with verse 18. But grow in the grace and the knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and Into the day of eternity. Amen. Go in peace, beloved.