Let's go before a Father one last time in prayer before the preaching of his word. Lord, I ask that you open up our eyes and our hearts this morning. Reveal yourself through your word. May we see your beauty. Lord, may we recognize our identity in Christ. I ask that you Convict us, you grow us, you mold us to live in accordance to your will and your commands. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen. Well the words of which we will be examining this morning come out of 1 John chapter 5 verses 1 through 5. 1 John chapter 5 verses 1 through 5. The word reads, everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. And everyone who loves the Father loves whoever has been born of him. By this we know that we love the children of God. when we love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world. Our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? This morning's sermon is titled Heirs of Victory. There's a victory. My goal and purpose this morning is to point our hearts and our minds to recognize that our identity is rooted in Christ and Christ alone. I want us to see that if we have faith in Christ, that we are called children of God. And with that identity comes a great and glorious inheritance. comes a great and eternal reward that goes beyond our comprehension. It's not just into the future, but it also affects us today. We have an inheritance. We have inherited the victory over the world through our faith in Christ. That is That is what I want you to take away this morning, that we have inherited the victory over the world through our faith in Christ. What's an inheritance? We think about this often many people maybe in this room have received an inheritance. You've received something by maybe someone passing away. Money, a vehicle, a house. All of us have inherited a name of some sort. Your last name shows that you were born into a specific family But ultimately, all these gifts, all these things we receive from our name, from our birth here on this earth, will all fade away someday. We'll all perish. But too often we try to find our eternal identity within these gifts, within these rewards we have here on this earth. And brothers and sisters, I want us to recognize that our true identity must be rooted in Christ, and that our true inheritance of the victory is eternal. It will go into glory forever. And I also want us to recognize this morning that that eternal victory, the eternitance that we've received, also has implications for us today here on this earth. We're going to examine how we gain, how we receive our identity in Christ, and how we become children of God. We'll then look at love and obedience, the outworkings of our identity, and then we will talk about the victory. So first, let's ask this question: Who are considered the children of God? Who are the children of God? How do you become a child of God, right? This is the gospel message. Look at the first part of verse 1. Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. We're going to really slow down here. We must examine this. This is the gospel message. How do we become children of God? Well the first thing is the identity of who these people are. That very first word, everyone. Everyone. Everyone's quite broad, isn't it? Actually, everyone shows that there is not a limitation to it. The gospel message, the saving work of Christ, is not to one specific group of people. This is radical. to the Jewish people. This is what Jesus talks to Nicodemus in the garden in John 3. Nicodemus was was essentially a nationalist. He believed that you must be born an Israelite. You must be within the nation of Israel to be in the kingdom of God. And Jesus goes to him and talks about this new birth that's not of flesh, but is of the spirit. The gospel message is for everyone. So if you're eliminating to a group of people nationally, you're incorrect. The gospel message, the saving work of Jesus, is not limited to an age. A gender? An ethnicity? The gospel message of Jesus Christ isn't even limited to how sinful you are. If you're sitting in here this morning saying, I can't be a child of God because I've done X and Y and Z, and then go back and repeat the alphabet of all the sins you've committed. Brothers and sisters, your sins are not greater than the sacrifice of Christ. Your sins cannot hold you back from the saving work that Jesus did on the cross on your behalf The gospel message of Christ is for everyone. You don't put a limitation on it. The next piece we see, so if the gospel message is for everyone, everyone can be a child of God, the only limitation we see is the mode and method in which we receive this identity. And it's in these two words, who believes? Everyone, who believes? How do you become a Christian? How do you become a child of God? Belief. Belief is not just a head knowledge. You don't become a child of God by memorizing the entire Bible. You don't become a child of God by knowing all the stories. You don't become a child of God by going and getting degrees and seminaries and colleges and having a doctorate. Your belief. is not just a head knowledge, but it is a heart knowledge. It's transformative. The head and the heart belief. Belief is not just knowledge, but it is trust in commitment. Do you trust in Jesus? We're going to talk about what that trust means and what it even means to trust in Jesus, but it is not that you just know Jesus. If you're sitting in here and you're saying you are a Christian because you know about Jesus, well so does Satan. He actually knows him a lot better than you and I do in a lot of ways. He has actually interacted with God. But we see that it is not just the knowledge of Christ, it's not just the knowledge of Jesus, but it is the belief, the faith, the trusting of In Jesus Christ. that brings our identity as children of God. So what are we to believe in? John's laying it out right here. We believe that Jesus is the Christ. Once again, it's not just belief that he existed. You know, we have history textbooks that could lay out the existence of Abraham Lincoln, the existence of Alexander the Great. But just knowing that Jesus existed is not it. What must we believe that Jesus is? That he is the Christ. If you're sitting in here and you just thought Christ was Jesus' last name, you're incorrect. Christ is the title for Jesus. This title identifies who Jesus is. He is the chosen one. He is set apart. He is the Messiah, King, Deliverer, Savior Brothers and sisters, to be identified as a child of God, you must believe and have faith that Jesus is the Savior. There's no other way to God Well what's he save us from? Our sins. That's the gospel message. That Christ came, this the Son of God left his position in heaven to come and indwell, take on human flesh. to live on this earth, to live amongst his creation that has rebelled against him, has rejected him, and he came and lived a perfect life. He fulfilled the law of God. Every aspect of the law Christ fulfilled. He perfectly executed every aspect of being obedient to God. And then what does he do? He goes to the cross. He hangs on the cross. And as he's dying on the cross, he takes on your sin. He takes on my sin. He bears the wrath that you and I deserve from the Father. The God of creation has poured his wrath out upon his son as a perfect sacrifice on your behalf. Do you believe that, brothers and sisters? Is that the Christ you believe in? Is that the Jesus that you worship? Is that the Son of God that you recognize today? What a glorious truth it is. That we deserve wrath, that we deserve a punishment for our sins, and we are incapable of paying for it. Yet God sent his son to pay the perfect sacrifice. His blood was shed for you and I. Brothers and sisters, this is what we are called to believe in. That Jesus came, lived, died on your behalf. But not only that, his death is not the end. Oh, we sang this sweet song of victory this morning, that he then rose from the grave. He rose from the grave. That death could not keep him down. Your sins were not more powerful than his work. But he is victorious over all. And he now sits in heaven as Lord. He now sits at the right hand of his Father, having dominion over heaven and of earth. Is that your Jesus? Is that where your faith is this morning? If the answer is yes, you are a child of God. John lays it out right here. Everyone who believes that Jesus is the Christ has been born of God. What a beautiful gospel truth this is. You are a child of God. Now for some of you you may be sitting in here this morning, and that's not you. You're thinking I I am too sinful, I'm too dirty, I haven't been to church enough I couldn't even tell you how many books are in the Bible. I can't I haven't given enough to the tithes and offerings I haven't helped enough old ladies across the street. Whatever man-made structure you've put in there saying that this will get you to be a child of God, you're wrong. The only identity, the only way to become a child of God is by placing your faith in Jesus Christ. What's holding you back? What's stopping you? Have you recognized that you're a sinner in need of a savior? Where your Savior has died on the cross and has paid for your sins. Place your faith in him. Nothing is holding us back from the throne room of God. Nothing is holding us back from calling ourselves sons and daughters of God when we place our faith in Christ alone. This is the identity. This is how we become Christians. This is how we become children of God. This is crucial. John wants us to gather this. John wants us to see that our identity is rooted in Christ alone. Because what's going to happen is we're going to see that if our identity is rooted in Christ, then we start to live in this world in different ways. We start to live our lives which is quite contradictive to the world. And as we start to live our lives as Christians, we start to live our lives as children of God, we start to recognize that we have a victory over the world. So if we don't understand this basic piece of the gospel first, that our identity is in Christ alone, that we are children of God through faith in Christ alone, then we will twist and misunderstand the rest of this section. So brothers and sisters, recognize your identity is through faith in Christ and Him alone, that He is your Savior. Now, we must ask ourselves, well, what then? How shall we then live as children of God? Well, John lays it out here. In verse 1, the second part of verse 1 into the first part of verse 2, he lays out that as children of God, we love our Father. And we love his other children. Look here with me. The second part of verse 1. And everyone who loves the Father. loves whoever has been born of him. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God. Recognize that love is not the prerequisite of becoming a child of God. Love is the outworking of being a child of God. Love is the result of what happens when we become members of the family of God. We love God and we love his children. Now recognize that these two loves are intertwined. And John takes them, and what he does is he twists them back and forth for us to really wrestle with this. He wants us to recognize that we cannot love God and not love Christians. And we cannot love Christians and not love God. That these two are so intertwined that he twists them back and forth because we cannot miss that they must go together An example of this is that if if you would come into my house and and our little daughter Dorothy and you say, Oh, Anthony, we love you. We love you. You are great. Thank you. I appreciate that. But we love you. But then every time Dorothy comes in the room, you roll your eyes. You mistreat her We hear that you're talking bad about Dorothy behind our backs? How do you think I will perceive your love for me if you if you despise and hate my child? Well, likewise, let's twist it the other way and say, oh, we love Dorothy. We love your daughter. She's great. But every time you interact with me, you mistreat me. You talk bad about me. You ignore me. Oh, but we love Dorothy. Don't you recognize our love for Dorothy? Yes, but I am her father. She is a mine. And the fact that you mistreat me shows that you probably truly don't fully love my daughter. Well, that's what John's laying out here for us. Is that the love of God and the love of His children must go together. And actually, when we mistreat or when we lack in love on one side of that, We're actually showing a lack of love to the other side. This is a challenge for us as Christians, is it not? Now if we if we've comprehended the salvific work of Christ on the cross, the love of the Father may seem a little bit easier right now, right? We just John just laid out that we are children of God through the work of Christ. Let us be joyful. It is easy to sing songs of praise to God. We rejoice in that work. We love God. It's easy for us to to return the love of God because He has first loved us. Right? It's easy to love the perfect creator of the universe. It's easy to love the one that has redeemed us, has brought us from death to life. But can we be honest for a moment? His children are a little messy. God 's children? Aren't as perfect. God's children are a little bit harder for us to love. And let me let me make it very clear. I'm talking about you and I this morning. I'm talking about the brothers and sisters sitting in this room with you right now. It is hard for us to love the very person sitting in our pew next to us. Let me drive this a little bit farther and say it's it's hard for us to love the very person we're going to drive home with sometimes, isn't it? But we don't have the option, brothers and sisters. If we claim to love God, we must love his children. We must love the church. But Anthony, don't you know that they've talked bad about me? Don't you know how annoying they are? Don't you know how foolish they are? Don't you know how they act? Don't you know, and we could just keep going down this list, and I'm gonna say yes I do know that, and so does John But we don't have the option to not love God's children. This is the challenge. Think about how it looks to the world when we proclaim the gospel of Jesus. When we say that we love God, but then we go out onto the streets and we talk bad about the church. What kind of gospel message is that? Come be a child of God because I talk bad about the children of God What kind of gospel message is that? How do we proclaim the kingdom of God but we hate the people that live within his kingdom We don't have that option as Christians to do that. John takes these and says, if we love the Father, we recognize the love of the Father by who when we love those born of him. In verse 3, by this we know that we love the children of God. How do we know if we love the children of God? When we love God. Do you see that these go back and forth? These go back and forth. Quickly turn to 1 Corinthians 13 to help us understand what is this love? How do we define love? 1 Corinthians 13, starting in verse 4, reads, love is patience. We could stop right there and say, we're all going to struggle with having patience for one another sometimes, don't we? Love is kind. Love does not envy or boast. It is not arrogant or rude. It does not insist on his own way. Anyone struggle there? It is not irritable , resentful. It does not rejoice at wrongdoing, but rejoices with the truth. Love bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things. Love never ends. If you need a definition of love and what that looks like, there it is for you. And I think many of us are sitting in here going, I don't I I can't love like that. I have failed to love like that. Brothers and sisters, I want to agree with you. You cannot love like that. You in your own strength cannot love God nor love his children perfectly. We all are we all are sinful. We all fall short of this. But what we must do as we recognize our identity as children of God should cause us to go before our Father and ask for strength. She calls us to go before our Father and ask him to give us the ability to love where we fall short. This is what the Holy Spirit does. The Holy Spirit strengthens us. The Holy Spirit gives us love that we do not comprehend. The Holy Spirit shows us and gives us the ability to love when we are not able to on our own strength. If you are a child of God, you recognize your weakness and you look toward your Father for strength. But we cannot get away that we must love God 's children and Him. As children of God, we love our Father and we love His children. This is not how we earn salvation. It's not how we become children of God. This is the result of what happens when we are children of God. But we must continue. We recognize that our identity is rooted in faith in Christ alone, that gives us our identity as children of God. The outworking of that is love for both God, the Father, and for his children. And then the second piece of the outworking of this identity is obedience. Our love is demonstrated by our obedience to God's commandments. Look at the second part of verse 2 into verse 3. I'll start in the beginning of verse 2. By this we know that we love the children of God when we love God and obey his commandments. For this is the love of God, that we keep his commandments, and his commandments are not burdensome. So, what does the child of God do? A child of God loves God, loves his brothers and sisters, and obeys the Father, obeys the commandments of God. Now a good question you should ask right now are which commandments must we obey? We could go to Exodus 20 and start there, and there we receive the Ten Commandments. This is what we call the the Ten Commandments. And then we we literally turn the next page and things are going to get real crazy in Exodus. Things are going to get real wild, and we see the laws of God laid out. And then we get to Leviticus. We see the laws of God laid out and these commandments of God. And what we want to do as sinful beings and what we want to do as prideful people is just give me a list. Give me a list of laws, and every morning I'll wake up and I'll check off that list and make sure I'm doing it right. And if I follow that list, then I'll be perfect, right? Then there's no need for a Savior. There's no need for God. But we recognize that with that list we sin. With that list, we fall short With that list, we create other rules, other laws to protect us from getting even close to breaking any one of those laws and commandments. With that list, we start to twist things and say, I can get right up to the edge of the law without breaking the law, but that's just created in our own minds. So the question is, which commandments are we called to obey? We see That love is deeply connected to the following and obedient and obeying the commandments of God. Quickly look at Matthew 22. We're going to see Jesus answer this question for us. How do we obey God? How do we obey the commandments of God? Matthew 22 tells us exactly what we need to do. And you're going to hear that it's very familiar to us. Matthew 22, starting in verse 36. Actually, I'm going to start in 34. But when the Pharisees heard that he had silenced the Sadducees, they gathered together, and one of them, a lawyer, asked him a question to test him. He's speaking to Jesus here. He says, teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? Isn't that what we want? Just tell us, tell me what to do. Tell me what to do, and I'll do it. Verse 37, and he said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind. This is the great and first commandment. Jesus doesn't give them just one. He he shows them another aspect of the love of God. Verse 39. And a second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments Depend all the law and the prophets. So how are you obedient to God? How do you follow after the uh God's commandments? Love God and love your neighbor. Love God. John just laid it out there, love God and love his children. Now, the love that Jesus tells us is for all of humanity, both the redeemed and the not redeemed yet. But if we can't love our brothers and sisters in Christ first, how the heck are we ever going to love our neighbors Love the ones that persecute us. How are we ever going to love the ones that cause us strife? That try to attack our faith We must start in the house of the Lord. We must start by loving one another first, and our love for the world will grow from that But we see that the obedience to God's commandments is tied up in our love for God and our love for our neighbors. Now we could draw out a lot of questions. We could put a lot of scenarios and situations on the board here. But ultimately, the answer to all questions about should I do this, should I do that? Is this permissible? Is this not permissible? Is all rooted in our love for God and our love for our neighbors? Well, how do we know how to love God and how to love our neighbors? It's by being in the Word of God, by knowing who our Father is, by knowing his design for us, by knowing how he has loved us. We will then understand how to follow after him. And as we start to understand who God is and how he has loved us, we start to understand how to love our neighbors and be obedient to his commandments. How to love our neighbors. Well, how has God loved you? Has God been patient with you, brother and sister? Oh Some of us, God, has been patient for much longer than others in this room. But oh, that patience is sweet We love that patience when it's given to us, but we hate giving that patience of love towards our brothers and sisters, towards our neighbor. We want to crash them. We want to slash them as soon as they attack us. As soon as they've said a little off-colored thing to us. We just want to break them down. Well, what if God did that to you? You'd barely be able to take a breath in this world. And you'd be crushed beneath his wrath. Rightfully so. But God has been patient towards us. Let us be patient towards one another. How do we continue to follow and be obedient to the commandments of God? There's this little thing called forgiveness. Has God forgiven you a great multitude of sins? Great sins that the world will never know. Just between you and your Creator, does anyone know those sins? Those hidden sins, the depths of your soul, the depths of your heart, which was blackened by sin, when you were dead in your sins, when you were a rebel against God, He forgave you. Maybe, just maybe we can forgive our neighbor when they have offended us. Maybe, just maybe we can forgive our neighbor when they act and do something a little different than we would have done something. This is what it means to be obedient to God. Is that we know God, we know who He is, we love Him. And we love his children and all of his creation. We love our neighbors. This is the outworking of being a Christian If you're sitting in this room this morning and you're saying you are a Christian because you recognize that you've placed your faith in Jesus Christ alone. Well then, I challenge you, you must love your your God, you must love your neighbor, and this is being obedient to him Now this is not of your own working. This is an outworking of the Holy Spirit within us. When you fall short of this love When you recognize that you haven't been perfectly obedient to God's commandments, go back to the Father. Look towards Him. Confess your sins. Repent of your sins. And look towards Him for strength. Pray for strength. Pray for newness. Pray for his guidance and wisdom. You cannot love God and your neighbor and be obedient on your own strength. You will always fall short. But you can in the strength of God. We must constantly go back to the Father. We must constantly live in His presence, asking for strength, asking for guidance. And we will live as children of God. So we recognize this morning that our identity is rooted in our faith in Christ alone. You cannot earn it. You do not deserve it. But it is based in faith in Christ alone. And when we understand, when we see that we are children of God, the outworking of that is that we love God and our neighbor. And we are obedient to the commandments of God. All three of those are intertwined together. And we could continue to twist them for hours and examine them at different angles, but we must continue on. This is the so what. Okay. We understand that we are Christians. We understand that we are to love God. We understand that we are to obey God and His commandments. And we understand that it's not a burden to us. We don't dredge, we don't despise that we are obedient to God. We don't hate the idea that we are to love Him and love our brothers and sisters. It may be a challenge at times, but it'll actually lift us up. It'll encourage us as we grow in that. But how then shall we live in this world? This is where we must recognize that we have an inherited of victory. As children of God, we have inherited the victory over the world. We have inherited the victory over the world. Look with me in verses 4 and 5. For everyone who has been born of God overcomes the world. And this is the victory that has overcome the world, our faith. Who is it that overcomes the world except the one who believes that Jesus is the Son of God? Who overcomes the world? Who's victorious? Everyone who has been born of God. John is just pointing back up to verse 1 for us. Who's victorious over the world? Those who have placed their faith in Christ. This does not make sense to our human minds. How do as humans in our flesh how do we overcome the world? How do we take victory over the world? Brothers and sisters, we see it in the media today. We get an army, we form up the most men with the biggest guns and the biggest bombs, and we go into another country. That's how you overcome the world in the human mind. That's how you overcome the world by flesh standard. And we think that way. Even as Christians, we think that way. How are we going to overcome the world? Well, we've got to make sure that we get a a president that's going to support this regulation, this regulation, and then Christians will be free to do whatever we need to do as Christians. If we don't have the perfect present and the gospel of God, the kingdom of God cannot grow. How foolish we think The victory that has overtaken the world is your faith in Jesus Christ. No army is strong enough to overcome the world. No politician is strong enough or politically correct enough to take over the world. No job is sufficient enough to overtake the world. The way we overcome the world is through our faith. Brothers and sisters, recognize that this overcoming of the world, this victory, is both here and now and into the future. Into glory, as we'll call it. The everlasting life. If we have faith in Christ, we have an eternal life with our Creator and our Lord and our Savior. We will dwell in His presence forever. We will walk in his kingdom, in his presence forever. This is the good news of the gospel, that we will not die and receive the just punishment for our sins, but that Christ has paid for it. And because of that, we have inherited a victory that allows us and guarantees us that we will live with him forever. But not only that We're not just here to punch tickets for the eternal. We're here to punch tickets for the here and now. The gospel of Christ promises us a victory today. You may be asking, how is that possible? The world is corrupt. The darkness seems to be really strong. We see country fighting country. We see horrific acts happening every day. Well, let's start with ourselves for a moment. If you have an identity as a child of God, that means you once were dead and now you are alive. Recognize the victory of the gospel right there. Recognize the victory of this, that you now have peace with the Creator of the universe. While you once were an enemy, you now have peace and are called a child of God. Recognize that victory in your life. Recognize that your sins have been completely forgiven. Past, present, and future. Not by your works, but by the work of Christ. Recognize the victory of that. And then we start to see that when we live in this victory, when we recognize that victory, how shall we then live amongst the people around us? If we have been forgiven, we have peace with the Creator, we have been brought from death to life, and we have an everlasting life with the Creator of the universe. Why are Christians often the ones that look so grumpy and miserable in life? It's because we we doubt the victory. We haven't fully understood our identity and our inheritance in Christ. We think that the world's more powerful than Christ. We think that the darkness will overcome the light. But the gospel tells us the exact opposite. That the light will overcome the darkness. The darkness cannot stand. And has no victory, has no strength over the gospel of Jesus Christ. And throughout the rest of history, as ever long as it'll be. Into the thousands of years of the rest of history, we see that the gospel and kingdom of Christ will grow and become more and more powerful. And as Christians living today, we must recognize that victory, and we must live that way now. Proclaiming that gospel to the world. Oh darkness, you have no strength. Just follow along as I read the beautiful line out of 1 Corinthians chapter 15. Starting in verse fifty. I tell you this, brothers, flesh and blood cannot inherit the kingdom of God. Not does the perishable inherit the imperishable. Behold, I tell you a mystery. We shall not all sleep, but we shall all be changed. In a moment, in the twinkling of an eye, at the last trumpet, for the trumpet will sound, and the dead will be raised imperishable, and we shall be changed. For this imperishable body must put on the imperishable, and this mortal body must put on the immorality. When the perishable puts on the imperishable, and the mortal puts on the immorality, then shall come to pass the saying that is written. Listen to this. Death is swallowed up in victory. O death, where is your victory? O death, where is your sting? The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin is the law, but thanks be to God, who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus Christ. Brothers and sisters, you have the victory when your faith is in Christ as your Savior. You have the victory over sin and death. You have the victory over this world. Satan cannot bring an accusation before the Father against you because you've been forgiven of it already. Live with that confidence. Confess your sin and repent of it. Recognize that you have no shame before the Creator of the universe because of Christ. The darkness will not overcome the light. Recognize that this world will not be victorious in the end because our Lord and Savior has already won the victory. Live in this reality. Leave here today living in this reality. Go to work, go to school, interact with your family members. In this reality, that Christ is victorious, and because of his victory, you are children of the living God, and you also have inherited the victory. Questions to reflect on. Do you have an identity as God's child? Have you placed your faith in Christ as your Savior? If not, what is holding you back? There's no need to walk down an aisle. There's no need to say a special prayer. Place your faith in Christ as a Savior Second question, do you recognize the victory over the world? If your identity is in Christ, if you are a child of God, do you recognize the victory you have over the world? And then if so, are you living out as an heir of the victory? Are you loving God? Are you loving his children? Are you with joy and excitement living within this creation that God has given us, knowing that the darkness will not overcome the light? Recognize that children of God, we are heirs of victory. And let us rejoice in that. Let's pray. O great Father, you are eternal, you're everlasting. Your promise of salvation, your promise as our Father is true. We thank you for this. We thank you for our salvation, your mercy, your grace. Lord, I ask that if we do not see that, if we do have not recognized you as Savior , I sent his son on our behalf. I ask that you open our eyes to that. Convict our s our hearts May we see our sinfulness and our need for a Savior. And Lord, us that have been redeemed by the blood of Christ, may we recognize the identity you have given us in your Son's name. We pray. Amen.