Good evening. It seems like forever since we've been down here for a Wednesday study, but it's only been two weeks or three weeks? Maybe three. Three. I think it's three. The Christmas Week New Year's Week and Christmas Week. So unfortunately, this is the second part of a two-part study And with that long of a gap, I'm not going to be able to do a sufficient review. But the previous class We got through uh at least introducing all of these points, and then we went through thoroughly this point. Election. This will all start to make sense once I read the passage and let's get there. 2 Thessalonians 2. We'll get there. We'll get our bearings. I am going to pray for us. We are going to read the passage But just since this is the second part of a two-parter, I do encourage you to go back and look at the first part. It's called the Necessity of Giving Thanks. This is the Necessity of Giving Thanks, Part 2. Uh w last the way we ended the last study was we did a thorough study of the uh Bible passages that teach the doctrine of election. Today, what I hope to do is do a pharaoh look These things. Number two, sanctification, specifically definitive sanctification, which is that initial being set apart by God. uh that initial uh t uh time when God breaks the power of sin in our lives and effectual calling. Both of those have to do with when we're born again. And then we'll say a little bit of something Probably a definition and maybe one verse on those. Obviously, these are huge doctrines. You can see these are the some of the various blessings of salvation. There's your lead-in. Again, check out the first part, which was called the Necessity of Giving Thanks. Let's go ahead and read This passage. And you'll see why it has that title as soon as we begin. 2 Thessalonians Chapter 2, beginning in verse 13. But we ought always to give thanks to God. There it is. We should always be thanking God. We ought always to give thanks to God. The necessity of giving thanks. For you, brothers beloved by the Lord, because God chose you as first fruits to be saved. Doctrine of election. Through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth, sanctification in letter A, by the power of the Holy Spirit, and through belief in the truth. is the means of that. Verse 14, to this he called you through our gospel. He called you through our gospel. The effectual calling. We'll talk about that this evening. Effectual simply means always effective. So that you may obtain the glory of our Lord Jesus Christ. Glorification So then, brothers, stand firm and hold to the traditions that you were taught by us, either by our spoken word or by our letter. Now I took a stretch here just to keep the theme on the blessings of salvation. This one is implied, it's not explicitly spoken about, the call to stand firm. The call to hold fast, persevere. And um that has to do with our assurance, knowing that God is the one who does that. Only God can keep us firm Now may our Lord Jesus Christ himself and God our Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace. That loops in with the assurance as well. Comfort your hearts and establish them in every good word. Maybe I wrote those backwards. Did I write the assurance should be last and discipleship should be five, right? Because verse 15 is more about discipleship, standing firm to traditions which should be apostolic traditions that they were taught, either by spoken word or letter. That should be discipleship. Assurance should be verses sixteen and seventeen, where it's Voiced as a prayer, now may our Lord Jesus Christ Himself and God our Father who loved us and gave us eternal comfort and good hope through grace, comfort your hearts and establish them. Establish what? Establish your hearts. So the comfort that comes from God, comforting our hearts, establishing our hearts Through the grace of God. That's where I was getting assurance from that prayer. So those should be flipped, but I'm not going to take the time to change it on the board. Either way, this evening what we are going to focus on is Sanctification and effectual calling. And if we have time, we'll do a brief definition and cross one or two cross-references on those All right, let's go ahead and pray, and then we'll launch into the material. Father, we thank you for your grace in our lives. We thank you for your goodness to us. Father, we thank you for each other, the opportunity to gather and hear your word. I pray that you would be the one to teach us this evening, to teach every single one of us. Open our minds to your truth. Open our hearts. Steer our hearts according to your truth. Humble us. Encourage us. Help us to delight in your word And Father, we pray that Jesus Christ would fill our hearts and that he would be our hope, he would be our security, that he would be our peace, and we pray that he would be exalted this evening in our study. No matter what else we learn. Or whatever we member, we pray that he would be exalted and honored. It's in his name we pray. Amen. All right. Let's start on sanctification. Since we did election last time, we'll pick right up there And it comes from the middle of verse thirteen Through sanctification by the Spirit and belief in the truth. He it's talking about the way God saves us through sanctification by the Spirit and in belief in the truth. Now, what's usually the first thing that we think of when we hear the word sanctification? Well, usually the first thing we think of is progressive sanctification, that lifelong process of God Gradually conforming us to the likeness of Christ. God gradually increasing in us holiness, gradually putting to death sin. gradually making us stronger to overcome temptation, gradually increasing within us and in our lives the fruit of the Holy Spirit. Progressive Sanctification. But you cannot have progressive sanctification unless you have an initial initial sanctification initially receiving the Holy Spirit. So I'm gonna what we're going to do, since we have a lot of points and since this really is just a wrap up of tying loose ends from last time. Just going to give a definition and then we're going to together go to cross-references just to drive the point home a little bit and show give a little bit of biblical argument for this idea that sanc initial sanctification or what I called it three weeks ago definitive sanctification Does come from the text of Scripture. So the definition that I'll I'm working with tonight is that definitive or initial sanctification is a work of God in conversion. Where he delivers the sinner from the ruling power of sin. Pretty simple definition. It's a work of God that happens in conversion, in conjunction with conversion. This happens when we're born again. Where God delivers the sinner from the ruling power of sin. That happens in the heart. That's a spiritual change. That's a supernatural work of God. And a one theologian, John Murray, said it is uh it is a quote, once for all definitive act, end quote. Which is different than progressive sanctification, which is an ongoing Act. But this initial sanctification does not need to be repeated. You don't need to be born again again. You need to be born again once. Receive the Holy Spirit once. It's a decisive break from slavery to sin. Do Christians still sin? Yes, we still sin in our minds, in our hearts. our affections, our will, our words, our tone of voice, our actions, our desires, everything. Every part of us still sins. But we're no longer slaves to sin. We're no longer under the ruling and reigning power of sin in our lives. That's a huge difference and that's Because we've been set apart. God has broken the shackles that made us slaves to sin. One verse is 1 Corinthians 1. 2. Let's go ahead and look at that. And I don't think it's coming across this way, but just in case, disclaimer I hope this doesn't come across as um minimizing that progressive work of sanctification in our lives. And I certainly hope it doesn't come across as saying that isn't real or that doesn't happen. All I'm saying is that progressive work of sanctification in the Christian life starts at and is based upon this initial work of being freed from the reigning power of sin. 1 Corinthians 1, 2, to the church of God that is in Corinth, to those sanctified , Which is a perfect passive. It's something that has already happened. It's already completed, and it has ongoing ramifications. To those sanctified in Christ Jesus. called, so these doctrines are linked together here as well, called to be saints together with all those who in every place call upon the name of our Lord Jesus Christ, both their Lord and ours. To those sanctified, it's already done. God has sanctified them He doesn't need to do that again in the sense of setting them apart, changing their hearts, to not be slaves to sin any longer. It's not a future tense. It's not an ongoing present tense of to those who are being sanctified. Those who've been sanctified. Those who are sanctified. They're holy ones, saints. Turn to 1 Corinthians 6. Eleven. Just a few pages, four or five pages. And such were some of you. There's a whole list of sins. They were slaves held captive by certain sins. Such were some of you, but you were washed, you were sanctified. They were sanctified, and you were justified in the name of the Lord. Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our God. Christians are not perfected in holiness yet, but we should be living holy lives. And that's only by the power of God, that's only by the Holy Spirit. It's not self righteousness. But holiness is a gift of God to the believer. We pursue it by faith. We pursue it through the gospel. We cry out for the power of the Holy Spirit and the work of the Holy Spirit. We should be doing that every morning, crying out. Before the throne of God for those things, for holiness, for the Spirit, for sanctification. Here again, past tense: You were sanctified The bonds of slavery were broken. Ephesians five, twenty-five, and twenty-six Someone in this room preached a magnificent sermon from this passage in this past calendar year. If you didn't see our special guest in the back. But yeah, I still remember that. You knocked it out of the park. Um Husbands, love your wives as Christ loved the church and gave himself up for her, that he might sanctify her. Having cleansed her by the washing of water with the word. Having cleansed her. Past tense. And you can say that about the church in any age. They've been cleansed by Jesus Christ. They've been washed by the Spirit and by the Word. Water, the washing of water symbolizes the Holy Spirit. That's why baptism, water baptism is used. As a testimony to our conversion, because water does symbolize specifically the presence of the Holy Spirit within the heart, rivers of living water. But Christ has cleansed us. He's cleansed us not only from the guilt of our sin. But from the corruption of our sins, that we're not slaves to sin any longer. This is the only hope we have of any kind of holiness in life that would honor God. Is if we've been sanctified, if we're no longer slaves to sin. I'm thankful to not be a slave to sin anymore And yes, I do lament the fact that I still have indwelling sin and I cannot wait to be rid of this body of sinful flesh and be with the Lord. But the fact is. It's so much better to be set free from sin than it was to be a slave to sin. Because I was sanctified by the Holy Spirit. And you in Christ have been sanctified by the Holy Spirit You're not a slave to sin. Your feelings on some days, your experience some days might tell you that you are still a slave to sin and there's nothing you can do about it. That's a lie. Scripture does not teach that. Those who belong to Christ are no longer slaves, but children were not slaves to sin. So by faith, believe what God says about you as one who's united to Christ. Acts 20, 32 Think about the importance of This is a side note. Mm, I think that's wrong. I do believe I wrote that down wrong in my notes. Acts twenty thirty-two is I don't think it's about sanctification. Among all those who are sanctified. I must be on the wrong page. Oh no, there it is. Okay. Yep. I was looking at the wrong paragraph. So this is a side note about holiness, but just on the importance of holiness. in the Christian life. If you don't love holiness, then you don't love God. Now let that sink in because what is what is holiness? It just describes God and His character. Because you you can't say and I can't say that I love God and yet I hate the thing that most clearly and obviously defines who God is. We pursue God. We're also pursuing holiness. We pursue God personally as the living God through faith in Christ. But practically in our lives and in our hearts, we must be pursuing holiness and godliness. We must be. That is the Christian life. It's part of It's part of our sanctific progressive sanctification, part of that process. But before this, before what we're talking about now initial sanctification, we don't want to pursue that. But that's one of the things that's different between us when we're unbelievers and us from more believers. We actually do want to be holy. We actually do delight in holiness. and we want to be made holy by God. Acts 2. 32. Now I commend, 20, 20, 32. Now I commend you to God and to the word of his grace. aka the gospel, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. They are sanctified. You are sanctified. It is a reality. And so, yes, there are passages and verses. Not as many as these past ten sanctifications, but there are those that talk about you being saved, being sanctified as a process. But there are those that talk about the foundation of that. Initial sanctification. Acts 26, 18, final one here. I love this passage, this verse. And I've got to pick it up in the middle of a sentence here, I'm sorry, but just for time's sake. Paul is talking about His conversion and then his mission, why he's been called. He's he's been sent, verse eighteen, to open their eyes so that they may turn from darkness to light, and from the power of Satan. to God, that they may receive forgiveness of sins, and a place among those who are sanctified by faith in me They are sanctified by faith in me. We have been sanctified. And It's a work of God. It happens in conjunction with our conversion, being born again, where God delivers us from the ruling and reigning power of sin in our lives. And I hope you're happy about that. Amen. I mean this is just you know you think about where we would be if God didn't did not intervene in our lives with his grace. If he didn't sanctify us, give his hearts for holiness, give us hearts full of his holiness, although not yet perfectly Um because we're not here yet. We're not number four yet being glorified. So although we do not have the full perfected presence of holiness in us, we still have the true presence of holiness in us By virtue of the Holy Spirit, by virtue of the the indwelling spirit of Jesus Christ. Now this is our life's pursuit, is to know Christ, to be conformed to his image. And It goes back to the original title, how Paul began. We should always be giving thanks. This is something every day we should be thanking God for. Thank you for sanctifying me. Thank you for making me holy. Thank you for liberating me from the reigning power of sin. Satan's grip on the heart. And then effectual calling we'll look at. But any questions or thoughts? Oh, well, let me just do quickly. It's not an abstract idea. It doesn't happen randomly. It happens through the power and working of the Holy Spirit, which he says in that verse. And it always involves belief in the truth, coming to faith, objective truth, faith in the objective truth. Objective just means outside of you. The table's an object. It's outside of me. Belief in the truth. But the subjective, which means in inside the subject, The work of the Holy Spirit. The sanctification and the bonds of sin being broken in our hearts and lives is not something like you just feel, like you feel religious, or you have this emotional high. um at church or something like that, some mountaintop experiences, vague, self-defined spiritual feeling. It's the faith in the objective truth of the gospel and a change of heart by the power and the work of the Holy Spirit, and we're sanctified So we let scripture define, you know, how these things happen and what they look like. Uh any any thoughts or questions on this? Yeah. Whenever I think about the talk the um Sanctification, the topic, sanctification. I always think of the people in the cross. Because I've seen the sanctification, sanctification as a process also In other words, through your life. The thief on the cross never had that process because he was sanctified immediately. He was a thief on that cross. And he said, Well Jesus, take me into your kingdom. Jesus says you'll be in my kingdom today. He was no longer a thief. He was a child of God. That's right. And he never had to walk through this process that All of us in here are walking through it present. Yeah. And I just and that w what that makes me see is sanctification is not just That's right. That's right. It has a starting point. One of my professors used to say is it has an alpha point. It's uh it has a beginning. And you can't you can't be saved And not have experienced being sanctified. Like if you're born again, this is true about you. God has come into your heart and liberated you from being a slave to sin And it is a glorious thing. And yeah, that thief on the cross, he uh he was born again in that later that day, maybe that hour, I'm not sure. Um but definitely before the sunset was with the Lord. Yeah. Any other questi questions or thoughts on that doctrine? The two or the A or the B, the agency of the spirit through What we would call the the instrumentality of the gospel of the truth is so important here. When you think of the practical implications of this, you know the way we sh what we share with people, the ministries of the church. We must be a people who preach the truth and teach the truth. And one of the ways Paul says that is through the plain statement of the truth. So the truth may be communicated. And That is what God uses to save people. And that's what God uses to progressively sanctify those who are sanctified. But you think about the practical implications of the A and the B. It's everything. It's everything if we want to If we want to see people saved, if we want to see people experience this, we must preach the gospel, teach the gospel, teach the word of God, share the word of God, sing the word of God, pray the word of God, because it's what God uses. Doesn't it also take the emphasis off of works? Hopefully , you know, because this is the Holy Spirit working through you. It's not Yeah. It's a great point. It's a great point. If you didn't hear what Denise said, that this takes the emphasis off of works. There's no religious work we do to bring this about or to help God in it. Yes, a great point. It does. It takes the emphasis off of works Completely. Amen to that. And it it does emphasize that the way to come to God is empty-handed on our faces. Focus on that. Yeah. Yeah. I think you're right. I I think I think that's the natural inclination of of all of us to focus on ourselves and our works, what we do. to be worthy, um the the outward religious activities and there is a tendency to to reduce things, especially around conversion, to reduce them down to a few hoops a few religious steps to jump through and all of a sudden you're saved. But the fact is it's got to be a supernatural work of God. Yeah, good. That's a great point by you, Denise. And take the emphasis off of works. Let's go to effectual calling. Again, effectual, it's just a traditional way of referring to this doctrine. Let's go back to 2 Thessalonians 2, just to see it in the text. To this he called you through our gospel. Effectual just means 100% effective, always effective. It does what it sets out to do. And the effectual calling is the work of God in conversion. Again, we're still talking about being born again, just from different aspects or different angles. It's a work of God in conversion where God brings the sinner into union with himself or into a relationship with himself through the means of the gospel. It's talking about you being born again. It's talking about me being born again, just from God's perspective What God does. And here's the way we talked about it three weeks ago. It's simply just it's a way of referring to God using the gospel to bring a sinner into a relationship with himself. That's what the doctrine is. It's very simple. So from the perspective of us, what would we say? We would say we repent. We believe. But if you want to think about it from God's perspective, he's calling us, he's bringing us into a relationship with himself through the gospel. So here we're on the other side, we're receiving the gospel, we're believing, we're repenting. Does that make sense? So effectual calling is just another way, it's from God's perspective, thinking about when we are born again. Another thing that can help us understand what we're saying here is to contrast this or compare contrast this with the external call of the gospel. This effectual calling is internal. This is in the heart. The external call of the gospel can go out to a thousand people They're sitting out here, the gospel is coming, and they're all hearing it. It's outside of them, and they're receiving the external call of the gospel. It's going to all thousand people. Do all of them receive the true call of God in their hearts to come to faith in Christ? Absolutely not. Most of them, or a lot of them, that external call of the gospel is just going to bounce off of their unbelief. But for some of them according to the purpose and power of God, that gospel will break through. And it will change the heart. And it will bring that dead sinner to life in Christ. They will repent, they will believe, they will cherish Christ. They will have been sanctified, set free from the reigning power of sin in their lives, they'll be born again, they'll be believers. This is an internal supernatural call of God inside the human heart to bring us to faith in Christ, effectual calling. So again, it's another way of talking about the miracle of conversion, of the new birth, just from God's perspective. And again, summarizing that definition, it's just God bringing the sinner into a relationship with him. Through the gospel, it's through the gospel that God does this. The message of Christ. Calling. Let's look at a couple verses just on the idea of it that don't use the word call. This is a classic verse. Acts 16 -14. If I tell you who it's about, you'll know you'll probably know what verse it is. It's about Lydia. Before I read that verse, didn't he that point you said about You know, the sinner not trusting in works to help come to God or to help be received by God, to help themselves be sanctified, could also apply to us as we share the gospel and with sinners, with the world. uh because we can't do this. We can't get inside the heart. Only God can do this. We're God's instruments, we're God's vehicles, we're conduits for delivering the external call of the gospel to whoever we can, as many as we can, and call all to faith. Only God can call people into fellowship with Himself through the gospel. Only God can do this. And so we uh we don't want to be a people who think that our works You know, King can bring about these things in and of themselves. God chooses to use them, and He's promised and purposed to use us and to use our works and to use our message. But we are never, ever, ever the source of the power to save sinners. Never. Not when we're saved, not when others are saved through our ministry. Yes. No one can be saved unless God is calling them, correct? That's right. Yeah. Yeah. So in the thousand ten thousand people in the audience He's calling five hundred, somebody who says, Well, gee, that sounds like a nice idea. They can't be saved on their own. Yeah, no one can be saved on their own. That's right. And we looked at that verse. I believe we looked at this Three weeks ago in part one uh that other verse in Acts, those who were had been appointed to eternal life believed. And uh yeah, no one comes to faith apart from God's power, God's calling, God's election, which we looked at those verses last time. Acts 16, 14. Did we even read this yet? I feel like I just went off on a really long rant about the power of God and I completely forget where we are. Hey, listen, if you're gonna rant about something question, Josh? Sorry, Pastor. I just was asked wondering there, so are you referring to Predestination. Election is a basically another way of talking about predestination. Yeah. So what what would you say to someone who says You know, I don't know how many times somebody shared the gospel with me or I heard the gospel or whatever, but it wasn't until this, you know, this particular day that it finally sunk in or I you know I mean I've heard people say that before. You know, I was brought up. But what's the what's their point when they say that? Like what's what are they implying 'Cause that happens to a lot of people. I heard the gospel ten thousand times before I was changed by it. So did God not call them until that Yeah. Yeah. Okay. Yeah. Yeah, because you're not saved until you're born again. You're not born again unless there's true faith and true repentance. Yeah, conversion is a real thing that happens in the life experience of a person. And it's all it's We have a duty to repent. We have a duty to hear the gospel and believe it, not reject it. So what were you going to say, brother? Because I have said, you know, I've that I never really heard the gospel of Christ or the gospel of apostles. Bible until I read it myself. And then and then I was shocked at people and said, why didn't you tell me this? Yeah, that's right. Yeah. Didn't get through though. You need the power of the Holy Spirit to break the heart into a thousand pieces of repentance and humility And and then the Holy Spirit to lift you in faith in Christ, in hope in Christ, that He's our only rest, He's our only peace, He's our only hope. You know that really does happen. The Holy Spirit is like the wind It's unpredictable, but powerful, and sometimes the best you can do is just describe the effects. Of that power of the Holy Spirit. It's from Jesus' uh discuss with Nicodemus. He says the Spirit's like the wind. You don't know where it's coming from or where it's going, but you can see its effects. So you know the effects of the Spirit. Because scripture helps helps us understand those effects. Yeah, and anything, any any other questions on predestination? Uh look at the part one of this class, which was three weeks ago. We looked at several verses at the end of the class. It was like the last 20 minutes that teach that doctrine, that this is difficult doctrine. We dealt with that not exhaustively. This has always been and always will be. you know, point of difficulty and disinterpretation and in Christian fellowship. But we want to deal with the passages and just say, uh God, we're submitting ourselves to your word. Help us to understand, help us to believe. You know, things we don't understand. We'll just submit ourselves to God's word and humble ourselves. And but that we did cover those at the end of the last class on election. And I think we may We may get to one in just a minute. Did I have I still not read this? Didn't I say turn to this verse about three hours ago? Jeff, go ahead. We will get to it. We will. I think Denise is putting her finger on the external call of the gospel. And what you're doing is you're differentiating between the open proclamation of the gospel and the work of God. in his calling of a heart in his perceptual calling. So I I think that's kind of the language that we would use for what Denise is trying to get at there is that external offer of the gospel. Yeah. actual calling which you're seeing here 's from two different things. Yeah. John John has heard the external proclamation of the gospel many times, but it wasn't until the Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, that's that's thanks for going back to that. That that does um that is helpful because when when I made that distinction and It's made again here. It's not like a theoretical distinction or a philosophical thing. Like both of those things exist. The external call of the gospel goes out and goes out and goes out and goes out and hits ears and hits ears and bounces off and bounces off and But then in God's timing and God's providence and power, he changes our heart and he gives us you know, he gives us a sight of our sin and we see it for the horror that it is. And he gives us a heart to repent and to look to Christ and embrace Christ. You actually do have succumb to Christ in faith to be saved. Just feeling sorrow for sin. It doesn't save us. We're not saved by guilt. We're saved by faith. But again, yeah, only God calling the sinner in the heart into fellowship with himself. Um has to happen. Has to happen. We're ging we're gonna do it. I promise. There's been about six times where I looked down like this and uh Acts, what was it, sixteen fourteen, right? One who heard us ministering to the word, was a woman named Lydia from the city of Thyre Thyatyra, a seller of purple goods, who was a worshiper of God. The Lord opened her heart to pay attention. to what was said by Paul. After she was baptized. Sorry, so it goes right into God. It goes right from God opening her heart to pay attention. into her baptism. So obviously God opening her heart to receive the word with faith and become a believer, therefore she was baptized. But who opened her heart? The Lord opened her heart. How did he do that? Through the ministry of the word. The effectual calling. God is the one who does it. Another one on the idea would be Oh, this is crazy. Sometimes I'm absurd with this. I have Ephesians 2, 1 through 16. That's like a passage long enough for uh an entire class or two classes. So what I'll do is give you homework here then and read the salient verse in the middle. So the beginning of and it shouldn't even go that far. I mean just for our point it should just go to verse uh ten although I I do like 11 through 17 is 16 as well because flushes out it looks at the bigger scale of what God is doing in saving sinners. He's br he's bringing sinners into fellowship with each other for his glory. But the beginning of Ephesians 2 is about how we're dead in trespasses and sin. And In verse 4 , but God being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which he loved us, which is what's the basis of what's about to happen? Because of God's love, because of the great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. So you have the before and after, which is the dead. in sin and then alive in Christ. Dead in sin, made alive in Christ. Now who's the one who was the active party in bringing us from dead to sin to alive in Christ. God, clearly. That's the point. That's the point. Is He made us alive together with Christ. By grace you've been saved, verse 6, and raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. Talking about our status in Christ, trying to give us a picture that we've been united to Christ spiritually by faith. It's a relationship with Jesus. But it's God who brought us from death to life. Lazarus is the classic illustration of this. It's just an illustration of the doctrine. Um I think it's a good one. That's why it's classic. Lazarus is dead. He's in the tomb. Yet Jesus calls him to come out. How in the world can Lazarus obey the call of Christ to come out of the tomb when Lazarus is dead? There's only one way if the call of Christ has a supernatural power to impart life to Lazarus. And that's exactly what it does. The call to come out gives life And Lazarus is able to obey. That's a metaphor, that's an image, that's a good illustration of coming to spiritual life from spiritual death. Now there are some other verses here that will use the word and the concept of calling. Romans 8, 28 through 30. We know that for those who love God, all things work together. For good. Not all things are good, but all things work together for good because God is working all things for good. And later on, in just a moment, we'll see a specific good that He's referring to. For those who are called according to his purpose, that is the word. We're called This is this was Tom's point, I think. It's according to God's purpose. This is not arbitrary. We're called according to his purpose. For those whom he foreknew. He also predestines to be conformed to the image of his son. Now there that gives you a little window into the specific good. That all things are working for, being conformed to the image of his son, in order that he might be the firstborn among many brothers. And those he predestined He also called. There's that word again. Called. The predestined is just a way of referring to God's grace toward us from eternity. But then how that's worked out in history in our lives is calling. And all those he predestined, he called. The link is so important. Those he predestined, he also called, and those whom he called, he also justified, and those whom he justified, he also glorified. Looking at God's grace and salvation, not so much in different aspects, although it is different aspects, different blessings of salvation, but It's really the progression of God's grace before time, God's grace in time, and then God's grace at the end of time as we know it, for all eternity in our glorification. Just a broad scope of God's purpose of grace. to bring sinners into relationship with Christ. A few times in there, the word, called. That's why traditionally this doctrine has been effectual calling All those God is predestined, all of them, every single one of them have been called. And every single one who's been called has been justified. And every single one who's been justified will be glorified. Every one of them. Every one of them. First Peter two nine One of my favorites, the language here, just at the end of Colossians 2. I'll point the word out that I'm referring to when I get to it, but it just really resonates with me and thinking about my own conversion. But you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession. That's who we are, that's our identity, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. He called us, there's that word, calling. He called us out of darkness into his marvelous light. It's another way of saying he brought us out of darkness into his marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have not received mercy. We are recipients of mercy. We are the people of God. The chosen race, the royal priesthood, the holy nation, the people for his own possession. Our purpose is in there too, to proclaim his excellencies And the one that resonates with me is his calling out of darkness into his marvelous light. It's such a vivid picture of conversion. And if you've experienced conversion, that I should connect with you. God has called us. He's brought us out of darkness into his marvelous light. And the passage from The first chapter of Colossians, forgive me if I don't get it exactly right, but he's he's transferred us from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of his beloved son. And that's the effectual calling through the gospel of God bringing us out of darkness into his light. Which is a metaphor for him, having him, having a relationship with God forever. Still in 1 Peter 5. 10 , And after you have suffered for a little while, the God of all grace, the God of abounding grace, who has called you to his eternal glory in Christ will himself restore, confirm, strengthen, and establish you. Not talking explicitly or exclusively about our conversion, because he's pointing us to future glory in Christ, but But I do believe the point is when you were called, that's what you were called to. Like you look back to your initial calling, God saving you, bringing you into his kingdom, that's where it's heading. He's called you to that. we've already been brought into fellowship with Christ. But that relationship that we have with Jesus has not reached its final form. Right now we walk by faith. One day we will walk by sight. Right now we still have sin. One day we'll have no presence of sin. And many other ways we could talk about being in the presence of God. Having resurrection bodies, being in the new heavens and the new earth, the glorious, glorious inheritance that we're awaiting. But the fact is That became our inheritance when we were called, when we were brought into fellowship with Christ through the gospel. I have 1 Corinthians 1 9 here, which is Intriguing to me because we were already in 1 Corinthians 1. I hope I had a good reason for putting this last. Hopefully I did. Oh yeah, because it's the best one. I think it's the clearest one on I think it's I think it's the clearest one on the doctrine of effectual calling, at least in terms of showing why we use that word calling for the change of relationship. God is faithful by whom you were called into the fellowship of his Son, Jesus Christ our Lord So being brought into fellowship with Jesus is being called into fellowship. And again, differentiate. This is the internal call on our heart. that brings the sinner into a relationship with Christ. This is not the external call of the gospel. It's through the external call that God works in the hearts and brings brings dead sinners to life. But they're not uh oh boy, I can't believe I'm about to use this word. They're not coextensive. That just means not this many people May hear that gospel, this many people may receive new hearts. But where do those new hearts come from? Do they come from because they're smarter than everybody else? Never. Because they're more naturally spiritual than everyone else? Never. Are they better people? No. God's grace. God gets all the glory, all the credit, all the power is his It's all God. That's salvation. Salvation is of the Lord. All right Well, it's we we don't have time to do studies on these. Next week We'll be in chapter 3 of 2 Thessalonians, and I hope to spend two weeks on chapter 3, and then we're going to go into a study of Daniel. But I've got to say a little something about these other words. Discipleship. A good study verse, introductory verse would be Matthew 16, 24 and 25. That's just living for Jesus, right? Loving him from the heart. serving him in his church and living for him in all of life. It's not just something that happens at church doing religion. And it's not something that just happens in the heart but never manifests outwardly. We love him. That's where any oh true obedience starts, which is a a love A believing love. We love him in our heart. We serve him in his church. And we live for him in all of life. Assurance is a work of God in our hearts to give us confidence. that because of Christ alone, Christ alone, we belong to God. He's our assurance. There's different studies out there and in 1 John is is a good book for this of evidences of salvation. That's to help us understand what a true spirit wrought faith, what a true faith looks like and how it manifests. But assurance, true assurance that we are children of God. only comes from faith in Christ. Christ is our assurance. 1 John 5, 12 and 13, Hebrews 4, 16. We have confidence because of Christ. Glorification is a work of God. All of these are a work of God. Work of God to transform our lowly bodies. To be like Jesus, glory, glorious body. And that's word for word right out. Philippians 3, 21. But that's us when we when Christ returns and We, whether we're alive bodily or dead bodily, receive resurrection bodies just like Jesus has. And we get to share in the full glory of the new heavens and the new earth. That's glorification. Sharing in partaking of the glory of Christ. Resurrection bodies forever and ever in the presence of God. I think we Let me make it official. These only get circles. I'm going to pray, then we can, if you have questions or discussion, thoughts, or ideas, we'll just share them off the record. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your goodness. Thank you for your word. Thank you for this fellowship. I pray for our nation. I pray for the world that you would turn around this COVID surge, the whole COVID situation. We pray for those who are sick. We pray for family members, friends who are thinking of those hospitalized. We pray for their healing. We pray for their comfort. We pray for their families. Father, we pray for this church. You strengthen us. Use us. Would you use us to reach the community for Jesus Christ? Help us to be loving, compassionate, patient, live holy lives. Help us to believe your word and honor your word and hunger and thirst for your word as in Christ we pray. Amen.