Chapter eight of Daniel is going to be dealing with the dominion of the Medes and the Persians and the Dominion of Greece. So those two things, as we start reading it, um if you could just keep that in mind, you'll understand The broad picture of what it's about. Otherwise, it's kind of just floating out there as an interesting vision. With no meaning. But this is what the vision is depicting: the dominion of the Medes and the Persians, and the Dominion of Greece. But it's happening The vision occurs, it comes to Daniel in five fifty B C So he's not getting a vision about something that's shit right about to happen, but towards the end. That's moving toward the end and ultimately going to usher in the time of the end. And you'll see that it's troubling for Daniel. Quickly, just as an encouragement, look at the very last verse of chapter 8. As an encouragement to all of us, if there's things we don't understand in Daniel 8, I want you to know that Daniel didn't understand everything from Daniel 8. And I, Daniel, was overcome and lay sick for some days. uh this 'cause there were some distressing things in the vision. Uh then I rose and went about the king's business, but I was appalled by the vision and did not understand it. He didn't grasp the full weight of it. What I like to do in prophetic literature, well, in all Bible passages, but especially prophetic literature, is to focus on what's there in the text. What has God said? What has God revealed? I have no interest in getting off into speculation for things God hasn't revealed. In the context of what God has already prophesied and promised in Daniel. Of these four earthly kingdoms, and then he'll establish his kingdom on earth, is just zooming in here Alright, so that's the meaning of Daniel 8. For whatever details we don't understand, that's the meaning of Daniel chapter 8. And uh what I'd also like to do in the introduction is to give some practical application so that we can take these principles and apply them to our own hearts and to our own lives. God continues to tell Daniel the future. Alright? God continues to tell Daniel the future so that number one, Daniel would not lose hope. There's practical application, and that applies to us. God has told us the future of the church age. Not every single detail, but the broad strokes. God has told us his purpose. We know Christ is going to build his church to the end of the earth. We know Christ is going to be We know there's going to be a judgment. We know there's going to be a resurrection. We know there's going to be a new heavens and a new earth. We know we're going to have resurrection bodies. We know we'll dwell with God forever in glory. God tells us the future so we would not lose hope. Okay, so in a different setting, in a different historical setting, God is telling Daniel the future so that he would not lose hope. God continues to tell Daniel the future so that number two And this is connected to it. So that number two , so that Daniel would know for certain that God does have a plan. That God is not making it up as he goes, reacting to the whims of human beings. God has a plan, God is in control, and it always does us well to remove. Remember that. And that God continues to tell Daniel the future so that he would not lose hope. That's a good message for us. So that we would know. So that Daniel would know, so that we would know that God has a plan and the world is in his hands. And thirdly, so that Daniel would know that judgment is not the end of the story. God's people, hit in a historical sense at this time, are under judgment. They've been exiled from their land. They're a kingdom inheritance of the land of the temple has been taken away from them. But that's not the end of the The story. There's going to be a restoration, a provisional restoration for Israel as a nation under the old covenant, but then a final glorious restoration in the eternal spiritual sense At the coming of Christ and then brought to its consummate form at the return of Christ. Judgment is not the end. Judgment is not the end. And Daniel needs to hear that. All right, let's go ahead and read the entire chapter. And what you're going to see is something we've seen before in Daniel. You're going to see the vision, and then you're going to see the interpretation of the vision. In the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar, excuse me, Daniel eight. In the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar, now he is the last king of Babylon , last king of the Babylonians, uh a vision appeared to me, Daniel. After that which appeared to me at first, I saw in the vision, and when I saw, I was in Susa, the citadel, which is in the prophets of Elam And I saw in the vision, and I was at the Ulai Canal. So he's relocated in the vision, and it's a visionary relocation. Which you see in Revelation. I'll we'll look at a couple of references there. He's in Susa, the citadel, but then in the vision, he's at the Uli Canal. Verse three, I raised my eyes And saw and behold a ram standing on the bake on the bank of the canal. It had two horns, and both horns were high, but one was higher than the other, and the higher one came up at last. Now don't lose your place. Alright, we're at the end of verse 3 at the beginning of verse 4. We're just gonna cheat a little bit. Alright. So I want you to know the ram is as we're reading. Look at verse twenty As for the ram that you saw with the two horns, these are the kings of Media and Persia. Alright, interpretation. Daniel's here. God's showing him the vision. We got uh about here. The Medes and the Persians. Alright. It's okay to cheat that way, if it helps us. So, it's not a prophecy of a literal ram. The ram symbolizes a kingdom. And the horns symbolize kings. That's the way to interpret prophecy. Verse 4: I saw the ram charging westward and northward and southward. No beast could stand before him, and there was no one who could rescue from his power. He did as he pleased and became great. Hence the second kingdom. Verse five As I was considering, behold, a male goat came from the west, across the face of the whole earth, without touching the ground. It's moving so fast. It's like hovering. Um without touching the ground. And the goat had a conspicuous horn. between his eyes. Now. Is it okay if we cheat again? Well we have to cheat because I don't want you to think I'm just making this stuff up Verse twenty one and the goat is the king of Greece. And the great horn between his eyes is the first king. And yeah, Alexander Alexander the Third of Macedon, also known as Alexander the Great. So, what's chapter 8 of Daniel about? Boom, boom. Alright, this is where we are. No need to, again, it's not a literal ram, literal goat. Those are symbolic visions, prophetic, symbolic uh symbols Alright, uh I was as I was considering, behold, a male goat came from the west across the face of the earth, still in verse 5, without touching the ground, and the goat had a conspicuous horn. What's conspicuous mean? Obvious, yeah. An obvious horn between his eyes. He came to the ram with the two horns, which I had seen standing on the bank of the the canal and he ran at him in his powerful wrath. I saw him come close to the ram, and he was enraged against him and struck the ram and broke his two horns And the ram had no power to stand before him, and he cast him down to the ground and trampled on him, and there was no one who could rescue the ram from his power. The goat became exceedingly great, but when he was strong the great horn was broken, and instead of it there came up four conspicuous horns toward the four winds of heavens, four winds of heaven Alexander the Great dies in three twenty three. He was all fighting and wars. I mean there's different things, but four of his generals um inherited the kingdom, and there's four Uh four little kingdoms w from that big kingdom. I know we're big, it's still kingdom of Greece, but it's broken it to his four four of his generals So, in that imagery from verse 5 through verse 8, it's obvious what this is depicting It's obvious what this is depicting. All this is depicting is the transition from Kingdom two to Kingdom III. All this is depicting is um when the kingdom of Greece uh gains dominion, is given dominion and God's sovereignty over the Medes and the Persian. That's all the historical transition, like God had promised, from kingdom two to kingdom three three verse nine out of one of them four conspicuous horns, out of one of them came a little horn Which grew exceedingly great toward the south, toward the east, and toward the glorious lands. It grew great even to the host of heaven And some of the hosts and some of the stars it threw down to the ground and trampled them. It became great, even as great as the prince Of the host, and the regular burnt offering was taken away from him, and the place of his sanctuary was overthrown. Now look back up at verse 9: out of one of them So out of one of those four kingdoms that inherited Alexander's kingdom, out of one of them came a ruler that grows exceedingly great and will come to persecute the saints of God. This will be the Seleucid kingdom. And this is referring, uh most Bible scholars and historians would agree that this is Antiochus IV, Epiphany That won't be on the test, you don't have to remember that. But if you if you just want to get the general picture of what's going on here, you have the the transition From this kingdom to this kingdom. This kingdom begins with one great king, with this incredible, powerful um conquest and expansion of the kingdom. But when he dies, that kingdom is divided into four other kingdoms. So then in one of those four kingdoms, there's a great, great leader who expands his kingdom and will come to persecute the saints of Christ. So that's just thematically, historically, that's what's happening, and that's why Daniel's so nauseated at the end of this chapter. Uh what what verse were we in? Thirteen Uh twelve. Twelve, right? And the host will be given over to it with the regular burnt offering because of the transgression, and it will throw truth to the ground. And it will act and prosper. So this is rebellion against God. Explicitly rebellion and persecution of The saints of God. Verse 13. Then I heard a holy one speaking, and another holy one said to the one who spoke, For how long is the vision concerning the regular burnt offering the trans aggression that makes desolate. In other words, when is that piece going to happen? Right, 'cause he said a lot. He's talked about the uh the ram, the goat, and then the four conspicuous horns and then one of those gets great and he conquers and then but then he persecutes. Well when is when is that going to happen? The transgression that makes desolate of This sanctuary, and and the giving over the sanctuary, and hosts to be trampled underfoot. And he said to me, For twenty-three hundred evenings and mornings Then the sanctuary shall be restored to its rightful state. I do the math of that. It's about six years When I, Daniel, had seen the vision, I sought to understand it. And behold, there stood before me one having the appearance of a man. And I heard a man's voice between the banks of the Uli, and it called, Gabriel, make this man. understand the vision. So Gabriel is going to come and he's going to help Daniel understand the vision. He's going to interpret the vision For Daniel. Verse seventeen, so he came near where I stood, and when he came I was frightened and fell on my face. That's right, because angels are glorious, radiant beings of immense power. You don't see it as a part of normal life on earth. But he said to me, Understand, O son of man, that the vision is for the time of the end. For the time of the end. It's gonna be he's focusing on stuff that's really happening here Daniel is here. Alright, Daniel. It's not Daniel had a long ministry. It's it's not stuff here It's down the road, the thing that he specifically that Daniel was most concerned about. Verse 18, and when he had spoken to me, I fell into a deep sleep with my face to the ground. But he touched me and made me stand up. He said, Behold, I will make known to you what shall be at the latter end of the indignation, for it refers to the appointed time Time of the end, so the latter end of the indignation. Seems to be a summary word for the trampling of the sanctuary and the the desolation that had been prophesied. The indignation As for the ram that you saw with the two horns, these are the kings of Medium Persia, and the goat is the king of Greece, and the great horn between his eyes is the first king. So, first thing he says is this is the time of the end. And then to explain what that means for Daniel, he gives him the actual historical interpretation. He's talking about this kingdom, and then he's going to talk about this kingdom. As for verse 22, as for the horn that was broken in the place of which four others arose, four kingdoms. Shall arise from his nation. That's Greece and Alexander's kingdom being split into four kingdoms But not with his power, and at the latter end of their kingdom, at the latter end of their kingdom. That's an important verse He's telling us what he means when he says the end, the end of their kingdom, when the transgressor transgressors have reached their limits. A king of bold faith, one who understands riddles Shall arise. His power shall be great, but not by his own power, and he shall cause fearful destruction. And shall succeed in what he does, and destroy mighty men, and the people who are the saints. By his cunning he shall make the seat prosper under his hands. He's a corrupt king A terrible king, and in his own mind he shall become great. It's going to be just like Nebuchadnezzar was earlier in the book, full of pride, full of arrogance. Without warning he shall destroy many, and he shall even rise up against the prince of princes, and he shall be broken, but by no human hand. We've seen that phrase one other time. in the book of Daniel by no human hand. Does anybody remember? Right. The rock that was cut out of the mountain was cut by no human hand Right here. And it was that stone that struck the base of this image that had uh Well I didn't even say this at the beginning of the class, but these gold head, silver chest, bronze, midsection, that's all from Daniel chapter two. Nebuchadnezzar had this dream of a giant statue, a giant image that God interprets to him through Daniel, represent these four kingdoms. Well, this stone is cut by no human hand And it strikes that image, destroys that image, it turns into a mountain, and then that mountain grows to fill the earth. And then the in the interpretation of that in Daniel 2 God teaches Daniel that that represents God setting up his kingdom on earth and it will never be destroyed. Now you get the same phrase At the end of verse 25, he shall rise up. This is talking about Antiochus the fourth Epiphany. And his persecution of Jews during his reign, he shall rise up against the Prince of Princes. And he shall be broken but by no human hand. It's going to be a special act of God's providence, his providential care at that time. for his people to give them back Judea. He's gonna give them back Judea and for a little bit of time they'll be they'll have semi-autonomy under Roman rule, and then even that is taken away. They become a Roman, uh they become incorporated as a Roman province and lose lose their freedom Uh although there was tol tolerance, limited tolerance um for Jews as long as they kept the peace of Rome But it's in that time where God sends his Messiah to save his people and to establish his kingdom, which will never be destroyed. And it's not an earthly kingdom like these. It's a heavenly kingdom, it's a spiritual kingdom, it will never be destroyed, and its dominion will never be taken away. Like these other kingdoms, their dominion is taken away within history. The dominion of this kingdom will never be taken away from the saints of God. And that's played out in history as the church has grown and grown and grown and grown, and the kingdom of God comes to expression all over the place. this planet all over the place and it's still expanding and still growing into unreached people groups. The kingdom is truly a mountain that's growing to fill the earth. But as you see this language in Daniel 8, which if you zoom out in Daniel, he is starting to He's zooming in on this broad historical progression that has been prophesied, and he's starting to move us closer and closer with more and more detail. To the fulfillment of the coming of that Son of Man that we saw in chapter seven. No human hand. So that tells us that this is something God is going to do in a special work of providence Verse 26. The vision of the evenings and the mornings that has been told is true, but seal up the vision For it refers to many days from now, and I, Daniel, was overcome And lay sick for some days. Then I rose and went about the king's business. But I was appalled by the vision, and did not understand So he was uh he was deeply, deeply troubled. There's kind of a reversal here, but that's how Nebuchadnezzar was earlier in the book. And Daniel tried to console him and comfort him. Nebuchadnezzar. This is Nebuchadnezzar's dreams terrified him because it was all about Nebuchadnezzar losing his kingdom. And he was he was uh really troubled by that. And now Daniel's deeply troubled because of his Persecution, but he says, Seal up the vision, for it refers to many days from now. And you see the opposite thing happening in Revelation. You see prophetic visions being unsealed Sealed because they were about to happen. And at one point, uh John is told in Revelation, don't seal up the vision, because these things are Near. This will soon take place. Don't seal up the vision. Here, Daniel is told to seal up the vision because it's many days from now. It's not just about to happen. Alright, let's go back to verse One I want to cherry pick some cool things from the chapter. That's uh some general things and then some specific things to stress Strengthen us in our faith. How can God foretell the future? It is not just because He knows the future. It's because he's sovereign over the future. Daniel 2, verses 20 and 21 is still true when we're in Daniel 8. Daniel answered and said, Blessed be the name of God forever and ever, to whom belong wisdom and might. He changes times and seasons. He removes kings and sets up kings. God is sovereign over history And from our limited vantage point, with our limited wisdom and knowledge, we don't we can't see behind the scenes. into the secret details of what God is doing and exactly why He's doing it. But we know that the Bible teaches God is the king of the earth. He's king of all things. He's king of heaven and of earth. How is it that God can foretell the future? It's not just that he knows it because he can look into the future. Although those things are true, but it's because he's sovereign over it. It's a good reminder for us. The world may look like it's out of control. It is not out of control. control. Everything is right on God's timeline. Secondly, uh this is another cherry picking something here that's general but is very important. Why must God give both the vision and the interpretation to Daniel? God is the source of truth, but He's also the one only Who um properly understands the truth. He understands the meaning, so he's able to interpret the truth. And just as Daniel 2, 20 and 21 are still Still true, so also are twenty-two and twenty-three. He reveals deep and hidden things Things, he knows what is in the darkness, and the light dwells with him. So if we're ever to know anything about deep and hidden things, how are we going to know about them? God's going to have to say speak. He's gonna have to tell us. Um he knows what's in the darkness, and the light dwells with him. To you, O God of my fathers, I give thanks and praise You have given me wisdom and might, and now have made known to me what we asked of you, for you have made known to us the king's manner And when we come to interpreting Scripture, we almost always interpret Scripture in the context of Scripture. This is our worldview. The Bible is our authority, it's our source and standard. of truth. And it's our guide for faith. That's what we believe and what we teach. And it's our guide for practice. You know, how we do things, what we do, how we do it. And that's true for the church as a whole. It's true for each individual. It's true for Christian living. The Bible is our guide for faith and for life and for practice. worship in the church. It's very easy and it's very common to read a verse of scripture and then speculate about its meaning. And you can make a Bible verse mean almost anything that you want. It's not difficult at all. It takes a little bit of effort So we must be grounded in the whole counsel of God. We must be grounded in all of Scripture so that we can interpret Scripture, any individual part, in light of the whole. Just like you do when you're putting a puzzle together and cheating by holding the box in your hand. So you can see and ha holding the uh the puzzle piece right here, trying to see where it fits properly in that context. Illustration for understanding a passage. of scripture. How does it fit in this story? How does God how does God's word interpret? So God gives us, God gives Daniel the vision and the Interpretation. We can apply that principle to ourselves. He gives us the Bible, which is full of doctrines, full of truths. Not from speculation. Alright, verses one and two again. try to survey through here just point out some other what I think are interesting things about prophetic uh literature in the Bible. In the third year of the reign of King Belshazzar. Oh, we can do that too, just to give a little bit of context. This will be quick. King Belshazzar, as I said earlier, was the last king of here of uh of the Babylonians and we get that in Daniel chapter five verse one You know the story. You just forgot that it was King Belshazzar. It's a handwriting on the wall chapter. King Belshazzar made a great feast For a thousand of his lords, and drink wine in front of a thousand, and then go to the very end Verse 30, that very night Belshazzar the Chaldean was killed, and Darius the Mead received the kingdom, being about 62 years old. So chapter 5 is about the transition from this kingdom. Chapter eight's about that kingdom and that kingdom. And if anyone's listen ever listens to an audio of this, they'll have no idea what this kingdom and that kingdom But there's a whiteboard, and I'm pointing to the kingdoms. Back in Daniel 8 Uh verse 2. And I saw in the vision, and when I saw, I was in Susa the Citadel. So he's in Susa the Citadel. When he receives this vision, which is in the province of Elam, and I saw in the vision, and I was at the Ulai Canal. So it's a uh visionary relocation. I'm going to show a couple other examples of this. There are more. I just want to give you two from Revelation. Revelation 17, 3. And and you'd have to double check me on this, but the Ulai Canal, I believe God brings Daniel in the vision to the Border of the kingdom. So it's almost as if he's looking out to see what's gonna and he prophetically is shown what's gonna happen in that land that he's looking out upon. there and spread from there. Double check me on that. Revelation 17 verse 3 And he carried me away in the spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman Sitting on a scarlet beast that was full of blasphemous names. If we have time, we'll come back to seventeen for another something else I'm going to cherry pick Uh so he's relocated in a visionary sense. He's relocated um by one of look at verse one of seventeen, one of the angels. One of the seven angels carried him away in the spirit into a wilderness, and there shows him a vision. The setting is part of the meaning of what what he'll be shown. And then verse tw uh chapter twenty-one and verse three of Revelation. Twenty-one verse three. Or no, not twenty-one, verse three. That's let me see. Mm. It's it's in here somewhere. Verse ten. I double wrote that three. Verse ten. And he carried me away in the spirit to a great high mountain and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem. Coming down out of heaven from God. Again, he it's a visionary relocation, carried away in the spirit to a great high mountain, and there receives the vision. It's a symbolic vision, just like the uh we just got a glimpse of in chapter seventeen, a scarlet beast with blasphemous names and kinds of other things there and just like we saw in Daniel seeing a ram, seeing a goat with all the horns growing and symbolic vision. Seeing uh a recording of history Beforehand. It's not a literal description of history. It's a symbolic visionary representation of history and the meaning of history. But I think it's cool, these visionary relocations. The relocation and the new setting is part of the meaning. And since we're in Revelation, let's go to some other things I had wanted us to Wanted us to look at. And it refers to actually something we were just talking about, where God gives the vision and the interpretation. That's not uncommon in prophetic literature, and it's not done with every symbol or every vision, but that sets the paradigm for how to understand it. and how to interpret prophecy. And Revelation 1, 12 through 6, the first vision that John revealed receives. Revelation one, twelve through sixteen, not twelve through six. We're not going to read backwards, alright. Twelve through sixteen. Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and it was we're picking this up in the middle of a vision. This is the exalted Christ, the vision of Christ, dwelling amidst uh Well, no, I can't say that. I'll give away the I'll give away what we're about to look at. Then I turned to see the voice that was speaking to me, and upon turning I saw seven golden lampstands, and in the middle in the midst of the lampstand One like a son of man, clothed with a long robe and with a golden sash around his chest, the hairs of his head were white like wool like snow, his eyes were like a flame of fire, his feet were like burnished bronze, refined in a furnace, his voice was like the roar of many waters. Powerful, powerful voice drowned out whatever else is there. So obviously a symbolic vision of Christ and his glory and majesty and wisdom. Verse 16. In his right hand he held seven stars. From his mouth came a sharp two-edged sword, and his face was shining. His face was like the sh sun shining in full strength, which is terrifying. You can't look at the sun when it's shining in full strength. That's uh the glory, the power of this is incredible, and that's the best thing John can do to write this down to describe the radiance is the sun. Shining in full strength. Now go down to verse twenty As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand, and the seven golden lampstands, the seven stars are the angels. Of the churches or messengers, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. Now there's debate about uh what is it what are the messengers of the churches or what are the angels of the church. Of the churches. I think it's clear as you get the chapter 2 and 3. Those are pastors of the churches. There's different views on that. The word that's translated angel is just a word for messenger. passengers and it's not used only for heavenly beings. It's used for John the Baptist. It's it's used uh here for pastors, it's used in different ways. We did a study on this several months ago I had a whole section of all the different ways the word messenger, this translated angel, is used. But either way, the point is God shows John the vision and then gives him the crucial interpretation of these crucial elements. The Stars are angels of the churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches Go to chapter five, verse eight And when he had taken the scroll, which is the scroll of judgment, the four living creatures and the twenty-four elders fell down before the Lamb. Who uh what does the lamb represent? A liter a literal lamb represents Jesus. Alright, good. So we know That one and he gave us the interpretation of that before the vision, verse five. This is the root of David, the lion of the tribe of Judah. So we know this is the Messiah. So he gave us the interpretation before the vision. For the Lamb. And now he says, fell down before the Lamb, each holding a golden harp, and golden bowls full of incense, which are the prayers of the saints. What are the golden bowls full of incense? prayers of the saints. So here's a little interpretation. You get a lot of these in Revelation. We'll do just one more back in verse 17. Uh I think I'll I think I'm gonna go ahead and read the whole chapter. Revelation seventeen. What did I say, Daniel? Verse seventeen? Sorry. Yes, verse seventeen. First one to get there wins. Revelation seventeen Then one of the seven angels who had the seven bowls came to me. Those are uh bowls of uh judgments, bowls of wrath He said to me, Come and I'll show you the judgment of the great prostitute who is seated on many waters. Great prostitute seated on many waters, with whom the kings of the earth have committed sexuality. Immorality and with the wine of whose sexual immorality the dwellers on earth have become drunk. So it's uh there's a global impact, at least in the known world at that time. Of decadence. And he carried me away in the spirit into a wilderness, and I saw a woman sitting on a scarlet beast Is uh I thought it was going to be sitting on many waters. Well, it's different aspects to the vision. The great prostitute seated on many waters, verse one Verse 3 sees the vision. It's a woman sitting on a scarlet beast, full of blasphemous names. It had seven heads and ten horns. The woman was arrayed in purple and scarlet, and adorned with gold and jewels and pearls, holding in her hand A golden cup full of abominations and the impurities of her sexual immorality, and on her forehead was written a name Of mystery, Babylon the Great, mother of prostitutes and of earth's abominations. And I saw the woman drunk with the blood of the saints The blood of the martyrs of Jesus. I mean, you could already see already a little bit of interpretation there of What's with this uh golden cup full of abominations that she's drinking out of. It's I mean it's also her sexual immorality and decadence, but also do you know that she's guilty of persecution Persecution with the blood of the saints, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus. So this is the disgusting scene that John is seeing here. When I saw her I marvelled greatly, but the angel said to me, Why do you marvel? I will tell you the mystery of the woman and of the beast with seven heads and ten horns. That carries her. John, I'll tell you what you're looking at. I'll tell you the meaning. Why do you marvel? I'll give you the interpretation. The beast that you saw was and is not and is about to rise from the bottomless pit and go to destruction. Well, we read that and we're thinking, well, how is that helpful? Well, if we were in a class in Revelation, we could we could make sense of that. Uh there's a beast that was ruling and And uh temporarily in one way or another is not, but it's gonna get some dominion back here in just a little bit. And then go to destruction. And the dwellers on earth whose names have not been written in the book of life from the foundation of the world will marvel to see the beast, because it was and is not and is to come. Now, this calls for a mind with wisdom. Basically saying, now, John, you're going to have to think about this a little bit. It's not beyond his understanding, but it calls for a mind of wisdom. You're going to have to Turn your thinking cap up. The seven heads, here's the interpretation. The seven heads of that beast are seven mountains on which the woman is seated. And Rome in that day it's well known that was a city on seven hills. It was the city on seven hills. There are all there are also seven kings. Fi so these are the emperors. These will be the emperors. A city on seven hills, Rome, seven kings, five of whom have fallen. One is that would be Nero. uh the sixth the other is not yet come and when he does come he must remain only a little while it would have been Galba who reigned for only Only a little while, like six months or something. Something like that. Very short time. As for the beast that was and is not, it is an eighth. For me this is the most difficult verse here. If if this was a class in Revelation, I think I have an Explanation for it, but this is a toughie right here, 11. As for the beast that was and is not, it is an eighth, but it belongs to the seven, and it goes to destruction. And so there's some kind of relationship there between those two kings. Um we need to get into that now. And the ten horns that you saw are ten kings who have not yet received royal power, but they are to receive authority as kings for one Hour together with the beast. These are of one mind, and they hand over their power and authority to the beast. They will make war on the lamb by making war on the church. Because they can't go into heaven and make war on the lamb, but they make war on the body of Christ, the church on earth. That's why up in verse six, the blood of the martyrs of Jesus make war on the lamb, and the lamb will Conquer them, for he's the Lord of hosts and the King of Kings, and those with him are called chosen and faithful. And the angel said to me, We're still on the interpretation now. He doesn't want John to just come be completely perplexed and have no frame of reference for how to interpret that vision. The vision only went up to verse 6. The verse 15, and the angel said to me, The waters that you saw, where the prostitute is seated, are peoples and multitudes and nations and languages And the ten horns that you saw, they and the beast will hate the prostitute. They will make war. They will make her desolate and naked And God has put it into their hearts to carry out his purpose by being of one mind and handing over their royal Power to the beast until the words of God are fulfilled. And the woman, the woman that you saw is the great city that has dominion over the kings of the earth That sits on seven hills, the city of Rome. And what some also very difficult but intriguing verses are verses fifteen Through 17, where it talks about this internal destruction, this gradual, it's gradual in history, this internal um what's the word I'm looking for? Weakening of Rome and uh spreading the kingdom by giving authority and sharing authority, but also they eventually those Outward kingdoms turn inward on the k on the kingdom itself, on the empire itself. Anyway, the point is uh John sees this vision that makes him marvel But then the angel tells him what it means. Prophetic literature is not meant to send us out into speculation. It's not meant to confuse us. We may not know everything, but a Bible study is not sitting around Talking about the things that we don't know that aren't in the word. It's talking about the things that are in the word, the things that are clear, the things that are obvious, the things that we do know. And this is an example So we know in just as John knew in the general sense the interpretation that was given to him, and Daniel knew in a general sense the interpretation that was given We can go back to Daniel eight because we saw in Daniel eight, even Daniel's very very distraught at what he saw saw in the vision. He wouldn't be distraught if he didn't understand anything. He does understand something, but that he doesn't grasp the full meaning and the full weight of it. You don't have to have a perfect understanding to have a true understanding. We have an understanding that Jesus is both both fully God and fully man. We can't fully comprehend that. In our limited minds. But because God's word reveals that clearly, we believe that it's true, and we do know some things about that. But it's a miracle, it's a supernatural thing, it's a unique thing that exists. Just because we can't know everything, we can know some things. And that's just going to help us in prophecy and prophetic visions and literature to not go off on a rabbit trail of speculation. And start making up things about what they might mean, we just deal with what God has told us they do mean. It's a very interpret it's a very important principle. in interpretation. Alright, back in uh by the way, any any questions on on any of that? We have about fourteen minutes. Well after we're covering a lot of stuff. I mean general things. I told you she's gonna cherry pick some things. Back in Daniel 8. Let's see. We already talked about verse 3 and 4 is the ram. Ram is the dominion of the Medes and the Persians. Talking about verse five through eight is the male goat. So now from this day forward, you we know the general meaning of Daniel chapter 8. It's about the dominion of the Medes and the Persians and how that transitions to the dominion of Greece. And then we also know that once that first king Alexander dies, there's going to be four kingdoms. Right? Four kingdoms. And then out of one of those kingdoms is going to be a great leader who's going to come to persecute the people of God in uh in a destructive and vile, vile way. Antiochus the fourth Epiphanes is the is the um the consensus. I think there are other views, but if you if you I was gonna say Google this. You can't Google it, you just gotta watch where what site you get on. But uh a g a good commentary or study Bible on this, it'll it'll put you to some good resources. But and time Piacus the fourth Epiphanes was a Seleucid king, and um he uh tried to do away with Judaism. And that sparked a rebellion of Jews in Judea and they it started what's called the Maccabean Wars and They were able to take back Judea, they were able to re-establish Judaism, and they were even able to expand the borders a little bit. And of course Of course, then you have the Roman dominion of that fourth kingdom Oh yeah, yeah, yeah. So you remember we were just in uh Revelation seventeen and you saw these outlier kings, ten kings that turned inward On Rome and led to its destruction and downfall. Most people think that that's parallel too. Remember the feet of the uh the image, the legs of iron and the feet of iron and clay was a mixed kingdom so it was still strong but parts of it were brittle and weak and that was part of what led to its downfall. And that's one one view of that or at least one aspect of one view of that. Uh well we we don't you know we're not we don't know everything about history That's what makes chapters like this difficult for me because I want to know more of the history. So when I'm getting ready for class, I start looking into these things in the history And it's just a mountain of information with these four kingdoms and all the different kings and and the it's war after war, battle after battle. are executed, uh assassinated, with the boundaries are always changing. It's just so complex. But the general things, the basic things are clear. We know that God has promised and prophesied a certain progression of kingdoms that's going to lead to him setting up his kingdom. So he's just giving Daniel s reminders and zooming in a little bit. Gabe Yes. So when the Jews were reading this, did they know historically speaking, do you think, about this that happened? Or do they only have the scriptures in the reference? Well, she's reading it when. I guess like in Jordan Kingdom Or I'm not sure. I haven't researched any extra bib biblical Jewish writings at that time. Um you know, God was silent in special revelation from around four hundred BC until uh who comes back? So I j I just don't know. I mean there were different communities that were waiting for the Savior, the different definitions of the Savior, different definitions of the Messiah. I mean, certainly in the gospel narratives, people were waiting for God to establish his kingdom. They were waiting for the Christ. And those who repented and resp and were baptized and received the coming of of the Messiah, um, were made stewards of that kingdom. But they didn't all have the proper understanding of the kingdom or proper understanding of prophecy And since you know they were really uh turned against Jesus when it started to become clear to them that he didn't come to set up a geopolitical kingdom. He didn't come just to reestablish the old covenant typological kingdom of Israel. He was bringing the eternal spiritual kingdom of God. So they killed him for that. So I mean they diff definitely didn't understand everything perfectly, but they were waiting. They lived in hope. And progressive revelation that we'll go on later on. I mean there's some things that just we we might might not ever know in our lifetime. But God is progressing in his revelations over and over and over and over. Some day it'll come to fruition. It is difficult to understand. Yeah. It's difficult to understand a lot of any book of the Bible. It is. I mean there are tons of things in Romans that are crazy difficult to understand understand. And Hebrews. Um I just don't like when prophecy is put in a different category where it's like the secret knowledge where reading it somehow makes it m more obscure and makes us more confused used. It is revelation. It is the word of God. It's it's an unveiling of things. Revelation is an unveiling. It's it's a revealing. It's not an obscuring And sometimes well a lot of times prophecy is treated as if that's the kind of literature that is like it's meant to confuse us and meant to send us off on our own like paths of speculation and get into the maze of confusion. Um so that's why I you know sometimes I hammer that because there's lots of difficult things in scripture and we need the whole Holy Spirit to illumine our minds. But the things we need to know and the clear things and the obvious things, God enables us to understand them. And and I there's lots of things, you know, the historical details that I have no clue about things that aren't written in the Bible, I honestly I'm not not really worried about them. From what? From Daniel. Oh yes. Sure. He was he was totally one. He was a nutcase at one point. And he said, okay, and he went back to work. And so that tells me I would I I would say he was distraught. Distraught, okay. I always use the wrong word I mean it we wouldn't say that about Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Where it's not abnormal to ha to be spiritually crushed. God is near to the brokenhearted and he saves the crushed It's it's a it's a normal thing. He's not in sin when he's distraught. He's um my point is he's no longer distraught. He went up, got up, and went back to work. And that's an implication for us when things are really bad and we don't understand it, we just uh go on. Yeah, that's right. That's right. That's right. We press on. Uh I just have one more final thing. here. And that's why we have to have hope, grounded in hope, so that when those times come we can move on and and not lose heart. Just I want to say a few things about Gabriel. Gabriel's the interpreting angel in uh chapter sixteen of Daniel eight Luke 119, Gabriel appears again to Zechariah, who is whose father? John the Baptist And the angel answered him, I am Gabriel. I stand in the presence of God, and I was sent to speak to you to bring You, this good news. And then in Luke 1:26 to 38, Gabriel speaks to Mary. In the sixth month, the angel Gabriel was sent from God to a city of Galilee named Nazareth. Nazareth to a virgin betrothed to a man whose name whose name was Joseph of the house of David. And the virgin's name was Mary, and he came to her and said, Greetings, O favor. One, the Lord is with you. But she was greatly troubled at the saying, and tried to discern what sort of greeting this might be. For you found favor with God. It really is uh incredible to think of what it would be like to see an angel break through the barrier. between the seen and the unseen realm and manifest themselves. And then it puts into perspective that vision of Christ in Revelation chapter 1 and the full brightness of the sun. And yet how in the with a supernatural enablement, John was able to see that vision and not go blind.