Alright, so we're going to read the prayer in just a few moments. Daniel 9, 1 through 19, Daniel's prayer for mercy. First thing to notice as we read through is that he's praying as a representative. Daniel's not just praying for himself, but he's praying as a representative for the nation. So you can think of the term Or the phrase intercessory prayer. You can think of the office of a mediator. So Daniel here is in the place of an intercessor. He's not praying just for his own Sake. He's pleading and praying for mercy as a representative for the nation. Secondly, what's interesting about this prayer is this prayer is where we get the explanation for the historical context. Now, we know the broader context of the book of Daniel. We know Israel was made into a nation. They sinned against God. They came under judgment. But within the book of Daniel, in chapter one, you uh chapter one the very first two verses of the book you have Nebuchadnezzar besieging Jerusalem, and you have God giving Jehoiakim The king into his hand, and then some of the vessels of God. So you have God giving victory to Nebuchadnezzar giving his people over to Nebuchadnezzar. But it's in this prayer in chapter nine where you get the theological interpretation of why that happened and in terms of its being judgment because of Israel's rebellion against God and violation of God's law. So this is an important if you don't n if the book of Daniel is the only book you read of the Old Testament. If you don't read the other books And you want to understand why is this happening to the people of Judah? Daniel 9, 1 through 19 Is where you get that explanation. So he's praying as a representative. It's also explaining the context. You'll see that comes out as he's confessing the guilt of the people And third and final word of introduction before we read this thing, he's praying for restoration according to God's promise. According to God's promise, that God promised something through the prophet Jeremiah about the restoration. And it's on the basis of God's promise That Daniel is crying out for mercy and for restoration. And when we come before God, we come before God. Based on the truths that we know about him from his word and things we ask from God and expect from God are based not on speculation. Not based on feeling or opinion, but they're based on what God has promised. God is the God of promise. He has promised us forgiveness. He's promised us sanctification. He's promised us Heaven. So we pray and cry out for mercy based on God's promise. That's what Daniel does So there are your three introduction. Hopefully that can give a little bit of life and energy to the prayer as we read through it. He's praying as a representative Intercessory prayer. He's explaining the context of why they're under judgment, and he's basing his prayer and the and the way he asks for help on what God has said, not on what he thinks. Or what's the popular opinion of the people around him? Without further ado, Daniel 9, read verses 1 through 19. Daniel's cry for mercy. In the first year of Darius, this is 539 B. C. In the first year of Darius, the son of Ahasurus, by descent Amede, who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans. In the first year of his reign, I, Daniel, perceived in the books the number of years that, according to the word of the Lord, To Jeremiah the prophet, must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely seventy years. Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer and pleas for mercy. With fasting and sackcloth and ashes. I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession. saying, O Lord, the great and awesome God, who keeps covenant and steadfast love with those who love him and keep his commandments We have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules We have not listened to your servants the prophets, who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and their fathers, and to all the people of the land. To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame. As at this day, to the men of Judah To the inhabitants of Jerusalem and to all Israel, those who are near and those who are far away, and all the lands to which you've driven them, you've driven them. Because of the treachery that they have committed against you. To us, O Lord, belongs open shame To our kings, to our princes, and to our fathers, because we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness Well it's a good thing, isn't it, based on what he said so far. That's their only hope. And that's our only hope To the Lord our God belong mercy and forgiveness, for we have rebelled against him, and have not obeyed the voice of our God by walking in his laws, which he set before us by his servants, the prophets. All Israel has transgressed your law and turned aside, refusing to obey your voice, and the curse And oath that are written in the law of Moses, the servant of God, have been poured out upon us because we have sinned against him He has confirmed his words, which he spoke against us and against our rulers who ruled us by bringing upon us a great calamity. That's a little interesting. insight. He sees God as bringing judgment against Israel as an example of God's faithfulness to his word. Um middle of verse twelve For under the whole heaven there has not been done anything like what has been done against Jerusalem As it is written in the law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us. Yet we've not entreated the favor of the Lord our God, turning from our iniquities. I love that verse. We'll come back to that. Verse 14. Therefore, the Lord has kept ready the calamity and has brought it upon us. For the Lord our God is righteous in all the works that he has done. We have not obeyed his voice. And now, O Lord our God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt, With a mighty hand, and have made a name for yourself, as at this day we have sinned, we have done wickedly. O Lord, according to all your righteous acts, let your anger and your wrath turn away from your city, Jerusalem. Jerusalem, your holy hill, because for our sins, for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people Verse 17, Now therefore, O God Therefore, O our God, listen to the prayer of your servant, and to his pleas for mercy, and for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary. Which is desolate. O my God, incline your ear and hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations And the city that is called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness. But because of your great mercy. O Lord, hear. O Lord, forgive. O Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not for your own sake Oh my God, because your city and your people are called by your name. Such a rich, rich. Prayer. So much we could learn from this in terms of the heart of prayer, terms of the character of God, his righteousness, his mercy, uh the in terms of the necessity to repent. You see the uh the depth of agony and crying out to God for restoration We'll get to this toward the end, but you see the God-centeredness to Daniel's prayer. Daniel knows that God made Israel into a nation. He redeemed them from Egypt and made them into a nation. As a manifestation of his mercy and of his power on the earth to set apart a people from himself. And Daniel understands that And he's thinking about a future restoration that he's praying for in the same vein because that also would be just another manifestation of God's power, God's faithfulness to his word, God's mercy to his His people, God's willingness to forgive those who sin against him. And we've all sinned against God. And so we all need forgiveness and we all need mercy. We all need to cry out for mercy. Well, we're simply going to work through the prayer bit by bit. At the center of this prayer is the admission that God's judgment is righteous. God's judgment is right. I mean, do you see anything in here where Daniel blames God in any way? Do you see anything in here? Where uh he's upset at God because God did a little something wrong. He didn't quite understand what the people were going through. Daniel sees all the fault on the side of man. All the fault on the side of Israel. Israel and God is right and just and when the Holy Spirit changes our minds And when the Bible shapes our worldview and shapes our thinking, we don't think that God is guilty of wrongdoing anymore. And that and that we're owed some explanation for the way things are. But rather, we are guilty. Mankind is guilty. And that's why the earth is under this uh curse of sin and death because of the judgment of God being revealed. But that's to wake us up to our sin and to convict us of our sin so that we would see our need for a savior. And find Christ. Daniel's not blaming God. Daniel's not upset at God. Daniel needs God. He sees God as his only hope. His only hope. So the center of this is the admission that God's judgment is righteous. Daniel doesn't think that God needs to defend himself and answer for himself. Let's look at the first of all, I'm going to break this up into pieces just so we can spend a little bit of time in digesting some of the different elements. But there's going to be overlap as we go through There's going to be overlap. But first let's look again at verses three through six. And one of the first things you'll see here is In this confession is the brokenhearted nature of this confession. It's not mechanical , not going through the motions. It's a broken-hearted confession, and it's a repentant confession. When you and I sin against God, and we do, and those sins that we're conscious of, and we go to God In our prayer life, and we confess to him, there must always be a repentant spirit attached to that confession Or it's just a show. It's a lie. We come to God confessing our sins with a repentant heart, a broken heart, because we've rebelled against our God. And that has to be the case because that will also help us. A repentant heart will also help us to remember to ask God to grant us the repentance. That we so desire. But if we don't have a repentant heart, we won't pray for that. So confession, that's a broken-hearted and repentant cry, verses three through six Then I turned first of all, verse three is a great verse to do a Bible study on prayer, and maybe even just one aspect of prayer in particular. But still I think this first couple phrases is a great statement about just the nature of what prayer is. Here it is. Then I turned my face to the Lord God. Seeking him by prayer. There's prayer. That's what prayer is. We turn our face to the Lord God and seek him by prayer. That we come into his presence by prayer in faith. We turn our face to him away from trusting in ourselves. We turn our face to him face to him. Away from just being so consumed with things of this world, we turn our face to him. Away from being ensnared by a particular sin, we turn our face We turn away from uh being buried in despair irreversibly, but rather we turn our face to him because he can help us. He can help us. I think it's a great, great statement on the nature of prayer. Then I turned my face to the Lord God, seeking him by prayer, and now he gets more specific. And pleas for mercy, crying out for mercy. Mercy is Either uh in general it's alleviating the effects of sin. But more specifically it is um Either uh removing the judgment that we deserve or despairing us from that judgment we deserve also Together. Here it would be removing this judgment that God has brought upon them. That's the specific cry for mercy. They are under judgment. It's clear in the prayer that we read. He's plea pleading for mercy with fasting and sackcloth and ashes. In that day that was uh an outward sign of r uh hu utter humility. A complete desperation and brokenness, that God, we have nothing, and we are suffering, and we need you to show us mercy as a sign of repentance It's trying to show in a physical outward way what the state of the heart. The state of the heart. Low, broken, humbled, and desperate. Fasting, sackcloth, and ashes. Crying out for mercy. And verse 4, I prayed to the Lord my God and made confession. So he's not just asking for mercy, he's making confession, saying, O Lord, the great and awesome God It's a phrase we could talk about in the doctrine of God class. He is great and he is awesome. Who keeps covenant and steadfast love. Could talk about that in a doctrine. Of God class. He's a covenant-making and a covenant-keeping love. And the central purpose of all of his covenants is to manifest his great love to sinners To show forth his grace and kindness. Great, awesome, keeps covenant and steadfast love. Means he doesn't go back on his word with those who love him and keep his commandments. Commandments. Those that's one way of summarizing his children, believers. We here's the confession. We have sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled. He really pours it on here, doesn't he? He could have just said we've sinned We've sinned and we've done wrong and we've acted wickedly and rebelled, turning aside from your commandments and rules. That's the heart of sin. Violation of God's holy law. God's laws, God's commandments on the wall over here. The Ten Commandments, a summary of the moral law, are a reflection of his character. Imagine parents who teach their children that it's good to lie. That it's right to lie. That if it can help you get ahead and help you get uh what you want, that you should lie and not tell the truth. Well, doesn't that say something about the character of those parents? You can say that with any person in leadership, whether it's parents and their children, or a small business owner and his employees, or a coach and his team. Maybe teaching them, encouraging them to be poor sports and to be dirty players. The regulations, the rules, the commandments that you put in place are a reflection of your character. So, also with God's laws and God's commandments. They are a reflection of His holy character. So to violate His commandments Is a personal rebellion against God. It's proactive wickedness against God. That's why, for emphasis And just how serious this is. We've sinned and done wrong and acted wickedly and rebelled and we've turned aside from your commandments and rules. What were they supposed to do in relation to God's commandments and rules? Follow them. Stay on the straight and narrow. Not turn away from them. Well, that's what they did. They turned away from them. And then verse 6, we've not listened to your servants, the prophets. So it's not as if God didn't send them reminders. God sent them reminders. Who spoke in your name to our kings, our princes, and our fathers, and to all the people of the land. But by and large, the prophets were not received well. False prophets were. False prophets are still received well, and they tell us what we want to hear. But the truth of God's word stings the sinful flesh. It's meant to kill the sinful flesh That we humble ourselves, see our need for a Savior. This is the purpose of the law, one of the purposes, the central purpose of God revealing His law and revealing His commandments To us, so that we would see that we need a savior, and that we would flee to Jesus Christ as a sufficient Savior. Now, this is before the coming of Christ But God is still the Savior. He's still the Savior before He sends the Son in the flesh as the uh as the fulfillment and the historic accomplishment of salvation. But in the Old Testament, God is the Savior. He's the creator, He's the Redeemer. So Daniel is going to God as a merciful Savior. Even though, because of our historical context, we come in a different way, in the fullness of the gospel era, this is Christianity coming to God as our Savior through faith in Jesus Christ. Confession that is brokenhearted. Confession that is repentant. Confession that's not downplaying sin. Confession that's not downplaying how grievous and vile it is to rebel against God. That's true. And brothers and sisters, that's good for us. That's where we want to be. That's where we want to be. It's moving us to trusting in Christ more and more for his grace and mercy for us. And that's the thing of all the things we need to grow in, that's what we need to grow in is the grace and knowledge. Of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. But if we downplace sin, we're we're we're before the fact shrinking down our view of Jesus and the power of his blood. Cross reference, let's look at Psalm fifty one. You'll know this when we start reading it. It's a classic Psalm of David After his sin with Bathsheba, he was confronted by the Prophet of God. David responds properly to the word of God came into his life to confront his sin. He doesn't uh send Nathan away and have him executed for telling him the truth. He doesn't get mad at Nathan for telling him God's word. But rather David does what a man of God is supposed to do when he's sinned. He is uh he's broken because of his sin, and he repents and he confesses and he cries out for God's mercy. Psalm 51:1. Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy. Blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. Well, what is that? That's forgiveness. He's asking for forgiveness. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Now, if we're responding to it properly and going to God for mercy and forgiveness, that's a good thing for our sin to be ever before us. It's the opposite of being oblivious to our sins. It's the opposite of turning a blind eye to our sin. It's agreeing with God that we have sinned and coming under the conviction of the guilt of that sin. And going to God for mercy that he would blot out the guilt of that sin. Blot it what does he say? Uh Where is it? Blot out my transgressions. End of verse one. Blot out my transgressions. And faith, and the first time we do this is called saving faith. Is when we believe God's promise that He'll do it. Simply because He loves us, simply because He's gracious. Not because we earned it, not because we're good, not because he did ninety-five percent of the work and we pledge in the future we'll do the the next five percent of the work. Simply the belief that God is gracious to forgive sinners who trust in Him completely, He blots out our sin. We're saved by faith And in fact, David is referenced in Romans 4 when Paul is teaching about justification. By faith alone, apart from works. The forgiveness of sins by faith alone, apart from works, based on Christ's sacrifice on the cross. He uses Abraham as an example of that, and he uses David as an example of that. Of those who believed in God and trusted that God will forgive the wicked. Forgive the wicked because God is gracious. That's saving faith. And uh I make a big deal about that because it's so important to me personally as a forgiveness. Forgiven sinner, but also as a church, this is what we're about as a church. I mean, take it all, this is right at the heart. And in terms of our message to the world, this is our message to the world, God forgives sinners. To pay Him. You don't have to work it off. You don't have to become a good person first. Come to God through faith in Christ based on gospel truth, and God will forgive you. Uh we didn't read verse four yet, did we? I put a mark on verse four. I don't know if it means we means we read it or we didn't read it yet. Against you. Oh my, this is incredible. He knows What sin is. He knows the sin that's inside of him. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Similar to what Daniel had been saying. God, you're right, your judgment is right because you are righteous. Everything you do is righteous, all your judgments are righteous, you're blameless. Verse five Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. David know David knows he was born with a sin. nature. He didn't uh acquire that as he got older. Verse 6: Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being. And you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. I really love that verse. You delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. True spirituality, true Christianity is first and foremost every day, every hour a matter of the heart It's a matter of the inward being. And then, yes, we live that out. And it comes to it comes to outward expression. Yes. In our individual behavior and speech, in our congregational life, body life as a church, yes, but it always starts in the heart. It always starts in the heart. And if it's not in the heart, no amount of external religion can substitute or make up for it. Verse 7, purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice. You know, there's something for the true child of God when they've Fallen into a snare of sin or committed grievous sin, the Holy Spirit does not allow them to maintain the joy of knowing God because they're an active rebellion and sin literally is grievous to the heart that's been born again by the Holy Spirit. Spirit. And David is praying, amongst other things, that God would restore to him his joy and his gladness. Because you lose that. You lose that. Think of the sins that David committed. Adultery and the conspiracy to commit murder. It's just incredible. But he hasn't stopped believing in God's mercy. He's just re just needs to repent. So he's in the same boat that you and I are in. He's a sinner and he needs to repent. He's a child of God, but he's still a sinner and he needs to repent. And part of that, what he wants back, is to be restored, his joy and his gladness. He's Number 9, verse 9, hide your face from my sins, blot out all my iniquities. Verse 10. Verse 10. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. Create in me a clean heart, O God, and renew a right spirit within me. You could you could say uh this is um sanctification. You know, we've talked about the blotting out of sins, that's justification. That's David praying just in terms of his Uh legal standing before God, that God wouldn't see him as guilty, but see him as innocent and declare him as innocent. But David wants His inner spiritual condition to be fixed also. He wants a clean heart, a renewed spirit, a right spirit within him. It's right to pray that God would purify our thoughts. It's right to pray that God would purify our desires and our affections. It's right to pray that God would purify us in the inward being and purify our lips and our s our speech, our eyes, our ears. It's right to pray for those things. Created me a clean heart. Verse 11, cast me not away from your presence. Take not your Holy Spirit from me. That's a terrifying thought. That's a hypothetical thought based on the the full counsel of God Take not your Holy Spirit from me. David knows, and we ought to know this too, hypothetically, if God were to take his Holy Spirit from us All we would know is the downward spiral of sin for the rest of our lives. If God took his Holy Spirit from us. That's what would happen. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. We mentioned that earlier, verse 8. Let me hear joy and gladness. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. Uphold me with a willing spirit. That's a powerful verse. Uphold me with a willing spirit. God help me to do this. God, I cannot do this. I cannot stand. You must hold me. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will Return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. He's not asking for forgiveness based on good things he's going to do. But he does have an eye toward God using him for God's purpose. So he's going to teach transgressors that will lead to the repentance of others. I love that phrase, God of my salvation, and then my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness. We don't need to take formal religious oaths. New Testament teaches that. We just let your yes be yes, your no be no. No, but in your prayers it's not wrong to make a pledge to God from your heart. God wanna do this for you. Help me to do this. Do this in my Do this in my life, show mercy to me, intervene, give me wisdom, give me guidance, so that I may dot dot dot for you, O Lord So that I may dot dot dot for your name's sake, for your gospel, for your kingdom, for your church. It's not wrong to pledge obedience to God, depending on God for that obedience. He's the source of that obedience. Not wrong for your our children to tell us that they're gonna do something, they're gonna they're gonna do something that we asked them to do or tell us. We'd be delighted if we're Kids came to us out of nowhere, you know what? Here I was gonna do this for you. Here's a list of chores I was gonna do for you. It's not wrong, because they're not doing that So that we would start loving them and they could be our children. No, they're doing that because we do love them and they are our children. They're just being good children. And David ends the prayer with this, a pledge. It's on his mind to be a representative of God in the world, and that should be on our minds. We're children of God, we're believers, we're saved by grace, and we're his ambassadors and representatives in the world. Psalm 51 is another classic prayer in Scripture, and it also, like Daniel 9, is a cry for mercy. Crying for mercy is an important aspect Being a child of God. Go back to Daniel 9. We've looked at this element of confession, that it's brokenhearted, that it's repentant. Now we'll look at verses 7 through 12. Here you'll see that there is a sense of shame for sin. This is one of the things that sets us apart from our old selves. Our old selves, before we knew Christ, weren't ashamed of the sins. That we committed. Maybe in a worldly sense for things that the world world looks down upon, but I'm talking about ashamed in the sight of God. Daniel in his prayer exudes this sense of shame for disobedience and rebellion. Verses seven through 12. To you, O Lord, belongs righteousness, but to us open shame. I mean that literally. So they've literally been put to open shame on planet Earth. Brought under divine judgment, exiled from their land. Open shame as to this day to the men of Judah, to the inhabitants of Jerusalem, and to all Israel, those who are near and those who are far away. in all the lands to which you have driven them. Remember and when we started our study on Daniel, almost every week was the same themes were coming up, and one of those themes that was God is sovereign over every everything and it was God who was doing this to his people, God who was doing this in the heart of the king, doing this for Nebuchadnezzar. In all the lands to which you have driven them because of the treachery that they have committed against you. Verse 7, open shame Later in verse 7, treachery against you. To us, O Lord, belongs open shame. to our kings. And he doesn't repeat it, but the idea is all of this is who open shame belongs to. To our kings belongs open shame. To our princes belongs open shame. To our fathers, open shame. Why? Because we have sinned against you. To the Lord our God belongs mercy and forgiveness. I pray, I pray that you believe that. God is a God of mercy And forgiveness. For we have rebelled against him. You see the personal aspect of sin This is not like getting a speeding ticket is a f illustration that one of my friends who's a pastor uses As the police officer is walking out of his cruiser and approaching your vehicle, he doesn't feel the brokenheartedness that you've personally rebelled against him and set yourself in malice against him. You violated the law. But violating God's law is different, especially when you're a covenant people, given the law of God, given the prophets. This is Legal, but don't think of legal as mere as impersonal. They rebelled against God. God saved them. God made them his chosen people. God was good to them. God protected them. And they rebelled against him. And they became worse, Bible even says, worse than the pagan nations around them. They were supposed to shine like a light in the midst of the pagan nations. They became worse than those nations. And have not obeyed the voice, verse 10, have not obeyed the voice of the Lord our God by walking in his laws Which he set before us by his servants, the prophets. All Israel has transgressed your law and turned aside, refusing to obey your voice And the curse and the oath that are written in the law of Moses, the servant of God, have been poured out upon us because we've sinned again. Against him. For under the whole heaven there has not been anything like what not been done anything like what has been done against Jerusalem Let's keep going. No, no, we'll stop there. We'll stop there. Let's turn to another classic prayer. This is an evening of classic prayers. For mercy. An evening of mercy. Luke 18, 9. Another one, as soon as we start reading it, you'll say, Aha, I know this. Luke 18 Nine through fourteen. You see the sense of shame as Daniel is praying. For a very simple reason. Sin against God is shameful. All the world has the complete opposite mess. Our own natural sinful flesh has the opposite message. Don't worry about it. It's no big deal. But God 's testimony is Different. It's opposite. Sin is shameful. We should have a sense of shame with our sin. Luke eighteen nine through fourteen He also told this parable to some who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and treated others with contempt. How'd you like to be in that audience where you're summed up and put in that category? This is this is uh the self-righteous who look down on others and treat others with contempt. Verse 10. Two men went up into the temple to pray. One a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee, standing by himself, prayed this way: God, I thank you that I'm not like other men, extortioners, unjusts, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week. I give tithes of everything that I get. But the tax collector, standing far off, would not even lift up his eyes to heaven Yeah, so there's two things there. Don't miss it. Not only would he not lift up his eyes to heaven, he wouldn't even come near to the proper place of prayer. He's standing afar off, he would not lift up his eyes to heaven, but he beat his breast saying, God be merciful to me, a sinner. That's it? Really? That's all he has is a cry for mercy, no resume, no good works, no good deeds, no specific examples of how he's better than other people. He's a sinner who needs mercy. I'm telling you, it's the best place to be. It is the place to be. Knowing that we're sinners who stand in Need of God's mercy. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified rather than the other. For everyone who exalts himself will be humbled The first guy who prayed, the Pharisee. But the one who humbles himself will be exalted. The second guy, the tax collector. I tell you, this man went down to his house justified. That means forgiven. That means counted righteous in the eyes of God, because he knew he was a sinner and he cried out to God for mercy, and he believed that God is the merciful God who forgives sinners. To cry out to him. That's salvation. A simple cry for mercy. One of my favorite verses there, one of my favorite statements in verse 13, the end of it. God God be merciful to me, a sinner. Turn back to Daniel 9. So we see this aspect of confession that's brokenhearted and that's repentant There's no sense wasting our time confessing sins we have no intention of repenting from. There's also a sense of shame because of Disobedience, a proper understanding that sin is shameful. We don't feel bad just because we got caught. We don't feel bad simply because sin is But really, really like what David said, against you and you alone have I sinned. That's the shamefulness of sin. Now verses thirteen and fifteen. And we saw this in verses ten through twelve, this idea of that it was written in the law that this curse would come upon them before breaking his commandments. This continues and we'll highlight it here. Verses 13 through 15. As it is written in the law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us. So They have violated the law of Moses, and so now the curses that had been threatened in the law are coming upon them. The law promises a reward based on your obedience, and the law threatens judgment based on your disobedience We're not under law. We're under grace. We receive the reward based on Christ and his obedience and what he achieved. We're not under law where we have to obey first in order to earn the reward. And we're also not under law in that the threats of breaking the law don't hang over our heads because we've been But this is what we're zeroing in on here, that they ha specifically in a historical covenantal context. Violated God's law. So now the threatenings contained in that law have been brought down upon them. That's what Daniel is crying out for mercy. God remove them from us and restore us to a place of favor. Where was I? Verse 13, as it's written in the law of Moses, all this calamity has come upon us, yet we've not entreated the favor of the Lord our God, turning from our iniquities and gaining insight by your truth. Therefore, the Lord has kept ready the calamity he's brought upon us, and has brought it upon us, for the Lord our God is righteous in all the works that he has done. And we've not obeyed his voice. See, he has to bring that calamity upon them because he is righteous and they've not obeyed. And they've refused to obey, and they've rejected his messenger. So he sees it, Daniel sees it as a righteous thing that God has brought the calamity, the curse of the law upon them. Finally, verse 15, and now, O Lord our God, who brought your people out of the land of Egypt. Now he's uh he doesn't use the word here, but he's um Addressing God in terms of God being their Redeemer, their Redeemer. God, you saved us. You took us out of Egypt. With a mighty hand and have made a name for yourself, as at this day we have sinned and we have done wickedly. Now, I want to talk about the curse of the law, but first Look with me at verse thirteen, the second part where it says, Yet we have not entreated. It says, Yet we have not entreated the favor of the Lord our God. That means calling out to God for his favor. That means going to God for grace. We've not asked you for grace. But then he says two things that expand What that looks like, what does it look like to go to God and ask for grace? Here's what he says: turning from our iniquities, that's called repentance, and gaining insight by your truth. That's just receiving his word. There's repentance based on receiving God's word Those things will always be there in a true hearted coming to God for grace and treating Him for favor. Because you can't entreat God from favor unless you turn away from not entreating God for favor. It's uh it's it we have to turn to that. It's not something we naturally do, is crying out to God for his grace. So we turn away from apathy, turn away from being enslaved to sin. We turn to God. So we're repenting, we're asking God, we're entreating God for his favor, but we always are doing that based on his truth and what he's told us. about ourselves, about him, about his favor. It's never just religious speculation. It's based on his word. We wouldn't know God apart from his word. It's a redemptive word. It's a saving word, and the Holy Spirit uses the word to wake us up to our sin and bring us to the Savior. It's a good verse for a Bible study of what it looks like to seek the favor of the Lord. It will always include turning from iniquity and gaining insight by his truth Nice little trifecta there, I think. Alright, he said in verse 13, as it's written in the law. As it's written in the law of Moses, all this calamity had come upon us If you scan up to verse 11 , he says, All Israel has transgressed your law and turned aside. Refusing to obey your voice, and the curse and the oath that are written in the law of Moses have been poured out upon us. So twice In this section. It's the curse of the law that's been brought upon them. So let's look quickly at one place where that's written out. Leviticus 26 , 14. This is the way of the law. You obey unto life, you disobey unto death. You obey, you receive the reward. You disobey, you receive the punishment or the curse. Life over here, death over here, blessing over here, curse over here, God's favor over here, God's condemnation over here. But under the law it's based on your obedience or disobedience. Obedience. Leviticus 26, 14 through 20. Did I say that right? Did I say 46 or 26? Oh good. I don't think there's a forty-six. I've been known to make up chapters before and verses. But not books. That's where I draw the line. Leviticus twenty-six, fourteen. But if you will not listen to me and you will not do all these commandments, if you spurn my statutes, which means rage against them. If your soul abhors my rules, so that you will not do all my commandments, but break my covenant, then I will do this to you. I'll visit you with panic, with wasting disease and fever that consume the eyes and make the heart ache. And you shall sow your seed in vain, for your enemies shall eat it. I will set my face against you. And you shall be struck down before your enemies. Those who hate you shall rule over you, and you shall flee when none pursues you And if in spite of this you will not listen to me, then I will discipline you again sevenfold for your sins, and I will break the pride of your power. Your strength shall be spent in vain, for your land shall not yield its increase, and the trees of the land shall not yield their fruit. Vivid, lots of different aspects to it. But either way, you see it's it's punishment. It's a punishment of curse And condemnation because hating God's commandments, breaking God's covenant, the curse of the law. If you look at your follow out your marginal references or study notes, you'll see other passages in Deuteronomy. But I want to make our way to the gospel. Hopefully it's clear on what it what the principle of law is. The principle of law. And for those under law , You obey unto life and blessing, but if you disobey, it's unto death and curse. Turn to Galatians 3. If I asked you to guess where we were going, some of you probably would have. would have been able to guess this. Galatians three. We'll do a running commentary through the whole book. We should be out of here around 9. 15. Just Kidding. Galatians 3, 10 through 14. We'll just take a snippet. But it's a short book. You can read this in your devotions tonight when you go home and be blessed by it. And just be blessed anew and afresh by the fact that Christ received the condemnation, the curse that we deserve for our disobedience And we receive the life and the blessing and the reward that he earned because of his obedience. That's the gospel way. It's the swap of the gospel where he Received and took what was ours, so that we can receive what was his righteousness and life. What did I say? 10 through 14, Galatians 3 10 through 14. All who rely on works of the law are under a curse For it's written, Cursed be everyone who does not abide by all things written in the book of the law. And do them. Now, it is evident that no one is justified before God by the law. The law doesn't have the power to save us. The law can't make us righteous. No one is justified before God by the law. For the righteous shall live by faith. But the law is not of faith, which means the the principle of law is the principle of works. The principle of the gospel is of faith. The law does not operate on the principle of faith. The law is not of faith. The law operates on the principle of of works. If you're either obedience unto life or disobedience Unto death. That's the law. Rather, the one who does them shall live by them. Verse 13. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law Redeemed means rescue, rescue from slavery. Like Egypt, uh Israel was redeemed from Egypt. They're rescued from Egypt. Egypt, taking out of slavery from Egypt. Christ redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. That's a substitute. He became a curse for us, for it's written, Cursed is everyone who is hanged on the tree. So that in Christ Uh the phrase show that is something you probably could circle at least in your eyes, make an imaginary circle, show that. Because it's it's one of these verses where God tells us why Christ became a substitute sacrifice, taking the curse of the law in our place, so that, so that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit through faith. The blessing of Abraham, here it's summarized by the promised spirit. It's it's having salvation. It's being justified in God's eyes. Justified by faith, receiving the Holy Spirit. No one's justified by faith without receiving the Holy Spirit And if you have the Holy Spirit, you've been justified by faith. You can't cut these two blessings of Christ in half, take one of them without the other. There's one Christ, and we're saved by coming into a relationship with Christ, and in Christ is justification by faith. And in Christ, we've received the Holy Spirit. Otherwise, we wouldn't be in Christ. That's how we're united to him by the agency of his spirit. You know, we have this prayer in Daniel mentions the curse of the law, and that they were under the judgment of the law in a historical sense. And we saw that in Leviticus where one of the places that actually came from. Thank God We're not under law, but under grace. The law of God has no authority to threaten us with condemnation based on our disobedience. And the law of God has no authority to promise us a reward based on our obedience. We've already received the reward. We've received Christ. That doesn't mean the law of God and the commandments of God have no relevance for the Christian. They do. But We're not under the law in terms of it. Uh has no authority, has no power, has no voice, no uh to threaten us because we've we've been made child children of God, we've been adopted. Alright, let's go back to Daniel 9. I've got to do this quickly, but I just want to finish up verses 16 through 19. See here again a cry for mercy, and and then more specifically, this is kind of the climactic cry for something specific: restoration for the temple, for the city of Jerusalem. For the people, and you'll see that it's the glory of God centered. He has God's name and God's reputation on his heart. O Lord, according to all your righteous acts, Let your anger and your wrath turn away from your city, Jerusalem, your holy hill, referring to where the temple was. Because for our sins and for the iniquities of our fathers, Jerusalem and your people have become a byword among all who are around us And now if his people and his have become a byword and his city has become a byword, that means he God, Yahweh, has become a byword. A curse word, like a word of slander. Verse 17 Now therefore, O God, listen to the prayer of your servant and to his pleas for mercy And for your own sake, for your own sake, O Lord, make your face to shine upon your sanctuary, which is desolate. That means no one's worshiping there, no one's offering sacrifices there. There's no priesthood there. There's no lampstand burning. There's no showbread of presence. It's not there. There's nothing going on. It's desolate. Oh my God, verse 18: Incline your ear. And hear. Open your eyes and see our desolations in the city that's called by your name. For we do not present our pleas before you because of our righteousness, but because of your great mercy. Oh man, I love that phrase. God, I'm not coming to you because I'm righteous. I'm coming because you are a God of great mercy. Oh Lord, hear. Oh Lord, forgive. Oh Lord, pay attention and act. Delay not for your own sake. Oh my God, because your city and your people are called by your name. And that's where he ends it. Your city is called by your name. Your people are called by your name, but we've been brought to open shame. So for the sake of your name, remove that shame from us and restore us.