Thank you for joining. We are in Hebrews 10. Hebrews 10, 1 through 18 The title for tonight is One Sacrifice for Sins or A Single Sacrifice for Sins. Don't you love how I always give you two versions of the title. And I used to do that with my points. I would give you, here's the point, slash this, slash that. But one sacrifice for sins. One sacrifice for And the meaning of that will become clear as we read through and study through tonight. Of course, you should be able If I gave you a pop quiz on that and said, well what what is the actual sacrifice that we're talking about there, you would say, Christ, that's right And um well if I were to ask, this would be your essay, this would be because every test you end with an essay, so this would be twenty-five points of your test grade. What does it mean that that sacrifice is for sins? If you were to get a full credit for that, you would give different aspects of that. It's a sacrifice That takes away the guilt of sin would be the central point. It's a sacrifice that can cleanse our conscience uh from our violating God's law. It's a sacrifice that can sanctify us uh the inner corruption of the heart. This has a cleansing power. It's a sacrifice that enables us to draw near to God and not come under his wrath. is what it means. But we are justified in his sight. One sacrifice for sins. Let's pray and we'll get into the passage. Father, we thank you for making us. We thank you for Your goodness to us. You you give us so many things, good things, and things we do not deserve. You're merciful, you're gracious. You're slow to anger. We call upon you to work in our lives in greater and greater ways. Turn our eyes toward the things of Christ. Rip them from the things of the world that we would not live for trivial things as if they are eternal, and that we would not ignore eternal things and act as if they are trivial. Father, we pray you would give us hearts that love you. And that love each other, that speak your praises, that speak well of each other. Father, we pray that you bless us through our study tonight. Teach us, teach us of Jesus Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. Okay, just to zero in on where that title is coming from, let's begin in verse 11 through 14 of Hebrews 10. And every priest stands daily at his service. Now that's referring us to priests in the Levitical order. That were operating under what covenant? Und under what covenant were the Levitic was the Levitical priesthood operating? The Mosaic Covenant, right? Which was a covenant of grace or covenant of law. Covenant of law. Every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly The same sacrifices which can never take away sins. But when Christ had offered for all time a Single Sacrifice for Sins. So there's the title. A single sacrifice for sins, or one sacrifice for sins. He sat down at the right hand of God, waiting from that time until he until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet. Now that's reminiscent of a passage in 1 Corinthians 15 that I referenced repeatedly in our little mini-series on the last days that Christ is reigning in heaven right now, subduing his enemies under his feet through the gospel on earth, discipling the nations for the glory of God. Christ subduing his enemies , that work began at his ascension and enthronement in heaven. That's not something that's going to begin when he returns. That's going to culminate and come to full fruition when he returns. Verse 13, waiting from that time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet, for by a single offering, there it is again. A single offering. This is the central theme. For by a single offering he has perfected for all time those who are being sanctified, those who are being purified by the power of the Holy Spirit within them, those who are being conformed to the likeness of Christ by the power of God. Those who are being sanctified. By a single offering, we've been perfected. By a single offering. There it is. Single sacrifice for sins or one sacrifice for sins. Jesus came not just to make an offering. Jesus came to be the offering. There's our theme. There's our Proposition for tonight. Jesus came not just to make an offering on our behalf, but to be the offering on our behalf. Now at this point in our study in Hebrews Somewhere in the first five minutes of each class, you should be thinking, man, this is repetitive. Didn't we study this last week? Yes, we studied about Jesus last week. We studied about Jesus the week before, specifically as a priest More specifically as a great high priest who reigns in heaven, who intercedes for his people by virtue of his sacrifice when he was on earth. This is what Hebrews is about. It wants the constant it's a pastoral book. To turn our eyes away from lonely things and fix our eyes on Christ who reigns in heaven, so that we would not grow weary, so that we would not fall away, so that we would not turn back. for the original audience to the ways of Judaism. For you, maybe something else other than Judaism. But he wants to take your eyes off of the earthly things that we so love to chase after and cling to. and turn our eyes and our hearts to Christ in heaven. Specifically Christ as our great high priest. So yes, it's repetitive. But this is the heart of Christianity. This is the heart of discipleship. All right, the breakdown of the discussion tonight. The law and the gospel. The law and the gospel. The law will be from verses one through four In the gospel, we'll have s we'll have three sub points under that I believe so, if I'm remembering my outline correctly. We'll take us from 5 through 18. Now the law has uh well let's read verses 1 through 4 and we'll See three functions of the law, at least in terms of the aspect of the law that this passage has in mind. So verses one through four in Hebrews ten, for since the law, there's where there's where I got that point for The outline. Right there. The law. He's going to tell us some things about the law. The law has but a shadow of good things to come instead of the true form of these realities. It can never Underline never. It can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect those who draw near. Get offer those sacrifices for a million years for a million eternities that cannot take away your sin. Which puts into uh puts into perspective our little feeble effort to uh satisfy our own conscience by our good works. It cannot take away sin. Otherwise, otherwise, verse 2, otherwise, would they uh would they not have ceased to be offered? Since the worshippers having once been cleansed would no longer have any consciousness of sins. So he's asking, if they really could take away sins, uh at some point they would have just stopped offering them because those sins had been taken away. Verse 3, but in these sacrifices there is a reminder of sins. That'll be one of our points here. There's a reminder of sins. Sacrifices under the law functioned as a reminder of what? Of sins. Every year, for it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. True believers in Israel were not trusting in sacrifices to make atonement for their sins They understood that it was a picture of atonement, but to trust in um forgiveness That would come through human works is the same thing as to trust in human works They were a reminder of sins. They did not take away sins. Never, ever. That's his point. They could not atone for sin. They could not take away the guilt of sin. And therefore They could not cleanse the conscience or perfect the worshiper. Impossible, impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin. Impossible, impossible, impossible. Alright. Verse one since the law has but a shadow, shadow of the good things to come. So first sub point here under what the law does Sacrifices under the law is they are a shadow of good things, which means when they were happening, what they did was foreshadow good things. They served as a picture. They served as a representation of what God ultimately would do and how God would take away sins. It would be through a sacrifice. It would be through a blood sacrifice, offered by a priest, appointed by God. That's how sins would be atoned for. That's how the price for sins would be paid. The wages of sin is death Sin deserves judgment. There must be a death. There must be judgment. This is fulfilled in the cross of Christ. This is That is the good things to come, the good things of the gospel. But the law had but a shadow of that of those good things that would come. And let me draw you a Diagram. We've looked at typology before in Hebrews, how you have heavenly realities, and then things in the under the old covenant were um earthly copies of those heavenly realities. So you had a a shadowing down from heavenly things. But now you have a shadowing back. You have good things. Which I'll draw a cross to represent when he says good things to come. Those are the good things that would come in Christ. But what it says is the law has but a shadow of good things to come. So you can picture a shadow. Shining back through history. How would that be? Something like this. All right. Good things To come. Now, from our perspective, we would say good things that have come. Good things that have come in Christ. Atonement has been made. An acceptable sacrifice has been made. And under the law, what you had was a Shadow of good things to come. That's exactly what he says. Instead uh and then he says this at the second part of verse one instead of the true form of these realities. So shadow would be a a a bull sacrificed that doesn't take away sins. True form would be Christ sacrifice, which does take away sins. Right? A shadow would be the earthly tabernacle. True form would be what he's been talking about for a few chapters now. Heaven itself, heaven itself, a a tabernacle that's not made with human hands. And this is where Christ comes and presents his offering, which is his life offered in death He presents that offering to God. That's the offering that comes into the true most holy place that truly makes atonement. So shadows, good things to come. And he specifically, and we can say this in the context of this discussion in Hebrews, the aspect of the law that he's referring to here specifically is The priesthood, the Levitical priesthood, and that whole ministry, that whole system. The law had three components, not three laws, okay? The pastor is not teaching that there are three laws under the Mosaic Covenant. There's one law with three components or three aspects. The moral law, which would be the Ten Commandments. Okay? And the civil law, which would be follows that in the book of Exodus. And uh then the ceremonial law, the moral law. the civil law, which would have been uh laws and then consequences with uh regarding property uh different ownership things, uh marriage, uh uh adultery, homosexuality, and on and on and on, different civil laws and their consequences And you had the ceremonial law, the law of the priesthood. God gave them a law, and he gave them a worship. He gave them a way to worship him. That's the priesthood. So he's when he says the law has but a shadow of the good things to come, the priesthood was Specifically that shadow that he's referring to now. The priesthood was a shadow of what Christ would do. Does that make sense? Okay. So that's a little different. It's it's related. It's different than typology that we looked at a few weeks ago, where you had heavenly things, heavenly realities. that would shadow down and there was an earthly copy. Here you have these earthly copies foreshadowing what would come. And of of course that's related because This is the fulfillment of the heavenly things. And so by by the very nature of the earthly copy, it will foreshadow its fulfillment. If you have any questions about that, just send me an email or um Pop in the office one day or give me a call. But so the law, verse one a was a shadow of good things to come. So, think about the practical application for the first audience. Why would you go back to the shadow when you live in the midst of the fulfillment of the real thing? That would be foolish. You don't leave You don't leave the sacrifice that actually does atone for sins and go back to making sacrifices that do not atone for sins You don't leave a way of worship and faith whereby your conscience can be cleansed and you actually can come into the presence of God without any guilt of sin. You don't leave that and go back to a way of worship and faith. Where your conscience cannot be cleaned, conscience cannot be cleaned, can never be cleaned. And by those sacrifices, you can never come into the presence of God. So, a shadow. Secondly, the law, I've been alluding to this right along, the law cannot perfect those who draw near. Verse 1b through verse 2. It can never, by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year, make perfect. It can never make perfect. It can never perfect. those who draw near. Otherwise would they not have ceased to be offered, since the worshippers, having been once cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness for sins. That's a mouthful But what it's saying is the sacrifices under the law, sacrifices made by the Levitic in the Levitical Priesthood could not perfect the worshiper. It could not enable the worshiper to draw near to God. And you could just give yourself a really vivid mental illustration of picture yourself as a citizen in ancient Israel, and one day you decide you want to see the Ark of the Covenant, and so you get your fa your family together and you walk right up to the tabernacle. You walk through the first curtain. And you're in the holy place and you keep walking to approach the most holy place and you're a and you start to hear the commotion outside. There's people yelling, there's people running and you kind of know what it's going on because you're not supposed to be in there And you actually take your family into the most holy place. You want to draw near. You want to draw near. Would that have been allowed? Would they have said, you know what, good for you, good for your boldness, way to go. We're poor how Look at this faith. You stand as an example to us all. No, if the glory of God didn't put you to death on the spot inside the most holy place. You probably would have been put to death, taken outside of the tabernacle and put to death out there for your crime and and sin, you cannot draw near and that their system was designed to teach us that. It was designed to teach us that sinners by our by our own merits cannot and should not draw near to God. And that system could not perfect the worshiper, therefore you could you could not within that system draw near to the dwelling place of God. But you see, being a Christian is different Being cleansed by the blood of Christ is different. In Christ, God is utterly approachable by the sinner. You draw near to God. And you are not afraid of his judgment, and you will not be put to death, and there is rejoicing, and your faith is commended. Yes, way to go. Yes, this is where you need to be. Draw near to God. In Christ. In Christ. All efforts to draw near to God apart from Christ are vain The law could not perfect those who draw near. It cannot cleanse us of the guilt of sin. Number one. It could not cleanse our conscience. This is a big deal in the book of Hebrews. It could not cleanse your conscience from sin. If you hear the law of God correctly, the commandments of God, right? His laws, what he requires and what he forbids. Which is a reflection of his holiness and by by way of contrast shows us how utterly vile and wicked we are. God's law. If you're hearing the word of God correctly And the Spirit is bringing us under conviction that we are sinners and we are guilty and we are corrupt and we deserve judgment and judgment is coming. What do I do? What do I do? I need a Savior. Your conscience will be burdened. If you're hearing the law of God properly by the Spirit of God. And when that happens, you need a savior that you can turn to. You need somewhere you can turn to. where that conscience can be cleansed, where your guilt can be removed, and where where you with a sure confidence can say, My guilt has been taken away. I have been cleansed of my sins. I am being cleansed of my corruption. I can draw near to God. I will not come under his wrath. I will never come under his wrath. Here's the point. Only Jesus Christ can get you there Only Jesus can get you there. So this idea of c cleansing us of guilt, which is objective, and cleansing us in our conscience. Subjective, that doesn't mean arbitrary. That means this is something you need to experience inside of you with your act your actual conscience. When you're brought under conviction by the law of God, which you should be, some of us turn off the switch when we start to feel the weight of God's holy law press down upon us. We're just in the we're so indoctrinated and conditioned by this culture and by our own sinful flesh. We're not going to blame the culture. The culture made me do it. It's our own sinful flesh wants to turn that off and not hear the law of God. What does Paul say in Romans 1 about that? We suppress the truth. We suppress the truth in unrighteousness. But Our conscience should be burdened and weighed down by sin, and we need a savior to cleanse our conscience. Only Christ can do that. So pr uh I'm just Boy, I really chased that rabbit, but that's important. I think sometimes we get to that aspect in Hebrews cleanse our conscience and we're like, well, what does that mean? Talking about how the law could not do what Jesus does, cannot perfect those who draw near. Number one, uh, under what it means to perfect the worshipper, cleanses the worshipper of guilt. cleanses cleanses the conscience of the worshiper and cleanses the actual inner corruption of the worshiper. And that is a work that begun, that God begun. We did not begin. It is a work that God begun at our conversion when we were born again at the inception of life in Christ. What a wonderful moment that was. And that work of being purified and cleansed of our inner corruption is increasing and continuing. And it will finally give way to a full glorification, a full and final sanctification when we die and go to heaven. And then When Christ returns, we'll receive a body, a perfect glorified body to go along with it. So this is all about who what can enable us to be in God's presence and not come under his wrath. Alright, Jesus. Jesus is the one who can enable us. The law was a shadow of good things. The law could not perfect those who draw near. Finally, the law reminds us of sin. Verse 3. But in these sacrifices, there is a reminder of sins every year. For it's impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sin. So it tells us two things. What they do, what they don't do. What do they do? What do their sacrifices do? Not a trick question, right there in verse three. They remind us of sins. They remind us of sins. And what what do they not do? Verse four. I think I said this like a thousand times. Just trying to get you talking to make sure you're awake. They can't take away sin. It reminds you. So the sacrifice just says, remember, remember, you're sinners Your sinners, how does the sacrifice do that? Well the wages of sin is death. So these are substitute sacrifices. These are supposed to teach the worshiper that the penalty must be paid. The penalty must be paid. Now if you pay the penalty of your sin, if I pay the penalty of my sin, We will not ever be in the presence of God in his favor, because the very penalty of sin is to be alienated from that. But if there's a substitute that makes payment for us, then we can go into the presence of God. This is all about God fulfilling his purpose, to create a people. for himself, like himself, with him forever. He does that through Christ. He's creating people for himself through Christ, but he He's uh since they're sinners, right, he he has a work to do. He has a work to do. And that's what the Bible's about. It's about God's work of redemption. to take you and me and sinners like us and to cleanse us and to forgive us so that we may enter into his presence and see his glory and reflect his glory and praise him for his glory forever and ever. Now that 'll put into perspective when you get up and there's no more milk left and you act like the world is over. Okay? Keep things in perspective. Keep things in perspective. Sins remind us. The sacrifices remind us that we're sinners. The price must be paid Let's move on to the gospel. There's more to say on this on the law and the function of the sacrifices, the function of the law and how that whole system, that whole covenant is is meant to show in the most vivid and intense way the reality of our sin and guilt in order to lead us to Christ. That we would look to Christ for a Savior, as a Savior. The gospel, verses 5 through 18. The first point here will be the body of Christ and the obedience of Christ. The body of Christ and the obedience of Christ. And what verses did I say? Five through what? This should be five through ten, this first point. This whole section will be five to eighteen. So, but five to ten will be the Body, which is a key word in that passage, and the obedience of Christ. And I'm getting obedience From another keyword that's in there, will. And you'll see these two these are the two key components of what he says. Verse 5. Consequently, when Christ came into the world. So now these this is the good things to come that he's now talking about. These are the true form of the realities. Consequently, when Christ came into the world, he said, Sacrifices and offerings you have not desired, but a body you have prepared for me. In burnt offerings and sin offerings You have taken no pleasure. Then I said, Behold, I have come to do your will, O God, as it is written of me in the scroll of the book. When he said above, now he's going to do a miniature commentary on The scripture he just referenced. Verse 8. When he said above, you have neither desired nor taken pleasure in sacrifices and offerings and burnt offerings and sin offerings. These are offered according to the law. Then he added, Behold, I have come to do your will. He does away with the first in order to establish the second. Does away with the first priesthood in order to establish the second priesthood. We've already studied that. Does away with the First covenant to establish the second covenant. We've already established that. He does this by way of sacrifice, the sacrifice of the body of Christ. And by that will, verse 10, by that will we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ once for all. Do you see how he brings these two things together? The idea of God's Will and the body of Jesus Christ. Verse 10. By that will, the will Look closely at this. Verse ten begins with this, and by that will He's referring back to what he just said, his will to do away with the first in order to establish the second By that will, we have been sanctified through the offering of the body of Jesus Christ to once for all. The will of God was that Jesus Christ would offer his body as an atoning sacrifice for sins. I'll say that again. This is Christianity. The will of God was that Jesus Christ would offer his body as an atoning sacrifice for sins. And in offering his body to atone for sins, He does away with the first covenant and establishes the new covenant. So he brings together the actual body of Christ and the obedience of Christ to the will of the Father. Fulfill what God had purposed, not only from within the time of the Mosaic covenant, but from eternity past. This was God's purpose. That his son, come in flesh, would offer his body as an atoning sacrifice for sins. Once for all. Now, if you were preaching on this, that has to be a bullet point. Once for all. Once for all. This only needs to be done once. This only needs to be done one. And you do not need to supplement his sacrifice with sacrifices of your own and good works of your own and morality of your own and religious activity of your own to make sure that God will accept you. No, by virtue of Christ's sacrifice and Christ's sacrifice alone God accepts you. This is the gospel cry. This is what we have to herald and celebrate In our community and with each other. We celebrate Christ. And at this very same time, we are acting as heralds of Christ to the watching world. So Christ's body and the obedience of Christ. Let's look at some cross references. Uh but before that let me pause for a little drink. Any uh comments or questions? Not any comments or questions. Relevant comments or questions. You always gotta have that on it. Alright. Matthew twenty-six , twenty-six through twenty-eight. You should be able to guess. Maybe not egg you know exactly. What part of the narrative this is, but Matthew 26, toward the end, you should be able to guess generally where we're going. Matthew 26, 26. Now as they were eating, this is the uh last supper, as they were eating, Jesus took bread. And after blessing it, he broke it and gave it to his disciples and said, Take, eat. This is my body. He distributed it to them. He gave it to them. Take, eat, this is my body. So now he has bread, but he's calling it symbolically what? His body as bread, and symbolically he's calling it his body. He took a cup, and when he had given thanks he gave it to them, saying, Drink Of it all of you, for this is my blood of the covenant, which is poured out for many for the forgiveness of sins. So he has a cup And symbolically referring to it as his blood. All of this, the the relevance, the practical relevancy he gives right here, so clear for the forgiveness of sins. For the forgiveness of sins. First Peter two twenty-four. He himself Bore our sins in his body on the tree. He bore our sins in his body on the tree. Back in Hebrews Hebrews nine twenty-eight. We looked at this last week. So Christ having been offered once to bear the sins of many. He's the sin bearer. And he does that in his body. And there's an aspect of what happens at the cross that has to do with his soul and the spiritual suffering that he undergoes. And you can see that Well, most explicitly in Isaiah and end of 52, into 53, and then you can follow out your marginal references there. But don't minimize or don't shove to the periphery that this is a sacrifice, an offering of his Body being slaughtered as a sacrifice, a sacrifice that atones for sins John six twenty-five. Final one here. John six twenty-five. Well you may be in trouble on this one because I didn't give a a specific passage like for instance John six twenty-five to twenty-eight. I put John six twenty-five and following. So usually that's my way of saying it's really no good place to end it, just keep going. But this is a long section here. I pick it I pick it up some ways into it. It's after the feeding of the five thousand. And let's just pick it up in uh John 625 and see what happens. But again, we're focusing on the body of Christ and the obedience of Christ. When they found him on the other side of the sea, they said to him, Rabbi, when did you come here? Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, you are seeking me, not because you saw signs. But because you ate your fill of the loaves, their felt needs were met. They got free food. Some of them were uh Really impressed with it, wanted to see more, but they're they're there for not right motives. Verse 27 Do not work for the food that perishes, but for the food that endures to eternal life, which the Son of Man will give to you. So, what's the Son of Man going to give to them? Yeah, food, food that endures to eternal life. He's going to give them food that endures to eternal life. Which the Son of Man will give to you. For on him God the Father has set his seal. Well then they said to him, What must we do Well, we always want to turn it back to ourselves. We always want to make it about something that we can do. To be doing the works of God. Well, Jesus answered them: This is the work of God, that you believe in him. Whom he has sent. And that's, by the way, the way it's phrased here, that's the work of God. If you believe in him, that's the work of God. So they said to him, Well then what sign do you do that we may see and believe you? What work do you perform? Our fathers ate manna in the wilderness, as it is written. He gave them bread from heaven. In other words, God gave him a sign back there. You give us a sign. God proved himself. You prove yourself. By the way, if you read the history of Israel, uh God performing signs did not create an obedience in the hearts of the people. But this is their perspective. It's just an excuse. Verse 32 Jesus then said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, it was not Moses who gave you the bread from heaven. But my Father gives you the true bread from heaven. For the bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world They said to him, Sir, give us this bread always. So, the bread of God, verse 33, the bread of God, bread, is he, is a person. The food is Jesus. The one who gives the food is Jesus. The bread of God is he who comes down from heaven and gives life to the world. Verse 35 Then Jesus said to them, I am the bread of life. Whoever comes to me shall not hunger, and whoever believes in me shall not thirst. But I said to you that you have seen me and do not and you do not believe. All that the Father gives me will come to me, and whoever comes to me, I will never cast out, for I have come down from heaven Not to do my own will, but the will of him who sent me. So now hopefully with keen o keen eyes and keen ears you're seeing this. He's he's been talking about bread and food. And now he's talking about God's will. He came to do God's will. This is the will of him who sent me, verse thirty nine, that I shall lose nothing of all that he has given me, but raise it up on the last day. For this is the will of my Father, that everyone who looks on the Son and believes in him should have eternal life. And I will raise him up on the last day. He's come to do the will of his father. He's and he is bread from heaven that endures through eternal life. So that's that's what we have to this point in the story. Let's keep going. So the Jews grumbled about him. Isn't that something? I mean, just look down again at verse 40, right? And just look at the amazing blessing that's described there. Eternal life being raised on the last day. And remember that just a couple moments ago they had said, Oh, give us this bread. Give us this bread. Always. Yes, yes, we want that. And now he's described how amazing the blessing is. And they grumble about him because he said, I am the bread that came down from heaven. So they wanted a blessing. But they didn't want Christ, the one who gives the blessing. Verse 42. They said, Is not this Jesus, the son of Joseph? Well here's a good tactic. Just start poking fun at him, right? whose father and mother we know? How does he now say, I have come down from heaven? Jesus answered them, Do not grumble among yourselves. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. Jesus knows that God is going to fulfill his purpose. He knows that people are going to come to him. Who? Whoever the Father has purposed to give to him Verse 45, it's written in the prophets, and they will all be taught by God. Everyone who has heard and learned from the Father comes to me. Not that anyone has seen the Father, except he who is from God, he who has seen the Father. He has seen the Father. He's talking about himself there. He's seen the Father because he's come from the Father. Verse 47, we're almost done here. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever believes has eternal life. I am eternal life. Or I am the bread of life. I am the bread of life. Verse 49 Your fathers ate the manna in the wilderness, and they died. This is the bread that comes down from heaven, so that one may eat of it and not die. I am the living bread that came down from heaven So living bread. He is living bread. If anyone eats of this bread, he will live forever. And the bread that I will give for the life of the world is my flesh. So now you have his flesh, his body is the living bread. He's talking about his body and symbolically referring to it as living bread. It's the same just you flip it around, but it's the same thing you get in the Last Supper In the Last Supper he has bread, which symbolically he refers to as his body. Here he's talking about his flesh, his body, which symbolically he refers to as bread, the bread of eternal life And this was the will of the Father that Jesus Christ would come and offer his body as a sacrifice that actually does take away the guilt of the sin of all who would believe in him. Of all who would believe in him, his sacrifice does it. The body of Christ and the obedience of Christ, and then more hurriedly, the sufficiency of Christ, verses eleven to fourteen. What does sufficiency mean? Give you what you need. What'd you say, Denise? It's enough. It's enough. Verses eleven to fourteen back in Hebrews ten. Every priest stands daily at his service, offering repeatedly the same sacrifices which can never take away sins. So is that a picture of sufficiency or insufficiency? Insufficiency, right Don't you love these easy questions? Verse twelve. But when but when Christ had offered for all time a single sacrifice for sins, he sat down at the right hand of God. Meaning not only did that sacrifice um was made, but the sacrifice was acceptable, and the sacrifice did what it was meant to do. The father accepted it. He sat down at the right hand of God, waiting for the time until his enemies should be made a footstool for his feet, for by a single offering he has perfected For all time, those who are being sanctified. So since The sacrifice of Christ's body in obedience to the will of God is sufficient to atone for sins. Here's what you don't need to be made right with God. Since Christ's sacrifice, since Christ's offering was sufficient and accepted, here's what you don't need. You don't need your sacrifices and your offerings to be made right with God. Number one, your good works do not help to make you right with God. Good deeds, in fact Good deeds that are not done through faith in Christ are not good in God's eyes. They're repulsive to Him. They're an abomination to Him. He vomits them out From a human perspective, we see them and we say, good, yes, that's good. You are good. You are a good person. God would be honored to have you. But from God's perspective, not good. Because our hands are blood, red, guilty, with sin. And if these are the hands making the offering, the offering is blood red guilty with sin. There must be purification. So that's why Christ's offering must be sufficient. And it is sufficient, praise the Lord. Here's what else you don't need. You don't need good works. You don't need religious rituals. Don't need religious rituals. Now, most professing Christians would not uh consciously think or admit to trusting in religious rituals. To make us right with God. Attendance, uh leading something, participating in a ministry, praying But don't we often live like they do? Don't we live like it? Don't we set up in our minds sometimes an arbitrary amount of outward religion to do? That pacifies our conscience so that we can go out and just keep living how however we want to live, moseying through life. And what are we doing there? We're acting as if our religion, as if this amount of outward religion makes me right with God, I don't need to worry about anything else. Well Good works, religious rituals, moral transformation does not help to make us right with God. A moral life outwardly, of course that's always on a sliding scale, right? This is how we judge ourselves. and our morality. Uh uh whether the morality of our desires or the morality of our words or our deeds. Well we we really set the the bar high for ourselves, uh, don't we? Um well I'm not a murderer. Yeah, we measure ourselves against other people. That's exactly right. But which other people? Well the worst ones we could find. We're really setting setting the bar at an interesting place here. But this is what we want to do. Um not as bad as them. Uh I mean it's just the definition of self-righteousness I you know, I I'd be I'd wonder to uh see numbers on a survey like this, just a general survey to um out in the world of if people think they're going to heaven or not and why And I d I don't think most people would say uh most people would not say, No, I'm not going to heaven, heaven doesn't exist. I think most people would say, if they're honest, uh, yeah, I'm going to heaven because I'm pretty much a good person We 're trusting in our self-serving arbitrary Morality, standard of morality. We're not saved by good works, we're not saved by religious rituals or outward religion. We're not saved by a so-called moral Conformity, whether it's in inner desires or outward life or words. Number four, we're not saved by. Is everyone awake? We're not saved by theological knowledge. You can check every box in the book You can memorize Bible facts stacked up to the top of Mount Everest. Theological knowledge is not what saves, does not help save you. There's such a thing as knowledge without love. You can have, you can believe things that are true and not have the Holy Spirit within you. You can be trusting in what you know rather than trusting in Christ. I mean, that's a basic thing. We should be able to grasp that. Salvation is by trusting in a person who lives in heaven. It's by knowing Him, not just knowing lots of things about Him. The greatest commandment is not know things about God. The greatest commandment is love God with all that you are in all of life. I could have said on the the previous point or point number two, the greatest commandment is not do things for God. It's not do things for God. It's not know lots of things about God. It's love God. And that can only be done with the Holy Spirit. We can only have the Holy Spirit by coming to Christ. We come to Christ. Christ is sufficient. What I'm trying to say, Christ is sufficient. Christ is sufficient. I'm not trying to beat us with a hammer. Maybe I am with the aspect of if God's law is coming into this to bring us under conviction. For when we do trust in these things. But ultimately, I want us to be liberated through the gospel. It's liberating to trust in Christ in Christ alone. That's true freedom. That's true spiritual freedom. That will cleanse the conscience. And finally, verses 15 to 18 The twofold grace of Christ And that's just one way of summarizing the core blessings of being united to him. Ultimately, we would want to talk about the manifold grace of Christ. Right? There's m multiple facets. Well, the twofold grace of Christ is he cleanses us of guilt, which is called forgiveness or justification, and he cleanses us of inner corruption. Which here says it's it's it'll be a new heart, it'll be a new mind, which we would call sanctification. So this is this is just a way of summarizing the core blessings of being united to Jesus, and that's what salvation is, it's being united to Jesus by faith, it's a relationship. The twofold grace of Christ. He cleanses us of guilt. He cleanses us of corruption. Hebrews 10, verses 15 to the end. And the Holy Spirit also bears witness to us. And so everything he just said in verses 1 through 14 and what he summarized at the end there in verse 13 about one offering is going to perfect us. One offering is going to sanctify us. So there you get a preview at the end of verse 14 of this twofold grace. The Holy Spirit also bears witness to us For after saying, This is the covenant that I will make with them, after those days, declares the Lord, I will put my law on their hearts and write them on their minds. That's a picture of inner transformation. You are transformed from someone who doesn't love the law of God to someone who delights in the law of God. The law was your enemy, now the law is your friend. That's what that means. He's going to put the law in our hearts and write them on our minds, and then he adds, I will remember their sins and the lawless deeds no more. That's forgiveness. That's wiping the slate clean. That's taking away the guilt of sin. For where there is forgiveness of these, there is no longer any offering for sin. And so what that's saying there in verse 18 Since the offering of the body of Jesus Christ on the cross actually does provide forgiveness, you no longer need to make any offering for sin. Or have someone else make an offering for your sin. The offering has been made. Sins can be forgiven. Come to Jesus Christ. He lives in heaven. He welcomes sinners. He is Of the highest honor and glory, and he's approachable by lowly sinners. Like I said, I forget if it was last week or the week before. Do you need a mediator between you and God? Yes. Jesus. Do you need a mediator between you and Jesus? No way. Ever. He's God's salvation. He is the bread. Come to him and eat. The twofold grace of God. He cleanses us of our guilt. He cleanses us of our corruption. You could say it in a different way, I'm sure you've heard this. The blessing of justification, where he declares us righteous in his eyes, and the and the blessing of sanctification, where he makes us holy. The way it's in this passage is one, the forgiveness of sins, and then two, uh And that's different than verses that are about the conscience of everyone. And in some respect the moral law of God is there, but it's constantly suppressed in unrighteousness. But for the born again Christian, they have a heart and mind. that is no longer working full time as a slave to suppress the truth and not obey, but rather were slaves of Christ who delight in God's law. Read Romans seven. He loves Paul loves God's law and wants to obey God's law. Well what's his problem? Paul is just like you and me. Paul is a sinner. Paul's in the flesh. There's another law at work in his members And he couldn't do what he wanted to do. And the thing he didn't want to do, he was always found himself doing. But you know what? He wanted to obey God's law. He delighted in God's law. I say this all the time. Well I used to. I don't know if I still do. The years the years are flying by. Christianity is not trying to get ourselves to do things that we don't really want to do in our hearts But we know it's the right thing to do. We want to do the right thing. We want to please God. So we force ourselves to do these things that we don't love. That is not biblical Christianity. Throw that out. Burn it. Christianity is receiving a new heart from Jesus Christ who lives in heaven. And at the deepest, deepest crevice of our heart, we want to please Him. We're living out and experiencing obedience to the greatest commandment in our heart, which is to love God. We're not able to do it because of the sin in the flesh. We want to do it and we fight that battle. All I all I would say to you at as I close this up is are you in the battle? Are you in the fight? Don't give up. Keep fighting, keep striving, keep praying. Keep believing in Christ. Keep looking to Christ or start looking to Christ. Please start looking to Him. Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ, for His body offered to make atonement for our sins. We'd be dead without him. We'd be lost without him. Thank you. Thank you for Jesus Christ. Worship you. We give you thanks. We praise you for all that you've done and all that you will do. In Jesus we pray. Amen.