Hebrews ten, twenty-eight through thirty-nine What I'd like to do, if you all are amenable to this activity or uh exercise, would be better. is as we read through, pick out a word or phrase that you would need to talk about if you were leading a discussion or a study on this topic. Are you open to that? Because you have to pay attention to the reading if we do this. All right. Let's go ahead and look at it. Verse 28 in Hebrews ten. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses Dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses How much worse punishment worse than death do you think Will be deserved by the one who has trampled underfoot, the Son of God, and has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified. and has outraged the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, quote, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. End quote. And again, quote, the Lord will judge his people. End quote. It is a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. But recall the former days when after you were enlightened, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings. Sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, and sometimes being partners with those so treated For you had compassion on those in prison, and you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property, since you knew That you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. Therefore Do not throw away your confidence, which has a great reward. For you have need of endurance. So that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what is promised for yet a little while. And the coming one will come and will not delay. But my righteous one will live by faith. And if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. But we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed. But of those who have faith and preserve their souls, the word of God Okay, before I give you my three points, well, the three points of the author of Hebrews in the passage. What word or what phrase? And there's probably multiple ones that you picked out. But what word or phrase If you were teaching, if you were leading a discussion on this, or just talking over the dinner table, would you say, okay, we need to talk about this? Let's just voice some of the words and phrases Here. And you can just blurt it out. But blurt it out with some volume so we can hear you. So proclaim it. Don't just say it, but proclaim it. Go ahead. The Lord will judge his people? Yeah, what verse? Okay, and do this. Give us the verse. Oh. Um Verse uh thirty verse thirty thirty yeah the Lord will judge His people. Peter says something like that too. Judgment will begin with the household of God. Ken? I was thinking being a Christian comes with first Hebrew. Persecution, yeah, and it says it here at the end of thirty-two. Sufferings, sufferings. What else? Righteousness. Yeah, where's that? It's uh kind of spread out. It starts in twenty eight, real in the reality we go from there. I mean words and phrases that are here in the passage. Is that in there? It may be. It's gotta be. What else? You look for it. Thirty-eight. Uh my righteous one. Yes. Good fine. And as I was doing this at my desk, that was the first phrase that I was like, yes, I will preach it. Verse 38, My righteous one shall live by faith. And uh a righteous one is one who lives in obedience to God. And Dave, what did you say? Law of Moses? I said yeah twenty eight, the law of Moses. I mean what are what are we um no longer Yeah, good call. Twenty-eight. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses. And if you've been here For the last several classes, or even if you just know what Hebrews is about at this point, you know there's been this contrast between the old covenant And the new covenant. The old covenant was a covenant of law, the law of Moses, and the new covenant is a covenant of grace. By the blood of Christ. So law of Moses, good one. What else? There's lots in here. Go ahead. since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and abiding. Okay, so we'll go to the whole verse. 34. Well I'll just say the first word that you said as your keyword. Compassion. Compassion. And then yes, we'll get to this to talk about it. Skim over that whole verse, verse 34. Compassion for your brothers and sisters who are being persecuted. Specifically there at the beginning, those who are in prison. 29. Talks about and they have to read the whole verse, talks about punishment, talks about people trampling the Son of God. Sounds like our usual coach nowadays. Yeah, how much worse punishment? And that's the first topic that he's dealing with. Punishment under the law of Moses, which was what? In this example, he said Death, the death penalty. And then he says something shocking. How much worse punishment for those who And the way he's talking about here, we'll get to those phrases in verse 29 , rebel against the new covenant revelation of grace. The new covenant revelation of grace. Alright, let's do two more. Jordan. I would I would say just thinking of this passage along with six, chapter six and the others, and I'm not sure if you're connecting it there, but when all of Hebrews it's severe warning. I think that it this is this is one of these very severe warnings, and so it's a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of a living God. He he's contrasting those that are Which observing and then those that do not. And therefore fear God both do. Yeah. Which shows a great outline for a sermon. Uh I didn't memorize the whole thing, but as you're talking I was like, yes, this is the progression. This is exactly what he's getting at. Verse thirty one, it's a fearful thing or it's a terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And he is contrasting the pretenders versus true believers, those who will fall away. And those who will persevere to the end, those who are truly in the household of God, and those Who are not, but outwardly they look like they are. Much like the parable of the sower And there are a lot in that parable who at first receive the word with joy, and it looks like they've been changed, but they get distracted. and carried away by cares of the world or by sin or by persecution and they proved that they were not good soil. But anyway, it's a f that's why I gave the class this title. the hands of the living God. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. And the issue here in this paragraph are those who make a profession of faith and look like Um they are true members of the new covenant, but they well I want to get ahead. I still want to talk about those phrases that you pointed out, Danny. They um They're rebels and and they ultimately will fall into the hands of a living God. It's a terrifying, terrifying prospect for them. And this is a this is a warning. This is a sober warning in line with all of Hebrews, what Jordan said. And God just makes a quick pastoral application here, application for anyone. God uses warnings to stir up his people, to stir up his children, and strengthen us in the faith. And um but there are real warnings and God uses them. Alright, one more. One more Endurance, yeah where's that? I know that's in there for sure. Thirty six and also in thirty-two. Thirty-two it Uh when you endured, remember the former days, earlier days, when you endured. I think what he's talking about there is before the persecution began. Endured and then where else 36? For you have need of endurance. You have need of Endurance. And it's not easy to persevere. Otherwise, it wouldn't be called endurance. You need to endure through these things by by faith, which he said. All right, great. Rich with uh study topics in this passage Here's how I've outlined it just to give a structure and a movement to the discussion. First of all, the tragedy of false professors. The tragedy of false professors. And then, secondly, in verse 32 to 34, the trials of persecutions. Trials of persecutions. And those many times will expose the false professors. But strengthen the true believers. So you have the tragedy of false professors, and there's a warning given here. She's not talking about these things just to talk about them. It's not like this is just interesting theological topics she wants them to consider. These are actual warnings. Tragedy of false professors and the trials of persecutions. And then you can see the logical flow of this. The final section is the call for perseverance. The call for perseverance. That's something we must do. Now we do it by faith, not in our own strength, but we must make an effort. We must persevere. So the tragedy of false professors, the trials of persecution, persecutions. And the call for perseverance. The call for perseverance. Alright. Verses twenty-eight through thirty-one, the tragedy of false professors. By the way, stop me any time to make a A relevant insight or ask a question, okay? 28 to 31. Anyone who has set aside the law of Moses dies without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment do you think will be deserved by the one who has trampled underfoot, the Son of God, who has profaned the blood of the covenant? by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the spirit of grace. For we know him who said, Vengeance is mine, I will repay. And again, the Lord will judge his people. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Some doctrines here that's very important we get them right. Even if we don't understand them perfectly and exhaustively, we've got to understand what he's saying and what he's not saying. First, let's just talk about the fact that there's a death penalty for many uh violations in the law of Moses. We're not going to survey all of them or even some of them. I'd like us to look at one passage though, Numbers 35. So flip keep a marker. In fact, my ribbon is somewhere else. I'm put my ribbon in Hebrews 10. Let's turn to numbers. Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, and then what? Deuteronomy. Numbers thirty-five Verse thirty. There are strict sanctions, i. e. death penalty. For many things under the old covenant. It was a covenant of law. It functioned differently than the covenant covenant of grace. It is a harsh it is a rod in the hand of a harsh schoolmaster for the immaturity. Of that system, of that age, which is different than life under the new covenant The shackles have been broken. We're not in bondage to the schoolmaster harsh rod sanctions of the law anymore. We are free in Christ. But in Numbers 35 , 30, if anyone kills a person, the murderer shall be put to death on the evidence of witnesses. It must be witnesses. But no person shall be put to death on the testimony of one witness. So just an example. Just to get our eyes on death penalty in the Mosaic Covenant, and a little glimpse just into the nature of that covenant. It was a harsh, harsh schoolmaster to highlight and emphasize the uh The wickedness of sin, the depth of sin, and the horror and the tragedy of sin, and that the wages of sin really is death That's not an arbitrary arrangement that God came up with. The wages of sin is death. And under the law, there's a harsh schoolmaster, a strict schoolmaster, whose purpose was to lead to Christ, to show them their need for a savior Death penalty was was there. Now, here's what he says back in Hebrews ten. And we are not going to expand on this or speculate about it, okay? But I did want to point it out and just get us at least thinking about it. How much worse punishment. Well the first one of the first things we should think about will be well w what would be worse than that? What could be worse Then the death penalty. Well, eternal death is worse than physical death, but you you know, if you're a rebel and you're an unbeliever and you're put to death, that's It all comes in one package. He might be referring back to what he said in chapter six that if you receive this enlightenment and you are a first Hand eyewitness to the work of the Spirit in the church and in the fellowship. You've received the truth, and then you fall away. At one point he says it's impossible to be renewed to repentance. So maybe sinning away your day of grace is what he's talking about, which would be worse, perhaps. But uh Either way, the point is the punishment under the new covenant is greater, greater somehow, worse For this, for what he's talking about here, than dying without mercy on the evidence of two or three witnesses. How much worse punishment do you think will be deserved. And that's so countercultural, I don't even know where to begin. Because we don't think well, it's counter cultural, it's it's counterhuman, right? 'Cause we're Sinners by nature, we're selfish by nature, and by nature, we don't think that we deserve punishment. We feel like we're entitled to God's favor And if God doesn't want to show us favor and bring us to heaven, then there's some kind of problem with God. This is how we think naturally, and that's why we must be born again. Will be deserved by the one. Now here we get to those phrases. Okay, now mark these phrases in the whiteboard of your mind. Number one: the one who has trampled underfoot the Son of God. Trampled underfoot, the Son of God. And then he says, number two , I believe he's talking about the same exact Group of people, or same exact person, profaned the blood of the covenant. So he's trampled underfoot the Son of God. How has he done that? He's profaned the blood of the covenant. He's defiled the precious blood of the Lamb. By which he was sanctified. So this is where we need to make sure we interpret this in the light of all of Scripture. That doesn't make it necessarily easy, perfectly simplistic and easy to understand, but We'll get back to that. So the first phrase was what? He the one who has trampled underfoot the Son of God. And the second phrase was he's profaned the blood of the covenant. By which he was sanctified. And then, as if he couldn't make it any more extreme how bad this is, he's outraged the spirit of grace. Now, write that, get that phrase in your mind. A spirit of grace, the spirit of grace. Is outraged. That should stir us up. That should be intriguing to us. That there's a Spirit of Grace, the Holy Spirit Of the risen Lord Jesus Christ, gracious through and through. An infinite grace rests upon us this Wednesday evening. Infinite grace. And he's outraged at something. You can think of Jesus in the uh cleansing the temple, turning over the tables. There's a righteous indignation stirred up in the gracious Lord. And of course, there has to be. That doesn't contradict his love. It's because of his love. If you love what is holy, you hate what is unholy. And boy, now that's a principle that will help us grow in sanctification. Amen. One of the one of the uh not one of the well yeah, one of the but Somehow I feel that's not strong enough. One of the reasons we um aren't repenting, aren't growing in sanctification how we ought to be is we're indifferent toward that which is wicked within us. And therefore we're not grieved by our sin. We don't uh confess our sin to God. How many sins have you said, God, I confess this sin? this past week. How many times have we done that? And and we don't cherish Christ the way we ought because of these things, and we don't sense and feel deep within our hearts our desperate need for Christ, a Savior. Anyway, if you love what is holy, you hate what is unholy. That's what's so you have an outraged spirit of grace. So I'll review it and then I have to we have to point back to see why he's saying this that refers to something Very, very specific that we talked about at the end of last week. So here are those three phrase phrases. And remember, he's talking about punishment that's going to be worse than the than the death penalty under Moses. The one who's trampled underfoot the Son of God has profaned the blood of the covenant by which he was sanctified, and has outraged the spirit of grace. Well, who is the one? Who is this talking about? Look back at verse 26. It's very, very simple. It's a professing believer who's continuing in deliberate, unrepentant sin and doesn't care at all. If we go on sinning deliberately. You go on sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth There no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, but a fearful expectation of judgment, a fury of fire that will consume the adversaries. Taking it in in the context of Hebrews and in all of the New Testament, well all of the Bible, but particularly the New Testament. It's a false professor. It's a false professor. It's just like in Matthew 7, that group of people who come to Jesus in the judgment and say, Lord, Lord. He says, Away from me, I never knew you, but Lord, we did this in your name, we did that in your name, we did this in your name, we did all this these good religious things in your name. And the things that they list are really good. Listening to resume out before God. He says he what does he say? He says, Away from me, you don't really mumbles. I never hear you. Yeah, but what is he calling me? Away from me, you hypocrites, you workers of iniquity. I never knew you. And he goes on to say they'd not done the will of their father in heaven. They were living a double life. Very religious on the outside. Formally, formally, not formally, formally. F-O-R -M-A-L-L -Y. Formally, outwardly. Religious and looked like, and sincerely thought they were servants of Jesus Christ and that He was their Lord. They did not know Him. He was not their Lord. They were pretenders. They were hypocrites. They were workers of iniquity. Guys, it's a really, really big deal. And just saying that you're saved or thinking that you're saved does not make you saved. Just beginning, just wanting to go to heaven. And jumping through some formal outward uh rituals or hoops doesn't mean you're going to heaven. You must break through to Christ. We must repent of our sin. We must trust in Christ, come to full assurance, He is my Savior. We must come to faith in Christ. Just coming under the conviction of sin and starting to sense and feel guilt of sin doesn't mean we're saved. God is starting to awaken us, and the law of God and the word of God is starting to bring us under conviction by the Spirit's power. But we must come to faith and repentance in Christ. I guess what I'm trying to say is we must be born again. We must be born again. And it is very easy, guys. You know this is easy, to go through the motions of Christianity and not be born again. And that's exact that's why am I making such a big deal about this? That's what he's talking about. That's what he's talking about. Now let's talk about these phrases. These three descriptions that are referring back to the false believer of 26 and 27 who Should be warned of a what uh uh should be expecting a coming judgment and not a final reward. But he says, Trample underfoot the Son of God To treat with contempt that which is beautiful and that which is valuable. To treat with contempt that which is beautiful and that which is valuable. What would you say if someone trampled underfoot something of yours? Um I don't know why I don't know why this was the first thing that came to mind as I was trying to think of an illustration. But it was the first thing that came to mind was my kids Legos. They're in this Lego phase that has been I guess it's more than a phase. It's sort of like a lifestyle now. But they build their Lego houses, castles, towns , just building And uh what if one child goes into the siblings room, gets their Lego houses that they've worked so hard on and built and they play with and it's like their favorite toy, takes it outside, throws it in the dirt, and starts stomping on it, trampling it underfoot. What is something that you value? What is something that you value? What if you had someone over for dinner and you worked on you worked all day making your best dish? It cost a lot of money and you fix this dinner. And someone gets mad at you, rips it off the table, takes it outside, smashes it down, and tramples it underfoot, you'd be mortified. He's the one who uses the illustration. You're trampling underfoot what? The Son of God, the most beautiful thing, he's a person, but we'll just just so we cover everything, the most beautiful thing, friends, in existence. Ever. You'll never see a more beautiful, more precious, more breathtaking sight than when you see the risen Lord Jesus Christ. And spiritually, in a spiritual sense, the people he's talking about here trample him under foot. It's a horrible, horrible thing. And remember, it's uh not some obscure sin that he gives in it earlier on in verse 26. That we read the sin and we're like, oh pfft. Almost no one commits that sin, right? It's just going on sinning deliberately. You receive the knowledge of the truth and you go on sinning deliberately, unrepentantly. People try to speak into your lives, into your life about this sin. You call them legalists. Hey, let me share something with you today. To put a high priority on obedience Is not legalism. To think that you're justified by your obedience is legalism So you have children and you want to teach them how to obey and and you uh teach them you should tell the truth and not lie and you should be responsible and not irresponsible. You should not be mean to other people You should respect your elders. That doesn't make you a legalist. That makes you a good parent. And it makes you would make you a good friend to your friends. It would make you a good faithful brother or sister in the Lord. To help each other, to put a high priority on holiness and obedience and repentance is Christianity. It's Christianity. Boy. It's Christianity 101. It's not legalism to try to help people who are sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of truth. And uh when you see this phrase that he uses, you're trampling underfoot the Son of God. We know how big a deal this is. We know how big a deal this is. Just think of how mortified you would be if someone Took one of your possessions and and did that. And our possessions are just trivial things, anyway. Well, ironically, brothers and sisters. He says even more than that. I mean you can't get worse. Can you get worse than that? Trampling underfoot the Son of God? Can you do something worse than that? No. But he wants to make sure we get this. Profane the blood of the covenant. That means to curse And to scorn and to defile that which God commends, that which God delights in. Here, the very thing, the very thing, literally the only thing in history that can reconcile a sinner with the Holy God, the blood of Christ. This is the only thing in history, only thing anywhere. They can pay for the sins of sinners and reconcile us to God. The blood of the covenant, Christ's blood, the blood of Jesus Christ, they profane it. By by how they're living. This hypocritical, unrepentant lifestyle, you profane The blood of the covenant. If someone were to go in the community and curse you and slander you or curse Your wife, slander your wife, you'd be horrified, and you'd be so angry, rightfully so. Profaning the blood of the covenant. And then this, and we've talked about this, outrage the Spirit of grace. This means to anger God by abusing and by misrepresenting grace. To anger God by abusing and misrepresenting grace. Grace sets us free Not to live a life in open violation of God 's law To live a life free from condemnation from the law, right? But to live a life as a servant of righteousness, I'll just take Paul's language from Romans 6. Not as a servant of sin. How could we who've died to sin live in sin any longer? Romans 6. So this here is outraging the Spirit of Grace to anger God. By abusing and misrepresenting grace. Saving grace is always Ten times out of ten, always transforming grace. It's always transforming grace. And the the full transformation of a believer into the image and likeness of God does not happen in an instant. It does not happen in a week. It does not happen in a decade. It is a lifetime of being purified. by the Holy Spirit into the likeness of Christ. And not till we die bodily and go to heaven do we come fully to life Sanctified in the uh in perfect holiness and perfect maturity. But saving grace is always transformative grace. Always transformative grace. God gives us a new heart, a new heart. Just being A Christian outwardly and ceremonially does not save a person from judgment. Just being a Christian outwardly and ceremonially does not save you from judgment. That's why he can make this parallel And even up the ante with the law of Moses, death penalty, and then worse penalty is in view, but it's parallel, right? Penalty under the law of Moses, penalty As as we are those who live in the age of grace. Because just being in in Israel, a citizen of Israel And outward obedience, ceremonial obedience, didn't save you from judgment. It didn't make you a believer. You had to be a true believer in your heart. In fact The uh the signature on my email has a verse. Let me see if I can find one That speaks to that. Let me see if it's on here. Romans nine, nine through six. Romans nine, six through eight. It's not as though the word of God has failed. It's talking about Um whether God has fulfilled his promise to save Israel and restore Israel. It's not as though the word of God has failed. For not all who are descended from Israel belong to Israel. And not all are children of Abraham. See, that's who's a true believer. Those who are children of Abraham by faith. Not all of them Israelites are children of Abraham because they are his offspring, but through Isaac shall your offspring This means it is not the children of the flesh, which means just natural descent, lineage. family heritage. It's not children of the flesh who are the children of God. It's not. But the children of the promise are counted as offspring. So children who've come to faith through God's promise of redemption. Those what is going on here? There we go. Couldn't get my clock back. Those are the ones who are truly God's people. So outward ceremonial obedience and conformity To what the covenant commands does not mean we're saved from judgment. That's what he's talking about here. Now the the one thing I want to talk about briefly Just to make sure we get it right, even though I'm sure I'm not going to answer all of your questions, um, is is why he uses the word sanctified and how he can say that about them. Um in light of Scripture as a whole teaching that for those who are truly saved, they cannot lose their salvation. That's taught clearly in Scripture. So how could he say that they've been sanctified by the blood of the covenant? But um They can be in fear of judgment. We'll talk about that. So uh but aside from that, any any thoughts or questions on anything else Twenty eight through thirty-one, The Tragedy of False Professors The author of Hebrews wants when he wants to give a warning, he doesn't hold back. This is serious, serious stuff. Serious stuff. Now, why can he say in um that they've been sanctified, by which he's been sanctified? Well, it's very simple. The word sanctified is used and applied in different ways, and sometimes it it refers to being uh set apart outwardly and formally. It's not always talking about the inner moral transformation. Those who are born again are sanctified inwardly in their spirits, in their hearts, and that's irreversible. But think of it this way, Israel as a nation was sanctified as a nation. They were set apart. The only nation in all the world was set apart as God's nation. Sanctified. God's holy nation. Were they all inwardly or even as a whole, generally speaking, were they holy Heavens, no. You've read read the New Testament for eight minutes as jaw-dropping wickedness as you read through the history of Israel And it doesn't like work up to it. You know, it's as soon as he constitutes them as a nation, even before, like as he's constituting them as a nation, just wickedness and rebellion. But still it would be right and proper to call them God's holy nation. He sanctified them. He set them apart formally And so that's why I have been trying to emphasize this outward participation, outward participation, this profession of faith, this ceremonial obedience. Sanctified. Sanctified. Paul talks among Corinthians about a spouse that's sanctified by their believing spouse. That doesn't mean they're saved. It means that in a sense They're sanctified, they're set apart. They live in a home where the kingdom of God has infiltrated that home. So in a special way, God is present in this home. And they have a part in that. But an unbeliever is an unbeliever, but yet Paul says sanctified by the believing spouse. So sanctified here doesn't mean saved. It has it's talking about the outward you say you have People who profess faith, they've been enlightened. Chapter six, the first paragraph, talks about this in more detail. Um but not saved. And verse thirty and thirty-one, God's hands come into view. This is the future set For false professors, unless they repent and believe. It's a fearful thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Terrifying thing to fall into the hands of the living God. Hands is an anthropomorphism, which means using something um uh of people as a metaphor to describe a real a spiritual reality or a spiritual truth about God. God's mouth would be that, or God's ears. Here is God's hands, which represent God's power and control within creation. God 's power and control within creation, generally speaking, his hands. Secondly, you need to know that these hands are holy hands. These are hands of perfect holiness that will not violate God's character of holiness. So whatever he does, he does with his hands, he does according to Is moral perfection. Perfection in every aspect. Thirdly, there's a specific working That he's referring to here. It's his hands, his power, his control, working in in creation. These are holy hands. But what does he have in view specifically here? And it's what makes it terrifying, and what makes it fearful. He's talking about executing judgment against rebels. Very simple. Executing judgment against rebels. This is the reality. Absolutely terrifying. And that should that should uh hammer even more deeply into our hearts how Well, how? I mean that's unnecessary to say for what I'm about to say. I was gonna say, how necessary it is, well, there's not like degrees of necessity here, how necessary it is that you must be born again You must be born again. It's the only way to not come into this expression of God's power and authority and holiness. Through judgment must be born again. The tragedy of false professors. Well, the trial of persecutions. The trial of persecutions, verses thirty-two through thirty-four. But recall the former days. Now he he could be s referring to two things there have been s suggested bef before this particular it's probably both before this particular instance of persecution came up. Um but there was an other earlier season of persecution that maybe wasn't as bad but they endured through it. Or maybe it was worse and they endured through it. Or he he could so so distant Or he could just be f referring to the earlier time of this same persecution. Persecution in the early church. was uh well even now to today it's still the same way. It's periodic. It's not a straight line up. It's not like constant persecution. It's it's periodic. It's up and down. Much like our individual spiritual growth, right? Up and down. Much like the spread of the kingdom covering the globe throughout history. Up and down, up and down. I mean over the long haul, if you zoom out, it's going up. But it's up and down with the progress. But recall the former days when after you were enlightened You endured a hard struggle with sufferings. And so remember this time of sufferings. Remember your struggle. Remember your endurance. It looks like it was right after they were saved. After you were enlightened. I mean, it doesn't say immediately after, but it seems like that's what he's saying. Remember, right after you came to faith, you endured a hard struggle with sufferings. And that still happens today. If you uh come to faith some uh often right away, like that first couple months or that first year Maybe your family is really hostile to you, giving you the cold shoulder. Maybe your friends really make fun of you for the first six or eight months. And maybe Maybe you're fired from your job, it happens pretty quickly. But often when you first come to faith in a hostile environment, that that initial season is one of suffering. And endurance. It looks like that's what he's pointing them back to. And then he gives some examples. Sometimes being publicly exposed to reproach and affliction. So that's one of the persecutions they went through. They were publicly exposed to reproach and affliction, public shame. We don't know exactly what that looked like, but it was public And then he says this, and sometimes being partners with those so treated. So friends, brothers and sisters, people you knew, neighbors, maybe family members. Maybe partners in ministry is what he's referring to. But sometimes it wasn't you, it was those you loved. Those close to you. So sometimes there was public persecution, and sometimes this persecution was not to you directly, but to those close to you and it impacted you. Verse 34, next thing he says, and you had compassion on those in prison. So here we have one very specific form of persecution. Prison. Prison. Still happens today. Put in prison. And you joyfully accepted the plundering of your property. Now you have another specific form of persecution. They sieged seized your property. I was thinking there you come under siege and then they s then they take what's yours. But we don't know that how exactly it was happening, but they took your property. They plundered your goods. That still happens sometimes and they and uh Throughout the world they're they'll take your stuff and then burn your house or just burn everything. Right? Something about the destructive nature of hatred for God 's kingdom and God's people. And you see that happening not necessarily specifically against Christianity, but in our culture today, this uh growing Trend, uh I hate to call it a trend, it's been going on for quite some time of riots and causing chaos and destruction. Now that's delighted in and applauded and commended. And that was happening here to them. So some were thrown in prison, some of their property was taken. But he gives them, he reminds them of how they were able to endure and why they endured those earlier sufferings He says, Since you knew that you yourselves had a better possession and an abiding one. And that better possession, that abiding possession, was their inheritance in Christ. And that could not be taken away from them. And there's no prison they could be put in that would disqualify that f Disqualify them from receiving their inheritance. So they have something that could not be taken away, something of eternal value. And that's what got them through the persecutions. And isn't it true? That's what will get us through sufferings, is remembering what we have in Christ. In Matthew five, twelve, Jesus says, Great is your reward in heaven. Now, in one sense, you could say heaven is our great reward, but in the more uh precise statement, Jesus says, Great is your reward in heaven. What is our reward in heaven? God. God is our reward. Everything else is the only the only reason heaven exists and um the only reason your resurrection body will exist be to enable you to be in God's presence and enjoy Him as your eternal reward. God is the goal. God is the hope. Heaven is the setting of receiving that hope. What else does he say here? Put in prison, it took your stuff, but you knew you had a better possession and an abiding one. The trials of persecution. There were trials going on. Number two , probably were ministering to each other. They definitely would have been ministering to each other in the midst of those trials. But then the power of hope. The power of hope to get them through those trials. Trials. And when trials come, there's usually the fork in the road usually becomes more clear than it does at other times in life. To the left is the road of despair and unbelief and getting mad at God because Because of how bad things are, and the road of hope to the right. And faith like I've never had before. And trusting in God and living for heaven, even though things are getting worse and worse. Take the right road, the road of hope. That's what will get us through. Finally, the call for perseverance, thirty-five through thirty-nine. We must be fixed on our inheritance in Christ in order to persevere. Perseverance will not happen on accident. If you have a lying, slanderous tongue, repentance will not happen on accident. You actually have to pray for help in that area, right? You actually have to purpose. To grow in that area, seek the Lord's help. So it won't happen on accident. Here's what he says. Therefore, do not throw away your confidence. Which has a great reward. For you have need of endurance. So that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what is promised. So now this is complete the complete opposite scenario of falling into the hands of the living God in judgment and terrifying judgment for profaning the blood of the covenant, trampling underfoot the Son of God. God paying back vengeance, verse verse 30, judging his people. Verse 30. This is the opposite. This is receiving a great reward, receiving what is promised. For yet a little while, and the coming one will come and not delay. That's Christ. But my righteous one shall live by faith. Now that is a very, very famous um Quote, it's in Romans 1. 17, my righteous one will live by faith. It's from the book of Habakkuk Okay, and it's used for justification by faith. It's Habakkuk chapter 2. It's used for justification by faith in Romans Romans 1, but here it's used for perseverance. We are justified by faith, and in that way we live, we live by faith. But Here it's perseverance. We live it by which we live by faith. The righteous one shall live by faith. And if he shrinks back, my soul has no pleasure in him. It's by faith that we persevere and we live and receive that reward. And he says, verse 39: Finally, we are not of those who shrink back and are destroyed, but of those who have faith. And preserve their souls. So faith and preserve their souls. How do we persevere? How are we preserved? How are souls preserved? By faith. And of course, that's shorthand for what? Faith in Christ. Or it's Christ who preserves us. Just like saying we're justified by faith. Well, we're justified by Christ. We receive Christ by faith. Does that make sense? Make sure we get that, right? So it's a shorthand way of saying it. But Christ is the one who does it. Christ justifies us. Christ preserves us. Just like justification is a gift, a gift of grace in Christ Preservation or perseverance is also a gift. A gift of grace received in Christ, received by faith. We are not those who shrink back and are destroyed. The one who shrinks back would be the one who does um look at the beginning of verse 35, do not throw away your confidence. The one who shrinks back is the one who throws away their confidence. It's the one who tramples underfoot the Son of God. It's the one who profanes the blood of the covenant. It's the one who's outrages the Spirit of Grace. It's the one who goes on verse 26, sinning deliberately after receiving the knowledge of the truth. And there no longer remains a sacrifice for sins, for that, for that person. And so basically what he's saying here, Jordan, you said it's a warning. He's saying, make sure this isn't you. Make sure this isn't you. You keep your confidence in Christ. You keep walking by faith. You keep crying out for help. You don't give up your confidence. Because of the sufferings that you're going o you're going through. So you don't just say you have faith. You must act that faith out. Yeah. And it must be real. Or you can pretend acting faith out all day long. It must be a real spirit wrought faith in the heart. You must be living it out. Yeah, m uh it reminds me of James too. It must be a living faith. It must be a true faith. And a true faith will be a living faith. Yup. And just saying it, yeah, just saying it. And being sincere about it when you say it Doesn't mean anything. Alright, that's the culture we live in. What you say about yourself determines who you really are, right? So you can be a man, but if you s feel like a woman and say you're a woman, then you must be a woman. What you say and what you feel about yourself constitutes reality. This is One of the chief idols, thought idols of our culture. That what you say, if you're sincere, that determines the truth about you, it constitutes reality. False. What God says constitutes reality. As we're just saying that we believe, saying that we're saved Doesn't make us saved. And so that doesn't mean a profession of faith isn't important. Of course it's important, but you can fake it Just because there are those who fake it doesn't mean we we say, well, it's not important because who knows what's real, what's not real? God knows it's real and it's not real. So we don't disobey and ignore what God tells us to do just because the counterfeits exist. But yeah, just because you say and sincerely believe that you're saved doesn't make you saved. And boy, that's a tough That's a that's a tough pill to swallow for many, many in our culture because that goes right against one of one of the chief Deceptions of our age. If you think it, if you feel it, and you're sincere, it must be true. No, no, no, no, no, no, no. So I'll pray for us. Father, we thank you for your word. I pray that this would be an age where we get to see you do a mighty, mighty work. Bring about a widespread renewal, revival of preaching of your holiness Of your law, your morals that would bring sinners under conviction left and right. Preaching of the gospel that would turn sinners to Christ, that they would trust in Him. And worship him. I'm asking God that you would create worshipers of Jesus Christ through the preaching of your word and the power of the Spirit. We want to see it. Experience it and return praise to you for it, for your name and for your glory. We lift these things in Jesus' name. Amen.