I pray that you would continue to build us up in the unity of the faith, in the truth of Scripture, in the love of the Holy Spirit, for your name, for your glory, and for your kingdom. The book of Daniel is still on its main topic that God has promised that he's going to establish his kingdom on earth. I give you nine elements that we've learned throughout Daniel. And as we think about our individual salvation in that way, the already not yet way, we also think about the kingdom in the same way. That's not what the words say, and in the context of Scripture, that's not how those how those words should be interpreted. It's based on the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ. I believe that's primary. It's God dwelling with his people on earth. And the saving presence of Christ. of the immediate context. The stuff that's actually in the text is detailed enough and difficult enough, I'm not going to start bringing in things that are not in the text and make Number two, God's kingdom would prove utterly victorious over those world kingdoms. And dominion and the kingdom over to the Son of Man. That doesn't come from Scripture. You know, for all the details and all the debate, the overall significance to me is incredibly simple. Or to seal up sin. would be finished. In the seventy weeks there'll be a making of atonement for guilt. guilt. Through fourteen. And his priesthood is based on his sacrifice on the cross. Throne of God. to the kings of the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom, he would not be an idolater, he would not be unrighteous, he would not be sinful, he would be righteous. And points us to God as a Savior, so that we would trust in God as a Savior, so that we would trust in God's mercy and trust in His grace and trust that He would forgive us. That God, that you would save me, that you would forgive me. We can stand before God and be counted as righteous. It's a throne of holiness because the law is inside it, but it's a throne of mercy and grace because the mercy seat where the blood of atonement is sprinkled sits atop the law. His redemptive ministry that he brings us into a relationship with God and foreshadowed the presence of Christ. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. It's God the Father working through and in God the Son in the power of the Holy Spirit. I myself did not know him, but he who sent me to baptize with water said to me, that's the Father, said to me Let's pray. That represented God's dwelling with his people. The presence of God among his people, which is fulfilled in Christ, the temple of God on earth. Or even now in his heavenly ministry, we don't ever want to picture him in isolation from the Father or working in isolation from the power of the Spirit on the seventy weeks prophecy. That's the focus tonight. Tonight I pray that you would fix our hearts on Christ, who reigns in heaven, with supreme authority over all things, who has mercy for us, who has a daily care for us. through twenty-seven. What's going to be accomplished within the seventy weeks, not after the seventy weeks. Yes, I don't know if we'll get into the next the next study or the study after that, but eventually we will talk about specific dates. the task even more difficult. Again, and then we'll back up and give a little bit of review, and I promise I'll go as quickly as I can on the review, but I will not rush Seal up vision and prophet. Setting it in contrast with the kingdoms of the world, Babylonian, Medes and the Persians, the Greeks. And the Romans, natural kingdoms, carnal kingdoms, but God's kingdom would be supernaturally established on earth with supernatural hands to cut this stone. of the Son of Man. Chapter 7, and also for your cross-reference and study, Matthew 21, 43, and Luke 12, 32. Through the obedience and the worship and the prayers of God's people. The kingdom of God is utterly victorious over the kingdoms of this world. It's in the midst of persecution that the kingdom is established through suffering unto glory. The book of Revelation, the saints of God suffer unto glory. Or eschatological restoration for the people of God. That study when we went back to look at some things in the Mosaic law to get the significance of the numbers, it was hard work. But we want to do the hard work at looking at the Old Testament background and significance of things rather than speculating and trying to import meaning into the text. What's the provisional restoration? But the ultimate restoration would be the inauguration of the new covenant. Which is fulfilled in the coming of Christ, Luke 4, 16 through 21. God decreed this time frame, number one, to finish the wrongdoing, number two, to make an end of sin. When God sets up his kingdom. What was their ultimate covenant rebellion, the climactic covenant rebellion of Israel? To a miserable death, and let out the vineyard to other tenants, who will give him the fruits in their seasons And when it falls on anyone, it will crush him. Verse 45, when the chief priests and the Pharisees heard this, heard his parables, they perceived that he was speaking about them. Called the people to repent, called the people to faithfulness, the people rejected the prophets, hated the prophets, killed the prophets, finally God sends says son, they reject the sun, they hate the sun, they scheme against the sun, they crucify the sun. For the rebellion of your father, so you're gonna fill that up. How are you to escape being sentenced to hell? And then on you is going to come the judgment for all the righteous blood that was shed on earth. Temple. Effect. Mean. In faith. A blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. And then rejecting the offer of salvation in the gospel. For violating God's law. How much more will the blood of Christ, who through the eternal Spirit offered himself without blemish to God, purify our conscience from dead works to serve the living God? But because with him there's more than just an outward purification and an outward consecration, there's an inward cleansing and a true forgiveness, therefore our consciences It's the mercy of God. And all the privileges and blessings and benefits that go along with it. There is no distinction. And you'll see the role of righteousness related to his reign. Which is a fancy word for patience. Jesus. Number three, make atonement. And he would reign in justice, and he would reign in mercy and compassion and not oppression. But there's another aspect of the Christ bringing in everlasting righteousness is that he provides for the people of God what the law could never provide. us. And holiness and righteousness and justice. And in the book of Romans, it's all about the gospel and the blessings that we share in the gospel through faith in Christ. To everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. faith not through works not through effort through faith the gospel provides a righteousness for us That only God knows. It's still binding. Which was just a permanent and more expensive version of the tabernacle, were also types of Christ that foreshadowed the redemptive ministry, That most holy place represented God's throne in heaven. This is four minutes, I'll read through this. As the Son of God and as the Savior of the world. John 1. Thank you for his glorious resurrection and glorious ascension and his mercy and grace to give us new hearts and the hope of eternal life. The Jews then said it has taken 46 years to build this temple, and you will raise it up in three days. Verse 22, when therefore he was raised from the dead, his disciples remembered that he had said this, and they believed the scripture and the word that Jesus had spoken. was the proper interpretation of the scripture. With a unique measure of the Spirit as the Son of God. And your holy city. Number one, to finish the wrongdoing. Number five, to seal up both vision and prophet. The book be mysteriously and magically become about some new topic that's not in the book of Daniel. In the days of the Roman Empire. God's kingdom strikes the kingdoms of the world. Number three, God's kingdom would cover the whole earth. Who is in heaven? of God. in history as we know it. Big, small, blue, red. Now, it has not reached its consummate form yet. My soul and my mind and my heart have not been perfectly sanctified yet. But not yet consummated, not yet finalized, not yet brought to its fullest, most glorious expression after the return of Christ, it will be. 77s and the the uh significance, the theological significance of that for those under the old covenant. rebuilt, the walls rebuilt, the temple rebuilt, and the sacrificial system resuming. But within this time frame, within this time frame, here's the main point. But then when the ultimate restoration comes, that whole old covenant administration is done away with once for all. And rebellious Israel, who did not repent and turned to Christ when he came on the scene, that rebellious Israel receives the judgment, the covenantal wrath of God for their rebellion. It's talking about the coming salvation, the coming Redeemer, the coming kingdom of God. Hard work looking at the Old Testament background within the Mosaic Law itself to get the meaning, the theological significance of this time frame and why it's given. Both the provisional and the ultimate restoration are going to come within this time frame. And number six, to anoint the most holy place. Or the completing or the ending of the wrongdoing. That's the context. God in the flesh, Jesus Christ, rejecting their God, rejecting the Messiah. In light of their climactic sin, their worst sin, what will he do to those tenants? When the season for fruit drew near, he sent his servants to the tenants to get his fruit. Finally he sent his son, saying to them, They will respect my son. And they looked at him and threw him out of the vineyard and killed him. He's going to take the vineyard away from the rebellious tenants that he had previously made stewards over that vineyard. God hating Israel and given to the church, to believers in Jesus Christ. Word of judgment against them for their unbelief and their rebellion, and was actually the prophecy of the wrath of God upon them. Number two, within the 70 weeks, there'd be a making an end of sin. And we'll look at some background for that when we get down to number five, sealing up vision and profit. But the sealing up of that sin, still in the same context, we don't want to import a different context. Or a minor issue in the gospel narratives. and decorate the monuments of the righteous, saying, If we had lived in the days of our fathers, we would not have taken part with them in the Shedding of the blood of the prophets. Things that these were sent to you, like when we looked in that parable of the tenants of the vineyard. It's very important that we make that distinction. The judgment was sealed up until its appointed time. This is the sin in view, the covenant rebellion of apostate Israel. Sin against Mosaic Law does not occur today. In his office, he's priest and king. thus securing an eternal redemption. And this is how he saves us. Can be cleansed, and we can really and truly serve the living God and be pleasing to him. And the nations. This was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he passed over former sins, which means he kept the judgment for those sins and reserved. for the people of God. When you start talking about why the gospel is significant. As it is written, the righteous will live by faith. Until the time of fulfillment at the end of the age. Why not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book? Keep it in reserve till the appointed time. Be watchful. Seal it up. Here he says the opposite. And the anointing with oil would symbolize the anointing of the power of God's Spirit. For office. And he was anointed by the Father with the power of the Holy Spirit. And number two, Jesus was anointed by the Father with the power of the Spirit. I saw the Spirit descend from heaven like a dove, in the form of a dove, in the outward manifestation of a dove. Descend from heaven. He on whom you see the Spirit descend and remain, this is he who baptizes with the Holy Spirit. descended. And when you heard the gospel and you believed and you were born again, you were baptized with the Holy Spirit, united to Jesus Christ forever. appropriate to his work as the Redeemer and Savior. How God anointed, there's your keyword, anointed, God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. He went about doing good and healing all who were oppressed by the devil, for God was with him. the church operating in isolation from Christ. Gabriel. Six things that will be accomplished within the seventy weeks. We're going to talk later tonight, this is the main thing for tonight, about the meaning of each one of those six things. Let's back up to the top of your handout, Roman numeral one, and do a little bit of review of the main prophecy of Daniel. It's a spiritual kingdom. Christ suffered unto glory. Properly. Both, both, the provisional restoration will come for Israel, and the ultimate restoration will come for Israel Well, because they perceived almost nothing, but they knew this was against them. The finishing of the wrongdoing. From God, of God, and yet they rebelled against him and killed his son. Of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. You see it's this historical climax of their rebellion. Of Christ on the cross. He entered once for all into the holy places, not by means of blood and goats and calves, but by by means of his own blood. It's the only way our sins can be forgiven. Thereby justifying us, which means declaring us righteous in the eyes of a holy God. I think primarily, especially in the context of Daniel and what it's about, is talking about the character of his reign, setting him in contrast to the former kings of Israel, to the But the other aspect that he brings in everlasting righteousness is based on his redemptive work, he provides for us a righteousness that we can never attain on our own, that the law could never give to us 24. To seal up vision and prophecy, should be vision and prophet, and to anoint a most holy place. Praying for restoration, your people and your holy city. Is Jerusalem. Let's pray together and then we'll look at the contents of what's going to be accomplished in the 70 weeks. To make number three, to make atonement for guilt. was symbolized by the beginning of the vision in Daniel chapter 2 was a stone cut from a mountain, not cut with human hands. Supernaturally established, utterly victorious, and it would cover the whole earth. Seven. The overall significance of the seventy weeks promise. of those numbers. As it's outlined in Daniel 9, 24 through 27, it will take seven weeks for the provisional restoration. Six things will happen. Although as you go along the book of Daniel, we get more and more details about what's going to happen. Put a fence around it, and dug a wine press in it, and built a tower, and leased it to tenants, and went into another country. Verse 31, thus you witness against yourselves that you are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Fill up then the measure of your fathers. It's related, but has a little different of a meaning or a nuance. An atoning sacrifice is a sacrifice of propitiation. Doesn't that make you happy tonight? the good things that have come, then through the greater and more perfect tent, not made with hands, that is, not of this creation, Twenty one through twenty-six. The righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law, although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. The law of God can have the convicting power to show us that we're unrighteous. Could never do. To seal up is the opposite. Revelation 22, 10. But if on the contrary it referred to the time is near, what would he say instead of seal up the vision? In prophecy. There's no difference. What was Christ appointed to do? God anointed Jesus of Nazareth with the Holy Spirit and with power. B and we know that this about the kingdom of God or the kingdom of Christ. It is a spiritual, heavenly kingdom. Until the ultimate restoration. Killed another, and stoned another. Sealing up in Scripture means to keep in reserve. God's judgment would be sealed up, that means held and reserved or kept till the appointed time, and then it would be executed. The judgment would be kept and reserved. Twenty nine. May come all the righteous blood shed on earth from the blood this uh historical climax of Israel's rebellion. Judgment Sealing up, kept in reserve. This is the meaning of the cross, a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. Perfect and without blemish, truly qualified to be the offering itself. For if the blood of goats and bulls and the sprinkling of defiled persons with the ashes of a heifer sanctify for the purification of the flesh, that just means according to the outward ordinances of the old covenant. Through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation, atoning sacrifice, as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. By his blood. Adherence to the law. He clothes us in his righteousness. And prophet that's through whom he gives it. The vision of the evenings and the mornings that has been told is true. Verse 19, Jesus answered them, destroy this temple, circle the word temple, and in three days I will raise it up. One verse, but there's six different elements in that verse to look at. To finish the wrongdoing, to make an end of sin, to make atonement for guilt, to bring in everlasting righteousness, 70 weeks part two, what happens within the 70 weeks? For the people of God, for the city of God, here's what's actually been decreed to be accomplished within that 70 weeks. In any war, both sides suffer greatly. Sealed in Christ's blood. The coming of Christ. God will set up his kingdom on earth in the days of the Roman Empire. Taken away from you, and given to a people producing fruits. God's judgment will be sealed up and then executed. Prophets, some of whom you will kill and crucify, and some you will flog in your synagogues and persecute from town to town. The context of the prophecy cannot be ignored. That judgment came upon that generation. The work in the workplace. On sins all throughout history, final judgment. But we are through faith in Christ. But part of what Christ does, as he rules and reigns from heaven in righteousness over the kingdom of God, he as a gracious gift, he provides a righteousness for us. 17 tells us why, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith unto faith, or from faith for faith. This final word of special revelation would be binding over God's people. To unseal a prophecy, follow along as I read. Means that a prophecy is about to be fulfilled. What's most intriguing to me is that in the old, under the old covenant, places were not anointed. Come together in this promise. First, Old Covenant kings were types of Christ that foreshadowed his reign. symbolized how sinners can enter the presence of God. It's the blotting out of the guilt of sin. He is just because he really does punish our sins. In us, in us, because of the sinful flesh. Within the interpretation of that same vision in chapter 7, we learn that the kingdom of God would be possessed by the saints of God on earth. Number eight, God's kingdom would be established in the midst of persecution. The kingdom of God, the stewardship of the kingdom of God on earth, of the manifestation of God's reign on earth, the stewardship will be taken away from rebellious So the completing of the wrongdoing or the finishing of the wrongdoing is Israel's rebellion reaching its climax. In terms of his accomplishments and establishing of the kingdom and the historical transition from the old covenant to the new covenant. They're rejecting Christ, and yet with their lips they're saying, well, if we lived in the days of the prophets, we wouldn't have taken part in that. A synonym you could use is obedience. The accomplishing of atonement. Old covenant kings were anointed. The physical one, the real one, the building, the typological temple. Daniel nine twenty four. Daniel 9, 24, 70 weeks have been decreed for your people and for your holy city. Upon the return of Christ. The numbers have covenantal significance. Here's the punchline. It was sealed up. That is not only the context, the whole story of the scripture at this point, but specifically and so plainly and obviously in Daniel 9, looking at the prayer of Daniel. This is the center of the Bible's story. And as many elements in Daniel and especially Daniel 9 and especially Daniel 9, 24 through 27, there's debate about this in different views. referencing back to that tabernacle of Israel in the wilderness. We possess the kingdom because we are in Christ. Of course, we know that is the case. Jesus said to them, Have you never read in the scriptures, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. It would get it would reach its pinnacle. So that on you, on who? about the heavenly priesthood of Christ. Hebrews 9, 11 through 14. There is no distinction. These two little verses in most translations and printings of the Bible get their own paragraph. It's the last one that can be sort of an orienting one. People were anointed. 14. The temple of his body is the realization of what the architectural temple foreshadowed and promised. I'll run through these bullet points under this pretty quickly. People were anointed. Father, thank you for Jesus. Twenty one thirty three Perpetrated not only by Israel but Romans as well. No greater sin, no greater treason has ever been committed on earth than the killing of the Son of God. The final judgment for that sin had been sealed up and kept for the day of wrath. A mountain. So, fire hydrant study tonight. Although they were seeking to arrest him, they feared the crowds because they held him to be a prophet. So making an end of sin, sealing up that sin, sealing up the judgment, keeping in reserve God's judgment against Final bullet point. The atoning sacrifice of Christ on the cross is the only way for our sins to be forgiven. This isn't really stuff they talk about on the news, is it? Right, the words are coming from Gabriel's mouth. The law cannot make us righteous. The Father anointed the Son with the Holy Spirit and with power to prepare him and to equip him for his work, which is summarized brilliantly at the end of verse 33. That's a significant phrase. And one of those things is the six elements in verse twenty-four, what happens within the seventy weeks. And that doesn't mean if we put the hard work in, we'll be perfect interpreters. The heavenly ascension of the Son of Man. Number now it is um war is waged against the saints The seven-sealed scroll of judgment in Revelation. Not everyone in Israel was lost. It's really just a synonym with Christ establishing the kingdom of God. Father, we thank you for your word, and I pray that you would teach us, and I pray that you would encourage us, whatever other whatever details and specifics we look at and think about in this prophecy. Lots of different elements of the 70 weeks prophecy in chapter 9, 24 The kingdom of Christ comes to expression on earth through his people, through his church. We get more and more details of the things that are the things that are going to happen as God sets up his kingdom. So the sin of Israel now is just like the sin of everyone else. At least summarize the final two after this. The overall significance of the 70 Weeks promise. Number three, to make atonement. It's not about to happen. Seal it up because it's many days from now. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. That's the unexpected unexpected thing for Daniel. But they were recipients of God's revelation. All have sinned and fall short of the glory of God and are justified by his grace as a gift. It's still valid. That's what the temple symbolized. That's significant. That's the wrongdoing. So, the killing of the son. Romans 1. And then what happened to the mountain? It's a heavenly kingdom. The end-time restoration for God's people, the ultimate restoration for the people of God In a future study, probably we'll look at some actual dates and see if we can nail down what's going on there, historical timing of it all. Because the whole Old Testament, there certainly is a distinction outwardly, between Israel Not because there's some deficiency in the law. Why seal it up? He'll do the work to accomplish salvation. Sin of Israel under the old covenant. It was held and reserved till God's appointed time. 70 weeks have been decreed for your people and your holy city It says seventy weeks have been decreed for your people. And all of this that we're talking about is not a side issue Here's a place that's going to be anointed. So this is accomplished, the death of Christ, the accomplishing of atonement. Number four, bring in everlasting righteousness or establish everlasting righteousness. I'm amending that. And I find it interesting, and it's an encouraging reminder that Daniel or Gabriel says, your people and your holy city. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you build the tombs of the prophets. That our guilt is blotted out before God, that we can stand before God innocent? Romans 3, 21 through 26. That's chapter 2, verses 31 through 45. Well, the people of Israel being returned to the promised land, the city of Jerusalem being reinhabited. He alone qualified to make this offering. Israel, the called, chosen by grace, people of God, the nation of God, received the word of God That's why both of those are there. The same verb is used earlier in the verse to seal up sin. Unseal means fulfillment is about to happen because the appointed time has come. And he said to me, Do not, do not seal up the words of the prophecy of this book. An old covenant type is something that in some way symbolizes and foreshadows the redemptive work of Christ. The fact of the matter is God does not give us the specific historical dates. Here another parable. Now remember what he said earlier in verse 29. Also after the inauguration of the new covenant, there can be no more violation of the old covenant. The atoning sacrifice of Christ. Remember Daniel's prayer earlier in chapter 9 of confession, representing the people. Israel's covenantal rebellion reaching its historical climax and completion. Here's the meaning. But the sacrificial system and the priesthood is symbolizing how sinners can come into the presence of God in heaven It's still true, but kept in reserve until the appointed time. What happened in the within the 70 weeks? John two, eighteen through twenty-two. 16. The saints of God suffer unto glory. And it's that last week where the ultimate restoration is accomplished, and now this is important, and the provisional restoration is done away with once for all. I love that picture there. But this really, I mean, we're talking about the most important event ever. The law shows us that we're sinners, so that we turn to God in faith, God is our Savior. Thank you for his coming in the flesh. To be the Redeemer, to be the Savior. And then eventually in history it would be unsealed, and you should be picturing Within the seventy weeks, atonement would be made for sin. They were types of Christ. It's redemptive in nature. And it's a heavenly session. To seal up means the appointed time of fulfillment is set for a future. So the main prophecy of Daniel is that God will set up his kingdom on earth in the days of the Roman Empire. God would provide a sacrifice for sins that actually made atonement for God's people. But when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things that have come, uh the good things that have come is just the uh the fulfillment of the promises of redemption. Otherwise, the humanity would have ceased to exist. The law cannot make people who lived in Israel righteous. This is the nature of the kingdom because it's the nature of the king, the one who presides over the kingdom. It's not on the cusp of happening. But he says, do not seal it up because the time is near. You had holy places. That also comes from chapter two. If you missed the study two weeks ago, the whole study was about this. He is not talking about sin in general. Expiation is the erasing of our record of guilt. Romans three twenty-one through twenty-six There's a distinction between Israel and the nations. Through faith in Christ. Conformity to the law. So there's different aspects of Christ bringing in everlasting righteousness. Who is Gabriel an ambassador for? You're gonna fill it up, you're gonna complete it, you're gonna finish it, you're gonna fill it up. That's why it's the power of God for salvation. Do not seal it up. Because it refers to many days from now. He didn't just see a dove descend. We'll spend at least three weeks, probably four. But the stone struck the kingdoms of the world. When we talk about Christ bringing in everlasting righteousness, there's a couple of different aspects to this. He passed over former sins, was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. And God's throne in heaven was represented by a piece of furniture in the most holy place. Number two within the seventy weeks, very closely related to this first one Since we're in Matthew, turn to Matthew 23, 29 through 36. I have highlighted here the two major points of what we're saying here. I am not ashamed of the gospel, because it's the power of God for salvation. The kingdoms of the world are shattered and scattered like dust on the wind. Number four, to bring in righteousness, a righteousness that will never end. Alright, let's flip it over. That's atonement. The gospel is the power of God for salvation for all who believe. Number two, to make an end of sin, literally to seal up the sin, to seal up the sin. Here's the application. That's setting it in contrast to the law of God. And he now presides over that kingdom ever since his ascension. They tell us that this ultimate restoration will be the year of Jubilee, the ultimate year of Jubilee, the year of the Lord's favor. This is the storyline of the coming of Christ and what happens When they understood that his body was the temple and what he meant by that, they not only believed the word that he had spoken, but they believed the scripture that had promised and prophesied. This is not exhaustive, but these are some of the main points. And there is suffering because of persecution. Israel's covenant rebellion would reach its historical climax and completion. The crushing power of the stone should remind us of Daniel chapter 2. So the Mosaic Law is no longer in effect. It's the center of history. The whole 70 weeks is for the purpose of these things being accomplished by God in history. It's a spiritual kingdom. So within the 77s or the 70 weeks, the last study we talked about the covenantal meaning, the covenantal significance. We'll look at them in a short list one more time and then we'll flip the page and get into the meaning of each one. Stop me anytime with questions. Number three, in making atonement. It's central to Christianity. He tells us, for the time is near. You can circle dwelt among us. There's going to be a historical judgment coming upon rebellious Israel. We're all equipped with the Spirit, and we're all given spiritual gifts to do what God has appointed us to do. That comes from chapter seven. Don't get intimidated by the word eschatological. Both the provisional restoration will occur and the ultimate or the eschatological restoration will occur. This was the bulk of the discussion or the outline of the discussion last time. The book of Hebrews is It's a spiritual kingdom. That's a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. There really was a wrath of God hovering over us against our sin before we turned to Christ in repentance. God's presence with his people. Dwelt among us is literally the verb tabernacled. Now that's uh that's in that should be incr a little bit incredible to us. First, let's look at the verses of Jesus as the true temple of God And just in case you're interested and you've been wondering, will we get into actual dates? It shrunk, right? And it advances by spiritual means. Fill up the measure of your fathers, the measure of wrath for their for rebellion. This isn't water cooler chat. Number seven, God's kingdom will never be overtaken or destroyed. But that's just like your personal salvation. But that doesn't mean our salvation is not yet real. And the only way we can have a relationship with God is if our sins are forgiven. It's a two, really a two-directional symbolism of the temple Great verse for the Trinity. And when we think about Christ ministering on earth in his first coming, The same verb is used for that element. They were recipients of God's word. The law of God is good. Simply put, Jesus was the holy presence of God on earth. Acts 10, 37-38. There was a master of a house who planted a vineyard. Again he sent other servants, more than the first, and they did the same to them That appointed time would come within that generation, leading up to and then climax in the year A. Within the 70 weeks, number one, finish the transgression. It's in the future. As I said two weeks ago, we're going to spend at le I forget exactly what I said. Therefore I send you prophets and wise men and scribes. Key word, verse 25, God put forth as a propitiation Obedience. It's the power of God for salvation because it provides for us a righteousness that we attain through faith. It means the appointed time has come. But seal up the vision. So the Jews said to him, What sign do you show us for doing these things? Now that's what gives us hope. Number four, bringing in everlasting righteousness. Daniel 8, 26. They foreshadowed the reign of Christ. When therefore the owner of the vineyard comes, what will he do to those tenants? There's another aspect to it called expiation. But he's the justifier. The last prophecies and the last prophets of redemptive history would come. This is on the sheet, the very bottom. What's happening is two old covenant types But it was kings who were anointed. What is the overall significance? And then came the wrath of the Lamb, the unsealing of judgment. He saw the Holy Spirit descend from heaven, symbolized by a dove, and it remained upon him. That's the people of Israel, specifically the southern kingdom of Judah and the holy city It describes something else. Do you remember what began as what God's kingdom Chapter 7, 21 through 26. I've highlighted it there for you on the page. There were some saved people, saved by the grace of God, and that forms the foundation of the church. Only because of the blood of Christ. Sealing up prophecy does not mean the fulfilling of prophecy The overall significance of the 70 weeks. Expiation is the blotting out of That's the offering he made before the In the context of John chapter 1, means when we see the glory of the Son, we see the glory of God. Thank you for his sacrificial death on our behalf He called them hypocrites. It's the heartbeat of Christian worship. Number four, to bring in everlasting righteousness. Let's look at Matthew 21, 33 through 44. I've said this many times already. To keep in reserve. Fill up then the measure of your fathers. It shrunk and disappeared? That will continue to prove true gradually and increasingly so, and then unmistakably so with every time. In the context, this is talking specifically about Israel's covenant rebellion against God. They said to him, he will put those wretches Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be And he would the nature of his reign, the character of his rule from heaven, he is the righteous king. He's the Holy One. Now we come to Roman numeral 3: what happens within the 70 weeks? He's the priest making the offering and he's the offering It's in the future. Many of you know what I'm going to say about that. Let me read these uh last couple bullet points under this Conformity to what is right is called righteousness. God was with him. It's about souls being saved, not bodies being killed or conquered or enslaved. That's the provisional restoration of Israel under the old covenant administration. That's the main prophecy of Daniel. Sin against the blood of Christ, sin against God in a general sense. But it's the power of God for salvation. That's also from chapter two. In any war, both sides suffer loss. The Son of Man approaches the ancient of days and the Ancient of Days gives all authority This is the a theme of Revelation because it's the theme of the whole New Testament. And that specifically, that bullet point right there is where we had to do a lot of But when the tenants saw the son, they said to themselves, This is the heir. The atoning of guilt. And he's a priest in the order of Melchizedek, not a Levitical priest. It's a heavenly ministry. And the Trinitarian nature of our redemption. See Isaiah 11, 1-5, one of the prophecies of Christ. But if you remember Alright, what do these things refer to? Seal it up. Rather, it means that even though sin against Mosaic law no longer occurs, which is true today, But we see in Matthew and then in history, it was not kept in reserve beyond that current generation. It can do with the law. Finally, John 1, 32 and 33. So what temple did they think he was talking about? Not reverting back to the old covenant, but the inauguration of the new covenant It's the worst sin ever committed. And what happens in Revelation? God. Number six, God's kingdom would be redemptive, or it would be spiritual in nature. Be established in the midst of persecution. The law reveals that we're sinners. The law of God is holy. We're to keep God's word What did that stone turn into? Sealing up this sin of Israel does not mean that sin no longer exists on earth. There is going to be a provisional restoration. They were recipients of grace and favor, a special and unique grace and favor. The new covenant is in effect. Making atonement. This is our only hope. And he alone as It is on the cusp of happening. Remember, not after, but within the 70 weeks. Now, they've been decreed. And he punishes those sins not in us directly, but in his son dying on the cross. Does anyone remember who is speaking here directly in Daniel nine twenty four? Within the seventy weeks, these things will be accomplished. Your personal salvation hasn't reached its consummate form yet. That's easy for them to give lip service to that now. He's talking about the covenant rebellion of apostate Israel. Number one, the propitiation, which is a blood sacrifice that turns away the wrath of God. But he was speaking about the temple of his, everyone say it with me. He's been sent by God. Number four, God's kingdom would be established by the heavenly ascension And the tenants took his servants and beat one. Finishing the wrongdoing, making an end, or sealing up of the sin, the covenant rebellion of But now the righteousness of God has been manifested. God's kingdom would If you're going to be justified before God, there's only one way to be justified: by his grace as a gift. He kept in reserve the judgment. The technical definition of righteousness is They're that important. What happens in the book of Revelation? Don't ever picture Daniel 9 We have 40 minutes to get through all six. Taken away, given to. Because by definition definition, it's a kingdom of peace. Also, the whole ministry that happened in the tabernacle and in the temple. Eschatos is an adjective that means last. In the parable, the servants would represent the prophets. That's how we know our sins are forgiven. So seal it up. And he was given a measure of the Spirit You yourselves know what happened throughout all Judea, beginning from Galilee after the baptism that John proclaimed. And he's going to give that vineyard and the stewardship of that vineyard to other tenants, faithful tenants. The sealing up of the judgment against this sin The law of God is not the power of God for salvation The main prophecy of Daniel is that God will set up his kingdom on earth. It advances by the power of the word. It's not a military kingdom. We can look at the events and look at records from history and discuss those things. Just means end time. Ishwa's covenantal rebellion would be dealt with finally within history. It is no longer in a He made atonement. God just setting them apart, consecrating them. He's the presence of God on earth. The one who falls on this stone will be broken to pieces You serpents, verse 33, you That's amazing. Anointing of a most holy place. And he'll consummate that kingdom at his return. And because of that, by means of his own blood, thus securing an eternal redemption. That means God would install a righteous king over his people. The law is spiritual, but we are unspiritual. The Holy Spirit Father, we thank you for the forgiveness of sins. My view on that is And then finally, sixth, to anoint the most holy place. And it's all you already know the answer. This was a And then expiation, the blotting out of our sins, the blotting out of our record of God. So to seal up vision Second, the Old Covenant Tabernacle, and then later the temple. Jesus was anointed by the Father with the power of the Spirit. God's kingdom would be supernaturally established on earth. Within seventy sevens or seventy weeks Killing Jesus, crying out in the streets for the blood of Very important vocabulary word. And then at the appointed time in the future, that only God knows He'll unseal it. Number one, Jesus is the true temple of God. It spread and it grew. It's already here. And if you remember, there was some hard work that we had to do. And all these things will come upon this generation. This is talking about the accomplishment The gospel is the power of God for salvation. The tabernacle and the temple were types of Christ that foreshadowed We are really saved, truly saved, but we've not received the consummate blessing of our salvation. This is our only hope Something of the opposite. And we have seen his glory There was a historical judgment, but there's also a final day of judgment coming It's the heartbeat of Christian living. Number five, sealing up vision. There's just a lot in here and uh a lot of details. The judgment is unsealed and executed. Propitiation The law of God is perfect. People were anointed for office. That's a bad translation. So he Gabriel says to Daniel, your people But now Now, if the time was not near, he would say, seal it up. Now why How is this fulfilled in Christ? Verse 24 summarizes Number one, the finishing Matthew 23, beginning in verse 29. Here's the sin of your fathers, the measure of wrath. On them, on them, that's right, Jews, Pharisees, on you. We can look at it. The kingdom of Christ Number one, it's the character of his reign. Within the seventy weeks, their covenant rebellion It's right around the corner. Now, if it did not refer to many days from now, I saw the spirit And finally, number nine, the kingdom of God would be the ultimate. The death of Christ on a cross. Tabernacled with us. The stone is a person. The great high priest of the people of God in heaven. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. Righteousness is arguably the key theme. That's how the first portion of the 70 weeks plays out. Three lines. To unseal a prophecy The prophetic scrolls of judgment are unsealed, and what happens? This is important. Oh, they're details about how God sets up his kingdom. This was the Lord's doing, and it is marvelous in our eyes. Let's turn to these two verses that I have listed: Hebrews 9, 11. Go to Romans 3. Number two, seal up the sin. Don't forget it. Chapters 2 and 3 Eschatos is a Greek adjective. Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. Romans 1. What was their ultimate sin? That verse has always made me chuckle. The law could not provide a righteousness. He is God. It's hard work to interpret prophecy. And then another 62 weeks. Now, verse 32 is a critical verse. It's in Jesus we pray. Taken away, given to Jesus is going to send wise men, scribes. That we could be declared righteous in the eyes of a holy God Not true Israel, rebellious apostate Israel, lost people, rebels, transgressors. In other words, prove your authority to us. It's not a political kingdom. Roman numeral two. They didn't want the people to turn against them. Means of his own blood. And you all know what it is. Serpents, ye brood of vipers It's right at the heart of Christianity. The law could never provide a righteousness. It's really intriguing. It's going to all be inaugurated And number five, to seal up both vision and prophet. It's the air we breathe. What does manifested mean? Romans 1:16-17 And then in verse Now, number six, flip the page. It advances by the power of the spirit. You're going to fill it up. It's in Christ we pray. Where's the deficiency? And he is anointed with the Spirit in a unique fashion. John bore witness. It's the paradigm of Christ's redemption. Well, simply put, Tabernacled among us. How big did it grow? Remind you of the book of Acts. And his divine forbearance Just for time's sake, because I want to get through all six of these at least. You're on the threshold. We belong to Him and Him to us. That means he serves as priest and he also reigns as king. At no point in the book of Daniel does Christ is the stone. Because of the blood sacrifice that Jesus Now, why not? One, two, three. What happens within the 70 weeks? We're just talking about the final expression of God's kingdom. Within the seventy weeks of finishing the wrongdoing and making an end of sin. You're going to bring it to its brim, bring it to its completion. That's a sacrifice. You don't have and I don't have a resurrection body yet. This is the climactic It literally is the sealing up of sin. That's what God gives. The word he had spoken. I put it on here. I might have said at least two weeks, probably three. But that does not mean that both sides win. Long passage. It's the blood of Christ shed on the cross for our sins. 23 Now here he's looking forward, he's not looking back I mean, shown forth. Number five Looking at the Old Testament background for the numbers of The Ark of the Covenant represented God's throne. Amen. God sent prophets He would say, do not seal up the vision Hopefully we can do it. He's the true temple, and he is anointed. And let's look at the verse You all know what adjectives are Amen. First of all, just to get a little bit of the context What does propitiation mean? He didn't execute judgment Come, let us kill him and have his inheritance. D. I should not have put it on here. He's going to baptize with the Holy Spirit. Body. So within that one generation. 7. seventy, the destruction of the Be ready. Covered the whole earth. It advances. The judgments come. That comes from chapter 2. Matthew. It's been made known. What is righteousness? It's the paradigm of Christian living. Even tonight we're looking at 14 I think we can. But I want to deal with what's in the text. Thank you. Who's the one the Filled the whole earth. Be prepared. And the judgments come.