Well, you're the teacher, Jason. Like you're saying. He says, This is my beloved son with whom I'm well pleased. By looking to the Son, listen to Christ Jesus and the truth that He has revealed And that it that personal touch of strengthening and compassion in the midst of heavenly glory is an incredible thing, a nice personal touch. Then he's gonna go to Jerusalem, he's gonna suffer, he's gonna be killed, and he's gonna die. We look forward to the glory of being in the presence of God. We're done with the interaction. Go to Baltimore Ravens, two time MVP, one of the most exciting players to watch, who also consistently chokes in the playoffs. They're going to be turned up to eleven here. Elijah must come. Because that's how you see like the Catholic history of this Jesus levitating, right, when he's shining like the sun. Apparently Moses and Elias didn't interact at all with Peter and John and James. That this is the one who became incarnate as a man. At his awesome holiness. Jesus, the glorious son, is the one who will suffer unto death. Matthew tells us there that John the Baptist he comes and he ministers as a fulfillment of prophetic expectations. you know, somewhat notorious local celebrity that I don't know who he is, you know, at the time, interact with him, pleasantries, hand him his food. and at least he did in uh twenty seventeen. through twenty-three by Jesus telling his disciples that he's going to go to Jerusalem, that he's going to suffer, that he's going to be killed, then he's going to I will build my church, and the gates of hell won't prevail against it. Suffering, glory and suffering, the glory, the power, the majesty of Jesus, the majesty of his kingdom, but accomplished and secured through suffering unto death. proclaim to the world, he must suffer and die and rise again. As we see, beginning in verse 1, Matthew tells us that six days have passed, and Jesus takes with him three disciples. We see what happens. Philippians 2, he took the form of a servant, became incarnate as a man. His humanity put on display, but here his divinity and his eternal glory is being put on display. And uh we have in our house our kitchen windows face west so we can see some really great sunsets. The beauty of every single sunset, his glory and his beauty and his radiance is being put on display. And Peter rebukes him. His kingdom. Matthew 16, how the disciples were consistently kind of thinking in earthly categories about Jesus' spiritual heavenly kingdom. In 1623, he tells him, You're a hindrance to me, for you are not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man. Deliverer. I read my notes wrong. to stand for the entirety of the law and the prophets. He interpreted them in all the scriptures, the things concerning himself. In them you have eternal life, and it is they that bear witness about me. To keep the demands of God's law. Reading more of it, it involves learning to ask the right questions and learning to look for the right things, and therefore learning to look to Christ Jesus as the central reality and the central figure Mm-hmm. Beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. Of Jesus, the beloved Son. Like these spotlights from different angles, all pointing to Jesus the Son. As he teaches them about what it means to be a disciple, that to be a disciple, to come after Jesus, is to take up your cross and to follow him, the Father says, listen to him. Jesus Christ. Jesus came and touched them, saying that rise and have no fear. To fellowship with one another, fellow believers, save sinners who bear the image of Jesus. We look to him as he is revealed in his word. Jesus Christ. Open it up again, see if there are any other thoughts, questions, clarifications. He keeps telling them that and they don't seem to get it. Jesus proclaims his suffering. That we see displayed in this section, they're also the themes that characterize much of the Christian life, don't they? came up and told us, hey, that this guy is coming through the drive-thru and he plays football for the University of Louisville. And I better make sure his order is correct. passage. Rise up. So as we walk through this text, we're going to kind of walk through it in two sections. True eternal identity being put on display. Just completely revealed. His clothes are white as light, signifying absolute purity. with Jesus. Claims to the disciples and to us is that everything that has come before, the entirety of the law and the prophets, was all and is all about preparing and anticipating and Testifying to Jesus as the fulfillment of God's eternal plan of redemption. the son of Abraham as the fulfillment of God's eternal plan of redemption. Scene that they're talking about the fact that Jesus was about to go to Jerusalem and suffer and be crucified and rise again. Principle because this has significant practical impact for how we read our Bibles and especially how we read our Old Testament. Prophets, bear witness to Jesus. Which we interpret and apply all of Scripture. In the narrative. Scripture. Scripture. Thoughts or questions or clarifications? Stupid question that I asked you. that whenever I thought of the transfiguration I just thought of it kind of as a a miracle. What he's saying. Basically, he does no clue what he's saying. 1616, Peter confesses the identity of Jesus. Thinking through in Matthew 16. Terror. I think of Isaiah's vision of God's throne room in Isaiah chapter 6. Brought to the Father. But it's because Jesus is our mediator, and this is what Jesus, the beloved Son, has accomplished for his people. two tells us that we are to be presented holy and blameless and above reproach before him. Him to say the same things that Scripture says about his glory and to say it emphatically. and have no fear. Other thoughts? And therefore they rejected John as the one who spoke for God and proclaimed the coming of God's deliverer. makes clear that John the Baptist was the forerunner. But notice what he says here. Jesus and the suffering and the crucifixion. And as they propel us to look forward. Behold his glory now. And to see also that the glorious eternal Son, the second person of the Trinity, is the one who became incarnate as a man and suffered and died for the sin. Last week. Is that that suffering is the means by which God is glorified. And Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it is good that we are here. Listen to him. So those themes that have been building up, glory and suffering, glory and suffering, those are still swimming in our mind. As light. So remember two weeks ago, they were fixated on bread, physical, real bread, when Jesus warned them to beware the leaven of the Pharisees. Is far greater than anything the disciples could have assumed or imagined. To rightly live for God, to be made right with God? Doors. Or we adopt weird, you know, kind of allegorical interpretation where we take certain details in a passage and we just create a one-to-one correspondence. If we were to read the narrative of Balaam and his donkey, Balaam strikes his donkey and the donkey asks, Why did you strike me? Jesus. Yeah, we're gonna get to that in just a second. Listening to that uh his sermon as I prepared for this. and a far more important voice. Only way for us to be saved and made right with God. of the Son. Second Corinthians chapter three, verse eighteen. There's this tension in this text as we get into the second half between glory and suffering. And so they ask here about a prophecy related to the kingdom. So think to Malachi chapter four, verses five and six, where the prophet Malachi, excuse me. Sin. Fulfilling these promises and preparing the way of the Lord for the final climactic redemption. We would be an active rebellion and rejection of God and of his glory and of his Redeemer Jesus Christ. And Jesus is saying here that just as John the Baptist was rejected and suffered, Jesus is going to experience the same reality. Our problem is that in our sin, apart from God's grace, we're citizens of the kingdom of darkness Us to enter into his glorious presence and to be clothed in his perfect righteousness. Proclaim just the opposite. Him. because of him who subjected it in hope, that the creation itself will be set free from its bondage to corruption, and obtain the freedom of the glory of the children of God Wait for it with patience. Christ our mediator. the success of his cross, the certainty of the hope and the salvation that we have in you. Hope. Next. them, how highly we regard them. So think back to Peter's confession of Jesus as the Christ in 1616 and what Jesus teaches after that upon this rock. And we're going to have witnesses brought in to testify to the fact that this is who Jesus truly is. Secures his glorious kingdom by which Jesus saves the people for himself. of time here. And these three disciples see Jesus not in his incarnate humanity, but they're given a full revelation of his heavenly glory. Multiply that by whatever massive number, and then think that in this scene the glory of the one in whom the whole universe holds together, including Eternal identity. Not just as kind of awkward party guests. And so therefore, learning to grow in maturity as readers and as students of God's Word, it not only involves reading more of it, we should be reading Supplies the application for us. And what has happened in our case? Christ by reflecting on the gospel, by being in the Word, by fellowshipping together with one another. And if not we will move on. In Christ's suffering for the sins of his people, God's glory is being made known. We recognize that it's Jesus' suffering that makes a way for us to be brought into the presence of his eternal heavenly glory. And his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white as light. He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my beloved son, with whom I am well pleased. Shone like the sun. We see the disciples getting some things right. But now we have other witnesses being brought in, and in just a moment we're going to see that the greatest witness is going to be brought in. All the history of God's dealings with his people, it was all ultimately pointing to this. Have broken God's law. We see the people of God consistently falling back again into sin. It's teaching God's people that God is the one who raises up deliverers for his people. Teaching us that we need a perfect deliverer. And says, This one whose glory you're seeing, this is the Son of God. Rather than earthly treasure. Is dripping with gospel imagery. Jesus, the glorious Son of God, suffers, dies, and rises again, so that we might behold God's glory and be saved. Is raised from the dead. So we see the disciples have this growing understanding. So before the Messiah comes, before the full redemption and restoration, an Elijah-like figure was going to come to prepare the way for the day of the Lord. But Elijah has been rejected, and so too will Jesus himself be rejected and murdered by those who are blinded by their sins. So we've already seen in Matthew's Gospel repeatedly that John the Baptist has come as this Elijah-like forerunner. proclaiming the word of God and consistently the people of God are rejecting, saying, no, we want our sin. Is dramatically changed. And after six days Jesus took with him Peter and James and John his brother, and led them up a high mountain by themselves, and he was transfigured before them. But hopefully, I won't exhaust our time with all that there is for us to see here. Well, what we see in this scene is that for just a moment, the veil of Jesus' incarnate humanity. The details of what that truly means are being borne out and being clarified to them. That no one can take away. So think about application for us. Jesus was struck down and afflicted. You're brought face to face with the unveiled glory of the second person of the Trinity. Then Moses and Elijah are here to bear witness to the identity of Jesus as the one to whom the law and the prophets proclaim and point. Well, now the ultimate witness is going to step forward. This is the promised seed of Genesis 3, who would deliver his people out of the curse of sin and crush the head of the serpent. If this is who he is, then he speaks with the authority of heaven and earth when he speaks. Him. This points us forward to what he'll accomplish at the cross, where he takes our sin. But there's a pattern here and an order here. And yet again, here, we're just consistently brought back face to face with the reality of spiritual blindness that sin creates. This is the same reality for every person who has ever been born and who has ever lived. The reality of suffering is ever present. In the scene of the transfiguration, for just a moment, the veil of Jesus' incarnate humanity is going to be pulled back. So we have glory, but we also have suffering. He's the anointed king. And his clothes became white as light. The complete and utter purity and holiness and otherness of Jesus are put on display before these three disciples His mission and his movement being stamped out. We see how the the consequences of breaking God's law is death. Took on humanity, took on weakness, lived on this earth in weakness and lowliness. And the Father himself enters the scene and said, This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. And to be his representative ruler who would reign over an eternal kingdom. And by coming under the authoritative reign and lordship of Jesus, and therefore the authoritative word. When sinners like you and I, like the disciples, are brought into the presence of the God of the universe, we tower in fear. Brain activity. We must see who he is, who scripture and this scene testifies him to be. So verse 9, we get back into the text here. We are actively opposed to him and in active rebellion against him. But again, see the order here. So the reality of suffering is present, but so too the reality of glory, the blessedness and the glory of knowing God, of communion. And we look forward to the day when the reality of suffering is just completely done away with, and we enter into the glory of God's presence forever. Thank you for this revelation of your Son, of his glory. Matthew chapter 17, 1 through 13. I want us to think for a minute how when we have a full picture of who someone is, of someone's identity, how that shapes the way that we interact with them. To come after him is to take up your cross to suffer as he suffered. So let's read Matthew chapter 17, beginning in verse 1, and we'll go down to verse 13, and then we'll walk through this text together. Would mean the the failure of his mission would mean his glory, his identity being marred How does this reveal the reality of sin, the reality of fallen man's need, fallen man's inability? How it either points us to, anticipates, or points back, like beams of light revealing and clarifying the redemption that's in And we see once again that were it not for an act of God's grace, we'd be in the same boat. And as they were coming down the mountain, Jesus commanded them, Tell no one the vision until the Son of Man is raised from the dead. Speaks of just weighty, radiant, unfathomable, glorious brightness and light. Revealed to them. Think of Luke chapter twenty-four, verse twenty-seven, on the road to Emmaus. Instead, what we want to do is we want to look at wherever we are in Scripture, and we want to think about it in the context of the cross. And therefore, how does it point to Christ as the ultimate fulfillment of God's redemptive work? And we see how they're always looking forward to and longing for this coming deliverance. No, I just happened to ask Matt. So I just think that's wonderful. Let's go there then, back to the narrative here in verse 4. That's basically what we see Peter doing here. Well notice in verse 6 the response of the disciples. And now, if we have faith in him, we stand before God united to Christ Jesus. But we behold his glory through his word, by faith, and in the gospel. He is exalted high, he is seated at the right hand of the Father. There's a time for this vision to be revealed, he tells them, but it's not yet. Tells the people of God that God was going to send, says Elijah the prophet, before the great day of the Lord came. As we conclude, I want to turn to Romans chapter 8. In you. Pray this in Jesus' name. You have a sort of outline. As we get into this section, as we look at 1 through 13 of Matthew chapter 17, both of these themes are just going to be heightened to their max. The best I can come up with as as an illustration is just to think about, you know, we're in the season of really, really great sunsets, and I love me a great sunset. Which is that all of the Old Testament, all of the law and the prophets is ultimately pointing to establishing his identity and his purpose and his mission to fulfill God's plan. A bright cloud overshadows them. So the application, if this is who Jesus is, if this is his true identity, listen to him Disciples listen to him. And when God speaks, it reveals the reality of our sin and our lowliness and our unworthiness to stand in his presence. So we see sinful man coming into contact with the voice of holy God, and we know that sinful man cannot stand in the presence of God and live. To behold the glory of Jesus, the Exalted Son of God. Well, let's keep going then in the last few minutes here. But there's an order here. As we face the realities of daily suffering and weak bodies As we live lives in this fallen world, help us, God, to press into the reality of that hope and to find joy and satisfaction. What we know about a person, maybe their accolades, their accomplishments, or their title, when we gain the knowledge of those things, that has an effect on how we view them, how we think about them, how we treat them. And yet we also see that the way Jesus secures the victory of his kingdom is through suffering unto death. Another way we see this correct the thinking of the disciples is we see often, and we see especially in They were still thinking in earthly, temporary categories about Jesus who had come to establish a heavenly, eternal kingdom. Witnesses are going to be brought in to testify to the validity of Jesus' identity. Now I also want to give a caution on this point because that doesn't mean that we do weird stuff with the text of Scripture. To purchase salvation for his people. Listen when he says that it won't profit you a thing to gain the whole world and lose or forfeit your soul. Where we see the disciples cowering in fear, we have confidence to enter into the presence of Almighty God by faith. Brings us into this question about how God is bringing about the fulfillment of redemptive promises. So we see this reality of the tragedy of sin once again here in the scribes and the Pharisees, and also Herod, the civil authorities, rejection of John the Baptist. Look at that at the end of verse twelve. If we've come to him in faith and we have beheld his glory, we've looked to him, we've trusted in Christ Jesus, we are beholding his glory, and the Spirit is working in transforming us. So one of the takeaways, as Jesus tells his disciples this, if you're the disciples, one of the takeaways is don't lose heart. This is the eternal Son of God. Why don't you tell us? They literally say just about that, for he did not know what he was saying. Look to Christ, behold his glory, be in his word, fellowship with other believers. As we reflect on these themes of glory and suffering, glory and suffering as they play out in the Christian life. And as we see this, as the disciples see this, their understanding of Jesus, and therefore their understanding of his kingdom and his purpose, is He answered, Elijah does come, and he will restore all things. And in some ways the details of the text are are a bit scant. We ought to let this description weigh on us. He has come to establish an eternal heavenly kingdom, not an earthly geopolitical one. Rather, we want to ask how does this passage reveal the realities of sin, and how does it reveal God is the one who redeems and restores So when we read the law, we see how it reveals God's holiness. And that points us to Christ. We are not fit to be in his presence. It says in verse twelve, they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. So the spiritual blindness of sin that led the scribes and the Pharisees and Herod to reject John the Baptist would also lead to the rejection of Jesus. As we conclude here, I'm going to open it up for final thoughts, questions in just a second, but I want us to just think about the fact that these twin themes, realities of glory and suffering, So on the one hand, this entire section of Matthew really hammers home this idea that Jesus is the glorious Christ. Now let me ask you, this is an open question, not rhetorical, what's the significance of Moses and Elijah here? Therefore, when we read the Old Testament, we should not merely ask, How can I be like or not be like the characters that I see? Think about Israel and Mount Sinai. The presence of the Father. So, what we see here as his glory is revealed is just a microcosm of all of our spiritual growth. Says Jesus' heavenly glory is revealed in this scene. It reminds me of Revelation 1 where Christ does that to John and I think there's some in I think there's some precedent in the Old Testament to where For we know that the whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now, and not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, groan inwardly as we wait eagerly You see them here in our outline. Reading Scripture this way doesn't merely mean we ask the question, how does this passage make me think about something about Jesus? That stands at the center of God's revelation. They rejected John the Baptist ultimately because they were blinded by their sin. Of enjoying our God, of delighting in him and delighting in gathering with his people. So suffering, or so glory, but suffering. It tells us that we should be reading this in light of what just happened. That's one question, and there's some relevance to that, but that's not the main question. The New Testament and the reality of who Christ is, it teaches us how we are to read the Old Testament. We see this kind of pattern all throughout the Old Testament of God the Father speaking from heaven, and the response of the people is just absolute Are there other thoughts, questions, clarifications, violent disagreements? You can almost sum up all of Christian discipleship in this one ver phrase. the Lord or the angel of the Lord reaches out and touches the servant who's collapsed in fear and is all struck And he fulfills, and he comes, and he is the redemption for God's people. And in Jesus' answer here in verse eleven, he says that yes, that's correct. And this is what Jesus had already been telling them, 1621. Later on I asked my boss, you know, hey, what was that guy's name? As his heavenly glory is being put on display, there's no doubt that nothing could stamp out the reality of this glory. I don't know if they were name tags, but any any other thoughts, questions, clarifications? So Jesus takes with him Peter, James, and John, leads them up on a high mountain by themselves. So look at what he says in verse 11. The ultimate application is for us to be in awe of Jesus, the glorious Son of God, to be in awe of the glory revealed of the second person of the Trinity. This word transfigured, it's where we get our English word metamorphosis. This revelation of his glory, it answers and it corrects some of the false thinking that the disciples had about who Jesus is. He says, Far be it from you, Lord. They were still looking for an earthly Messiah, a temporal military deliverance, or at least in part. I always like to readers skating things like it couldn't press the So as we get into this text, I just want to point out two themes that we see running through not just the text we're going to read, but that have been running through this entire section of Matthew's gospel, starting in 16, what you looked at. When the disciples heard this they fell on their faces and were terrified. He is the glorious and beloved Son. And therefore we listen to him by pursuing a gospel-fueled, gospel-motivated obedience to Jesus. I want to take us through a couple of applications here and then open it up, see if there are any further thoughts, questions, ideas, random inklings of This scene is teaching us the same thing really that we see Jesus himself teach us about the Old Testament, which is that it all bears witness to him. Well we should ask, so what? And then what we see further on in Scripture is that that's how we change. So the way we grow in our lives as followers of Jesus is by looking to Him in faith and beholding His glory. And yet we live in a world that's not our home. When then the disciples understood that he was speaking to them of John the Baptist. He was transfigured before them, and his face shone like the sun, and his clothes became white So there's really several layers here, and we're going to see this as we keep going. Well, as we think about application in our own lives, we listen to Jesus, the beloved Son, first by coming to Him in faith, by trusting in His death and resurrection as the only thing When the Father speaks, we cower in fear, and that's the right response because we are sinners. Applications Because we're going to have this scene of Jesus' heavenly glory being revealed in its fullness. He uh he cannot help. Jesus had been speaking openly about his suffering, about his death, and about his resurrection, as the way that he would accomplish salvation and the way he would secure his kingdom. Jesus comes to the disciples here. Down in verse 13, then we see that it's clear he's referring to John the Baptist. It's his suffering that leads them to be able, it makes a way for them to partake in his glory. Law and the prophets. Amen. I better, you know, double check it. And as we go on in this text and as we think about this revelation of the glory of Jesus at this scene of the transfiguration. We must think rightly about Jesus' glory and Jesus' kingdom. So evidently he wants to draw this experience out. A couple of applications from this scene. Elijah has come. Help us to live, God, for your glory. The second person of the Trinity is being revealed in all of his heavenly glory. Jesus comes to us. Pastor Matthew Fortunato, PhD. And they see this picture of the glorious second person of the Trinity right before their eyes. Jesus suffering and his death is the means by which he secures his kingdom. Peter confesses Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the living God. They're here to bear witness to the fact that what they represent, the law and the prophets, it's pointing to, it's all about establishing the true identity of Jesus. Any final thoughts or questions or application points as we finish up here? We invite you to turn to Matthew chapter 17. I like the two the two-point outline. And this evening, as we walk through this text, we're going to enter into a scene where the true identity of Jesus is going to be put on glorious display. He's the son of the living God. Continuing on, look at verse 3. So when we read the prophets, we see the prophets calling for repentance, we see the prophets railing against the sins of God's people and proclaiming this coming day of the Lord. God tells us what to do with this scene at the end of verse 5. We have these two themes of glory and suffering that are kind of running simultaneously in this Have you ever tried to look directly into the sun for too long? And there it's the one whose glory has just been revealed, is now the one who touches them and tells them, Rise and have no fear. So immediately he's bringing this scene and what they've just experienced back into the context of what he had been teaching them. And we'll see continually in this chapter, down later, that they still don't fully get this. We can read this proclamation forward and backward in Matthew's gospel and in all of Scripture. It's what leads to his people beholding his glory. Give you an example of this in my own life. Therefore, I've interpreted this through a Christ-centered lens. This whole scene is just kind of building up to this moment where the highest authority in heaven or on earth speaks This is the second person of the Trinity. But then we see that Jesus is the one who fulfilled the law of God. I mean he wants to prolong this experience, it seems, in some way, make some tense, but But notice then that while he's speaking, another voice enters the scene. So look at verse five. He quotes directly from Malachi chapter 3 and tells the disciples John the Baptist is the Elijah figure who was to come. Here's the point of that though. And the way he said it was, you know, this is a a glorious moment. Exodus chapter 20, verse 19. We don't get to his glory being revealed until his suffering takes place. And as we think about that reality in this text, I want to take a step aside for a second and think about the application of this specific process. It is interesting though, you're right. This is God's plan. So he too is going to suffer. So there's suffering now. We must read our entire Bibles and always be asking the question: how does this point me to Christ Jesus? First suffering, then glory. But his suffering will not mean that his kingdom has failed. As you're turning there, and as we prepare to look at this passage, uh one of the w ways I want us to kind of get into this passage and begin thinking. Absolutely. Elijah does come and he will restore all things. Listen to him. I I was listening to uh my uh former pastor in Louisville. They're recognizing, beginning to recognize, that Jesus is talking about the fulfillment of God's promises, the establishment of the kingdom. If you wish, I will make three tents here: one for you, and one for Moses, and one for Elijah. Therefore, not even death could diminish or stamp out his glory or the success of his Well, then this must be how we read our Old Testament. So the disciples, they hear this, they fall on their faces, they're terrified, probably for their lives. For I consider that the sufferings of this present time are not worth comparing with the glory that is to be We need a better deliverer. Jesus, the glorious, eternal second person of the Trinity. They have the right response when they hear the voice of the Father. We're going to behold his glory in the scene of the transfiguration, and then see the reality of his suffering. We see that Peter speaks in verse 4. And so we see the Father declaring that this is the one who had come to deliver God's people. We all with unveiled faces, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory. They're coming down the mountain, and Jesus tells them: Tell no one the vision until the Son of Man. He says, Rise and have no fear. Because that teaching about his kingdom and his identity as the Christ, the Son of the Living God, that's followed up in 213 Yeah, we're not told. We listen to Him by coming to Him in repentance. Jesus is the one who makes a way for lowly sinners like you and I to be brought before a holy God. Wait, isn't Elijah supposed to come first? We're pressed but not crushed, Paul tells us in 2 Corinthians 4. Not what I was going to say, but I'm not sure what I'm saying. It's dripping and pointing forward to the reality of what Christ would accomplish at the cross. Before the glory is revealed, comes the suffering of the glorious one. I think there's some intentional imagery being drawn up of the cloud of glory from the Exodus. Rather, we deserve to be cast out eternally, condemned to face his wrath. Thank you, God, for the success of his kingdom. Relevant thoughts, clarifications. Lamar or something? So you have this theme of glory, of a kingdom that's going to advance, and nothing's going to stop it. The point of this is that Scripture teaches us how we're to interpret We should recognize that this is why we come to church. Well, what's behind that? He is God's representative ruler over a heavenly spiritual kingdom, not merely a geopolitical one. Think of John chapter 5, verse 39. When we see the glory of Jesus revealed here, the idea of his incarnation should just be so staggering to us. Okay, glorious scene. And our purpose in life, the reason we exist, is to see Him, to savor Him, and to exalt Him. This has been fulfilled, but he's been rejected. He says, So also the Son of Man will certainly suffer at their hands. But as we get to this scene of the transfiguration, one of the things the disciples are being taught is that Jesus possesses a heavenly glory. And how does this point me to God is the one who redeems, and the one who redeems ultimately by providing his Son, Jesus Christ You're the Christ, the Son of the living God. The greatest, most important, most authoritative voice is going to step into the scene and is going to declare the identity But we also know that by faith, that is a reality we experience now. And as we think through this description, what I want us to think about first is how this revelation of Jesus truly And therefore, his kingdom, and being a citizen of his kingdom, is far more glorious than anything they could have ever imagined. Well, I will tell there are no stupid questions. He sees this vision of God seated on his throne, and he cries out: Woe is me! He takes the wrath of God for us. So we've beheld his glory. Romans chapter 8. When we have the full picture of who someone is, of someone's identity, the way we interact with them and the way we view them. Jesus touches us, and He makes a way for us to be It's not until after the suffering. We've looked back there several times, but he's been telling them that he's going to go up to Jerusalem, he's going to suffer, he's going to be killed, he's going to be raised from the dead. Jesus there walking with the disciples, he's it says that beginning with Moses and all the prophets. But I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize him, but did to him whatever they pleased. His majesty, his splendor, his supremacy, his And so the point here is that their presence in this scene, one of the things it proclaims We're told specifically that he talks with Jesus. That's about as much structure as I can handle. When I worked at Chick-fil-A in Louisville, one day I was working in the drive-thru and one of my bosses He's come to establish the eternal kingdom of God, and nothing is going to stop the advance of his kingdom. And behold, there appeared to them Moses and Elijah talking with him. He knows what he's doing. Before the revelation of the glory, there's the suffering that comes. Matthew's depiction is one verse of the actual vision. Yeah. Again, think about they've just seen his glory, but make no mistake, the reality of suffering must come first. Well, let me pray for us. Matthew 17, 1 through 13, is where we will be this evening. So this whole scene is about revealing the true identity of Jesus. He was still speaking when, behold, a bright cloud overshadowed them, and a voice from the cloud said, This is my blessing. I love that Mark and Luke both point out in their accounts that basically he doesn't know. It's the reason we believe it's important to sit under faithful preaching, to sing gospel truths together. I like the little detail in verse seven where Jesus came and touched them, said Rod So we've been up on the mountain. But friends, there is glory to be revealed. And help us to trust that you are transforming us into the same image from one degree of glory to the other. And then the next section we see Jesus teach that to be a follower of his So Moses and Elijah are brought in here as sort of expert witnesses, and they appear talking Or and he's gonna rise again. We've seen in Matthew's gospel Jesus performed miracles. So their presence here is this enacted picture of what we see Jesus teaching. We need a better savior. We see just kind of and as we continue on, we see just how this is all about establishing the identity of Jesus. Our problem is not merely a knowledge problem Imagine if in that moment I somehow had the foresight to know the NFL player that Mar Lamar Jackson would eventually become. For just a moment, that veil is just stripped away. We must see that He possesses a heavenly glory. And yet we suffer now in weak fleshly bodies. Just this glorious depiction of absolute radiance, of pure light. Yeah, so Moses and Elijah were kind of these representative figures. Sorry, yes, Becky. Not necessarily that the veil was lifted and we saw another spider team. Were it not for God's grace to us to open our eyes, to awaken our dead hearts. We see God raise up deliverers, He raises up judges, He raises up kings. So think about this scene. What we see here is what we need as his followers. Turns out it was Lamar Jackson and he enjoys Christian chicken. No imperfection, no mixture, no stain. But as they enter into this scene We see how it reveals our need for atonement. You think about your own life, when you're terrified and overwhelmed, words just kind of come out of you and you don't really know what you're saying. In our fallen humanity, we're not merely unaware of God and his truth. But Jesus came and touched them, saying, Rise and have no fear. So, first we behold the glory of Jesus the beloved Son. Anyway, he laughed. They say to Moses, Don't let God speak to us anymore, lest we die. First and foremost, we must see Jesus clearly But even those deliverers are always imperfect. Love how Matthew just draws our attention here. Matthew's not really changing subjects here. Generally does not. He is the glorious Christ. We've thought a lot about his glory. And in fact, Elijah has come. And then going into twelve, but I tell you that Elijah has already come, and they did not recognize. God's glory to judge sin, God's glory to save sinners all at once. So as we see this, we see the glory of Jesus That's not the main thing we want to do when we read the Old Testament. There are no stupid questions. I gotcha. It's the means by which Jesus Glory and suffering. Peter said to Jesus, Lord, it is good that we are here. Think of the language of Psalm 2. Just to see how this seems Now hope that is seen is not hope, for who hopes for what he sees? There's an assumption on the part of Peter that Jesus' death would mean the failure of his kingdom. Father, I pray that we would press into that. Cool. They fall on their faces and they're terrified. It's also that we might behold rightly the glory and the identity of Jesus. We see here that this is exactly what we see the Father saying at the scene of Jesus' baptism, all the way back in 317. They were in love with their sin. We stand before God clothed in the perfect righteousness of Christ. He's gonna be killed and We want to have a Christ-centered hermeneutic, a Christ-centered lens through which we read all of Scripture. Jesus is our perfect righteousness who obeyed where Israel and where we And the picture becomes clearer and clearer and clearer until finally we get to Christ. This is my beloved son with whom I am well pleased. So all that had come before, all that the people of God had hoped for, prayed for, longed for, and We're told in Luke's account of this We just need to see how glorious this is. One of the things we see is that Jesus is the one who meets Or think about this, Hebrews ten nineteen Father, thank you I mean, just think about it, that the disciples here are seeing God Himself. We'll think of the most beautiful sunset you've ever seen. So the disciples are seeing this, they're witnesses to it. Or when we read the historical books They they were strictly observers. They're terrified, they're overwhelmed by this moment. So think about this in the immediate context of what we've been But oh, don't we rejoice in the fact that his suffering is Because we live now, in this age, as citizens of Christ's kingdom. We don't want to do that. Then Peter, James, and John are brought up to bear witness to the identity of Jesus. Said that a million times, so what? That's neat. It's all like just these spotlights from different angles shining a light on this is who Jesus is. It's all pointing to Jesus the Messiah, the Son of David. Jesus says, There, you search the scriptures because you think that Since you've been put on the spot. Listen when he says that it is right and it is better, eternally better to labor for spiritual treasure. Continually, over and over again, we look to him in faith. And we see in the reality of the gospel that the glory of God is revealed in the suffering of Jesus. And then verse 2. It doesn't mean that we kind of start looking for Jesus, hiding out in Old Testament narratives. And they're right. See that pattern play out so often in the Old Testament in the prophets, where the prophets are speaking. In fact it's gonna So we have these twin themes running all throughout this passage: glory and suffering. But then we're going to see Jesus teach his disciples that before his true identity is made known and before It's not something we can do because it's bright and glorious. It indicates a transformation or a change. These disciples are seeing Jesus as he truly is. But my real thought is just that We listen to Him by turning from ourselves as the voice of ultimate authority. And he gives us his perfect righteousness. And the disciples asked him, Why did then why do the scribes say that first Elijah So we see in verse 3 that Moses and Elijah appear talking with Jesus. Only only irrelevant questions. Richard. We've beheld his glory If we can die less for dumb Why those two? It's a moment for stunned silence. That's how we grow. It's all about looking to Christ. Well, before we move on to the second section here, let me open It's the means by which he purchases redemption for those who will be citizens in his kingdom. But all of that would have made my interaction with him quite different. So they're here in this scene We need more than a mere military conquest. So again, just see how this whole scene is This is why we commit to gathering together each week to sit under the preaching of the word. And then the disciples ask this question of him. The veil of his humanity is going to be stripped away for a moment. So think about just what's been happening even back in chapter 16. We won't go there for time, but this is the anointed one who would reign over the nations. In Matthew chapter 11, 7 through 15, Jesus and his own teaching So think back to 21 through 23, where Jesus foretells his death and resurrection Matthew chapter 3, verse 3. He is the eternal second person of the Trinity. So to think of a bad illustration of this. We don't want to do weird stuff with the text. They still don't fully comprehend it. How do we behold the glory of Jesus? He's actually a starter. Listen to him, by God's grace, through faith. And the disciples are going to get a glimpse into the reality of his heavenly glory. So time has passed, but the fact that we're given a definite relationship Those are still the backdrop here as we come to this scene six. Uh listen he preached through the Gospel of Mark several years ago. Now we recognize and we see that And we see man's inability consistently to By taking on death itself, Jesus is going to make a way for sinners like us But in the transfiguration, it becomes clear that Jesus is no mere earthly. The glory that Jesus, the Son of God, possessed. They ask him in verse 10, then why do the scribes say that first Elijah must come? The very scribes who insist on his coming missed it completely. Just read 8 through 15. Thank you, God, that by faith we They always ultimately are stained by sin. Jesus tells them that they're right Look at how Matthew describes this. Behold. And that tension really takes us right to the heart of the gospel, doesn't it? We shouldn't ask from that, well, or we shouldn't think from that. So may we live now in light of this hope. We're going to spend the majority of our time in the first half looking at verses one through eight. We can enter into the glorious presence of God by faith through Or think about Jesus' rebuke of Peter. And they certainly see them and they are able to identify who they are, yeah. If you wish, I will make three tents here, one for you. Listen to him. I think we can hardly wrap our minds around this image. But verse 7, Jesus That's how we become more like Christ by beholding him. When we wake up in the morning, our greatest need is to behold the glory of God. And that He has come to establish an earthly or uh not an earthly, excuse me. Well I love here how the father See that Jesus will suffer. We've seen him in many scenes. And a voice from the cloud speaks. Absolutely He wants us to be focused in here. And my thought at the time was basically, oh that's cool. But if we hope for what we do not see, we But what we're going to see, and as we go on in Matthew's Gospel, what we do see And when they lifted up their eyes they saw no one but Jesus only Now witnesses are going to be brought in. We cower in fear at his awesome holiness and glory. See if there are any Listen to him. I'm ruined, I'm undone. And so of course P Peter has to say something. But then notice how this scene ends. If we want to overcome sin, if we want to pursue true obedience. Oh, that must be Jesus. This is who he is, therefore listen to He says, his face It's all ultimately about revealing who he is. But what happens? We need a spiritual rescue. It's absolutely staggering. There would have been a heightened sense of, oh, this is an important person. So we want to know what's going on here, what's happening. And think I was listening So also the Son of Man will serve But as Jesus This is a scene of Jesus trying to Oh well, he struck his donkey. Colossians 1:22 But what we are given Look at what's happening. We've seen him That's interesting.