Daniel 9, beginning in verse 24. Seventy weeks or 77s. Okay, so we're in tonight the 70 weeks, part three. Seventy weeks are decreed. about your people and your holy city. That's talking about the people of Judah, the people of Israel, but specifically the southern kingdom who have been exiled to Babylon. Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city. What city? Jerusalem? Oh you got you're on the money. On a normal Wednesday there would have been like a six-second lag. All right. To finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, and to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness, to seal both vision and prophet, to anoint the most holy place. Know therefore and understand that from the going out of the Word to restore and build Jerusalem to the coming of the anointed one, or the Messiah, a prince, there shall be seven weeks. And for sixty-two weeks it shall be built again with squares and moat, but in a troubled time. And then after sixty-two weeks the anointed one will be cut off and have nothing. The people of the of a prince who is to come shall destroy the city. That's talking about something different. Alright? There's two different things. After 62 weeks, the anointed one's cut off and has nothing. Then there's the people of another prince who is to come to destroy the city and the sanctuary. And its end, the city and the sanctuary, shall come with a flood. And to the end there will be war, desolations are decreed. And he shall make a strong covenant with with many for one week. For half the week he'll put an end to sacrifice and offering. And on the wing of the abominations shall come one who makes desolate, till the decreed end is then poured out on the desolator. God is going to use a pagan nation, a pagan empire, and a pagan ruler to bring judgment upon apostate Israel And then God is going to bring judgment upon that pagan ruler. So there's going to be one who makes desolate, and then the decreed end will be poured out on the desolator. What I was going to do tonight is the date of the decree from verse 25. Look at verse 25. Know therefore and understand that from the going out of the word or the decree to restore and Build Jerusalem. That's the beginning of the 77s or the 70 weeks. And there's lots of debate about the date of that. Which decree by which king and what's the date? And I decided to not do the lecture on that For a couple of reasons. One, the date is not in the text. I like to deal in these Wednesday nights with what's in the text. What's in the text? That is an element that is important because the decree itself is in the text, but the date As we number dates is not. And the second reason is, you know, if I really wanted to get you my view on that, I could just write a two and a half page article, give you my view, give the biblical arguments My method for interpretation and for teaching and for preaching is I try to do this as best I can from the text up. Alright, from the text up. I don't want to bring a preconceived theology down on the text and then impose it on the text, but try to make it look like that's what's being taught. So, what I decided to do instead of the date of the decree, but there may be a little article coming out to you on that, I decided to do the best clue That's a biblical interpretation of the 70 weeks. Alright, the best clue at the biblical interpretation of the 70 weeks. And the best clue is Jesus' interpretation of the end of verse 27. Look at verse 27 again. And I've got to pray, but let's do this first, and then I'll pray for us. The end of verse 27, on the wing of abominations shall come the one who makes desolate, or in other words, the desolator, until the decreed end is poured out. Jesus In his earthly ministry, in Matthew 23 and to 24, gives the historical theological interpretation of that verse. For me, that's the authoritative interpretation of that verse, of the desolator, of when that happens, of where that happens. And that for me is the starting point, the biblically inspired starting point for understanding how to interpret this passage. I thought that was a good thing to do today. The best clue at the biblical approach to this passage is when Jesus gives us the interpretation of the end of verse 27, the abomination of desolation Let's pray together and then we will get into it and we'll do the best we can. Father, we thank you for your word. And uh Lord, we know we're in a difficult passage, but we also know the main reason we come to a Bible study is to be reminded that we need a Savior and to be reminded that we have a Savior, that He is with us. that he is working within us to conform us to his likeness. You have given us your word. We can trust in your word. Father, you've been good to us. And we thank you for bringing us together as your people in your church. To serve you, to love you. We ask that you help us to learn and to grow in Christ this evening. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. All right. The biblical interpretation, the best clue at the biblical interpretation of the end of verse 27, the abomination of desolation. Let's go to Matthew 23. This will be the bulk of our study. The study tonight really is in Matthew 23 into 24 The abomination of desolation is going to be a pagan ruler that brings destruction on Jerusalem and on the temple. In the year AD 70. Now that year is not given in the Gospels. That year we know from history, but that it will happen within one generation. is taught by Jesus. And Jesus teaches that that a pagan king will come and bring destruction on Jerusalem and the temple. Jesus teaches that specifically as the fulfillment of This verse in Daniel. Matthew 23. And we're really going to ease our way into it, looking at the seven woes that Jesus pronounces. Upon the scribes and the Pharisees. Now, in the book of the law, in the Old Testament, woes are pronounced upon lawbreakers. Blessings are pronounced upon the obedient. Life is pronounced and promised to the obedient. Death and curse and woe is pronounced on the disobedient and the lawbreakers. So Jesus is speaking Judgment over the scribes and the Pharisees who are representative of apostate Israel. Not all of Israel. There were some believers there, a faithful remnant. Verse 1. Then Jesus said to the crowds and to his disciples, The scribes and the Pharisees sit on Moses Which means they're in the position of being the authoritative teachers, the leaders of the Word of God under the Mosaic Law. They sit in Moses' seat. That's a seat of authority. That's a seat of teaching. That's a seat of leadership. So do and observe whatever they tell you. But not the works they do, for they preach, but they do not practice. They tie up heavy burdens. Hard to bear and lay them on people's shoulders, but they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger. I love that. That's Jesus' summation of legalism. That's legalism. Tying up heavy burdens, hard to bear, and lay them on people's shoulders. But they themselves are not willing to move them with their finger. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. But they make their phylacteries broad. That's the scripture box And their fringes long. And they love the place of honor at feasts and the best seats in the synagogues and greetings in the marketplaces and being called rabbi by others. They love the titles. They love the showiness. They love others to see them leading and practicing their religion, how wonderful they are, the scribes and the Pharisees. Well, Jesus isn't saying this as something that was a good quality in them. It's their pride. It's their self-righteousness. It's their lostness being manifest in outward religion. I'll say that again. It's their lostness and their rebellion against God being manifest in outward religion. Verse 8, but you are not to be called rabbi, for you have one teacher, and you are all brothers. And call no man your father on earth, for you have one father who is in heaven. Neither be called instructors, for you have one instructor, the Christ. Stop worrying so much about titles. Stop worrying so much about place of authority. Stop worrying so much about other people knowing that you have a role of authority. That's what he's saying here. They're so worried about titles. The greatest among you shall be your servant. It's a great memory verse. Whoever exalts himself will be humbled, but whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Now, look at that verse again, verse 12. Which part of that verse represents the scribes and the Pharisees? That's exactly right. The one who exalts himself will be humbled. Humbled by God in judgment. Humbled by God in judgment. Whoever humbles himself will be exalted. Whoever humbles himself before the Lord and before others, through faith in Christ, will be exalted to eternal glory. Verse 13. But woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, actors, fakers, players, pretenders, hypocrites For you shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces, for you neither enter yourselves, nor allow those who would enter to go in. When I do my little uh rants on the reality of the presence of the kingdom, not only now, but The inauguration and the presence of the kingdom in Jesus' earthly ministry, this is a good verse to support. There's many verses that teach that, but this is a good supporting verse. What was one of the problems with the scribes and the Pharisees? Well, the main problem was they didn't enter. the kingdom of heaven. They shut the kingdom of heaven in people's faces. You neither you neither enter yourselves nor allow those who would enter to go in. What did John the Baptist come preaching? Repentance? Why? The Messiah was coming. What was the key phrase? Repent for Yeah, the kingdom of heaven the kingdom of heaven is near. The kingdom of God is near. They were supposed to enter the kingdom. Jesus preached the same thing, his apostles preached the same thing. The kingdom of heaven is upon you. Woe to you, verse five. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. You travel across sea and land to make a single proselyte. Whenever he becomes a proselyte, that means convert. Okay. You make him twice as much a child of hell as yours. You see the missionary zeal Of scribes and Pharisees. It doesn't matter if you have a missionary zeal to spread your movement. If your movement is not of God, it's not a good thing. Just having a missionary zeal uh in and of itself. Yeah what's what's the zeal for? Your own glory, your own kingdom, your own uh fame, or that of Christ? So you see the judgment being pronounced on the scribes and Pharisees are a representative of apostate Israel. Woe to you, verse 16, woe to you, blind guides, who say. If anyone swears by the temple, it's nothing. But if anyone swears by the gold of the temple, he's bound by his oath. You blind fools. For which is greater, the gold or the temple that has made the gold? Sacred Obviously the the temple's greater. The only reason that gold is special is because it's on the temple, is this point. And you say if anyone swears by the altar, it's nothing, but if he swears by The gift that is on the altar, he's bound by his oath. You blind men, for which is greater, the gift or the altar that makes the gift sacred? So whoever swears by the altar swears by it and everything on it, and whoever swears by the temple, swears by it, and by him who dwells in it, who is God and whoever swears by heaven swears by the throne of God and by him who sits upon it who is God. And uh ways to get out of ways to rationalize uh themselves out of certain duties before the Lord Verse 23: Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites. You tithe mint and dill and cumin, but if you've neglected the weightier matters of the law, justice mercy and faithfulness. And they give thee maybe even gave more than what was required for these Herbs. Herbs and spices. But they're neglecting justice, mercy, and faithfulness, which has to do with how they treat other people. Has to do with interpersonal relationships Has to do with ethics. Anyone can give herbs. Anyone can give spices. Anyone can put money in a collection plate. Anyone can attend a church service. Anyone can participate in an outreach. How do we treat others? How do we treat others at work, at home, at school? What are our ethics that we live by? They've neglected justice, mercy , mercy, faithfulness. These you ought to have done without neglecting the others, you blind guys, straining out a gnat to swallow a camel. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites You clean the outside of the cup and plate, but the that's the represents the parts of their religion that other people see. That's what that symbolizes. But the inside, inside, which represents what? The heart, yeah, it's great. Their character, yes, absolutely. Who they are is people So the inside is full of greed and self-indulgence. You see the disconnect between who they really are, their character, their heart, and uh their morals, their purity, and their outward religion. What did you say back? They're facad. They're facad, yeah. They're facad. They're hip that's why Jesus is not afraid to keep calling them. What's the key word through all of this? Hypocrites. You're hypocrites. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites You clean the outside of the cup and plate, but the inside are full of greed and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and plate, that the outside also may be clean. A comical illustration. Picture yourself at home and your utensils and picture yourself After the meal, only cleaning the outside of the bowl and only cleaning the outside of the cups and then putting it back up like you did your job. So there's an element uh of humor here, but boy, it's a great illustration Verse 29, Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you uh Oh no no I skipped one. Verse 27. We've got to get all the woes. We've got to get these seven woes because it's the sevenfold judgment, which represents the fullness of judgment. Which one did I skip? Verse 27. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, hypocrites, for you are like whitewashed tombs which outwardly appear beautiful, but within are full of dead people's bones and all uncleanness. So that was a ceremonially unclean thing that would have been painted white so that you um would be able to avoid it, not stumble upon it, and accidentally make yourself ceremonially unclean. But you outwardly appear righteous to others, but within are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. Just tell us what the problem is. Outwardly appear righteous to others, within our hypocrites and lawless. At the very least, we need to admit the reality, the possibility that you really, truly can appear outwardly righteous to others, but simultaneously be full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. That exists. It's very common. Don't be fooled by appearances. Verse twenty nine. Is this is this the seventh one? Let's see. Yeah. Seven woes Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees. Can you imagine how enraged they 're becoming? He is publicly, publicly pronouncing the fullness of divine wrath on them. Talk about cognitive dissonance, because in their minds they were the spiritual elite, the righteous, the holy, the leaders. They sat in Moses' seat. Woe to you. By the way, I'm sorry to keep stopping. Aside from this, okay, it's an age of overlap. The vanishing away of the old covenant and the inauguration of the new covenant. So aside from Christ and his ministry and and uh his disciples and the apostles, the most important role to have on earth at this time um would have been a leader in Israel to be a teacher of the Word of God. to be a preacher and teacher of true righteousness based on the law of God. That's what the culture needs. The culture needs to learn about true righteousness True morals based on the law of God. The law of God is a reflection of God's character. These are not arbitrary things. God's laws and commandments and rules are reflections of who He is. And he gives us those so that we would know who he is and how how short we fall of reflecting his glory, seeing our need for a savior, that we turn to Christ for forgiveness. But also so that once we're forgiven and once we're saved, we would know what obedience looks like. Anyway, it's such an important place that by God's grace they were given. And they're sinning against grace. They're rebelling against grace in this position of authority as teachers of the law. Teachers of the Word of God, leaders of God's people under the old covenant, and um they're hypocrites through and through. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites. Verse 29, we finally got there. For you build the tombs of the prophets and decorate decorate the monuments of the righteous, saying, If we had lived in the days of our fathers, We would not have taken part with them in shedding blood of the prophets. Verse 30. Now what is the great Great obvious irony in them saying that. What are they about to do? They're about to kill us, they're about to kill the one who sent the prophets. They're about to kill the one who who the prophets represented And that's why he says what he says in verse 31. Did you witness against yourselves? That you are sons, true heirs, true heirs in the image. You are sons of those who murdered the prophets. Basically he's saying that's your heritage. And they're going to be faithful to that heritage, unfortunately. Verse 32, fill up then the measure of your fathers. Now what does that mean? The measure of your father's sin and the judgment against that sin. In the Old Testament, one of the main things that symbolized the wrath of God against covenant rebellion was a cup, a cup of judgment that would be poured out. They're filling up, they're bringing to completion, historical completion, and historical climax, the sin of their fathers, and they'll receive, which is this is about to be the whole section coming, they'll receive the judgment for all of that. Fill up then the measure of your fathers, you serpents, you brood of vipers. How do you escape? How are you to escape being sentenced to In the Bible, what's the main thing that serpents a serpent would represent? The devil, sin, rebelling against God. Sneaky. Uh Verse 34. Therefore I'll send I send you prophets and wise men and scribes Some of whom you will kill and crucify. Now he's prophesying. Some of whom I'm going to send you. I'm going to send you prophets and send you wise men and send you scribes. And then what's what are they going to do? Are they going to do something different than what their fathers did? They're going to do the exact same thing. Kill, crucify, flog in your synagogues, persecute from town to town. Verse 35, so that On you may come, and as a result of that, basically what we're saying is as a result of that, here's what's going to come. So that on you may come, on who may come? On them, right, on them, actual people whom he was talking to, on them will come all the righteous blood shed on earth. From the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the sanctuary and the altar. Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. Probably tracing out the first martyr to the last major martyr of the old of the old covenant era. All the way from Abel to Zechariah, son of Barekiah. Zechariah who prophesied after the restoration, after the restoration had begun So, uh you murder between the sanctuary and the altar. Truly I say to you, all these things, what things? What kinds of things? Judgment, wrath will come upon this generation. He's pronouncing God's wrath climactic covenantal wrath and judgment against Is apostate Israel This is going to come within that generation. Within that generation. It couldn't be more personal. It couldn't be more clear that it's coming upon them. Will be the greatest um historical judgment that's given. The the greatest judgment will be the judgment that what? That ends history But y you know the Bible. You've been reading the Bible for decades. There's historical judgments all throughout Scripture. Adam and Eve would be the first one. And then Cain. The whole world except for eight people who were saved in and In an ark, right, from the flood. Sodom and Gomorrah. Um Egypt and Pharaoh and his army. Um Edom. And then God uses Assyria to punish the northern kingdom of Israel. And then he uses Babylon to punish and bring historical judgment again. against the southern kingdom of Israel. Um he'll bring a judgment against m many other and then he'll bring judgment against Babylon, then he'll bring he brought judgment against Assyria, and he'll bring judgment against Nineveh. So there are historical judgments. This is prophesying and picturing a major, climactic historical judgment on apostate Israel that will happen within that generation. That's the context. Now, verse 37. Alright, key. Where did I put my pencil? Here it is. So key phrase. Before I go on reading straight through, let's stop and just point out some key phrases in here because we just saw one of them. Let's read Chapter twenty-three, verses thirty-five and thirty-six again. Thirty-five So that on you may come all the righteous blood shed on earth, from the blood of righteous Abel to the blood of Zechariah, the son of Barekiah, whom you murdered between the the sanctuary in the altar. Truly I say to you, all these things will come upon this generation. First of all, uh righteous blood shed on earth, and then righteous Abel How is any person first of all are all people sinners or just some people sinners? We're not talking about Jesus. It's not a trick question. All people. So if someone's going to be truly righteous before God, how are they going to be righteous? The blood of Christ. They're going to be righteous through or righteous by works? Not by works, but by faith. The righteous will live by faith. You're saved by faith. When you you're you have righteousness credited to you, but also being saved by faith, God now enables you to live a righteous life. just means an obedient life. Not perfectly obedient, not perfectly righteous, but you can you can obey God. In the power of the Spirit, through faith in Christ, you can obey God. So I just want to make sure that when we see Righteous blood shed on earth and righteous able. I want to make sure that we're not picturing people who were in and of themselves good and their good works and obedience made them righteous before God. It never has it, never will. It's not what that's talking about. It's talking about people Saved by grace through faith, counted righteous in the eyes of God. And when it's before the coming of Christ, it's just retroactive application of the blood of Christ, which was Vince Vince's answer. The blood of Christ is the only thing that could cleanse of sin and make someone righteous. Alright. And rabbit trail. Upon this generation. And then in connection with this key phrase, go down to verse 24, 32 to 30. Five twenty four chapter twenty four verse thirty two to thirty-five. This Brackets what we just looked at at the end of 23, that all these things will happen upon this this generation. This now forms a bracket or a bookend To that statement. For the fig tree from the fig tree, learn its lesson. As soon as its branch becomes tender , And puts out its leaves, you know the summer is near. So there's a sign. Once you see these signs, you know the summer is near You need to learn a lesson from that. So also when you see all these things, signs, you know that he is near at the very gates, gates of Jerusalem. Truly I say to you, this generation will not pass away until all these things take place. Just to make a note of how serious he is, heaven and earth will pass away, but my words will not pass away. Jesus could say that after every statement, after every paragraph that he spoke and taught, he could say that. Why does he say it here? He's bracketing off, he's bringing that con that section to a conclusion before he transitions into the The next topic. This generation will not pass away, which means it'll still be there until all these things take place. What things? The things of judgment that he just described and the signs that'll come before that judgment. It's going to be on the city within that generation, the wrath of God on apostate Israel. I keep saying apostate Israel. That's very, very important because Israel as a nation had lost people and saved people. They were saved people, true believers, then that would form part of the foundation of the church, and the Gentiles would be grafted in to that one olive tree of the people of God. That's Paul's language from Romans 9 through 11. But judgment does come on unbelievers, on rebellious Israel, who did not receive Christ and did not repent and did not enter the kingdom of God through faith. That's your one key idea with these two key passages. Whatever he's talking about, this judgment will take place within that generation. Within that generation. Another key idea, first look at chapter 24, 15 through 16. Now we're coming back to really where this whole discussion started and why we're in Matthew anyway. Verse 15 of Matthew 24. So when you see the abomination of desolation spoken of by the prophet Daniel, that's what we just read in Daniel 9. 27. They're going to see that. They're going to see the fulfillment of what Daniel prophesied. The abomination that causes desolation, or for short, the abomination of desolation, spoken of by the prophet Daniel, standing in the holy place. Would have been the temple, let the reader understand. Let the reader of scripture properly interpret this as the way what he's saying. Then, then let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Several significant things in those two little verses. The judgment that Jesus is prophesying and says is going to happen within that generation will culminate in the fulfillment of Daniel's prophecy of the abomination of desolation. And the desecration of the temple. That's important. And that's what I said earlier. It's the best clue at the proper interpretation of the 70 weeks prophecy. Because here Jesus Gives an interpretation of it. Then in verse 16, you see just confirmation that it's a local thing, a local thing. That they were going to see. You're going to see the abomination of desolation. And then in verse 16, let those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. That's not a metaphor for anything. When you see that, you're in Judea? Flee to the mountains, so that you're not slaughtered by the Roman army. Flee to the mountains. How do I know it's An army. Well, the parallel passage in Luke 21. To keep a ribbon in Matthew 24, turn to Luke 21, 20. Luke 21, 20. In the parallel one of the parallel sections About the destruction of the temple that Jesus prophesies, some of the persecution that's connected to that. In that context, in Luke 21:20. When you see Jerusalem surrounded by armies, then you know that it's Desolation, which is a desolation as from God's resulting from God's judgment, then you know that its desolation has come near This is an actual city of Jerusalem surrounded by actual armies that they're going to actually see, and then they're going to know that it's The desolation of Jerusalem, which is God's judgment, has come near. It's not far off. It's come near. It's about to happen. Then, verse 21, then let those who are in Judea Not in Maryland. You can't be in Maryland now and have this happen. Or in the future. Judea, under that generation, if you're in Judea, flee to the mountains and let those who are inside the city depart. And let not those who are out in the country enter it. Get away from Jerusalem. The wrath of God is coming. Flee to the mountains. And historically, Christians Did Jesus is warning his church, warning his people to flee when they see the wrath of God upon apostate Israel, climactic historical judgment. When you see it beginning to happen, get out of there. And the Christians did. They fled that wrath was that what that was to come and that did come. So armies, Judea, Jerusalem, destruction, flee to the mountains. For them, you flee. When you see this, you flee because you'll know the desolation, the abomination that causes desolation. In the city of God and the temple of God has come near. All right, let's go back to Matthew 24. You know what I didn't do tonight? I have a memory of myself typing this up on my laptop today. But I must have forgot to print it. I wanted to do a short review of the 70 weeks in general. Remember the overall significance of the 70 weeks in Matthew, in uh not Matthew, in Daniel. Nine is that within that time frame, the 77s or the 70 weeks, is going to be both the provisional restoration of Israel and the end times or the eschatological restoration of Israel. What's the provisional restoration? It's the people returning to the land and returning to the city and rebuilding the temple, resuming the sacrifices. Basically, the the restoration of the old covenant nation under the old covenant law and worship. The eschatological or the end times restoration would have been. Final restoration, deliverance from death, deliverance from sin, the establishing of the church, Christ and his redemptive work, Christ reigning as Lord of heaven And the people of God, um, the church on earth bringing salvation to the ends of the earth, to all nations, all peoples in the name of Christ. Within the seventy weeks, you're the seventy-sevens, you'll have both the provisional restoration and then the ultimate restoration. And when that ultimate restoration is inaugurated, that provisional restoration is reversed. It's done away with. That's in the 70 weeks prophecy. And that's what we're seeing here. The final judgment comes. And the old covenant is no longer in effect. It is no longer anywhere in the world ever since this time The first coming of Christ is the old covenant in effect. All right. Matthew did I tell us to turn back to Matthew twenty four? What was the last thing I said? Matthew Actually, no, we didn't make it that far. Do we still have to look at um Matthew twenty-three verse thirty-seven, right? We still have to look at that little paragraph. Oh, Jerusalem, Jerusalem. It's one of the saddest statements ever. Jerusalem, Jerusalem, the city that kills the prophets, and stow stones those who are sent, those who come in love, those who come in truth. Those who come as God's messengers, they hate them and they kill them. How often would I have gathered your children together as a hen gathers her brood under her wings And you were not willing. They weren't willing. They didn't repent. They didn't receive the word of God. Verse 38: See, your house is left to you desolate. Void of God's blessing, void of God's favor. But it's only under judgment. Your house is left to you desolate. For I tell you, you will not see me again until you say, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. Now that'll make for a rich study we don't have time for tonight. But I'll give you The short version. They had already said that in chapter 21, verse 9, in the triumphal entry. It's a reciting of Psalm 118 verse 26. And it's looking forward to another time where that will be said, and we'll come to it. God will come as Savior. Christ will come as Savior to his people. But that's not going to happen until after a time of severe judgment. It's gonna be a time of severe judgment, and then that return to Christ will happen again. So there's there's more to it there, obviously, in more detail. But this is not looking forward to the triumphal entry. The triumphal entry had already Happened. And they said, Blessed is he who comes in the name of the Lord. There's gonna be another time when they say that after severe judgment Now, we're gonna get as far through Matthew twenty-four , one through now this through 35. As much as we can. I know I'm probably not gonna use the whole thing. And it's like Daniel 9, uh It's like the seventy weeks prophecy. There's so many different elements to it. All those elements that you know they have Old Testament background that you need to look at to get the right meaning. There's lots of different views, different interpretations, lots of debate here. We can't go into We can't go into everything, otherwise we won't understand everything. Let me point out one, two, three, four, five things quickly just to have in your mind as we read through. And I think I mentioned all of these. If not, I've mentioned most of them. Just notice, things to notice. Jesus is going to be talking about things that are going to happen To them in that generation. That's number one. That they'll be able to recognize when it's happening, and when they recognize it, they need to flee the judgment. They need to be aware of it. By the way, I'm absolutely convinced. This is why you see in Acts in the church in Jer Jerusalem such a willingness to sell their property and to sell all their things and give to the church. church for ministry because they knew judgment was coming. Why are you gonna hold on to that? That's a good paradigm for how we should think of our properties and our homes and our cars and our trucks and our money and our bigger barns that we keep Filling and storing things, material things in that will not last past the judgment. So number one, he's talking about things that's going to happen to them in that generation. They'll recognize when it's happening. Uh number two, recognize again in Judea. In Ju Judea , within that generation, said that. uh before. Things centered on the destruction of the temple. That when you are in the Old Testament and the people of God are in exile in Babylon, whenever there's talk of restoration back to Jerusalem, restoration of the old covenant nation, the focus is always on the rebuilding of the temple. That's not the only element to that restoration, but that's the focus. That's the center point, the the center piece of the restoration will be the rebuilding of the temple. Here, when you see judgment coming, the final historical judgment coming on Israel, it's centered on the destruction of the temple. It's the reversal of that restoration. It's centered on the destruction of the temple, and finally, as all this is happening as the fulfillment of Daniel 9:27. It's happening to them In Judea, within one generation, centered on the destruction of the temple, and it's the fulfillment of Daniel 9. 27. Verse one of Matthew twenty-four. Jesus left the temple and was going away when his disciples came to point out to him the buildings of the temple. But he answered them, You see all these, do you not? Truly, I say to you, there will not be left here one stone upon another that will not be thrown down Destruction. The destruction of the temple, he tells them, is going to happen. Whatever else we do whatever else we do not understand perfectly, whatever else we might disagree with in the coming paragraphs The main topic and the central prophecy is absolutely clear. He's telling them the temple 's going to be destroyed. Verse 3: As he sat down, as he sat on the Mount of Olives, The disciples came to him privately saying, Tell us, when will these things be? That's one question. When will these things be? The destruction of the temple, the throwing down of all the stones, when will that be? That's one question. Comma. And what will be the sign of your coming and of the end of the age? Second question. Two questions. Apparently, the disciples had in their minds that the temple was not going to be destroyed. And unless and until the final historical coming of Christ and the end of this age, the end of history as we know it. And you know, as I know, the disciples are notorious for misunderstanding things about Christ, about discipleship, about the kingdom, about the coming of the kingdom. And so there's a misunderstanding that they have that the destruction of the temple that Jesus just prophesied was going to be concurrent, which just means happened at the same time. They thought the destruction of the temple was going to be concurrent with the end of history and the final coming of Christ. And they're wrong about that. So when Jesus answers them, he answers in two major sections. The first section runs from verse 4 to verse 35. That's what we're going to look at in just a moment. And then the second section that does address his final coming and the end of history begins in verse 36. Look at verse 36. But concerning that day, concerning that day and hour, no one knows. So everything he's talking about before that, he does know And he tells them clearly so that they can know, so that they can respond in the proper way. But in verse 36 he says, concerning that day and hour, no one knows, not even the angels of heaven, nor the Son, but the Father only. And then from that point, all the way into chapter 25, the focus is on the final coming of Christ and the final judgment. All the way through chapter 25, as a matter of fact. So 24, 36, all the way through 25. The major focus is the final return of Christ and the final judgment, the final separation of the sheep and the goats. Everything before that, which is verse four through thirty-five, is the destruction of the temple that would happen. within that generation. Yes, there will be a quiz on this. It's important to, you know, the things that are clear in the text and obviously said, obviously stated. Let those be our ground. Let those be our foundation. So that when we come to things that are difficult, so that we come to things that are unclear. We won't get confused, we won't get discouraged, we won't feel the need to launch off into speculation or try to go somewhere else for an in for an interpretive framework. Things that we don't understand don't nullify things that are clear and things that we do understand. The thing that's clear is The main point in this section is the destruction of the temple. Verse 4, Jesus answered them, see That no one leads you astray. That has always implied to me that it's easy to be led astray on these matters. It's easy to be caught up in some of the uh the shock value and excitement of end times teachings and warnings and fear mongering. Jesus said, See to it that no one leads you astray. Um And the way he's going to see to that is to to guard them from error on these matters, he's about to tell them the truth about these matters. And let the truth that he's about to tell them not lead them astray. Verse 5, for many will come in my name, saying, I'm the Christ, and they will lead many astray. And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars. See that you are not alarmed. Notice the word you. You. You're going to hear of wars. You're going to hear of rumors of wars. See to it that you are not alarmed For this must take place, but the end is not yet. For nation will rise against nation, kingdom against kingdom. And there will be famines and earthquakes in various places. All these are but the beginning of birth pangs. Just the beginning of birth pains. The end is not yet. And then he says, just the beginning, which means it's just another way of saying not the end. Right. Just the beginning means not the end. Verse 9. They will deliver you up to tribulation and put you to death, and you will be hated by all nations. The th this is the this is the flip side of the coin to what he said to the scribes and Pharisees He said to the scribes and Pharisees, I'm going to send you wise men, I'm going to send you prophets, and you'll put them to death. Now he's saying to his disciples, They're going to put you to death. So it's just the uh it's just a flip side. He's just talking to his followers here instead of those uh his instead of his enemies Verse 10, and then many will fall away and betray one another and hate one another. And many false prophets will arise and lead many astray And because lawlessness will be increased, the love of many will grow cold. This is why there's so many warnings Warnings against falling away, warnings against falling away because of persecution. That's why that's all throughout the New Testament, because they were living in this generation, in this era. Uh let's see, where was I? Verse 13, but the one who endures to the end will be saved. And this gospel of the kingdom will be proclaimed throughout the whole world as a testimony to all nations Then the end will come. Now that's foreshadowing. That's looking forward. In that era of persecution and killing The ch killing disciples of Christ, persecuting the church, waging war against the kingdom of God, waging war against the church, that's not going to stop Christ from discipling the nations Don't be discouraged. She's telling them ahead of time. This gospel will be proclaimed to the whole world as a testimony to all nations, and then the end will come. So verse six, the end is not yet. Verse 8, it's just the beginning. Uh verse 14, saying it with just more deep detail. If the gospel hasn't been proclaimed to the whole world, as the gospel hasn't been testified, Two, in all nations, then the end's not near. That's going to happen first, and then the end will come. Therefore, verse 15, therefore. Therefore, when you see the abomination of desolation spoken by the prophet Daniel standing in the holy place, let the reader understand, then those who are in Judea flee to the mountains. Now, try to let's try to wrap our minds around this. Because I I hate that there's a paragraph break right there, because there's a connection between verse 15 and what came before. So, or therefore when you see the abomination of desolation Then you flee. If what he was talking about was the final judgment and the return of Christ, which would also mean the resurrection, And the gathering and glorifying of the people of God, why would they flee? There'd be no need to flee. There'd be no purpose for fleeing. But because it's not the end of history, it's not the final coming of Christ, it's not the final gathering and glorifying of the church. is a historical judgment and apostate Israel, flee. Therefore, flee. They still have work to do in gospel ministry. So flee. Uh verse 17, let the one is on the housetop. Not go down to take what's in this house. Just get out of there. Verse 18, let the one who's in the field not turn back to take his cloak. Don't worry about your cloak. Worry about your life. Get out of there. And alas, for women who are pregnant and for those who are nursing infants in those days, pray that your flight may not be in the winter or Sabbath. And if it was the end of history, And the final judgment and the final gathering in glory with Christ, why would you care what season it was in? But they're going to have to travel, they're going to have to flee, leave their homes, leave their stuff. And flee. Verse 21. Then there will be great tribulation, such as not been from the beginning of the world until now. No, and never will be. Perhaps a bit of hyperbole, but I do believe this is talking about the greatest and worst historical wrath of God. Wrath of God poured out within history. And it was horrible. And we don't have time, and I don't have the notes on it or the historical resources and writings on it before me right now. But the the tragedy. and the suffering in Jerusalem in the Jewish and Roman wars in the mid to late 60s, culminating in the year 70 And the siege on Jerusalem and the destruction of the temple was horrible. It was absolutely horrible. But all of it was the wrath of God using pagan Rome as judgment. against Israel. Just like it 's exactly parallel to the Old Testament when he used Assyria as judgment against the old uh against the northern kingdom and he Use the Babylonian Empire as his vehicle of judgment against the Southern Kingdom. Now he's using the Roman Empire as vehicle of judgment against this generation. Verse 22, and if those days had not been cut short, no human being would be saved. Of course that's true. If God doesn't restrain his wrath, nobody nobody the world would end. Nobody would be saved. If the days of vengeance don't end by God's providence and sovereign decree, no nobody would be saved. The world will just end. But for the sake of the elect, those days will be cut short. What's that referring to is all the people that God would save all through throughout history. All the elect. Paul says that in 2 Timothy 2. I suffer for the sake of the elect, that they too may obtain the salvation that is in Christ Jesus. Sake of the elect o' be cut short. Verse 23. That if anyone says to you, look, here's Christ, or there he is, do not believe it. Do not believe it. For false Christs. And false prophets will arise and perform great signs and wonders, so as to lead astray, if possible, even the elect, hyperbole, for how effective false teachers are. False seizures are some of the richest people, most persuasive people in the world today, if not the most persuasive people in the world. It's spiritual and psychological manipulation and exploitation. C, C, verse 25, I've told you beforehand. So if they say to you, look, he's in the wilderness, don't go out. If they say, look, he's in the inner rooms, do not believe it. For as the lightning comes from the east and shines as far as the west, so will be the coming of the Son of Man. Wherever the corpse is, there the vultures will gather There 's a corpse there. The vultures are going to gather, and the the desolate and uh rebellious apostate Israel is the corpse. And the vultures is the Roman army sent by God to bring wrath upon them. It's a historical coming of judgment. You see this throughout the Old Testament. God comes in judgment. God comes in judgment. God comes in judgment. Historical judgment. The coming of the Son of Man here is his coming in wrath upon apostate Israel and Jerusalem and destroying the temple. It's not his final coming. The whole section is about that. To have God coming in history in judgment is not a strange thing. It's not a unique thing here. Sometimes that throws us just because we've been so ingrained, we're so used to when we hear the word coming, we immediately think is final coming. And actually I have notes on this too. I could do a whole class on this, even in the New Testament verses where it's called that Jesus comes, but it's not his final coming. It's just he's coming in judgment. Verse 29. Verse 29. Immediately after. Oh yeah, this is one of my Favorite. We'll stop on this point, okay? I was hoping we get to verse 35 and man we're close. We may read that far, but I won't get to talk about everything. But we're about to get something that I think is um I think is intriguing. And if we get the Old Testament interpretation, it will help us greatly. Immediately after the tribulation of those days, um In Judea, in Jerusalem, the sun will be darkened, and the moon will not give its light, and the stars will fall from heaven, and the powers of the heavens will be shaken. Let's just end right there for tonight. In the Old Testament, that symbolizes that language, that prophetic symbolism, in the Old Testament, multiple times it symbolizes the destruction of a great city. The destruction of a great world power and the city in which that power is centered. It symbolizes a major historical shift in world powers brought about by the intervention of God within history. The symbolic imagery, the prophetic symbolism is destruction of a great city. I'll give you just just a few examples. Just a few. There's many more. But it's not, it doesn't talk about the end of the world, end of world history. The end of the world history symbolism would be these all these things are melted by fire and completely done away with. They don't just lose some of their creative. So it's just a shift in uh the spiritual realm and it's manifested in the destruction of a great city. Isaiah 13, 10. This prophet same prophetic imagery is used for the Persians overthrowing the Babylonians. Did history end when the Persians overthrew the Babylonians? No, but this happened in Isaiah 34. three and following. This language, this kind of prophetic symbolism refers to the overthrow of Edom and other wicked nations. When Edom and other wicked nations were overthrown, did history end? No. Are we getting the picture? This isn't twisting scripture. This is interpreting prophecy in light of its old Testament, background and meaning. Instead of speculating, oh what do you think it what do you think this means? What do the experts think that this means One more, just one more for tonight. Ezekiel 32, verses 6 and following. It's talking about Babylonians overthrowing and bringing destruction upon Egypt. When the Babylonians overthrew and brought destruction upon Egypt, did history end? Was that the final coming of Christ? No. That language in the Bible, I don't know about anywhere else. In the Bible, that language does not talk about the end of world history as we know it. Doesn't talk about the end of this age. It's a way of talking about the destruction of a great city through God's intervention. It's a major historical shift in world powers. That's what the uh The drastic nature of the change of what of what's seen. To be continued. Let's pray.