Well, Matthew chapter 20, verses 20 through 34, is where we'll be this evening. Matthew 20, verse verses 20, we'll go down to verse 34. So kind of as a reminder, the big idea that we've kind of continued to circle back to as we've walked through the Gospel of Matthew for goodness over a year at this point, I think, is it's a long book, so it makes sense. Is the kingdom of God. We've really been emphasizing this idea of the kingdom and how Jesus ushers in and inaugurates God's kingdom. So we've seen that Jesus has come as God's anointed son. We get that from Matthew 1:1, where Jesus is identified as the Christ or as the Messiah. He's the one through whom God is going to fulfill his promises, through whom God is going to save and redeem his people, and through whom God is going to establish this saving reign for all eternity. That's the big idea that we've continued to think about that's kind of propelled the narrative forward. So much of Jesus' teaching has been about the nature of the kingdom. And one of the things that we've noted quite often is this divide between the kind of kingdom that people expected Jesus to bring and the kind of kingdom that he had actually come to. We've seen this theme a lot, both with the Pharisees and even with Jesus' own disciples. We've thought about the fact that they've really primarily been thinking about the kingdom in these earthly categories. When they thought about the kingdom, they thought about it, and we're going to see this again tonight in terms of kind of, you know, power, uh prestige They're thinking Jesus is coming to bring this military political deliverance from Roman occupation. But Jesus has come along and consistently he's pushed against these ideas and he's clarified over and over again that his kingdom is not defined by the values and the principles of this world. And consistently we've seen that in fact, in the eyes of the world, Jesus' kingdom is this upside-down kingdom. It's built on a different set of principles than what the world under the domain of sin operates with. So consider with me just a few of the things we've seen Jesus teach about kind of the ethics of this upside-down kingdom. In chapter 18, verses 1 through 4, we saw that Jesus' kingdom is a kingdom where greatness Comes through humility, comes through lowliness, comes through childlike dependence on God. In chapter 19, we saw that his kingdom is a kingdom that belongs to little children. I don't trust my kids with like a glass walking around the house, much less the kingdom. It's a kingdom we see also in chapter 19 where physical wealth is not a sure sign of blessing. And the love of stuff may just be the thing that keeps you out of the kingdom. We also saw that finally chapter twenty verse sixteen, it's a kingdom where the first will be last, the last will be first. We see Jesus teaching. That in several places. Well, one more. This brings us up to where we just left off. It's a kingdom in which the king himself is going to suffer and die. And rise again. Right before the passage we're going to look at tonight, we have Jesus for the third time telling his disciples that he's going to go to Jerusalem, he's going to be delivered over to the religious authorities. He's going to suffer, he's going to die, and he's going to rise again. And what will look like failure in the eyes of the world and to the disciples, what will look like defeat Is in fact going to be the way that Jesus secures the victory of his kingdom. So Jesus' kingdom is a kingdom where suffering, where death, and where resurrection Are at the very center. They're the thing that makes it possible for anyone to enter the kingdom. So as we come to this passage tonight, thinking about what Jesus has just told his disciples. It should strike us like this massive irony that right after that, right after Jesus for the third time predicts his death and resurrection, Two disciples come to Jesus with their mommy to try and lobby for the best seats in the kingdom. We're going to see James and John and Mama Zebedee make this request. And one of the things it's going to reveal to us is though they may have recognized Jesus as King, they didn't yet really completely understand what his kingship meant. They didn't understand what it would look like for them to follow after him as king. So as we look through these two narratives tonight, we're going to see Jesus continue to clarify the nature of his kingdom. Kingdom. And as he does that, he's going to also clarify what it means for us to live as citizens of the his kingdom. What it looks like in heart and in life to live as one who has come under the banner. And so the main ideas I have for us are are in our two points. Jesus' kingdom is a kingdom of servants, and it's a kingdom of It's a kingdom where greatness is defined by service that is modeled after and made possible by Jesus' service to us on the cross. Cross. And it's a kingdom in which the blind will rightly be the ones who acknowledge Jesus as King, while pushing forward into the next narrative, the earthly religious greats are going to miss it entirely. Well let's look at Matthew chapter 20. We'll read our text and then we'll walk through it together. Then the mother of the sons of Zebedee came up to him with her sons, and kneeling before him she asked for him for something. And he said to her, What do you want? She said to him, Say that these two sons of mine are to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left in your kingdom. Jesus answered, You do not know what you are asking. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink They said to him, We are able. He said to them, You will drink my cup, but to sit at my right hand and at my left is not mine to grant, but it is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father. And when the ten heard it they were indignant at the two brothers. But Jesus called them to him and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them, and their great ones exercise authority over them. It shall not be so among them You. But whoever would be great among you must be your servants, and whoever would be first among you must be your slave, even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve, and to give his life as a ransom for many. And they went out of Jericho, and as they went out of Jericho, a great crowd followed him. And behold, there were two blind men sitting by the roadside. And when they heard that Jesus was Passing by, they cried out, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David. The crowd rebuked them, telling them to be silent. But they cried out all the more, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David. And stopping, Jesus called them and said, What do you want me to do for you? They said to him, Lord, let our eyes be opened. And Jesus in pity touched their eyes, and immediately they recovered their sight. And followed him. We'll consider first in verses twenty through twenty-eight that Jesus' kingdom is a kingdom of servants So this narrative is set up for us in verse 20 and 21. James and John come to Jesus with their mother to make a request. And here's the thing, before we completely chastise them for what they're about to say and how they're basically about to make a fool of themselves, we want to acknowledge that they're about 20% right here. Recognize that they do acknowledge Jesus' authority. They come to Him, they kneel before Him. There's a sense in which they recognize Him as King here And they even have some sort of forward-looking hope that Jesus is going to reign. Jesus is going to sit on a throne in his kingdom. When you make a request, you know you're acknowledging that the person you're asking has some sort of authority to fulfill that request. So there's a sense in which they get something right here, but then we need to see that in a much more vital sense they're just completely Off the mark. Because they recognize Jesus' authority, but ultimately look at how they're seeing Jesus' authority as a way to secure their own authority and their own status. This is a theme that we've highlighted already in a couple different sections in Matthew's gospel, but I think it's relevant here. We need to see and beware of the danger of seeing Jesus as a means to get to some other end. We need to beware any temptation to either in our own hearts or in our witnessing to other people say, Come to Jesus, so you can get fill in the blank. You come to Jesus to get wealth, power, a better life, respectability, better family, whatever the thing is. You see this in this passage where they're coming to Jesus, but they're coming to Jesus to get something other than Jesus. They're coming to Jesus to amass kind of their own power and greatness, and in a sense, build their own little kingdoms within Jesus' kingdom. Well, I think the requests and and just the fact that they get their mother involved here is is interesting and kind of hilarious and pathetic to me. Uh you can just kind of imagine the scene, you know, all parents think that their kids are just the absolute best. You can imagine the scene of James and John with their mother and their mother's like, you know, you see these two handsome Some young men. Wouldn't they just look so nice on either side of you, Jesus? They're good boys. So they make she makes this request in verse 21. Say that these two sons of mine are to sit, one at your right hand and one at your left, in your kingdom. Jesus, give them the best seats in the kingdom. Make them seconds in command. Yeah, Jesus, you know, you get to be the most glorious. We get it. You're the king. But my two sons, they'll be the ones right next to you, smiling in all the pictures. And again, before we chastise them, which we kind of are already, but recognize that in their minds this could have been perhaps a noble thing to ask for. Again, they're recognizing Jesus as king. They believe he's going to reign. Perhaps this is a way for them to show just how devoted they are to Jesus as King. Jesus, we're so devoted to you that we want to be right next to you in your kingdom. So there's a question that I think this prompts and that I want us to think about a little bit together. What's wrong with this request? I mean, is ambition such a bad thing? Should we not be go-getters who ask for stuff? Uh this is a non-retorical question now. What's wrong with the request they're making? Seeking their own glory, yeah, absolutely. Yeah. It's exalting self, and that's where Jesus is gonna go. Well I think it reveals a couple things. I I want us to think about three things briefly here that I think this request reveals. One, it reveals that they had a wrong view of themselves. There's this assumption, and you see it in this interchange, that they were somehow worthy of the highest places of honor in Christ's kingdom. You can see this in their response in verse 22. When Jesus asks them this question, which when we look at it, we're going to see this is a hard-hitting question. And they respond, We are able. That's pretty baffling. They have a wrong view of who they are. They grossly underestimated the depths of their sinfulness. And they were seeking self-exaltation because they thought already far too highly of themselves. They didn't yet see clearly that on their own they're not even worthy to enter God's kingdom. Much less sit in the very best seat. And we need to beware of this own mindset because it's rooted in us, in our sin, before we come to faith in Jesus. Jesus. When we don't see ourselves rightly, we can believe that God's kingdom is a place we have a right to be in on our own. So this question and this request reveals a wrong view of themselves. I think this narrative also reveals to us a wrong use of their family. So they don't know all of what's behind we don't know all of what's behind this Request. We don't know the conversations that happened between James and John and their mother. We do know that instead of Teaching their mother about the greatness of Jesus and all the amazing things that they had seen him do, and the fact that he is the Christ who has come to fulfill God's promises Instead of teaching her about the glory of Jesus Christ, they're using their mom to try and secure their own spot in Jesus' kingdom. Jesus is going to later correct this view of others. He's going to correct us against a view of others that looks at people based solely on what we can get out of them. But they have a wrong view of and use of their family. And then finally, they have a wrong view of Jesus in his kingdom. Notice how they're still thinking in these earthly categories. This kind of top-down way of thinking, where the best seats mean you're the most important person. Or to be great is to achieve status and be seen as a somebody. It seems like they're viewing their relationship to Jesus as something that can earn them this favorable status of power and prestige over other people. And we again need to recognize and beware of this kind of thinking. In the church, in the broader evangelical world, and in our own hearts. We need to beware of thinking that we've ever earned a spot in the so-called inner circle of a church Or that we're one of the important people of the church, or that churches are like, you know, corporations with ladders to climb. Such a mindset is cancerous in Christ Church. It erodes the kind of community that God intends for us to be. Because that kind of mindset is built on love of self. It's built on this inflated view of who we are. And therefore, it blinds us to being able to see the glory and greatness of God, and it blinds us to be able to see and love others. So we see the request, we see what it reveals about the hearts of these two disciples. Well, in verse 22, we get into Jesus' response. He says in verse 22, you do not know what you are asking. It's an understatement. Are you able to drink the cup that I am to drink? Remember, Jesus had just told them for the third time that he's going to suffer, he's going to be crucified, and he's going to rise again. What the disciples didn't yet grasp was that this is how he was going to secure his kingdom and his throne. The cross would be the path for Jesus to the throne. I think Philippians chapter 2 is really helpful here, verses 5 through 11. We read there about how Jesus became obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. And what's the very next thing that Paul says? For this reason, the Father highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name above every name. The path of the cross is the path of the throne for King Jesus So Jesus is going to die. And more than that, we know on this side of the cross that he's going to die as a sin-bearing substitute. Who takes on the wrath of God for sinners? He's going to experience not just immense physical pain of a crucifixion, which is a grueling way to die. He's going to be experiencing the spiritual Spiritual anguish of being forsaken by the Father. And that's how He's going to secure His kingdom and His throne. And everyone who enters into the kingdom, you and I today, will enter in by virtue of his death and resurrection. So this question that he asks should ring strongly in our ears. Do you really think that you're able to drink the cup that's before me? James and John. So when we see them answer at the end of verse 22, we are able. Again, we should just be kind of flabbergasted at that. It proves that Jesus is right. They have no clue what they're saying. Well, he continues in verse 23. He says, You will drink my cup. Oh boy, that's a sobering statement. Jesus is saying they they will in fact be killed for identifying with Jesus. And history bears this out. Acts chapter 12, James is put to death by the sword. John, we know, was exiled to the island of Patmos, died there. So they will follow in Jesus' footsteps, which also, I believe, is a testimony to the power of the gospel, because here they're seeking their own glory. They're going to die as those, though, who are bearing witness to the glory of Jesus. So we see something of the power of the gospel there, but even still see Jesus teach that it's the Father, the Father alone, who determines who sits at the right and the left hand of Jesus. It is for those for whom it has been prepared by my Father, he says. And his point, which he's going to clarify even more in the next verses, is. You don't labor in my kingdom to kind of amass and build up your own status, your own prestige, your own recognition. That's not the way of greatness in this kingdom. Greatness is going to come through serving. And I think there's a couple important applications here and kind of pushback or just clarification we should take here. I think we need to be careful here that we don't turn suffering in and of itself as kind of its own sort of quest for greatness. So think about how the disciples could have heard this. They could have heard, oh, we're gonna drink his cup. Oh great. You know, that'll be a little tough, but man, that means we're gonna secure some pretty sweet spots in the kingdom after all. Jesus, I don't believe, doesn't intend for our lives to be kind of the martyrdom Olympics. We're all we're all trying to outdo one another and suffering as much as possible. We also need to recognize that God does not act like a vending machine. It's not as though we put in, you know, X amount of suffering and receive Y amount of reward. It's not for us to quantify. When we enter into glory and when we receive the reward that God has for us, we're not going to be disappointed by what we receive, and we're not going to be tempted to compare. We're not going to be jealous of those who receive more than us. So, something that Jesus teaches us here in this initial part of his response is: let God be God. To live with this kingdom mindset, let God be God The Father is the one who's going to reward as he sees fit. Don't labor trying to quantify your exact reward. Well, continuing on here, we see in verse 24 this really vivid picture of the impact. That this kind of self-exalting, self-seeking heart has on the people around you. We read there, and when the ten heard it They hear the request that James and John and Mother Zebedee made, they were indignant at the two brothers When we live with this kind of mindset within the body of Christ, when we pursue self-exalting greatness, it sows division and discord. It wreaks havoc on the community of faith. Faith. So the other ten hear about it and it says they're indignant at James and John. Now it's not because they were just kind of above it all and like so frustrated, how could you ever ask for that? Uh I heard read one commentator say it's probably because they just wish they had asked first. You know, maybe they're thinking, oh man, I should have brought my mom. That would've helped me out a lot. James and John just happen to be the ones here who express this out loud. But see this. See See that when you have a community that's built on love of self, where everyone is just jockeying for the best seat at the table. You're gonna reflect the kingdom of darkness, not the kingdom of the sun. This is the way of the world. You know, do whatever it takes to get ahead. Fight and scratch your way to the top. But it has disastrous consequences on the body of believers. This is how you sow disunity, distrust, where people start to become objects who only have value based on what you can. can get from them. This is just a way to wreak havoc on the community of faith And and there are times though, tragically, where we see this in churches. I I can remember being in Bible college and and seeing people who it was just so obvious they were trying so desperately in every interaction they had with professors or with other students to get ahead. You know, the people who raise their hand in a class and then go on talking for 10 minutes and they never had a question in there anywhere. I experience that so often seeing that where it's just this way to try to get yourself a little bit closer in the good graces of this or that person. And it's not wrong to have discussion. My goodness, I want us to discuss things, but you can just see so often a heart that is all about building up self. But that wreaks havoc on the Church of Jesus Christ. And as we go on here, we see that Jesus intends to teach them and to teach us a better way. So in verses twenty-five through twenty-eight, we see that Jesus corrects them. And what Jesus is going to teach them Is that in his kingdom, greatness is found in serving others after the pattern of Jesus Himself. So let's consider this together. Verse 25, Jesus says, Jesus called them to him and said, You know that the rulers of the Gentiles lord it over them. And their great ones exercise authority over them. So what he's saying For the world, according to the world's system , rulers of the Gentiles, greatness equals power. Greatness is all about who's in charge, who gets to exercise authority. Who gets to hold the clipboard? I've seen this in workplaces where you know like when the person gets promoted and they get the clipboard, something just switches in their brain and they feel like they have this immense power all of a sudden. Clip po clipboards can be a dangerous temptation. But it's all about making sure everybody else knows who's in charge, and then exercising your power however you see fit. And we need to see that this would have been a vivid illustration for them. Because they're under Roman occupation. They're Judah at this time is under the occupation of Rome. So they get it. Rome had subjugated the entire known world, basically, at this point, and had the power to do whatever they want. The disciples, they know that the rulers of the Gentiles lorded over them. That's their daily reality. That's life at this point in world history. And they believe That Gentile rule is the very thing that Jesus had kind of come to deal with, that he was coming to deliver Israel out from under the thumb of Rome. But notice what he's doing here, because I think this is a very uh vivid and powerful rebuke that he's about to give them. Notice that he is identifying their heart mindset and their self-seeking grasp for a seat of power. Jesus is identifying that With the mindset of the Gentiles, not with the behavior of the kingdom. He's saying, you disciples, you've adopted the mindset of the world. At heart, you are more like your Roman occupiers than you are like the children of God. He's just holding up this massive mirror to their hearts and with this powerful illustration that would have been like a slap in the face. He's exposing their sinful self-seeking. Well, then he goes on in verse 26, he says, It shall not be so among you. So, this is the way of the world. I'm calling you to something different. I'm calling you to something better. His kingdom is going to be built on a different set of principles. So the question then is, well, okay, what else? What are we to pursue instead? It says in verse 26: But whoever would be great among you must be your servant. And whoever would be first among you must be your slave. So the principle here is that greatness as a citizen of God's kingdom Is defined by a heart and by a life that seeks the good of others through humble service. It's not about being in charge. It's not about being seen as a somebody. It's about sacrificially and joyfully giving of ourselves to bless and build up others. See here that Jesus has already identified greatness with children. Not a place you'd expect to see greatness. Now he's identifying greatness with slaves and servants. Somewhere you definitely Definitely, definitely would not have expected to find greatness. And in some ways these are basic principles, and if we've been in church for any length of time, we're we're familiar with this. Yeah, humble service. We we need to serve one another. But this is something that our hearts just constantly resist because we're sinners. And because left to our own devices apart from the grace of God, we are hardwired to put ourselves First. We are hardwired to think that we're the ones on the throne of our lives and everyone else has to bow to us. We might not put it in those terms, but how often can we identify those kinds of thoughts and emotions and reactions to Things. the first time? But see that God intends, by His grace, to form us into a people together who truly love Him and truly love others And therefore, we find true joy, true satisfaction, and we truly define greatness by seeking the good of others. So the principle here, greatness is not defined by being the one in charge who gets to exercise authority however you want. Greatness is defined by being a servant, by seeking the good of others. So that's the principle. And then he grounds that in a reason. So why? Is this just kind of a nice principle that that makes people generally more pleasant to be around? Uh I mean, even the world to a certain extent agrees with this principle. I took a leadership class for my seminary, and one of the things I had to do for that class was look at some kind of non-Christian secular research on leadership theory. Not the most fun thing I've ever had to do, but uh there is acknowledgement, you know, that servant leadership is generally a good thing. So Jesus Is this just a nice principle, you know, that makes people a little less miserable? Well, it's much more than that. What we see here in verse twenty-eight is that this principle of service in the kingdom It's defined by and it's empowered by the gospel itself. Jesus says, even as the Son of Man came not to be served, but to serve. And to give his life as a ransom for many. So what we are called to and how we are called to live in heart and in life, it's rooted in what Christ Jesus has done for us In coming in the form of a servant and giving his life as a ransom for sinners to pull us out of the kingdom of darkness and condemnation and bring us into eternal life. So see that the king, Jesus, who is undoubtedly the great greatest, when he first came, he came not to just sit on a throne and eat grapes. He came to serve Through death. So, Christian, why should you think your life is going to be any different? Why should you think that your life as a follower of Jesus is going to take a different trajectory than serving Others joyfully and sacrificially. And as we see this, I want us to recognize two things. Recognize here that the cross of Christ It's the blueprint for our lives as servants, but it's also the fuel source. It's the blueprint and the fuel source. So, in one sense, Jesus is our example. And that's kind of the clear message of verse 28. You see what I'm about, Jesus is saying to his disciples. You will see what I'm going to do. You do likewise. That's the shape your life is to take. That's the posture you're to assume toward others. And again, Philippians chapter two is really helpful here. Your your homework Can be reading Philippians 2, 1 through 11, where Paul says basically this: have this mind in yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. So the cross of Christ is the blueprint for us, but he's a lot more than an example. He's the one who makes this possible in our hearts and in our lives. His life, his death, his resurrection, these are the means by which our love of self is overcome Because apart from a work of his grace, we're dead in our sins, and we're always going to put ourselves first in that state. But when we look to him by faith, We're forgiven of our sins and we're made new. We're brought from death to life. We are And dwelt with his Holy Spirit. And now, as new creations in Christ, God is by his Spirit shaping us into a people Who truly love God and truly love others, and desire to serve others from the heart. He's shaping us by his grace, through his word and his spirit, into people who agree with this definition of greatness. Because naturally we don't. And we need to recognize that this then happens by looking to Christ in faith. If we want to grow in this mindset as believers at this church, in this place, in this state, county zip code, it happens by looking to Christ in faith. daily and relying on his strength. Well, uh I want to pause here and think about just a few application questions As we think through how we put these things on in our own context, what makes it difficult to live with this mindset? The obvious answer is sin, and I already said that, so you can't say that. But specifically, what makes it difficult? Pride? Yeah. Particular manifestation. Putting myself first. What else? Practically and spiritually internally Don't we sometimes expect for other people to serve us first? Don't we kind of expect, yeah, I like this idea, but come on Come on, other people need to need to come to me first. I clearly have more needs than you sort of impressions are obstacles are in the other. Sure. Uh what about this? Don't we sometimes believe the lie that we're too busy? We're too busy to go out of our way to be servants to other people. I know that's one that often for me is at is at the top wrong of the ladder of what I convince myself to be true about my life, it's probably not as true as I think it is. We should also recognize that sometimes people are awkward. And sometimes it feels like there's this tremendous risk in going out of our way to serve and love people who are just a little bit weird and who might be kinda difficult to love and serve and sacrificially give of ourselves towards. Like it it's okay to admit that and recognize that. I i praise the Lord. The weird people are great. Absolutely. Oh boy, that's that's opening a can of worms. I think we're all weird. We're we're all quite weird. Well let me ask us this then, and I want us again think think specifics. What should it look like as a body of believers together to live as a community of Servants to one another. What should this look like? Heaven? Yeah. Regard others. is more important than yourselves. Well what else? Talk to people, yeah, absolutely. And I think that's one of the the things that's important for us to see is We shouldn't begrudge kind of the ordinary ways we seek this out. Just go up to people. Ask how you can be praying for them. Ask how their lives are going, what's hard in life, and how can I be praying for you Uh that's very ordinary, but it's very essential. Tom, you had a waved hand-ish. know that you need to do something and they're they're already there before you even get them. Sure. Yeah, absolutely. And what a blessing that is. Instead of just doing it so private that you might know anything about letters and you can actually turn people on the Sure. Yeah. A and I think that like part of our growth and maturity as followers of Jesus is recognizing no matter what we think we're probably not fine in one way or another. Uh we know that to be true because of Genesis three. So let's recognize that. I think another thing to what you're saying there is We need to be ready and willing and able to gladly receive the service of other people, which can be hard. Yeah, and that's pride. Because I want to be the one that serves. I I want to be the one that, you know, is seen as the problem fixer, but God has designed us to be a community together in Christ, and part of that is letting people bless us. You know, that's kind of the flip side of every one-another command that we see in Scripture. Uh it's a two-way street. You've got to be able to receive the love and the service of other people. Well, I think we need to recognize also that word and deed ministry, so ministry of speaking Seeking scripture into people's lives and practical service ministry, it is the responsibility of every member of a local church. We get that from Ephesians chapter 4. God gives, you know, elders, leaders, pastors, teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry. So just seeing that it's our responsibility, not you know, not because of our official title or what the nominating committee has asked us to do, but because we're Christians in a church together. And then one kind of uh do I want to say that? Do we have time? Yeah, I'll say that. A caution here. Sorry, I'm internal monologuing outside out Outwardly. I think there is a caution that we want to be aware of. We see this call, and we need to recognize this call from Jesus to lovingly serve one another. We need to also recognize though that this is not a call to absolutely exhaust ourselves and wear ourselves so thin. that were of no use to anyone. Uh I think that there's an irony that a text like this could kind of be used uh like when we need to get people to volunteer for a thing And it's almost like ironically being used to lord it over people, like, you know, you really need to serve. Jesus calls you to serve. Twist your Your arm, twist your arm. And now ultimately we we pray that people would desire it. But let's not, you know, if we're already drowning, let's not see this text as saying you've got to add one more thing in your life. Maybe it's just you need to look at areas of your life where you're already around your brothers and sisters in Christ and think how can I leverage those times to love and Now it could be that you do need to add something to your life. It could be that uh you are uh more passive than you need to be, but I'll let the Spirit of God work that out in you Well, I we have 16 minutes, so let's move on to the next section here. So Jesus' kingdom is a kingdom of servants, and secondly, it's a kingdom of service. It's a kingdom where the blind are the ones who rightly and truly see Jesus for He for who He is, and where, apart from God's grace, the religious elites of the day So in this next section, one of the things we see is this kind of living application of the principle that Jesus just taught. So Jesus just taught them that to be great you must be a servant. Well, here see how Jesus is moved by mercy and serves and loves the weak and the lowly who could not give him anything in return. So verse 29, we have a scene that's common in the Gospels. Jesus and the disciples are traveling. Ultimately, Jesus is on his way up to Jerusalem and getting close to To the cross, with this great crowd that's following after him. And then verse 30, Matthew says, Behold, there were two blind men sitting by the roadside, And when they heard that Jesus was passing by, they cried out, Lord, have mercy on us, son of David. Now, I want us to recognize that as we see this cry, it should stop us in our tracks. It should strike us what they say. Because how does Matthew's gospel begin? Matthew 1 1, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ, the Son of David. The son of Abraham. So if you can remember all the way back to when Pastor Matt first started teaching through those verses, and we've seen this all the way through, this title is monumentally significant. From the very outset of his gospel, Matthew identifies Jesus as the Son of David, the one who had come to fulfill the promises that God had given to David. and to sit on David's throne forever. I could point you back to 2 Samuel chapter 7, the entire book of Psalms basically. But the hope of every faithful Israelite is wrapped up in the coming of the Son of David. So much through the prophets is clear that God is going to fulfill his promises and save his people through the coming of the Son of David. Well, see that these two blind men They agree with Matthew about who Jesus is. The hope of Israel and ultimately the nations was in the coming of the Son of David. Their hope was in the coming of the Son of David. And though they can't physically see, they recognize that Jesus is the Son of David. So their hope for deliverance is found only in him. And this should be striking to us for several reasons. One, we know that from other places in the New Testament There was in that day this kind of underlying assumption that if you were blind, if you were poor or unwell, disenfranchised in some way , It must have been because of some sin in you or in your family. Think of John 9, where the disciples asked Jesus, you know, who sinned? This man or his parents that he should be born blind? But here, these blind men are the one who have faith. They're the one crying out to Jesus as the son of David. And as we go on in the narrative of Passion Week, we're going to see that it's the religious highfalutans who reject him. The ones who should have seen Jesus as the Son of David don't. The ones who can't see anything see it clearly. Well, verse 31, we have the response of the crowd. They rebuke them, tell them to be quiet. They're not deterred. They cry out all the more: Lord, have mercy on us, son of David. Just see their desperation here. See their recognition of Jesus as the only one who can meet their needs. As just a side application, I wonder if we see Jesus This way. That our most fundamental needs every single day are met only in Him. And in the midst of whatever desperation, uh whatever ways we're wrestling with life under the curse. This ought to be our cry. Lord, have mercy on me, son of David. Now there are practical things we need to do. Sometimes you're despairing because you need to take an Nap. But more important than a nap is looking to Christ and finding our joy and our hope and our confidence to walk through life in Him. Well verse 32 then Jesus stops. Notice that Jesus isn't swayed by the crowd either. He doesn't accept their assumptions about who or what is important. He doesn't see these blind men as subhuman or somehow unimportant. He asks them, what do you want me to do for you? Again, see this is the exact thing that Jesus taught being lived out here, the Son of Man coming to serve. I think it's also important for us to see in verse 34, just how personal this scene is. Jesus personally ministers to them here. This is a very kind of up close scene And I think one of the things that it opens up for us and points us to is that by faith, if we're in Christ, Jesus personally ministers. To us. He's our great and merciful high priest who is interceding for us. His Holy Spirit comforts us in our weakness. So the fundamental act of Christ's service to us is he gave his life as a ransom for many. But don't think of Christ's service to you only in the past. Christian, it's an active reality. Never lose sight of the fact that the risen Lord personally ministers to you through his word and through his spirit. So as we see this personal scene, it should help us recognize that Jesus is a great and merciful high priest. He personally Ministers to us. And yet, how often do we just try to hack life on our own? We'll see their request in verse 33. They said to him, Lord, let our eyes be open. Again, they've identified him as the son of David. And now see how they're recognizing his authority and his power as the son of David. They believe that he can heal them. Verse 34, then Jesus is moved by pity. He touches their eyes, and I love this word. Immediately they recovered their sight and followed him. Our young adults have been studying the book of Mark. Mark loves that word, and so it's fun to see it in Matthew 2 immediately. See his absolute power and authority. Immediately it happens. Immediately they regain their sight. And see how this is testifying once again to Jesus' identity as division. Divine. He's seen consistently doing things that only God can do. Uh sometimes when we you know I have this a lot with Muslim friends when we lived In the Middle East, you know, they'd ask you, Well, well, Jesus never claimed to be divine. Not true, but also like w when we approach that question solely through the lens of Like, well let's find these handful of passages like John 1 1. We're missing something, which is that consistently in the Gospels, even when the Gospel writers aren't explicitly arguing for the divinity. of Jesus, it's in the background of everything. Because Jesus is being shown doing things that only God can do. God alone opens the eyes of the blind. The fact that Jesus opens the eyes of the blind tells us something about his identity. And what we see physically taking place here also tells us Teaches us about a spiritual reality, which is that each of us, we were blinded by our sin. We were unaware of our desperation. Our great need before Almighty God. But God in his mercy has powerfully intervened. He's done a supernatural work to open our eyes. He brings us through Christ from spiritual. Death to spiritual life. So we see here that Jesus in pity touched their eyes, immediately they recovered recover their sight. And I love how it ends, and they followed him. So not only are their lives transformed physically through this miracle, They begin to then follow after Jesus. The entire trajectory of their lives are changed as a result of this supernatural work of Christ. Christ. Whereas the good news of the kingdom is proclaimed in Jesus, and we see one of the things that goes with that is that the effects of the It's almost like this just magnetic force that brings people along under the saving banner of Jesus. You almost have this imagery of like this caravan as Jesus is going forth. People are encountering him, they're looking to him by faith, his power is being displayed in their lives. And it's like this just growing caravan of following after Jesus. We get a really great image of that, by the way. If you've ever read Pilgrim's Progress, The second half, which I would submit to you is better than the first half. Christiana and and her family, her children. They're traveling on this journey, and it's really John Bunyan's kind of uh allegory for the church where they're encountering people, their lives are changed, and they join this kind of great company. And one of the things that's so important and impactful in that, go read it by the way, is that their journey is way easier. Because they're journeying together. And that's what the church is. We preach Christ Jesus, we see God draw people out of their sin, out of darkness, out of life under the curse. And they join together, we join together in this great company of saints who are following after Jesus, living as people who have been transformed by the gospel, and then putting on display in our words and in our deeds. The reality of the fact that we now belong to Jesus. Well, let me leave us in the last five minutes by just pointing us forward a little bit to what we're going to look at next week One of the reasons this narrative is so significant, we've noted that it illustrates what Jesus just taught them about the call to serve. It's also significant though because of what it leads to. into. Because right after this we're going to have the scene of Jesus' triumphal entry into Jerusalem, where he's going to enter into Jerusalem as the king who comes to fulfill the promises of God and conquer his Enemies, but not in the way they expect. And we're going to see the crowds cry out, Hosanna to the son of David. And then of course the week's going to go on, and Jesus is going to be Be rejected by the Pharisees and by the chief priests. He's going to be betrayed by one of his own disciples. We're going to see, you know, a hasty kind of sham trial play out. And he's going to be publicly executed as a criminal. And what's going to look like weakness and failure again is going to be the way that Jesus accomplishes his mission and secures his victory. Victory. The cross is how the son of David ascends to his throne ultimately. But right before that narrative, right before the crowds cry out, Hosanna to the Son of David, Notice that before that, Jesus' identity as the Son of David is proclaimed by blind men to whom Jesus powerfully gives sight. Again, I think this teaches us something about the upside-down wisdom of the kingdom. That it's not the powerful. It's not the wealthy, it's not the mighty or the important, but it's the weak and the lowly who proclaim Jesus' name. So we think about 1 Corinthians So is your tablet charging slowly? I think we get a great picture of this in Paul's words in First Corinthians chapter one. Where he says, Consider your calling, brothers. Not many of you were great by earthly standards, but God has chosen the weak things of this world to shame the strong. So God has chosen blind men and weak people, and those who, Matthew 5, are poor in spirit to be the ones who proclaim the glory of the kingdom. And this then is just the upside-down wisdom of Christ's church that God has chosen to proclaim his good news and to expand his kingdom. Through unimpressive, ordinary, weak, and weird Christians like you and I. He's chosen to expand the borders of his kingdom through jars of clay like us We live as Christ's representatives here on earth. That's incredible. But this is the upside-down wisdom of Christ's kingdom that through Weak things, his glory and his power is proclaimed. And we see that here in the narrative of Jesus' life, and we're called to this as the weak things who have a really great job of getting to proclaim Jesus. Yes. Well any final thoughts or questions or clarifications in the last minute that we have? As I take water. I think it's interesting to compare not only with the these two parts in Matthew, but then to look at it in Mark. Because in Mark, the mother of James and John is not even mentioned. James and John going to Jesus. Yeah. And then we're feeling the going in Matthew it's two guys. In Mark it's only one chained and Jesus never touches him. He just says, Go your way, your fate has made you well, and then he just got his sight. Yeah. And both are bearing witness in different ways to the life of Jesus and the power and the authority of Jesus. Well, let's pray together. Father, again we thank you for Christ Jesus. We thank you that you have chosen weak things like us to proclaim your glorious Kingdom. We pray, God, that you would by your spirit help us to be servants one to one. Another help us to be shaped into people who love to serve because we love you and because we love others Rightly. God, would you be glorified as we go from this place? Help us to live lives of worship and help us to be, even now, God, preparing our hearts to gather together with the saints. this Sunday and worship your name. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.