Welcome. Alright. Glad you're here. If you're watching online, we're glad that you are. We're in Hebrews 12 tonight. Hebrews 12, 18 through 29. And the title tonight is The Heavenly Jerusalem. That is a phrase that is found in our passage. The heavenly Jerusalem, which implies that there was also an earthly Jerusalem and a lot of the Bible is about the earthly Jerusalem, which was a type and a shadow that's fulfilled in the substance, in the good things to come. I'm trying to use words and phrases from the book of Hebrews. The heavenly Jerusalem, okay? Israel was a typological kingdom that's fulfilled in the uh The church, the eschatological kingdom, the end times kingdom, the kingdom of the last days, God's reign in Christ. So the heavenly Jerusalem, and that is plenty of lead in banter, giving you time to get to Hebrews 12, 18 through 29. All right, let's pray. Father, I pray that you help us to learn from your word this evening, be encouraged from your word. However it is that you, through your spirit, must encourage us or speak to us in our hearts to teach us, guide us. Convict us. I pray that you would do it. Help us to see Christ. Give us a deeper affection for Him, we pray. Give us a stronger faith. Fix our hearts and our hope on our rest in you. Father, help us to do your will. Let us not only be hearers of the word, but doers. And it's in Christ we pray. Amen. Alright, Hebrews 12, 18 through 29. And I'd like to give you the simplest Definition of the heavenly Jerusalem before we read the passage, and then we'll read the passage and the different details and significance of it. Will arise as we look at what this passage has to say, but it is saved people, okay? It's believers, it's the gathering of believers The heavenly Jerusalem. Now there's more to it than that, but at the most basic level, at the fundamental level, this is a word to believers. He's encouraging believers. He's teaching believers about who they are. And as he's been doing the entire book of Hebrews, setting our Setting our situation in the new covenant over and against the situation under the old covenant, right? The age of fulfillment in Christ. Is far superior to the age of law under Moses. So the heavenly Jerusalem is a gathering of believers, saved people. Let's first look at 18 through 21. And the first thing he's going to point out to us is this. It's an interesting point. He the first thing he points out is this you have not come to Mount Sinai. Isn't that an intriguing point? You would think, duh, of course. Most of us have never seen Mount Sinai. I don't even know if I've seen a picture of Mount Sinai, but that's his first point. You've not come to Mount Sinai. Alright, verse 18. For you have not come to what May be touched. Now that's important. So make a note of that phrase in your mind. You have not come to what may be touched. So your situation, your spiritual situation, condition. Cannot be defined by things that you can touch. It's not touchable. It's not a material thing. It's not a physical thing You've not come to what may be touched. And now he tells us specifically what he has in mind when he says that. A blazing fire and darkness and gloom. And a tempest, and the sound of a trumpet, and a voice whose words made the hearers beg that no further messages be spoken to them For they could not endure the order that was given. If even a beast touches the mountain, what mountain is he talking about? Mount Sinai. This is referring to the situation the base of Mount Sinai when God was giving the law through Moses to Israel. This is the inauguration of the old covenant as it reached its stage in Israel. You've not come to this Mountain that can be touched. Verse 20, starting at the beginning of verse 20 again, they could not endure the order that was given. If even a beast touches the mountain, it shall be stoned. That's a good window there into the nature of law. God 's law as it comes to bear upon his creatures is a matter of life and death. Under the law Obedience is the path unto life. Disobedience is the path unto death. It's a matter of life and death. So this terrifying revelation, this supernatural, terrifying, loud, blazing, smoky revelation at Mount Sinai is meant to portray that idea of what it means to be under law. Verse twenty one Indeed, so terrifying was the sight that Moses said I tremble with fear. And he wasn't just m Moses was not just making a theological claim when he said that of Of course he was. I would argue all claims are theological claims in one way or the other. But Moses actually was expressing how he was feeling as this was happening. He was trembling with fear. And if not by God's grace to him and to the people, they would have all come under judgment for their sin, as would we, apart from God's grace in Christ, apart from God's grace. We really would come under God's wrath and judgment. We understand that, right? That's what we're saved from when we say we're saved. Is he saved? Is she saved? Have you been saved? We're talking about have you been delivered from God's wrath and judgment for your sin? So Moses trembled with fear. So you've not come to Mount Sinai. And that's his way of saying here, you're not under the old covenant. You're not under the old covenant, and I'll Try to put that in an even smaller nutshell. I think that's a nutshell. But a smaller nutshell, you're not under law. You're not under law. We'll look at some cross-references to that. In just a few moments. I was going to say several moments. Nope. We're pushing through. So in just a few moments, that's the point I want to expand upon. In this first section, verses 18 through 21, you've not come to Mount Sinai, aka, you're not under the old covenant, aka smaller nutshell, you are not under the law. Now, look at these verses again, just on your own. And if I were to point out three marks or three characteristics of What we've not come to, because that's what he begins in verse 18. For you have not come to. First of all, we've not come to something that may be touched. That's the beginning of verse 18. That's the first thing he says. It's not an earthly reality that defines our spiritual condition. Secondly, we've now come to what is terrifying. We've not come to what is terrifying. If you were at the base of Mount Sinai, you would have been terrified unless you just didn't care at all about God and his holiness and thought it was the big show. We've not come to what may be touched, an actual mountain. We've not come to what is terrifying. This glorious, thunderous, supernatural display. of God at Mount Sinai. And third, all right, what are the first two? We've not come to what may be touched. It's not an earthly thing. We've not come to what is terrifying. It's not a law that brings death. I'm getting ahead of myself. But third, we've not come to um That which brings death. We've not come to that which brings death. And he said, if you look through that, all of those are covered. Verses 18 through 21. I've already we've already read them and looked at them We've come, now I'm really getting ahead of myself in the passage. We've come to what brings life. We've come to what brings life. Our great high priest in heaven, Jesus Christ, he brings life to those who are dead. So The left side of your board, the left side of your screen is going to be just summarizing here, law And we'll just put old covenant. This will be grace. Slash, just interview with me. Very good. They're awake. And the next Starting in verse 22, that's what he talks about, what you have come to, what you have come to. But we'll get there. Right now, I just want to camp out on that we're not under the law. So here's how I've mapped this out. First Two cross references, and then I have three points so that every single one of us can leave here tonight knowing exactly what it means that we're not under the law. That we're not under law A B C. It means this, it means this, it means this. You've got it down. You're an expert. If someone walks up to you anywhere on the street at work, What does it mean that Christians are no longer under the law? Oh, it means this. I'd like to share with you. I'm glad you asked. I've been thinking about that all week, okay? First are cross-references. Romans 6 Fourteen and fifteen And on next week's test, final exam, there'll be an essay question on Romans 6. That's a joke. But If you were having an exam, I would give you an essay question on Romans 6, and it would be about uh what it means that we're not under law. But also explain what it means that we're under grace and how does that relate to your personal sanctification? We should know that. That's what Romans 6 is about. By the way, a note on next week. I will not be here. It's my vacation week. We have one more chapter in Hebrews. I'd like to come back from vacation week and be done with Hebrews, not because I'm tired of it. It's just this weird psychological thing. I just want to be clean, slate, fresh, be able to start something new when I get back from vacation week. So I'm going to pre-record a lesson from Roman uh from Hebrews 13. So we'll be done with Hebrews 13 when I get back. And uh That's that. So just a heads up on next week. I will not be here, but Hebrews 13 will be here through me on video, and I'll be here in spirit. Where were we? Romans 6. 14. For sin will have no dominion over you. How encouraging is that? Sin is not your Lord and Master. And I remember what life was like when sin was my Lord and Master. I have no intention or desire to go back. Praise God for his grace. Sin will have no dominion, no lordship over you since Since you are not under law, but under grace. You are not under law, but you are under grace. And this is the reason why sin cannot have lordship over you. And then, next verse, what then? Are we to sin because we are not under law but under grace? By no means. Now we don't have time to expand upon uh why someone would ask that question and what the details of the answer to that question are, uh are we to sin, but I just want To use this to highlight even further that the Christian is not under law but under grace. Galatians 3 Twenty four No no twenty three Galatians four uh Galatians three twenty three Now, before faith came, and that's a way of summarizing before fulfillment in Christ came. The faith had always been around. Abraham was saved by faith. Many men and women of faith in the Old Testament. But before faith came, we were held captive Where? Under the law. Imprisoned. Listen, imprisoned until the coming faith would be revealed The faith of these last days. The faith in the risen Christ, in the age of fulfillment. That's a new thing. That didn't exist. Until Christ came. Verse 24 So then the law was our guardian, which is too soft of uh interpretation there, I believe. It should be schoolmaster. It was a harsh rigid schoolmaster that would bring the rod of punishment and even death upon you for your disobedience. But it was a schoolmaster until Christ came. In order that we might be justified by faith. But now that faith has come, verse 25, we are no longer under That schoolmaster or that guardian no longer under The law. So I have to summarize this. This could be, and maybe one day will be, a lecture unto itself. Fleshing this out and with all of the cross references and all of the practical application for Christian life that it should have. But I want to give us three points of what it means specifically that we are no longer Under law. Number one or letter A. Didn't I say A B C earlier? Letter A The law, God's law, his moral requirements, God's law has no authority to condemn you based on your disobedience That 's one thing that it means, the first thing that it means that we're no longer under the guardianship or the schoolmastership of the law. We're no longer under law. God 's moral law, his requirements, given through commandments, have no authority to condemn us based on our disobedience. If we were under law, Would the law have authority to condemn us based on our disobedience? Yes, that's why it's called the law. There's retribution involved So, first thing, the law no longer has authority to condemn you based on our disobedience. Where did the con where was the condemnation for our disobedience delivered? At the cross of Jesus Christ. This is a gospel issue. We need to know this. We need to know what happened at the cross. Jesus Christ bore the condemnation for my sin against the holy God. That's real. That's a supernatural event that happened when Jesus shed his blood on the cross. And based on that, the law has no authority, has no condemnation for there's no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. No condemnation. B B. It's the converse of that. So we'll let that simmer just for maybe five five or six more seconds. See if you can guess it. It's the converse of A. The law does not have authority To reward you based on your obedience. It has no authority, there's no place to come in and say, obey and live. Because you're not under the law. You're under grace. The law has no, the law is not what holds out to you the gift of eternal life. And says, if you obey, you'll receive this gift. Under the law, you obey unto life, the reward of life based on personal obedience. We are under grace. Under law, obedience leads to life. Under the gospel, through the gospel, we are given life that leads to obedience. It 's the opposite. Christ is the life, and Christ gives obedience No authority to condemn us based on our disobedience. Praise the Lord. I really don't think we grasp that even one percent of one percent of the glory and the weight of what that means. If we did, we'd throw parades and do cartwheels down the street every single morning we wake up. That there's no condemnation for our disobedience. And B, the law has no authority to reward us based on our obedience. How can it? We've already received the greatest reward you could ever receive. Life in Jesus Christ. He received the reward based on his obedience. This is also part of the gospel. Before his sacrificial death, as a representative for his people, he lived a righteous life. And based on his obedience, he received the reward of heavenly life and resurrection. And then he ascended into heaven, and he, as life-giving spirit, shares that life. With lowly, pitiful specks of dust, sinners, by his grace and mercy, and power working through the Holy Spirit. So now you know two things and they get to the third. A law has no authority to what Condemn you based on your disobedience, you can't do that. Uh B law has no authority to what? Reward based on your obedience. But as we say those things, we have to understand why. It's because of the work of Christ. Right? It's because of the work of Christ. And this is why we must, we must Be united to Christ by faith to share in the blessing of his life and death and resurrection. As long as I am apart from him, as long as I am disconnected from him, the benefits of what he did are no good to me. I must come to him by faith and be united to him by faith. So that I could get out from under the law and be saved. C. The law has no power We just saw that in our cross reference, dominion. The law has no power to keep you a slave to sin. The law has no power to keep you a slave to sin. More a little bit of a more difficult concept, but let's just go at it by way of cross-references, just so we can see the words come up from the text. 1 Corinthians 15. Please, First Corinthians fifteen fifty six Very short verse, very short verse The sting of death is sin, and the power of sin Is what? The law. Now, myself included, and you probably, if if we had never read that verse, and were asked, okay, what what's the power Of sin. Where does sin derive its power from? We probably would have said something like the sinful flesh. Inner corruption. The power of sin is The law. One of the things that God's holy law does is it arouses sin in sinners. It exposes the fact that we're sinners. It intensifies Sin and shows it to be utterly foolish and wicked But just for here. The power of sin is the law. The power of sin is the law. And this third point that I'm giving you on what it means to not be under the law is if we're if we're no longer under the law Sin no longer has the the law no longer has the power to keep us enslaved to sin. It loses its empowering Ability in our lives. The power of sin is the law. One more here. Romans seven, five through eight. This would be an extra credit essay. Romans seven Describe to me with detail Paul's struggle in Romans seven. Romans 7, 5 through 8. More of a lengthy passage here. For while we were living in the flesh, that's that's us before we're born again. That's us without the Holy Spirit. That's us alienated from the risen Christ while we were living in the flesh. Our sinful passions, here it is, sinful passions, aroused by the law. Okay, are we seeing it? The law stokes up, arouses sinful passions, but it says that was that's what was happening when we were in the flesh. Power of sin is the law, the law is arousing sinful passions. We're at work in our members. To bear fruit for death. Members is the body part. It's the way it's talking about the the way we lived. Alright. But now We are released from the law, right? So he's putting it in contrast in what used to be the case in the flesh, the law stirring up and Stoking sinful passions, but now we're released from the law, having died to that which held us captive So that we serve in the new way of the Spirit and not in the old way of the written code. Another way of saying the law. The law written. How far did I want to go here? I wanted to go to verse eight. Before I read verses seven and eight, is that is this point becoming clear? What how the law Contributes to our slavery to sin. It has the power as this power over us when we are lost. And so we need to be released from the law. What he says here, released from the law, no longer held captive to the law. What then shall we say? That the law is sin? No! By no means. That's not the point. The point's not the law is sin. The point that we're filled with sin And because we are filled with sin, the holy law stokes that sin. Yet, if it had not been for the law, I would have not known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, You shall not covet. Now Two words you can circle in verse seven, starting in the middle. The one is known. I would have I would not have known sin. Circle known. And then they right after that, for I would not have known what it is to covet, circle known again. The law shows us what is sinful and it shows us our sinfulness. It doesn't just show us bullet point rules that you br that you break. It does show us that, but it shows us more deeply we are filled with sin. We are sinners. The law shows us that. Verse 8, but sin, this is what happens, sin, seizing an opportunity through the commandment, produced in me all kinds of covetousness. For apart from the law, sin lies dead. Now that's the encouragement. Apart from the law, sin lies dead to keep you a slave. To keep you a slave. So the law has no authority to condemn you based on your disobedience. It has no authority, has no right to offer you a reward based on your obedience. There's no power to keep you a slave to sin. You've been released from the law. Sin shall no longer be your master. That's a really, really big deal. Really big deal. I mean this is central to the Christian life But you've we've not come to Mount Sinai. We're not under the law. We're not under the old covenant. We're not dealing with the things that we can touch. We're not dealing with things Uh that are terrifying. We're not dealing with something that brings death. We're dealing with the risen Christ and his grace toward lowly sinners. And his blood that takes away sin does not stoke up and intensify sin in us like the law does. Christ is the power of sanctification. The law cannot sanctify. It can show us where we need to be sanctified. The law's not sin. The law's not bad. It just doesn't save. It just doesn't atone for sin. It just doesn't sanctify. The power is for that is in Christ alone, in the gospel alone. Verses 22 through 24. Well before there. Questions on 18 through 21. You've not come to Mount Sinai. All right. Oh, I'm back on that squeaky spot. Can't get away from it. Okay. 22 through 24, you have come to Mount Zion. You have come to Mount Zion. Well that's a weird that's a weird thing to say. I've never been to a mountain, let alone Mount Zion. Well that's his next point. If you're in Christ, you've come to Mount Zion. Verse , oh, back in Hebrews. Sorry. I flip all around. Sometimes I forget to flip back to my main passage. Now, if that is what he says, that we have come to Mount Zion, then it's pretty important to know What Mount Zion is. Okay? But you uh verse 22, you have come to Mount Zion. See that? Jordan? I was not making it up. Becky. We really have come to Mount Zion. Unless the author of Hebrews is lying to us, which he's not. What's our spiritual condition before the Lord? You've come to Mount Zion. You've come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God. The heavenly Jerusalem. What he's describing here is spiritual realities, things that cannot be touched. And that's what he gives us this adjective here, heavenly, heavenly realities. This is what describes your spiritual condition in Christ. Not an earthly mountain that can be touched. You come to Mount Zion to the city of the living God. That is heavenly Jerusalem. The heavenly Jerusalem. And now um if I had time and a bigger whiteboard, I would list all these descriptors Of what this heavenly Jerusalem, what this mountain what's it this mountain, the mountain of the new covenant's the idea here. Old Covenant Mountain, you're this is not where you are. New Covenant Mountain, the fulfillment This is where you are. That's the point. That's why there's mountains. Mount Zion, the mountain of the new covenant, where the covenant is established in Christ's blood. Were you raising your hand? No? I thought you were. Okay. You don't have to be. I just thought you were. I didn't want to skip over you. That's good. That's good. Alright. So uh Becky, do you have a question? Alright. You look contemplative. If you remember it, come up and sing it for us. Get these mics on. Becky's gonna sing. Marching on the Zion, is that what you're thinking of? Now he's going, this is what I would bullet point. He's going to just just continue to describe what's here at Mount Zion, the heavenly Jerusalem. To innumerable angels in festival gathering. Do you see angels? No. But this is where you've come. This is a heavenly reality. This is a spiritual reality. And it's a It's a reality defined by worship, by true worship. Festival gathering, celebration, joy, worship, heavenly, and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven. Now I think that actually is Saints who are still on earth. Saints who've not yet died bodily, maybe even Um well no, I won't I won't say that. That'd just be confusing. But I think this is sanctuary still living on earth. They're a part of this fellowship with you too. And they are enrolled in heaven. And there's a reason I believe that that's what that's talking about in just a second. We'll see it. The assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled. In heaven. It's Sunday morning worship. That's what that is. That's the assembly of the firstborn who were enrolled in heaven. It's the worship assembly. It's the congregation. It's the church. That's what church means. And to God. Now, hasn't all of Hebrews been about that? You have come to God. Through what? How? Jesus and his blood. There you go. That's it. The things we learn in kindergarten are the most glorious things, the most advanced theological truths ever. Through Jesus and his shed blood, you've come to God. You've come to God, the the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. So now these are saints. Who have died bodily, their spirits had been made perfect. So they are in heaven with God, the judge of all, and with the angels And so I think he includes believers here in two different ways: those who are enrolled in heaven and those who are in heaven. This is where you've come. This is the heavenly Jerusalem. Verse twenty four, and to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant Not a terrifying covenant. Not a covenant that brings death, a covenant that brings life, not a covenant of law. Covenant of grace. You come to Jesus, the mediator of a new covenant, and to the sprinkled blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. Blood that speaks a better word than the blood of Abel. Now think carefully. What was the word? What was the message? The Abel 's blood spoke. What did it call out for? It starts with a J. Justice. Judgment. You've come to blood that speaks a better word, not blood that calls out For justice and judgment against the sinner. But you've come to the shed blood of Christ That calls out for justification for the sinner, to deliver the sinner from condemnation. It's blood that calls mercy, mercy for the sinner. The mediator of a new covenant and to the sprinkled blood. It's the blood that confirms the covenant. It's the blood that establishes the covenant. It's the blood that enables us access. Think about this access to God, Jesus' actual blood Shed on the cross for the remission of sins is the thing that enables us to come into unending fellowship with God. What a glorious, glorious thing. What a glorious thing. So this is the Mount, this is Mount Zion. In other words, you are under grace in Christ. What was my big spiel over here? You're not under law, ABC. You are under Grace. In Christ. You've got to put in Christ after you say you are under grace. Because it's only in Christ that we can be under grace. This is a mountain that cannot be touched. You do not see Jesus, but you love him, and he's real. You just can't see spiritual things, invisible things, heavenly things. You can't even see your own soul Now, what I'm going to do is the same kind of thing, the same thing I did for You're Not Under Law. Just a few cross-references and then ABC. Specifically, what it means that we're not under, or that we are under grace. Specifically, what it means that we are under grace. And guys, you've got to understand this is just a this is a summary. I mean this that's the whole Christian message is what it means that we're under grace. So many things you could say in mining out the treasures of Christ. Really. I'll try to summarize it in a traditional way, I think a helpful pastoral, practical way, an ABC for what it means that we are under grace. But first Some cross references just on the heavenly Jerusalem, Galatians four twenty-six Galatians four Now, if you want to study this out, Galatians four twenty-one through thirty-one. Also, with the metaphor, even here an allegory, of mountains, Paul is contrasting the two covenants. But we're not studying it out right now, just looking at four twenty-six. The Jerusalem Above, and that's parallel to what phrase that we just saw in Hebrews 12. Heavenly Jerusalem. The Jerusalem above is free. Free, not under law, not under the law covenant. Jerusalem above is free. She is our mother. And also turn to John 18, 36. What could be in John 18 that has to do with this? Well everything in Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John has to do with this because this is what we're studying is just the very thing that Christ accomplished and how we share in it. This is what the whole New Testament is about. What Christ accomplished in fulfillment of God's promise, and how we can share in it and live it out. That's it. And what's gonna and what that how what that's gonna look like throughout history and where this whole thing is headed. Alright, what did I say? John 1836? Jesus answered, My kingdom is not of this world. Now, if his kingdom is not of this world, what is his kingdom of? His kingdom is of heaven. It's the kingdom of God. It's the kingdom of heaven. It's the kingdom of Christ. It's the saving reign of God in Christ and through Chr For the glory of Christ It's all about the Son of God Jesus Christ. His kingdom is not of this world. Now, the effects of his kingdom are manifest in this world, but that will not happen fully until he returns. If my kingdom were of this world, my servants would have been fighting that I might not be delivered over to the Jews, but my kingdom is not from the world. It's a heavenly kingdom. It's a spiritual kingdom. I said this on Sunday, and boy, I apologize, and I rushed, really rushed through my notes on Sunday and skipped over some things. I was really excited about it. But it got to be your blessing because I think it's the only time I ever came down off the pulpit before eleven forty five. What time do we start? Ten forty five, right? So there's a record. I lost my train of thought. I was gonna say this on uh Sunday. Oh see I'm not moving on until this comes back. John eighteen thirty-six This kingdom is not of this world. Oh no, this is what I did say on Sunday. That the kingdom resides in the hearts of people. This is not complex Stuff. This is not uh advanced theology for a special group of Christians talking about the kingdom of God. It resides in the hearts of people as the Holy Spirit changes hearts. And so the kingdom of heaven, which is invisible in its essence, does manifest its effects on earth primarily through the preaching of the gospel in the power of the Spirit. Which is in Matthew, which is why Matthew 16, when he tells Peter and the disciples, I will build my church, he immediately says, and give you the keys to the kingdom of heaven. Because the two are related. One of those keys is the preaching of the gospel, the other would be church discipline. Guarding the gates of the sanctuary of God, the temple of God, which is in this age the church. So anyway, this kingdom is not of this world. But its effects are manifest in this world. He is building his church. Now, what does it mean to be under grace? I have an overarching point. This is the central Point, the central tenet, the central truth of the Christian life. What it means to be under grace. Overarching point. To be under grace means to be united to Christ by faith. Boom. That's you've got to start there. It means to be united to Christ by faith. And that's our call to each other. Believe in Christ, believe in Christ, and to the lost. Come to Christ by faith. Come to Christ by faith. It's not just an intellectual thing. Believe this, believe that. Walk the aisle. Pray this prayer. It's being spiritually United to the Lord Jesus Christ by faith, you must be born again. It's a supernatural work of God. God changing the heart of a sinner. To believe in Christ. What does it mean that we're under grace? Well, first of all, before we say anything else, it means to be united to Jesus Christ by faith. Don't be ashamed to start there. Don't go down rabbit trails of theology and all kinds of theories about this and that. Start with Christ. This is our life. Now, the ABCs. After we establish the overarching point, the ABCs, what does it mean specifically to be under grace? Number one, it means to be justified in Christ. It means to be declared righteous in Christ. On the basis of his righteous life, and that righteousness given to us as a gift, and on the basis of his sacrificial death, Right, him receiving the penalty for our sin. We are declared righteous in God's eyes. Justified. Justified. In the heavenly courtroom, God brings down the final word and does not say guilty. He does not say condemned. He says, mine, my child, justified. Under grace, we're justified. And it also means, secondly, B, to be under grace, B means that we're sanctified in being sanctified. And we've got to say both of those. Sanctified, set apart, given a new heart, and being sanctified. Progressively conformed to the image of Christ. I like this there's so many different ways you can summarize sanctification. And one of the reasons is there are different aspects to sanctification, but I like to summarize it this way: sanctification is God's gift of holiness to undeserving sinners. It's God's gift of holiness. So we can talk about the the uh different aspects of sanctification. Like when we're born again, that's an aspect of sanctification being set apart, being given a new heart. And then you've probably heard the term progressive sanctification, right? All of life, you're being conformed to the likeness of Christ by the power of the Spirit. Well, all of that, in my mind, at least, you can put that all under one roof. It's God giving us the gift of holiness. He's making us like Himself. He's making us holy. That's sanctification. Under grace, under grace, we are sanctified and we are being sanctified. And one day we'll be glorified, which is the final stage of that. So under grace Means first and foremost to be united to Christ by faith. Under that, letter A, it means we're justified, declared righteous in God's eyes. And that's why the law can't say anything to us. What's the law? What kind of what charge is the law going to bring against us? It's God who justifies Romans 8. And we're being sanctified. Be It's his sp his Holy Spirit is within us. Christ has given us the Holy Spirit. It's not an abstract thing that we don't know about. No, no, no, no, no. Christ who lives in heaven has given us of his Holy Spirit. And uh let us see. It means we're adopted, adopted into the family of God, reconciled to the creator of the universe. Think about that And we get more excited for a ball game than this. It's the creator of the universe. Perfect in all of his attributes, infinite in his being, triune being incomprehensible, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. You've been reconciled to him. You've been brought into a relationship with him that could never end. And though you've sinned against him , We all sin, even as sinners who are been sanctified and being, even as saved sinners who've been sanctified and are being sanctified, every day we sin. Over and over and over, and honestly, honestly, guys, most of the time think nothing of it. What do we think? That God doesn't care about our sin anymore? No, that's not what it means that we're not under law. That was not that was not like letter D that I didn't get to. To be not under law means that God doesn't care about your sin anymore. No, that's not what it means. But He that we sinned against him and continue to sin against him, he calls us beloved. He calls us his beloved children. And it must be in Christ. It must be in Christ. We come directly to Christ. We're justified in Christ. We are sanctified in Christ. We are adopted in Christ. We're reconciled to God in Christ. Guys, this is Christianity. Come to God in Christ. Come to God through Christ. He is the way, He's the truth, and He is the life. And you, you sinner, can come to God through Him. I always say this. Vince, you're usually the one who answers these ones loudest and first. Do we need a mediator between God and ourselves? Well we do but it's great. Yeah. We do need a mediator between God and ourselves. See I striked him out, I shouldn't have said anything. Do we need a mediator between Christ and ourselves? No way. No way. Never, ever, ever. And sometimes we like don't think I'm just talking about like a human mediator, like a person between Christ and us. Sometimes we treat our good works as a mediator between us and Christ. We think that they help us Get closer to God. Help us supplement what Christ did to make sure that God will accept me. What arrogance is this? What arrogance is this? I mean utter humility is where the Christian is. Empty-handed, God, we have nothing. We come to you with nothing but sin. And we need to be cleansed. And in Christ. He receives us. He receives us. You know, in my mind I was writing out the pertinent points. But I never got to that in actual real life. But uh We've covered everything that I wanted to cover in terms of summarizing the ABCs that were not under law And the uh overarching point of what it means that we are under grace, and then the ABCs of what that means. Now quickly, and this has to be quick, and I I this was intentional. Verses 25 through 27 in Hebrews 12. Verses 25 through 27, the point is this: the situation could not be more serious. The situation could not be more serious. When we say that we're not under the law but under grace, we're not saying, ah, don't worry about this stuff. Live however you want to live. No, Paul was accused of teaching that. And Paul and Grace always Well get misinterpreted as as you're saying that. So he says it in some language here that we're not as familiar with as the Pauline language. But the situation could not be more. He's not saying you're under grace, dad. Don't worry about sin. Don't worry about sin. Don't worry about this. Here we go, 25 through 27. See that you do not refuse him who is speaking, which is God through Christ. For if they did not escape , When they refused him who warned them on earth, much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven. Now that's heavy. That's heavy. They at the Mount at Mount Sinai, they did not escape. Those under the law. Much less will we escape if we reject him who warns from heaven. That's Christ. And all of Hebrews has been about this. Christ in heaven. Christ in heaven. Christ in heaven. Hear his voice, hear his voice. If today you hear his voice, do not harden your hearts as they did in the day of rebellion. Make sure make sure that you enter his rest. Alright, so he's not saying it doesn't matter, you don't need to worry about these things. The situation could not be more dire. It's still a matter of life and death. At that time his voice shook the earth, but now he's promised, yet once more I will not only shake the earth, but also the heavens. This phrase, yet once more, indicates the removal of things that are shaken. Earthly things. Look around, everything here, everything of this age, everything of this fallen order, the sin-cursed order. The removal of things that are shaken, that is, things that have been made, in order that the things that cannot be shaken may remain. The one who speaks is God in Christ. What's at stake is referring to coming judgment. Coming judgment, final destruction. For all those who are still a part of this fallen order will go the way of destruction. All those who are found in the heavenly Jerusalem, united to Christ by faith, will remain, will remain. Why is it important to give this word to a community of people who've made a profession of Christ as Lord? Well, this has been a theme in Hebrews since the It's a theme all throughout the Bible. There are always faker. One one reason the first reason I'm going to give you two. The first reason is there are always fakers. There are always fakers. There are always infiltrators. False brethren, Paul calls them. In different places. And just because you say Jesus is Lord does not mean that you've been saved. Jesus teaches that. Matthew chapter 7. Okay, so there are fakers, and judgment really is coming from them, for them. And they need to repent, so they need to hear this word so that they could be saved. So that they need they can they can still repent and be saved They need to hear the warning. Um that's one reason. Second reason is true believers Need to hear these warnings so that we can be strengthened in our faith, so that we can be stirred up from our pitiful apathy for the things of heaven. Do we need this? The warnings will stir up and strengthen the true children of God while at the same time they pronounce judgment against the fakers. And by God's grace, some of those fakers will come to repentance and be saved. God uses the warnings. He has a purpose in them. He uses them. to purify his bride, to purify his church and strengthen his church and to help the church in her mission. The situation could not be more serious. The glory of God is at stake. The salvation of souls is at stake. The health of the local church is at stake. Nothing could be more serious than this. Finally, uh twenty-eight and twenty-nine Live for the kingdom of God. This is where he ends. I don't know what else to say. I don't want to try to be cute with this. Live for the kingdom of God. Don't let the kingdom of God just be like one thing that you live for, like number 13 on the list, if I'm free that night. Live for the kingdom of God. Therefore, let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. You know, it all starts with gratitude in the heart. It all starts with gratitude in the heart. Let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And thus let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe, for our God is a consuming fire. Now, isn't it interesting? Isn't it interesting, the roller coaster of what this is where this passage has taken us? It began at Mount Sinai, which was a representation Of that which God is. God is a consuming fire. It's far worse than Mount Sinai and that partial revelation of this aspect of God's character. He is a consuming fire. And so if we die still in our sins, it will be infinitely worse than if you were standing at the base of Mount Sinai. Right? This terrifying scene at the at Mount Sinai when the old covenant was given was just a slight representation of God as heavenly eternal judge. So we want to make sure that when we die And make no uh don't be confused about it. We're all on our way to death, and we know that our our lives are just a blip, right? We understand that, right? We're here for Just a breath, just a vapor. Make sure that when you die bodily and your soul goes to stand before God, you have Jesus Christ, an advocate, pleading your case. Even now he pleads your case if you are in him. Alright, I've got 30 seconds. I've got four application points. On live for the kingdom of God. Live for the kingdom of God. Understand that the kingdom is internal and external. It's in your heart, but it's you must live it out. Number one, prioritize gathered worship Prioritize gathered worship. Number two, fulfill the law by loving your brethren. As an expression of faith. Prioritize God and worship. Love the brethren. Number three Be active. That's too weak. Be active in your discipleship, in bringing every area of life under the Lordship of Christ. Don't give him just a piece of the pie or one fork. And number four Be a witness for Christ to the watching world. Gathered worship, loving the brethren, your personal discipleship, and being a witness for Christ. Live for the kingdom. Live for the kingdom. What else is there? Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ, his blood shed for us. I pray that your spirit would move us in ways We would never expect or never draw out ourselves. But we're praying for your help. We pray that you would use us. Pray that you would help us to grow in humility. In love, in our affection for Jesus Christ, above all things. If you give us nothing else, help us to love Christ more and more deeply and more consistently, we pray. In his name, amen.