I'm calling this class the Great Transition from One Kingdom to Another The great transition from one kingdom to another. So it is the conclusion to our discussion on the 70 weeks. And then I promise and I purpose to move much more rapidly through the rest of Daniel. I want to launch A new series here pretty quickly. There'll be some other changes coming up, obviously. Um so the great transition from one kingdom to another, that's going to have a double meaning. One kingdom to another has a double meaning. So one of the transitions is the transition from the typological kingdom of God, which is the nation named Israel to the eschatological kingdom of God, which are the churches. So there's a transition from one kingdom to another If you turn to Matthew 21, someone turn to Matthew 21, 43, and I'll call on you in a second. So that's one aspect of the great transition from one kingdom to another. But it that has a double meaning. There's another transition. The dominant sprawling kingdom on the earth At the time of Christ's coming was what empire? Rome. Once the kingdom of God is established in Christ and in his church, it's now the church that is the dominant sprawling power on the earth. Remember that was the narrative that was established in Daniel in terms of the promise. There's going to be a progression of dominant kingdoms on earth, from the Babylonians to the Medes and the Persians to the Greeks. to the Romans, and it's at that time where God establishes his kingdom, and that kingdom begins like a stone. It it uh destroy in the vision it destroys the other kingdom. Which is symbolic of it's this kingdom, the kingdom of God, that's now the dominant kingdom, and it becomes a mountain from this stone, and that mountain grows to fill the whole earth. So the great transition from one kingdom to another, when God sets up his kingdom, there's two historical changes that occur. One historical change is the change from the nation Israel as stewards of God's kingdom to local churches as stewards of God's kingdom And there's also the change from Rome being the dominant sprawling power on earth to The church being the dominant scrolling power on earth. And that's the church age. That's the age in which we live All that's just to explain the title, The Great Transition from One Kingdom to Another. Let's look at the 70 Weeks Prophecy and I'll just try to connect some dots. Before we get to this kingdom of God handout. Seventy weeks, uh verse 24, Daniel 9, 24. Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and your holy city. To finish the transgression, to put an end to sin, to atone for iniquity, to bring in everlasting righteousness. To seal both vision and prophet, and to anoint a most holy place. Those are the things that are accomplished within the seventy weeks, not after, but in the seventy weeks We've studied those before. All those are encapsulated in the first coming of Christ. Know therefore, verse 25, and understand that from the going out of the word to restore and build Jerusalem, To the coming of the anointed one a prince. There shall there will be seventy weeks, and sixty-two weeks it shall be built again with squares and moat, but in a troubled time. After the sixty-two weeks, so first there's seven as the provisional restoration, and then there's another 62. So and after 62 weeks, anointed one will come , anointed one will be cut off, rather, and will have nothing. And then the people of a prince who is to come shall destroy the city and its sanctuary, the same city that was mentioned in verse 24. Um the city and the sanctuary which would be the stars of the T the temple. Its end will come with a flood, which is symbolic. It should make us think of God's judgment, and it'll be devastating, it'll be washed away. And to the end there'll be war, desolations are decreed. He shall make a strong covenant with many for one week. For half the week I'll put an end to sacrifice and offering, and on the wing of abominations shall come one who makes desolate The abomination of desolation until the decreed end is poured out on the desolator. So that desolator will come under judgment as well. Now quickly look at verse twenty four. Well, not quickly. I don't know why I say that. I know it's not going to be quickly. Seventy weeks are decreed about your people and city. So that's the people of Israel, the Judeans, who had been exiled in Babylon. The holy cities, Jerusalem. Seventy weeks are decreed. This is one of the things we did not expound in our studies. I did try to teach From a biblical basis, the theological meaning of these weeks. One of the f one of the things I I almost always hear, if not always, Is that this seventy weeks means seventy weeks of years. That could be true. That could be true that he's talking about 70 weeks of years, so you have to count out 77s of years, calculate that, do the arithmetic. That could be true, that could be the interpretation. My point is it doesn't say that. That's if you believe that, that's fine. That's an interpretation. As long as you have a biblical basis, Bible verses that support that or that teach that, completely fine with it. I don't have all the answers to to one of the top three most difficult and the most debated Bible paragraphs. in the history of the church. Okay? I don't have all the answers. What I'm saying is he could mean seventy weeks of years, but that's not what the text says. That's an interpretation. My interpretation is a theological meaning has a uh a redemptive covenantal meaning of the seventy weeks. All that to say that's one of the topics we didn't expound. I didn't go through the arguments for this view and the arguments for that view. But if you want further study There's probably, if you have a study Bible, a little something on that, any commentary, any sermon series will um about this will probably deal with that. I don't know if they'll deal with both sides. It's usually we'll hear something like this. Now scholars agree that this means seventy weeks of years and then boom you just go right into the whole thing is based on that. I've said enough. Uh to finish the transgression, put an end to sin, atone for iniquity, bring everlasting righteousness, to steal both vision and prophet, to anoint a most holy place. Remember the overarching meaning of the 70 weeks. It's within the 70 weeks that both the provisional restoration of Israel will occur and the eschatological Restoration of Israel will occur. The provisional restoration is the restoration of the old covenant kingdom, Israel. The eschatological restoration is the inauguration of the new covenant. The start and the establishing of the new covenant people of God through the blood of Christ. So it's within the 70 weeks that you'll Have the provisional restoration. That's the first seven weeks. That'll stand for 62 more weeks And then in the 70th week is the coming of Christ and accomplishing those things in verse 24. That's the inauguration of the new covenant. The uh that 'll be a transition, a great transition from one kingdom to another, from old covenant nation to new covenant local churches, from Israel to churches From a kingdom that's manifest in a nation, in a in the promised land, to a kingdom that's manifest in ever spreading Biblical churches spreading all over the world, not just a promised land, and not a geopolitical nation, and not certainly not under the old covenant system. So you move from a typological kingdom to an eschatological kingdom. The seventy Weeks, the seventy weeks, it's within this time that you have both restorations, the provisional and the eschatological. Then Then, in the wake, in the wake of the eschatological restoration, that means in the wake of the coming of Christ, or in the wake of establishing the new covenant. you'll have the uh the doing away of completely the old covenant kingdom. And that's what you get toward the end of this prophecy. The people of a prince who is to come will destroy the city in the sanctuary. The city in the sanctuary that at the beginning of the 70 weeks was restored. In the wake after the 70 weeks, it'll be destroyed. And there'll be the abomination of desolation. So, uh, did it who turned to Matthew 21, 43? Neil, do you have that? Can you read that for us? Forty-three too, yeah. And how far? To the end? Uh just that verse. I think that's the one, yeah. Therefore I tell you the kingdom of God will be taken Yes, it's very s it's a great verse because it's so simple. Jesus is telling leaders of Israel Apostate Israel, not the true Israel, who is uh uh Jewish inwardly, as Paul would say, not outwardly. The kingdom stewardship will be taken away from this group of people, and it will be given to this group of people. That's why that's actually the verse where I Came up with the title, A Great Transition from One Kingdom to Another. Although the transition from Rome being the dominant empire to the church being the dominant empire is also is also fresh on my mind. But you have Jesus saying the kingdom will be ta kingdom. So he's not talking about two separate things. He's talking about the kingdom will be taken away from you and given to another. And as it's taken away and given to another, there's also the transition from the typological expression of that kingdom To the eschatological expression manifest in the church. So 70 weeks, provisional restoration, eschatological restoration, which means the inaugurating of the new covenant. And then in the wake of that, in the wake of that, historically, you'll have the doing away with the old covenant system completely. Which will be the uh the abomination of desolation, it will be the destruction of the temple, the destruction of the sanctuary in the 70 weeks. And then what we studied the past two studies is, and I called this the key to interpreting the 70 weeks. And I really do believe it is. I'm not saying that as hyperbole or overstatement. Jesus gives the historical interpretation of the abomination of desolation. And he straight up says it's going to center on the destruction of the temple, which is the whole point in the 70 weeks. the destruction of the city and the sanctuary. And he says that uh this has to do with Judea. It's gonna happen in Judea. And um It's going to happen within one generation. In Judea, one generation centered on the temple and it will involve armies that surround the city that they'll be able to see and the Christians will be able to flee to the mountains when they actually see it the signs that this is about to happen, that the abomination of desolation is near Flee. So in Judea, within one generation of Jesus' life, death, and resurrection, uh centered on the destruction of the temple, involving armies, pagan armies, which would have been Been the Roman armies, and ultimately this was fulfilled in the year AD 70 with the destruction of the temple and the abomination of desolation. And we did not, unfortunately, I wanted to do one more week on this, but I really do feel like we just need to move on. I don't want to belabor All of the nuances. There are some more phrases in Matthew 24 that are difficult and debated and would have been really great to do a study. And I reserve the right to go back and do it on any given week to surprise you with it. For sure, that's another difficult interpretation. But, you know, when we get to these difficult sections, it's not like everything that Jesus says is difficult. or obscure. There's a lot of what he says that is clear and that is explicit and that is obvious and that's easy. Now if we ignore those things, we'll never have any understanding of what is difficult and what is obscure and what is symbolic. Right, so we take what's literal, we take what's clear, we we plant our feet there, and um and then we'll be able at least to deal with and have some kind of understanding of what's difficult and obscure and cloudy But the whole thing is not this uh we're not supposed to think this is just some mystery that nobody knows anything about, and we need some man-made uh theory of history or man-made system of theology to make sense of all this. What those have done historically is just make it more difficult and more confusing. Because he just gets uh a thousand different schemes of all the details and dates and figures and players The abomination of desolation that Daniel prophesied in the seventy weeks in chapter nine was historically fulfilled in A. D. 70. It was within one generation of Jesus' life, death, and resurrection. It's everything that is prophesied in the 70 weeks, everything that Jesus prophesied in Matthew 24 And the interpretation of it from a theological or from a covenantal significance is it's that final historical judgment on apostate Israel. And that's all throughout the gospel narratives toward the end. This is going to be the climactic historical judgment on apostate Israel for their climactic rebellion against God, which was the rejecting and crucifying of his son. On our Lord. Um Told you some overarching review points here. The uh I already dealt with this last section. The the great transition from one kingdom to another It has a double meaning. What's the one meaning? What's the one transition? What kingdom to what kingdom? Yeah. From Yeah, from the Roman Empire to the reign of the ascended Christ. Absolutely. The Roman Empire being the dominant and ever sprawling kingdom on earth. to the kingdom of the risen Christ, the Son of Man being the dominant, sprawling emp uh power on earth. It's not a worldly empire, but it is a kingdom. It's just not of this world. But its power is manifest in this world, certainly. Your salvation is the manifestation of the power of the kingdom, the power of the reign of Christ. And what's the other transition? You have Rome to church. Amen. Yes. Israel as a as a geopolitical nation, as stewards of the of the kingdom, of the outward expression of God's kingdom, to local churches. Local churches and And uh so it's the typological kingdom to the eschatological kingdom that has not been consummated. It's not been consummated But it's been inaugurated, just like our salvation. Just think of your individual salvation. You really are saved. You really have the Holy Spirit. Your salvation has been inaugurated, so to speak. It's already. That's the traditional way to say it. It's already real, but it's not yet fully consummated. You're not yet glorified. But you are in Christ. You are united to Christ, even though he reigns on in heaven and we live on earth. The kingdom of God in Christ. All that was just review. I like to do those overarching review points. And it should always take us back to Daniel chapter 2. This is The central and driving storyline of Daniel, the book of Daniel, that God promises to set up his kingdom in the days of the Roman Empire. And it will not be defeated. It will cover the whole earth. And in chapter seven of Daniel, we learn that this is it's going to um be achieved and presided over by the ascended Son of Man, and that on earth it's the saints of God, chapter 7, that will possess the kingdom. So you have the ascended Christ, Daniel 7. You have the saints of God on earth, Daniel 7. This is the kingdom that God will set up that will grow to become a mountain and cover the whole earth. Let's go to our sheet. Okay, now listen, the whole Bible is about the kingdom of God. So forgive me if I miss anything of significance in my little Three sheet handout. The whole Bible, the whole church age is about Christ Reigning over all things, not just reigning over your heart or your life, not just reigning over the church, but Christ reigning in heaven over all things. Important introductory thoughts. So, not just introductory thoughts , important introductory thoughts. The kingdom of God, the kingdom of Christ, and kingdom of heaven are all the same and are all currently manifest, manifest outwardly in the church. The essence of the kingdom is in the invisible, it's spiritual. But its power is manifest outwardly. Um now there's many ways to prove that from scripture. I start with that because not everyone believes that, not everyone teaches that. I believe the scriptural evidence is more than clear. One of the ways to prove it would be to look at the parallel parables. Parables of the kingdom in Matthew. Parables of the kingdom of heaven. It's parallel the parables of the kingdom in Mark. There, it's the same parable, but kingdom of God. Kingdom of God, Mark, same thing. Kingdom uh kingdom of heaven, Matthew. But another simple way to prove this is just to look at verses They talk about how Christians now belong to each to the kingdom where each of these phrases is used. Colossians 1, 13 to 14. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us, past tense, transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved son. Who's his beloved son? Jesus. So we're in the kingdom of Jesus. We're in the kingdom of Jesus, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins, which gets to the essence of the kingdom. It's a kingdom of redemption. It's not a geopolitical kingdom. It's not a nation. It's not a collection of nations. It's not city-states. It's a uh it's a fellowship of redeemed sinners. Colossians 4, 10 and 11. Aristarchus, my fellow prisoner, greets you. Mark, the cousin of Barnabas, concerning whom you've received instructions. If he comes to you, welcome him. And Jesus, who's called justice, these are the only men of circumcision among my fellow workers for the kingdom of God, and they've been a comfort for me. me. What are they working for? What are they working in? What are they working toward? The kingdom of God. They're workers in the kingdom of God. Citizens of the kingdom of Jesus, God's beloved Son, workers in the kingdom of God, and then Philippians 20, 3. 20. Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus. They're citizens of heaven. It's the kingdom of heaven. We uh we are we already have citizenship in the kingdom of Kingdom of Heaven. heaven. It's the Kingdom of Christ because Christ is Lord over all. He has kingdom authority. It's his power and His spirit and his word and his presence that is the kingdom. It's his redemptive rule, his rule over all things. It's the kingdom of heaven because he reigns and presides over his kingdom from heaven. As the kingdom of God, because God's the one who installed him as king and has delegated all kingdom authority to him. Which is all all three of those elements are also in Daniel, the prophecies in Daniel. The kingdom, number two, the kingdom has been inaugurated but not yet consummated. Therefore, the kingdom is both the present possession And also a future inheritance. And one example of that is 2 Peter 1. 11. So you'll see some Bible verses that talk about the kingdom as future That's absolutely right. The kingdom of heaven, in its state of glory, consummate glory, is not a present reality, it's a future inheritance. But that's just the full and final outworking of the kingdom as it already exists. That's why we already saw three verses where the kingdom already exists. We already belong to the kingdom. We already have citizenship in the kingdom. Of Christ, the kingdom of God, citizenship in heaven. Jesus inaugurated the kingdom at his first coming and will consummate it at his final coming. Number three, the kingdom is spiritual and ethical in nature. And it spreads and grows by spiritual means, not by worldly means. First bullet point, it's not an earthly geopolitical kingdom. John 18, 36, my king Jesus said, My kingdom is not of this world. How does the kingdom spread? How does the kingdom grow? By the power of the Word of God, by the work and agency of the Holy Spirit of God. Through the church, through the people of God, through their witness, their spirit-led, spirit-filled witness and words and teaching and preaching and praying And suffering for the name of Christ, enduring persecution, being martyred for the name of Christ and the sake of the gospel. It's through spiritual means that this kingdom grows and spreads. It's not through political endeavors or efforts. We do not bring in the kingdom through military force. or through the arts, through cultural achievements, through scientific advancements Or anything from a worldly in a worldly sense in these worldly, these uh different spheres of society on earth, the kingdom is spiritual and ethical. And it spreads and it grows by spiritual means, not by worldly means. Now, those are just important introductory thoughts. What is the kingdom? So now we have number four. What is the kingdom? The kingdom of God is the redemptive reign of God in Christ in all the world. It is the way God fills the earth with the knowledge of his glory. And I have in parentheses there this is within his general reign. Sometimes you can talk about God's kingdom or God's kingship as just his general providential king. Kingdom. He reigns over all things. Within that, you have God's redemptive plan being worked out through Him establishing His kingdom. of redemption in Christ. Habakkuk 2. 14, for the earth will be filled, not might be filled. If you ever hear he might he might be able to do this. No. It will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. In Isaiah 11, 9, they shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord. As the waters cover the sea. And if you were to go back and look at the context of these, you see that during the fulfillment in these contexts, repentance is still an option. Repentance is still happening. This is not just after the return of Christ. This is what's achieved before the return of Christ. How does How do the waters cover the sea? Because in it says the knowledge of the glory of the Lord will cover the earth or fill the earth as the waters cover the sea. That's in Habakkuk and Isaiah. How do the waters cover the sea? Completely. Yeah, there's no drop, there's no I mean you have to have an island, but that's technically not part of the sea. Just the sea, just what the sea is. It's all wet It's all wet. There's water everywhere. So hyperbole, symbolic, prophetic hyperbole, that doesn't mean every single person is going to be A Christian, but it does mean that the reign of Christ through his church will be manifest in all the world. That's what prophesied in Daniel 2. Anyway, flip over to number five. This will be accomplished through the churches. Spirit-enabled obedience to the Great Commission. This is why this is the marching orders that Jesus gave just before he ascended Go disciple the nations. Take the gospel everywhere. Plant churches everywhere is the way we would say it today. This filling of the earth with the knowledge of God and of his glory happens through the church's obedience to the Great Commission, and it will be successful. Matthew 28, 16 and 20. Now, 16 through 20, rather. Now the eleven disciples went to Galilee to the mountain to which Jesus had directed them. And when they saw him, they worshiped him, but some doubted. Isn't that incredible? At that point in the narrative, that some doubted. Because these weren't we all we all struggle with doubts and weakness and everything. They were eyewitnesses. Eyewitnesses and here the This is not the first time that they've witnessed the actual risen Christ after having witnessed his suffering and death, but still some doubted. Verse 18: And Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. That's what we mean when we say and preach and tell our friends that Jesus Christ is Lord. means that God has delegated to him all authority in heaven and on earth. He reigns with the authority of God over all things. God has always reigned over all things, but after the ascension of Christ, He's delegated that authority to His Son. Verse 19 tells us what to do on the basis of that authority. Go therefore, make disciples of all nations. You can circle the word of. It's not just make disciples in all nations, make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded Behold, I'm with you always to the end of the age. Of course, he has to be with them and with us Or it's not the kingdom of God, it's just man-made religion. Christ has to be with us. That's what makes it the kingdom. That the Spirit of Christ fills us, and that we really have come as a submission to His Lordship. Revelation 5, 9 through 10, again, just thinking on that this will be accomplished, it will be successful. They sang a new song saying, Worthy are you to take the scroll and to open its seals? For you were slain, and by your blood you ransomed people for God from every tribe, language, people, and nation, and you have made them a kingdom and priest who are God. And they shall reign on the earth. People are ransomed and will be ransomed from every tribe, language, and people, and nation. This is the kingdom. Number six. This is why the church is said to possess the authority of the kingdom of heaven. Such an important, I mean, this historically, this passage has been so important for so many reasons. We're focusing on just one of them this evening. Matthew 16, 15 through 19. He said to them, Who do you say that I am? Boy, isn't that isn't that The question of questions. Who do you say? Who do I say that Jesus is? Simon Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the Living God. Jesus answered him, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonat, which means Simon's son of the living of Jonah. God. For flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. We say the same thing about our confession of faith that we would say about Simon's confession of faith. It's not because we were smart. It's not because he was smart. It's not because of the wisdom of Peter that's inherent to him. My Father in heaven has revealed this to you. It's only by the sovereign intervention and transforming power of God that we come to faith in Jesus Christ. Of course, that doesn't happen in a vacuum. through the ministry of the word, through the work of the Spirit. God changes our hearts and brings us to a profession that Christ is Lord. Verse 18, and I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell will not prevail against it. And I will give you the kingdom, the keys, rather, the keys of the kingdom of heaven, which is representative of the authority of the kingdom of heaven, to grant entrance into the kingdom of heaven, which is done through gospel ministry. uh and to excommunicate, to disfellowship the king from the kingdom of heaven, which he deals with in Matthew eighteen, and and you see different examples of that through the epistles where that needs To happen and how that needs to happen. But as the church is being built, who is it that wields the authority of the kingdom of heaven to grant access into the kingdom of heaven? It's the church. The church holds the keys of the kingdom of heaven. So that great access into the church is the great access into the church And whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven, whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. This is why, number six, this is why the church is said to possess the authority of The kingdom of heaven. Luke twelve, thirty-two, Jesus says to his followers, Fear not little flock. It is your father's good pleasure to say it with me if you want to give you the kingdom. the kingdom. It's going to make you stewards of the kingdom of God. Is there a more delightful or m and more serious Duty that we could ever have? This is stewardship of stewardships. God 's kingdom, God's redemptive kingdom in all the earth It's what gives meaning to our lives. Knowing Christ, being found in Christ, and being stewards, workmen, fellow workers in his kingdom. Number 7. When the church is given stewardship of the kingdom, that stewardship is taken away from Israel. Matthew 21, 43. Therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you. And given to a people producing fruits. The kingdom of God, taken away, and then given to another people. People producing fruits should be the fruits of repentance. The fruits of repentance. Spirit wrought repentance. First Peter two nine through ten. But you are a chosen race. He's talking to Christians. He's talking to the church. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. A people for his own possession. Those are all Old Testament, Old Covenant designations of Israel. But now they're being applied to the church. Because that typological kingdom has not given way to the eschatological kingdom. It's the church who are the people of God on earth. That you may proclaim the excellencies of Him who called you out of darkness into His marvelous light. Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy And aren't you happy that you have? Number eight. Oh, I was worried about getting through all this, but I think I think we'll be fine. Let me just stop. Any questions? Anything that's been lingering on the tip of your tongue? In fact, it's in the Matthew 21, 43, where it says the giving to a people producing its fruits of repentance, would that be in church? Yeah. And the and the key there is producing fruits. That's how you give a good example of fruit. That's right. That's a that's a great point. Because there's a lot of groups that profess to be the church and profess the name of Christ, but they're not bearing true fruit. Yeah, that's a great point. It's not about the outward religion. It's about the actual presence and power of the Holy Spirit of Christ. And that'll be manifest in what? Very simple. In biblical obedience and worship and Christian living. So at the end of the day, it really comes down to just the basics. Are we going to be a biblical, biblically faithful church with biblically faithful teaching and preaching, not perfect preaching and teaching, not perfect church, but you can be a true biblical church. We all know that there's no perfect church, but there's a difference between a biblical church and a false church, to your point. Yes. Absolutely. Um yeah, similar dynamic, not the exact same thing, but within Israel. Not all who are of Israel are true Israel You had uh a faithful believing remnant by God's grace within national Israel, but most of national Israel was lost. A lot of national Israel was lost And uh but still that nation for that time the whole nation was the kingdom, God's kingdom. Uh where are we? Any any other questions or thoughts Becky, I can't tell if you're deep in thought or bored out of your mind with that face that you're making. Neither. Somewhere in the middle. Fluctuating. I better I better see if I can rebound here. Maybe you'll like point eight, nine, and ten better. The Boy as I see this this is too long of a sentence. Oh no no no this is good. This is important. This is one of my favorite points. Uh the this establishment of the God's kingdom in Christ and in the church is is the fulfillment of prophecy. It's not the postponement of that fulfillment. Oh, the sentence is not quite long enough. I forgot a phrase. It should say not the postponement of the fulfillment of prophecy. And this is central. In fact, this is the summary methodology of apostolic preaching and teaching Teaching in the book of Acts. They're preaching and teaching in the synagogues to the Jews that what that what's happening is the fulfillment of prophecy that Jesus is the Christ. And God has established his kingdom in fulfillment. See, here's a couple, just a couple verses on this. This is all throughout Acts. Acts 3, 18 and then to 24. But what God foretold by the mouth of all the prophets That his Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. Now that's more general than what I'm saying here, but that's a foundation. All the prophets, God foretold that Christ would suffer, he thus fulfilled. So Christ's suffering is the fulfillment of prophecy. It's not a plan B that was activated. And then prophecy wasn't fulfilled. That's postponed. And now verse 24, and all the prophets who have spoken. That's twice now you have that phrase. All the prophets, all the prophets have spoken from Samuel and those who came after him. So from from the uh Just the speaking prophets who didn't write, to the writing prophets who also spoke, all the prophets, Samuel and those who came after him, also proclaimed These days. All the prophets, all the prophets proclaim these days, the church age established in Christ, the new covenant, is the fulfillment of prophecy, not the postponement. This is all throughout the book of Acts. Do I keep repeating myself on that point? Just want you to know I'm not making it up. This is this is exegetical Bible study. From the text up, from the text up. It's not speculative, but exegetical. Acts 26, 22 to 23, to this day I have had the help that comes from God. And so I stand here testifying both to small and great, saying nothing, nothing, but what the prophets and Moses said would come to pass. that Christ must suffer, and that by being the first to rise from the dead, he would proclaim light to both our people and to the Gentiles. saying nothing but. Paul is saying that all that he's been preaching and all that he's been teaching and all that he's been trying to persuade the Jews of and the Gentiles of Wh where we know what Paul preached and we know what he taught and tried to persuade that Jesus is the Christ. All of that, and proclaiming light to both Jews and Gentiles, is the fulfillment of the prophets, saying nothing but what the prophets and Moses Would would said would come to pass. That's going back to Moses. To Moses. So you have the Pentateuch all the way through the prophets. Proclaimed and prophesied this church age. What's actually happening? In fact, that's how the church age starts starts with Peter preaching this From Joel chapter 2. What they're seeing on the day of Pentecost Is God pouring out his spirit to inaugurate the last days and establish his kingdom? And in the words and in the biblical references in that sermon. Acts chapter 2, Peter interprets the ascension of Christ as cr as as the fulfillment that an heir of David will sit on the throne of David and reign over the people of God. It's the ascension and resurrection of Christ that's the Fulfillment of that prophecy. So the type, the typological throne is fulfilled eschatologically, heavenly, as Christ reigns on the right hand of God. So the establishment of the kingdom and manifest in the church is the fulfillment of prophecy, not the postponement of it. And that's what Daniel 7 was prophesying. The ascended Son of Man will receive the prophet. the kingdom and then share that kingdom, manifest that kingdom with his saints who on earth possess that kingdom that's presided over by the ascended Christ. Number nine. Becky was that was that a good point? Did you like I want us to be kingdom people. You know, it's understanding the kingdom and understand The reign of Christ, the authority of Christ, that will not only give us urgency, but also will give us the proper conviction and authority that we need to have to be faithful stewards in the kingdom. This is not make-believe. This is real. Christ is Lord. All authority is his. The supreme authority. Supreme power. The gospel is the most powerful thing on earth. It's not a thing, it's a message. It's the most powerful entity on earth. It has the power to transfer sinners from the kingdom of darkness to the kingdom of God. It has the power to change the human human heart to to give the Holy Spirit come through hearing the gospel with faith. Got to move on. Well now I'm not sure if we'll get through this. If I keep spending eleven or twelve minutes on each point. The kingdom, number nine, the kingdom will grow slowly but powerfully. It'll grow gradually but effectively. over all the earth. Just because something's moving slowly doesn't mean the power of God's not in it. And it's not any reason to get discouraged because things are going more slowly than we would have it. And just just because the word of God is powerful doesn't mean it's going to show its effects quickly, rapidly Matthew 13, 31 through 33. He put another parable before them saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed. That a man took and sowed in his field. It is the smallest of all seeds, so very humble beginnings. But when it has grown, it is larger than all the garden plants. Becomes a tree, so the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches. Did it happen quickly? Did it happen overnight? No, but it is a powerful Expansive growth that cannot be denied once you see it. But that's why we walk by faith. And we can apply that same principle to our own lives just because God is just because God is not answering our prayers as quickly as we want doesn't mean he's not answering our prayers and powerfully intervening in our lives. Just because he's not sanctifying us as quickly that we would want Or to the degree that we would want, that does not mean that he's not working powerfully in our hearts. Just because he's not growing the church at the quickness or the speed or the way that we would want, doesn't mean God is not growing the church We have to walk by faith and believe. We have to believe that God is with us and believe that God is working and believe that the word is powerful. To save, mighty to save, and mighty to sanctify, mighty to build up the church in unity and maturity of Christ. Verse 33, another parable. The kingdom of heaven is like leaven that a woman took and hid in three measures of flour till it was all leavened. You have the same idea of expansion, but it's of a different sort. This is more of the spreading impact, the sprawling impact. You have this whole, so the seed is one thing that grows to be a bigger thing. The leaven is within a much larger thing. It's a small ratio within a much larger thing. But it has a gradual effect to affect that whole larger thing. So the kingdom will grow slowly, but it is growing powerfully. Now, if we evaluate things by a worldly measure, we'll never get that. And we'll become obsessed with numerical growth and popularity from a worldly perspective and worldly measure. And then we'll just try to attract people to church by any means necessary. That's disobedience. And it's uh not where we want to be. Number ten. That's a nice Round number, number ten, the number of completeness. Number ten. I'm ending with, in fact, the pfft, arguably the most important point. The kingdom is manifest on earth by the presence of Christ, in the power of the Spirit, in the Word of God. If you want to understand my approach to ministry, which I believe it is a biblical approach to ministry. Otherwise, I wouldn't have it. It comes down to these two things: the presence of Christ, in the power of the Spirit, and in the power of the Word of God. At the end of the day, it's literally true that apart from that, we have nothing. We have no power, nothing. Christ must be with us. And Christ is with us. He's with us by his spirit. He's with us by us by his with with his word and in his word and that's what makes true worship that's what makes worship worship is the presence of Christ To the power of the Spirit and the power of His Word. So when we come to church on Sunday, I hope we understand that we're coming to meet with Christ. We're coming to worship Christ, to receive grace from Him. In our time of need. So this is the the kingdom is manifest, or the kingdom's power and it effects and growth is manifest on earth. By the presence of Christ and the power of the Holy Spirit and the Word. And now that first bullet point, this is centrally, though not exclusively. That's important. We're not expanding that today. Centrally, though not exclusively, manifest in the church. So you're witness in the workplace. You're reflecting. The the character of God and the character of Christ And the law of God, all all this stuff. You're reflecting that in the workplace. Christ is in you, and Christ is with you, and He's working in you and working through you. That's that's a you're a kingdom ambassador wherever you are. at Shoprig, at the gas station, wherever, with extended family The kingdom is manifest centrally and primarily through the church, but not exclusively. It's through his people, wherever his people are, wherever the presence of Christ is, wherever the Holy Spirit is. Um let's just finish with these three three verses uh passages. Matthew twelve, twenty eight, twenty-nine. But if it's and I apologize for stripping this out of its context, Jesus Was just accused of casting out demons by the Prince of Demons. And put that on your list of top five worst things you ever want to say. Accused Jesus of working by the power of Satan. And it really is, it's a blasphemy of the Holy Spirit. It's an unforgivable sin. But if it's by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, Then the kingdom of God has come upon you. How can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first finds the strongman? Then indeed he may plunder his So he binds the strong man, plunders his house, he's casting out demons, not by the power, the prince of demons, but by the power of the Holy Spirit of God. And therefore the conclusion is the kingdom of God has powerfully come upon you through the presence of Christ and the power of the Holy Spirit. That's the kingdom Luke 17, 20 and 21. Being asked by the Pharisees when the kingdom of God would come, he answered, The kingdom of God is not coming in ways that can be observed. Nor will they say, look, here it is, or there. For behold, the kingdom of God is in the midst of you. It's not going to come and appear In ways that the world would recognize in a worldly measure from a worldly mindset. For instance, they probably were thinking of just the re-establishment of Israel The re-establishment of the old covenant kingdom. But the kingdom of God is in the midst of you. It is not to be translated within you. The kingdom of God does not dwell within the hearts of lost, wicked Pharisees, whom he's talking to. The point is The kingdom, and we just saw this in the previous passage. The kingdom is present and powerfully manifest in Jesus and in his earthly ministry. Not just his miracles, but his teaching and his otherworldly compassion and the the authority that he brought. The kingdom is in the midst of them Because Jesus is in the midst of them in the power of the Spirit. That's the kingdom. Matthew twenty-eight, nineteen through twenty. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Spirit, teaching them to observe all I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. So the kingdom has been inaugurated, since Jesus is with us, The kingdom power is ours. Of course, God would delegate to us kingdom or give to us kingdom power through the Spirit and through the Word. If he's going to delegate kingdom stewardship to us. He wouldn't ask us to be stewards over his kingdom and then not give us the Holy Spirit and not give us his word and not be present with us. Us in our hearts and in our fellowship. Christ is with us in the power of the Holy Spirit. We love each other in the name of Christ in the power of the Holy Spirit. That's kingdom love. We preach and teach and encourage and exhort one another. With the word of Christ, in the presence of Christ, in the power of the Spirit. That's kingdom ministry, kingdom love, kingdom ministry. And wherever we are, wherever we are, if Christ is in us, if the Spirit is in us, And if we wield the sword of the Spirit faithfully, there is the power of the kingdom of God. All that as the conclusion to the 70 weeks, because the 70 weeks is about The historical provisional restoration of Israel, but then the eschatological restoration, which will be the new covenant being established in Christ's life, death, and resurrection And you see that great transition from the typological kingdom to this eschatological kingdom, the presence of Christ and the power of the Spirit centrally, primarily manifest And it this is how it advances through the church, through local churches, and all the earth. It is not there will n if prophecy is correct, and I believe it is. There'll there'll never be again another wicked earthly kingdom that's the most dominant sprawling kingdom on earth. If that prophecy in Daniel 2 and other prophecies are correct, it's the it's the church, the kingdom, that will fill the whole earth With the with the exception of what happens um just before you Well just before. We don't know how long this period of the final apostasy and a final rebellion which will be the greatest apostasy or falling away and the greatest rebellion, the greatest persecution against against the church. But that's going to be for a short time. That's after the discipling of the nations and the uh the fine I believe based on Romans nine through eleven, that final nation to be discipled at a at a uh at a major to a major degree will be Israel. They're grafted back in. And then at that time you'll have the final rebellion, the final apostasy, the final great persecution. And then it but that'll be for a short time. We don't know exactly how long, but then Christ will return. and the final and greatest judgment, the final judgment. Alright, let's pray. Hey, it's pray.