Christ is Lord over all. That's what I'm calling this study. Now, this will be the final study of this general look at the kingdom and how God sets up his kingdom. In the first coming of Christ. There's going to be a lot of information, I know. If you flip through the packet, you already see This is fire hydrant. Try to give you cross-references, at least a sampling of them for each point as we move through. So it's a lot of information, but the practical application is I want us to have confidence in God. I want us to have confidence. in the Lordship of Christ, the power of the gospel, the work of the Spirit, the success of the Great Commission. I want us to have confidence and I want us to understand The change that happened in the world at the first coming of Christ. Because this is our worldview, this is a biblical worldview. What we mean when we say Christ is Lord is important. Christ is Lord overall. I wrote the review on the sheet so that I don't take 15 minutes to do it. I'll read through this. You can follow along. Our last class we discussed the two-fold transition from one kingdom to another. That was achieved in the first coming of Christ. Do you remember that study? I think I called it the transition from one kingdom to another, but I talked about how that has two aspects. The second sentence here, first was the transition regarding God's redemptive kingdom from old covenant Israel to new covenant churches. So uh transition from the outward form, the outward expression of God's redemptive kingdom, his saved people on earth. Second was the transition regarding God's there's a mouthful here. See if you can track along with this Regarding God's providential kingdom over the kingdoms of man. And here's the transition: from Rome being the most powerful and spreading kingdom to the kingdom of God being the most powerful and spreading kingdom. Who is in control and reigns as king over all nations for all of history? God. This is major theme in the Bible. He raises up kings. Puts kings down. He puts nations in place. He sets boundaries. He determines these things. God is king over the nations It's crucial to remember, especially when thinking about that last point, the transition from Rome to the kingdom of God, it's crucial to remember that God's kingdom is a spiritual and heavenly kingdom. It's a different kind of kingdom than Rome and before that the Greeks, and before that the Medes and the Persians, and before that the Babylonians. It's a spiritual kingdom. It's a heavenly kingdom. It's a matter of righteousness, peace, and joy in the Holy Spirit. Romans 14, 17. His is the kingdom of gracious salvation. Not of wickedness, not of decadence, not of violence, not of coercion, but by word and spirit, the risen Christ, saving sinners for the glory of God. This is the kingdom of God. And they form in local churches And they send out missionaries and they plant churches and the kingdom advances and the kingdom advances. But that's only part of the stories. That's just a review of what we did last time, that twofold transition in those kingdoms. That only tells what happens on earth. That only tells what happens in the scene realm. Israel was a nation on earth. Local churches are on earth. Rome was a kingdom on earth. We're talking about the kingdom of God now spreading, manifesting churches, spreading on the earth. There are two more transitions pertaining to dominion or authority. Dominion just has to do with ruling over a realm or wielding authority over a particular realm. There are two more transitions that occur in the heavenly realm. What happens in the heavenly realm that lays behind these changes on earth? These transitions are in fact the ones behind The transitions on earth. In other words, the change of dominion in the unseen realm is the reason for the change in the seen realm. What are those changes? Two changes. First, God the Father delegates his dominion over all things to the incarnate Son. That's a real That's a delegated authority. The Father's providential kingdom, uh, reign, his kingdom over all things, the father delegates that authority to the incarnate Son, which is prophesied and envisioned in Daniel chapter 7. That was new. That wasn't the case before Christ's first coming. Alright, where a man who is also God, but a man sits on the throne of God in heaven and reigns over all things. And is judge over all things. That job belongs to God. Well, Jesus is God in the flesh, now reigning at the right hand. Christ, this is the first thing we mean when we say Christ is Lord. So that happens in the spiritual realm. It's a change. God the Father delegates his dominion over all things to the incarnate Son. Second, the more difficult one, not because there are not a lot of verses on it, but because there are a ton of verses on it, and because it's been an overlooked doctrine. Second, Satan's dominion over the world outside of Israel is taken away. The point is not Satan becomes inactive. That's not the point. The point is that his dominion That was given to him by God over the world outside of Israel is taken away. This means that Satan's authority to keep the nations in c blindness, in complete blindness is taken away from him, and the reign of the Son's salvation in all the world is in full swings. Now that authority that had been given to Satan before the coming of Christ Was God's judgment over the nations for their wickedness and for their sin? They were left in darkness. They were left in blindness. That's under the authority and kingship of God. God decided that. Satan didn't decide that. God decided that. That's taken away and chipped away at throughout the church age. These are the two changes of authority in the spiritual realm that then manifest outwardly In the earthly realm, the change from old covenant Israel to new covenant churches and the change from um Rome, the wicked satanic kingdom of Rome being the dominant empire to the kingdom of God. So that's the summary of what we're talking about. We'll come to questions later. For now, let me push through. I put most of these cross-references on the sheet. There are some that I want us to turn to. Number one, we're still in the review section just to remind us of the central confession of our faith We are people who profess Jesus Christ is Lord. There's a lot of other truths we believe. There's a lot of other truths about Jesus that we profess. Jesus is Savior. But Jesus Christ is Lord implies that he's Savior. The Lord is the Savior. He's the Lord over all things. That's what gives him the authority to save Any sinner. Acts 2. 36, let all the house of Israel therefore know for certain that God has made him both Lord and Christ. this Jesus whom you crucified. Already in this first verse you see this delegation. The Father made him Lord in Christ. The Father Exalted him to his right hand and made him Lord in Christ. Acts 10, 36. As for the word That he sent to Israel, preaching good news of peace through Jesus Christ. He is Lord of all. Lord of all. Romans ten nine. Uh let me ask you this. Just because some people don't uh submit to his lordship, uh just because some people don't recognize his his lordship, does that mean he's not lord over them? Of course not. He is this is an objective truth, an objective historical reality. It's the center of preaching. The center of preaching is we're declaring this state of affairs of the world. That Jesus Christ is Lord of all and over all. He's the supreme authority. We'll get to that point later. Romans 10, 9. Because if you confess with your mouth, That Jesus is Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. To believe in your heart. So it means it has to be a genuine confession. A true confession. Just saying the words doesn't have magical power. You see, all of these verses so far, God made him Lord in Christ. He is Lord of all. Confess with your mouth that Jesus is Lord. Romans ten twelve. Get a little clue into what Romans is about here in just three three verses that we're picking out. Romans ten twelve, for there's no distinction between between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing riches on all who call on him. That phrase over and over again in the New Testament, no distinction No distinction between Jew and Greek. Was that true under the old covenant administration? No, it wasn't. There was a distinction. There certainly was a distinction. The Mosaic Law, the covenant, covenants of promise, the oracles of God, the Word of God given to Israel. Now there's no distinction. The old covenant has been done away with, and the new covenant is in full effect. Romans 14:9. For to this end Christ died and lived again. That he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. He's Lord over everybody Those who've already died, those who are still alive. He has the authority to give salvation. He has the authority to judge. He's Lord of the living and the dead. He's Lord of all. I really like The structure of this sentence, Romans 14, 9, you see something of there's many there's other verses like this that talk about different aspects of the purpose of Christ's coming, but this is a purpose statement. For to this end Christ died and lived again. That's just another way of saying Christ died and lived again for this purpose, dot dot dot, that he might be Lord both of the dead and of the living. So him reigning as Lord is the reward of his suffering. It's the crown of his work. First Corinthians twelve three. Therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says Jesus is accursed, and no one can say Jesus is Lord except in the Holy Spirit. Of course, you know there's other scriptures it is possible to make a false profession of faith. This is in the context It's talking about a a true profession that Christ is Lord, a true, heartfelt confession and belief that Jesus is Lord can only happen by the power of the Holy Spirit. And if we're cursing Jesus, it's um that proves that we don't have the Holy Spirit. All of those, and it's just a sampling. Just to remind and hopefully reestablish in our hearts the centerpiece of our faith that Jesus Christ is Lord. It's not just a feeling. It's not just a philosophy, a religious philosophy that's over here separate and apart from the world and separate and apart from history. No, this is a objective historical fact, the historical fact That defines everything else, that Jesus Christ is Lord. He is Lord. Turn the page to number two, still in our review. Remember, the new covenant churches have been given the kingdom. Matthew 21, 43, therefore I tell you, the kingdom of God will be taken away from you. and given to a people producing its fruits. He's talking to the apostate leaders of Israel, representing apostate Israel. Not the faithful remnant, not true believing Israel, but the kingdom will be taken away from them and given to a people producing its fruits, aka Believers of Christ, followers of Christ. Luke 12, 32, fear not, little flock, for it is your father's good pleasure to give you the kingdom. Hebrews 12, 28 through 29. Therefore let us be grateful for receiving a kingdom that cannot be shaken. And let us therefore Offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and all, not just reverence, you can fake reverence We can act solemn in a religious setting. But in our hearts do we have awe for the mighty works of God in Christ and the great salvation that He's given us. This is true worship. With reverence. And all for our God is a consuming fire. 1 Peter 2, 9. You are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. Who is he talking to here? The church. He's talking to Christians, but he's using language that was assigned to Israel in the old covenant. Which is proper to do that because Israel was a type of the redemptive kingdom. It was an earthly shadow, an earthly prefiguring, or a type, use to use biblical language. of this God's saving reign in Christ. And so now this language, this kingdom language, is applied to the church A holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. And if you remember the darkness at all, oh how thankful we are that God snatched us and brought us into his light. The light of what? The light of knowing him. The light of having our sins erased by the blood of Christ. The light of living with hope, not fear of death, not fear of the unknown, but hope in eternal resurrection glory. The kingdom of Christ. Praise God. So that's why we proclaim his excellence. I love that. It's a good uh I don't have a life verse. I've got a life book, but I didn't pick a life verse from it yet. But this would be in the top ten for just in terms of ministry, that you may proclaim the excellencies of Him. Who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light? It means preach. It means boldly declare. It means announce. Proclaim his excellencies. Proclaiming God's excellencies is the way that other people get to know God. Proclaim proclaiming God's excellencies is the way we remind each other of who God is and of what God's done. It's how we stay grounded in our faith. It's how we grow in our faith and encourage one another. I'm getting off on a tangent here, but I love that verse. First first Peter two nine, I love that verse Revelation 1, 5, and 6, and from Jesus Christ, the faithful witness, the firstborn of the dead, and the ruler of the kings on earth, which is stated as a present reality. He's the ruler of kings on earth. That's nothing different than was consistently taught for the entire old Testament, God is ruler of the kings on earth. So now his exalted Son is the ruler of the kings on earth because he's given all authority over to the Son. It's not a new doctrine in the New Testament that God rules over the kings of earth. What's new about it is that that is that that kingship is now mediated through the incarnate and ascended Son. To him who loves us and has freed us from our sins by his blood and made us a kingdom. Priests to his God and Father, to him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Make no mistake about it. We are waiting for the final, fully A fully manifest, glorious, eternal kingdom. The full and final form of the kingdom of God. We are waiting for that inheritance But we're not waiting to be brought into the kingdom of God. We've already been ushered into the kingdom of God through our union with Christ, and we await our final inheritance. But we are a kingdom, priests to our God and Father. And uh just as we Remember the centerpiece of our confession that Christ is Lord. And we remember that new covenant churches have been given the kingdom. What a weighty stewardship that is There's no greater responsibility that any of us could ever have than to be stewards of the kingdom of the ascended Lord Jesus Christ. There's nothing to be bored about in church. Absolutely nothing to be bored about in church. Number three, so also we remember that God has dominion over kings and kingdoms of man. These are some that I want us to look at because this ties us back into Daniel. First of all, Psalm 95. 3 For the Lord is a great God and a great king above all gods. Many pastors, many theologians have said that the theme of Psalms is the kingship of God. And there are so many different themes, major themes, in the Psalms, but that is an overarching and pervasive theme, that God is king over the world. He made the world. Brothers and sisters, God made the world. It's his world. He made people. He owns it all, as a friend of mine says, He has rights on everything He is king and he is judge and he is lawgiver. He's a king. Alright, let's turn to Daniel 2. Just to see specifically, one specific application of that That God has dominion over the kings and kingdoms of man. Daniel two thirty-six to forty-five Ezekiel Daniel, verse thirty six of Daniel two. This was the dream. Now we will tell the king its interpretation. You, O King, the King of Kings, to whom the God of heaven What's the phrase? Has given. God is sovereign over Nebuchadnezzar and over his kingdom. God has given the kingdom The power, the might, and the glory, and into whose hands he has given it, wherever they dwell, the children of man, the beasts of the field, the birds of the heaven, making you rule over them God making you rule. God is the sovereign one. You are the head of gold. Now another kingdom inferior to you shall arise after you, and yet a third kingdom of bronze, which shall rule over all the earth. What's the clear implication in the context? You even see it see it here. Who's the one who gives that second communion dom second kingdom dominion and authority? God. Who's the one who then transitions and gives the next kingdom dominion? God. God is the one. God is the one in charge of this. Verse 40, and there should be a fourth kingdom, strong as iron. This is the Roman Empire. Because Iron breaks to pieces and shatters all things, and like iron that crushes, it shall break and crush all these. And as you saw, the feet and toes Partly of potter's clay and partly of iron, it shall be a divided kingdom. But some of the firmness of iron shall be in it, just as you saw iron mixed with the soft clay. And as the toes of the feet were partly iron and partly clay, so the kingdom shall be partly strong and partly brittle. As you saw the iron mixed with soft clay, so they will mix with one another in marriage. But they will not hold together, just as iron does not mix with clay. We're not getting off on that's just describing some things about the Roman Empire. We're not expounding that this evening. We've done that in a Past class, verse 44. And in those in the days of those kings, right? One, two, three, four. In the days of those kings, the God of heaven will set up a kingdom That shall never be destroyed, nor shall the kingdom be left to another people. It shall break in pieces all these kingdoms, and bring them to an end, and it shall stand forever. Just as You saw that a stone was cut from a mountain by no human hand. In other words, it was supernaturally cut. And that it broke in pieces the iron, the bronze, the clay, the silver, and the gold. A great God has made known to the king them the king. What shall be after this? The dream is certain, and its interpretation is sure. It's in the days of those kings that the God of heaven sets up his kingdom He doesn't bring it to its full consummation in the days of those kings. He sets up the kingdom that starts very, very small Like a mustard seed. But it grows and it grows and it grows. It's a stone that first Takes away the uh uh dominion and authority from these earthly wicked kingdoms. That's first, then it becomes a mountain, and then it will grow to cover the whole earth. But that takes time. That's the church age Moral of the story is any of these kings, one, two, three, four, and then in the days of those kings, God setting up his king, who's sovereign over the whole process? God is the king of kings. He's the Lord of Lords. Now turn to Daniel 4. 17. Really cherry-picking some things here just for the sake of time. The sentence is by the decree of the watchers, the decision by the word of the Holy Ones To the end that the living may know. So this is what God wants us to know. This is what the revealing angels want us to know to the end that the living may know that the Most High, say it with me, rules the kingdom of men. He rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will and sets over it the lowliest of men. God does it. Verse 19 through 25. Then Daniel, whose name was Belteshazzar, was dismayed for a little while. And his thoughts alarmed him. The king answered and said, Beltishar, let not the dream or the interpretation alarm you. Belteshazzar answered and said, My lord May the dream be for those who hate you, and its interpretation for your enemies. The tree that you saw, which grew and became strong. So that its top reached to heaven, and was visible to the end of the whole earth, whose leaves were beautiful. This is uh the strength and the glory of Nebuchadnezzar's kingdom, whose leaves were beautiful. and its fruit abundant, and in which was food for all, under which beasts of the field found shade, and in whose branches the birds of the heavens lived. It is you, O king, who have grown And become strong. Your greatness has grown and reaches to heaven, and your dominion to the ends of the earth. You see that this is all about dominion. When we think kingdom of God, we have to think in terms of dominion, authority expressed. on earth. But that authority is given or taken away in the heavenly realm. Verse twenty three And because the king saw a watcher, a holy one, coming down from heaven and saying, Chop down the tree and destroy it. but leave the stump of its root in the earth, bound with a band of iron and bronze, in the tender grass of the field, and let him be wet with the dew of heaven, and let his portion be with the beasts of the field Till seven periods of time pass over him. We talk about the details of that at length, but uh he's Nebuchadnezzar is going to come under judgment. His glory and kingdom that were given to him is going to be taken away. And he's gonna be he's gonna be punished. Verse 24. Is that where we are, verse 24? This is the interpretation, O King. It is a decree of the Most High Decide. uh of the most high, which has come upon my Lord the King, that you shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. You shall be made to eat grass like an ox, and you shall be wet with the dew of heaven And seven periods of time shall pass over you till he learns a lesson. Are you are you skimming ahead? Till he learns a lesson. What's that lesson? Till you know that the Most High rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will. We've got to believe that. That God rules the kingdom of men, and he gives authority and he gives dominion to whom he will. Verse 32. You shall be driven from among men, and your dwelling shall be with the beasts of the field. You shall be made to eat grass like an ox. And seven periods of time shall pass over you until you know that the most rule the most high rules the kingdom of men and gives it to whom he will. Didn't we just read that verse? No, it was another verse. That's three times now. This is this is chapter four. God wants Nebuchadnezzar and others to know that God rules over the kingdoms of men, not Nebuchadnezzar. Ver uh final in chapter four, verse thirty-four through thirty-seven At the end of the days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me. This is after his kingdom was taken, after he was punished. He's being restored. Now he's writing a letter to be distributed. My reason returned to me, and I blessed the Most High and praised and honored him who lives forever For his dominion is an everlasting dominion. That's noteworthy. Because Nebuchadnezzar came to realize that Nebuchadnezzar's dominion is not everlasting dominion, but God's dominion is an everlasting dominion. His authority will never be taken away. Do you believe God's authority to rule over all things will be taken away from him? Can be taken away from him? Absolutely not. Nebuchadnezzar didn't always understand that. His dominion is an everlasting dominion, and his kingdom, his kingdom endures from generation to generation All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. And he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of earth. That reminds me of the Great Commission. All authorities have been given to Jesus. In heaven and on earth. That's the authority of God. Brothers and sisters, that's the authority of God. And among the inhabitants of the earth, and none can stay his hand or say to him, What have you done? No one has the authority to question him, call on to call into question God's decisions. We can't even take care of our own lives. We're going to call into question God's decisions. But it also says none can stay his hand. We can't stop God from doing what God wants to do This is such an important teaching. The teachings of the Bible are meant to exalt God and bring us low in humility. to reverence him and to have be in awe of him, to humble ourselves before him. Verse 36, at the same time my reason returned to me And for the glory of my kingdom, my majesty and splendor returned to me. My counselors and my lords sought me, and I was established in my kingdom, and still more greatness was added to me. Now I, Nebuchadnezzar Praise and extol and honor the King of Heaven. Isn't that a great phrase? The King of Heaven. For all his works are right, and his ways are just And those who walk in pride, he is able to humble. Now we all have remnants of pride within us. What should we do with that? Well, it's very, very simple. We go to God in desperate prayer and ask God to humble us. God is the only one with the power to humble us. And he will humble us We can harden our hearts against him in pride, or we can seek to be humbled by God. Now What point are we on? Number three, still on number three, that God has dominion over the kings and kingdoms of man. That's I mean, has that been abundantly clear? Now, we want to see what's prophesied and promised in Daniel 7. Daniel Sammy gives us a very important detail about how God is going to set up his kingdom in the days of those kings, in the days of the Roman Empire, to be precise. Daniel 7, 13 to 14. I saw in the night visions, and behold, with the clouds of heaven there came one like a son of man, and he came to. Circle the phrase. He came to. He came to the Ancient of Days and was presented before him. Who's the Ancient of Days? God the God the Father on his throne in heaven. What you have here is well like a son of man, a human being. A glorious human being, being ushered on clouds of glory, which is who travels that way in the Old Testament? God travels that way. He's being ushered to the throne of the Father. Verse 14 answers why he's being ushered to the throne of the Father and what happens when he is presented before the throne of the Father. And to him was given dominion and the glory and a kingdom that all all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. And his dominion is an everlasting dominion, which shall not pass away, and his kingdom. One that shall not be destroyed, the kingdom of whom the Son of Man, the ascended Son of Man, brought to the ancient of days, and then is Seated at the right hand of the ancient of days, given all dominion over all peoples, all nations, all languages. And that dominion is an everlasting dominion. So that dominion that Christ has received, will it ever be taken away from him No. There's a sense in when he completes his kingdom after his return and resurrection judgment, he presents it back to the Father as a final product, so to speak, a completed work. But his dominion in and over that commit um kingdom will never pass away and it'll never be destroyed. The kingdom of the Son, the kingdom of the ascended Son of Man So that is a prophecy and a promise of one of the great transitions. One of the great transitions of the sun now reigning at the right hand of God. Presented uh verse 13 presented before him, verse 14, to him given dominion. It's just another way of saying seated at his right hand, which we see over and over and over again in the New Testament. Now let's go to new material. That's all review. That's a conglomeration of review from the from what we did the last lesson and then what we've done throughout Daniel The new material focuses on the change in the spiritual dominion. Change in spiritual dominion. Upon Christ's completed work. Uh what's uh maybe an easier way to think about that? Changing the authority structure? Change in delegated authority. Or so if I If it's uh if I have the authority in my home, which I do as the father, um, but if I choose to put one of my children in charge of something for six hours while I'm off doing something else, I've what? I've delegated authority. So it's a change in the authority structure. Or if if I've already given uh this job, I've already delegated this authority to one child, but then two weeks later I want to change my mind and say this is no longer Your job, I'm giving this to your brother. He's now in charge. What is that? That's just a change in authority structure. That's what we mean when we say change in spiritual dominion. It's a change in the authority structure in the unseen unseen realm upon Christ's completed work. Friends, Christ actually changed the affairs. In the universe, in the heavenly realm and in the earthly realm. First of all, he's the highest authority in both heaven and earth. This uh is just becoming more and more of an anthem that has captured And captivated my heart in terms of preaching and what I need to be reminded of to shape and direct my life and what needs to be preached and taught, what we all need to be reminded of. So that we do not dismay, so that we do not lose heart. Jesus is the highest authority in both heaven and earth. Matthew 28, 18 Jesus came and said to them, All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. You know what I like about that statement? You can't summarize it any better than that. That is the perfect summary statement. Because look at each element. First of all All authority. You can't summarize that anymore. What are we talking about? We're talking about authority. Uh how much authority? All of it Well, what kind of authority? Where? What are you talking about? In heaven and on earth. So all authority in both the unseen and the seen realm , who 's wielding this authority? What does he say? Has been given to me. Who gave it to him? God the Father. That's right. That's right. It's the perfect summary statement. Ephesians one twenty through twenty-three. Picking it up in the middle of a sentence here, I apologize for that, but it's anything from Ephesians one, it's hard to give you the whole sentence because there's Just incredibly long. It's talking about God's power that he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Did you know that you wouldn't have the Holy Spirit if if uh Christ never ascended to the throne of God? He would still just be living on earth No, no, what does Peter preach in Acts 2? The descendant Christ is the one who received the Spirit that was promised, and he now pours out the Spirit for the church. We can pray for a work of the Spirit. We don't need to pray for the Spirit to be poured out. Are we a church? Okay, so do we need to pray for the Spirit to be poured out on us or in it? No. That's what makes us a church is that we have the Holy Spirit, that we're filled with the Holy Spirit. We are a church. This is a church. It's a glorious thing. Church is a punishment. Church is a reward. It's a gracious Gifts. It's an incredible gift. We're filled with the Holy Spirit. Absolutely. We can pray for a fresh work of the Spirit. We can pray for the Spirit to move different things. We pray for the filling of the Holy Spirit, the guidance of the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit to lead us that we may walk in the Holy Spirit. But technically, properly, we don't need to pray for an outpouring of the Spirit. Anyone who is truly praying for that already has the spirit poured out into their hearts. Okay. Soapbox off. Verse twenty one. Verse 21. Far above. Far above. All it's it's it's incredible. But look at what he says in verse 20. He seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. Where's the right hand of God? That's the right hand of God. That's the seat of authority over everything. But just in case we miss it, which we're prone to do, he's far above all rule and authority and power and dominion. and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. Verse 21 really is just describing The phrase at his right hand. That's what right hand of God means. Verse 21. That's the location, as it were Of this office, the right hand of God is far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named Not only in this age, but also in the one to come, verse 22. And he put all things under his feet, brought things into submission to his rule. That's what that means. Brought all things into submission to him, Christ. And gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all and all. This is what makes us a kingdom. Because Christ is king over all, and we're united to Christ. We share in his reign. Daniel 7, we didn't look at those other verses that are listed there. Verse 17, verse 22, and verse 27. Where the saints of God come to possess the earth. When the Son of Man ascends to the throne of God to receive the kingdom, it's the saints of God on earth who possess that kingdom and bring that kingdom to expression in the earthly realm. Colossians 2. 10. You've been filled with him. You have been filled in him, rather, who is the head of all rule and authority. That's Christ. Revelation 17, 14. They'll make war on the lamb, and the lamb will conquer them, for he is Lord of lords and king of kings. And those with him are called and chosen and faithful. Revelation 19, 16, on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written, King of Kings Lord of Lords. There's no higher title. There's no higher office. There's no higher authority or greater authority. In the Old Testament, this was God's designation, King of Kings, Lord of Lords. I'll give you some cross-references there. Just study that on your own. Jesus is the highest authority in both heaven and earth. I want us to believe the power of our Savior, the authority. of our Savior over evil. He has the power to change hearts. We should have confidence in evangelism. Confidence that every single person who hears the gospel will be saved? No, but confidence that some people will be saved. Confidence that many people will be saved. In heaven is pictured a great multitude of saints. We should have confidence in the power of the gospel, confidence, the power of the Holy Spirit, confidence of the power of the Word of God, not just in evangelism, but in our own sanctification. Have we been not growing in our faith? What's the problem? Is it that God lacks power to change our minds? Does God lack lack the power to change our hearts? No, if there's not been any growth, it's because we've been unfaithful. If there's not been any growth, it's because I've been apathetic. But the power is there To be received and enjoyed and experienced by grace through faith. We've got to believe it. We've got to have confidence in the power of God. Point number two. Point number one was he's the highest authority. Point number two, it's because, specifically because the sun reigns on God's heavenly throne. Subduing his enemies in the power of the Spirit. That's a good summary of how the kingdom of God works. It's Christ subduing his enemies in the power of the Spirit. John 335 The Father loves the Son and has given all things into His hand. Hebrews one three. He's the radiance of the glory of God, and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. After making purification for sins, which he did through what? Through his death. He sat down at the right hand of the Majesty on high. Later in the chapter, Hebrews 1:13 To which of the angels has he ever said, Sit at my right hand until I make your enemies a footstool for your feet? And I'll give you this for your homework. I says, turn to 1 Corinthians 15, 22 through 27. It's a section in the middle of a paragraph. It's not a whole paragraph. But so you can read the whole paragraph in context. The whole chapter is about the resurrection of Christ and the future resurrection of believers. 1 Corinthians 15, 22 through 27 has to do with how Christ is sitting at the right hand of God and currently subduing his enemies. As you read through the Bible, what are the enemies of God? Well, spiritual, internal enemies of the individual, our sin. But the storyline is easy to grasp in the Old Testament. Men and nations and leaders who set themselves against God. That's his enemies on earth. That's spiritual rebellion coming to manifestation on planet Earth People, peoples, nations, tribes, kings, governors who rebel against God and set themselves against God Well, as the Great Commission continues successfully and powerfully on earth, it's just a series of enemies being subdued, as being of turning rebels into friends. Turning rebels into friends. Taking people who have set themselves against God and changing them into people who love God and want to live for Him and want to serve Him. That's his subduing his enemies. Again, his kingdom is the kingdom of salvation. After making purification for sins, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Then Hebrews 1:13, he's making his enemies the footstool. And then your homework, 1 Corinthians 15, 22 through 27. He's subduing his enemies, he's subduing his enemies. And for those of you who know that verse, or you were in here when I did that verse in the past, what's the last enemy? Death is the last enemy. So once the resurrection, there's no more enemies, there's no more errors of history to subdue more of his enemies. That's it. Once death is subdued, final judgment He's subduing enemies, subduing enemies, subduing enemies, and then eventually he'll bring them all to a final judgment and punishment. He's subduing enemies, taking their dominion and authority away. The last enemy. Is death, and then comes the end. Then comes the end. When he hands the kingdom back over to the Father. Number three, Satan has been defeated. Does it say uh Satan is no longer active? Does it say Satan has been banished from Earth to 100% and he's he's not doing anything? No, no, no, no. He's been defeated. His power has been taken away. Matthew 12, 28 through 29. This began in Christ's first coming, by the way. Matthew 12, 28. But if it's by the Spirit of God that I cast out demons, then the kingdom of God has come upon you. Just like God promised, in the days of those kings he'll set up his kingdom. The kingdom of God has come upon you. Or how can someone enter a strong man's house and plunder his goods unless he first, circle the word first, first binds the strong man Then indeed he may plunder his house. Now, if you know that passage, who's the strong man representing? The devil, Satan. Jesus in his earthly ministry is plundering his goods, plundering the house, formerly of the devil, plundering his house. Um what did he do first? First, before he began to plunder. And in the Bible, in the Bible In the Bible. That means a specific restraining of power or authority. It's abiding means. It doesn't mean he blew the devil and the devil ceased to exist. It means he restrained his authority, entered his house, and is plundering his goods. What Satan used to have dominion over, used to have the authority delegated by God to do on earth, Jesus is plundering that back. He's taking the authority back. That's why he's called the Savior of the world. The Savior of the world, the light of the world. Luke 10, 17 through 19, the 72 returned with joy, saying, Lord, even the demons are subject to us in your name. The demons are obeying them. And he said to them, I saw Satan fall like lightning from heaven. Jesus tells them of the spiritual reality, the unseen reality. that lies behind their earthly manifestation of authority over Satan. Satan Jesus could see what's happening in the spiritual realm. You and I can't see that, but he saw Satan fall like lightning. How does lightning fall? Very slow and weak. Nobody notices it, right? He fell, he crashed, and he was grounded out. His authority was taken away. falling from heaven or being driven out of heaven. It's a biblical way of talking about Authority being taken away. Behold, I've given you authority. Verse 19, just so you know I'm not making it up that this is about authority. Behold, I've given I've given you authority to tread on serpents and scorpions and over all the power of the enemy, and nothing shall hurt you. Well what are they? Well got they're gospel ministers They're stewards of the kingdom of God, stewards of the Word of God, and because of the authority of Christ, and they're representing Christ. They have power over the enemy and authority over the enemy. John 12, 31 through 32. Now is the judgment of this world. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. We know in the context he's talking about his death. He's talking about the meaning of his death, what his death will accomplish. Now will the ruler of this world be cast out. It's another metaphor. One metaphor is being cast out of heaven or fallen from heaven. Now Ruler of this world cast out, and I when I'm lifted up from the earth will draw all people to myself. Now we know that cast out cannot mean cast out of all earthly affairs so that he's not present on earth. How do we know that it can't mean that? We know that it can't mean that because Jesus is talking about what's going to happen at his death, what he's going to accomplish at his death, he's cast out of his seat of authority. We know that from the full weight of Scripture and the full context of Scripture. And he tells us the practical significance. Alright, he tells us the practical significance in verse 32, just in case we missed it. When he's lifted up from earth, again, talking about his death, he's going to draw all people to himself Because that's a really big deal. God wasn't drawing by his own decision. God wasn't drawing all men to himself before the first coming of Christ. You know he could have done that. He sent Jonah to Nineveh. This one little example. He could have he could have done that. He could have given a redemptive revelation in all the world. He could have drawn all men to himself. It's hypothetical because he didn't, because it would only be in the coming of Christ, the Savior, that he would draw all men to himself. He would do that through death and resurrection and ascension. And that is pictured here as victory over the ruler of this world who is Satan. Colossians 2. 15, he disarmed Oh what's the context of this? The cross? Again, look it up. Check me. Be a Berean. The context of this Is the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ on a cross? He disarmed the rulers and authorities and put them to open shame By triumphing over them in him. God triumphing over forces of evil in Christ through his resurrection. Satan is a defeated foe. He's raging against the enemy. He's warring. Against his enemy, who is God. Satan is raging against his enemy, who is God, and, by extension, the people of God. He's warring against the saints of God, but he is a defeated foe who's it's just a matter of time before he's brought to final judgment. Satan is the ruler over unbelievers. But the nations are no longer completely consigned to unbelief. Um see how much we have left here Alright. I I think we can I think we can do this in six to eight minutes. But you're gonna have to turn to Ephesians 2, 1 through 3 for homework. For homework, not now. That's a really good passage on this. Satan is uh God of this world, which we'll see in a second. Phrases like that in Scripture doesn't mean he's the sovereign Lord of heaven and earth. He's the leader of unbelievers. He's the leader of a rebellion against God. Ephesians 2, 1 through 3 really fleshes that out with some detail. Satan is still the ruler over unbelievers. But the nations are no longer completely consigned to unbelief, which was the case before the coming of Christ. Second Corinthians 4:4. In their case, the case of unbelievers, the God of this world has blinded the minds of unbelievers. To keep them from seeing the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ, who is the image of God. Now let me ask you a trivia question. What is the thing that will enable them to see the light of the gospel? Holy Spirit working through the word. Preaching of the word. That's right. Through the ministry of believers. Yeah. Here's a good way to think about it. Those are the three key elements. God's people, believers, so the church, preaching, and the power of the Spirit The only thing that will enable blinded minds to see the light of the gospel is the light of the gospel. But if we never turn when people are blinded to the gospel and they're not grasping it or they don't like it, they're blinded to the light of the gospel. We never, ever, ever turn to something else to try to change their minds To like the gospel. The gospel is the only thing that can pull the blinders back. The gospel changes hearts. Ephesians six twelve. For we do not wrestle against flesh and blood, but against rulers, against authorities, against the cosmic powers over this present darkness against the spiritual forces of evil in the heavenly places. We do that through gospel ministry, through our faith, with the word of God and the power of the Spirit. That's the armor of God passage. Yes, Satan does have a kingdom, and Satan does have power that he's wielding. But He doesn't have the dominion or the authority to keep the nations in darkness completely any longer. The dominion had been given to Satan as judgment over the nations. Now, this is point number five. Now the dominion that he had, that Satan had before the coming of Christ, that has now been taken from him. And Christ is gradually subduing his enemies, and the gates of Hades can't stop him from doing that. The dominion had been given to Satan as judgment over the nation. Now a really good cross-reference is Romans chapter 1, 18 through the end of the chapter, and what I've done there is written out for you the key verses. On this topic in that passage. Romans 1, 18 , 24 , 26, 28. At the beginning of Romans and at the end of Romans, you get a reminder that the purpose of Paul's ministry, of the apostolic ministry, is to bring about the obedience of faith in all the nations. Or bring the gospel to all the nations, and that that gospel will bring about, that gospel will create the obedience of faith in all the nations. He starts the book pointing that out, and then halfway through chapter one, you understand why that's so important, because the nations have been consigned to darkness and sin as judgment against them. But no longer. Now Christ, the Savior of the world. and the gospel spreading to bring about obedience of faith in all the nations. Again, just to reiterate, sorry if I keep going here again and again and again. God was not doing that before the coming of Christ. Under the old covenant administration, God was not uh purposefully and proactively Bringing about the obedience of faith in all the nations. They were in judgment over them, left in darkness. Acts 17 through uh Acts 17 verse 30 That's called the times of ignorance. The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent. That doesn't mean he condoned everything. It doesn't mean people aren't weren't accountable for their sins. It's a bad thing when he says here. He overlooked them. He overlooked them in Judgment for their sin. Acts 14, 16, in past generations he allowed the nations to walk in their own ways. Again, not a good thing. Don't read our own ideas into this as like he was okay with it and he and he condoned it. No, that's judgment against it's judgment I think about me, you think about you. If God didn't intervene in my life with His grace to save me, if He just allowed me to walk in my own ways, That's a deserved judge. That would have been a deserved judgment against me. That would have been right and just. But God is merciful and God is gracious and he intervenes in our lives. So that we do not walk in our own ways, but he brings about the obedience of faith in our lives, and that's true now globally and increasingly in this church age. Flip it over number four, a summary point of this whole thing. The gospel of Jesus therefore is to be seen as the light of God's salvation. come to a world under darkness and divine judgment. Romans 1 5, through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, that the name of God would be known and glorified in all the nations through the obedience of faith. Well how does the obedience of faith come about? Through the gospel. And the power of the Spirit. Romans 1:16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. That's the historical order of the coming of salvation. First to the Jew, then to the Greek He is the light of the world, John 8. 12. He's the Savior of the world, John 4. 42. It's a historical result. All that's the historical result of the incarnate Son being given authority over all things. Which includes the removal of Satan's unchecked reign in the nations. Well, hopefully that gives you assurance. Ooh, that the being the being in this office reigning on the throne of God With the authority that he has, she give us assurance that he is the one who says, if we believe in him, our sins are forgiven. He's the one who says if we come to him, we have the gift of eternal life. And no one can separate us from his love. And nothing can take away what he's given us. We have an inheritance kept in heaven for us. It's Jesus saying this to us, and it's his authority and his power that gives us the assurance. Well, I hope it's uh a little bit of a window into What happened in the biggest of big pictures that Christ accomplished in his first coming to set up the kingdom of God, to bring salvation to the whole world? This is the thing, I think this is one of the things that'll really give us a zeal for missions and for church planning or for to support biblical pastors. To plant biblical churches that teach and preach a biblical gospel and follow biblical practices as well for the glory of God and the obedience of faith in all the nations. Let's pray.