Let's do an overview of Daniel because we're in the final vision of Daniel. Daniel. We're in the final division of Daniel, and I want to continue to emphasize and re-emphasize what I've been saying from the beginning of this study. that we're looking still at the same storyline, the same storyline of successive kingdoms that will then culminate in God setting up his kingdom. It's all about the kingdoms. Daniel is all about the kingdoms, and the major theme throughout is that God is sovereign ruler over the kingdoms. And for one place to look at that, chapter 4 Verse 34 and 35. Once Nebuchadnezzar is restored, he says, At the end of the days I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven, and my reason returned to me. And I blessed the Most High and praised and honored him who lives forever and ever. For his dominion is an everlasting dominion His kingdom endures from generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. And he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants The middle of verse 35 should catch our attention. There's something said in there that parallels something that Jesus says in the Great Commission at the end of Matthew. In Daniel four thirty-four, it said of God the Father, the ancient of days, that he does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of earth. What does that remind you of? Jesus, something Jesus said in the Great Commission. He says, All authority, that's right, amen. All authority has been given to him in heaven and on earth. Jesus now reigns The exalted Son of Man. He reigns with the authority of God over the heavenly realm and over the earthly realm. The book of Daniel is all about the kingdoms. Now the book of Daniel begins actually with one kingdom um pillaging and taking into exile another kingdom, one kingdom taking dominion from and exercising dominion over another kingdom. Do you remember that? It's the very it's how the book of Daniel begins. Yeah, Babylon. How's that out of ink? That's right, someone said Israel. To be specific, the Southern Kingdom, Judah, but they are the heirs of the kingdom promised. As the northern kingdom was destroyed and taken into exile by Assyria in 722. It's now the southern kingdom, Judah, and the capital of the kingdom. Jerusalem is there and the temple is there. So Babylon pillages and takes Israel into exile, has dominion over them. Then in Daniel chapter 2, it's prophesied That there'll be Babylon will be the first of those kingdoms, but there'll be four successive kingdoms on earth, kingdoms of man. First is Babylon, second is what? Medes and Persians. Yeah, the Medo Persian Empire. Um and then after them what? We'll just we'll just put Rome And then at that point who sets up his kingdom that will never end and never be destroyed and will have a global expansion that cannot be stopped? Right. God, the ancient of days. Um so the ancient of days sets up that kingdom through the mediation of Jesus, the ascended Son of Man. So this will be God's kingdom. Now there's something else that's uh Said about this kingdom, and we get that in the 70 weeks prophecy most explicitly. This kingdom w will be restored, this typological kingdom. Israel was a kingdom of types and shadows that prefigured the kingdom of God that foreshadowed the kingdom of God that Christ would set up. So this kingdom of Israel In the old covenant, Israel was the kingdom of God, would see a provisional restoration that would begin right here in 539 With the beginning uh with the decree of Cyrus and the beginning of returning back to Jerusalem, the beginning of retur of offering sacrifices Rebuilding the temple, which the temple being completed in 516 would have been the capstone of that provisional restoration And that would have continued You also find out in the 70 weeks prophecy that after this kingdom is set up, this kingdom, the provisional old covenant system, will be done away with forever. But there is a restoration there. That's pretty much the kingdom story of Daniel and of history from here, Babylonian exile, to the first coming of Christ to set up his kingdom. And then we know Christ is going to return and consummate his kingdom and bring it to its full glory, its full heavenly completion. But it's all about the kingdom. And it's all about the fact that God is sovereign over all of this. That's the big picture. Now, if you have something to take notes on, Get ready. You're going to take some notes if you want to. You don't have to. I'm going to quickly, I'm not going to rush, but I'm going to move quickly, run through. The book of Daniel, but at three particular points I'm going to give you some facts about the kingdom of God Quick hitting, rapid fire facts about the kingdom of God. So chapter one. We've already looked at it. In chapter one Babylon takes Israel into exile, pillages the house of God. It's the Babylonian dominion. That's chapter one. Chapter 2, we learn that three more kingdoms will come, and then God will set up his kingdom once for all. Remember that phrase in chapter two? In the days of those kings. In the days of those kings, which would be It stru the the stone that strikes the image. Remember that big image that symbolized the kingdoms? Strikes the feet. So those two things combine that God will set up his kingdom in the days of those kings, and it strikes this kingdom in the image, lets us know that that's the time period. Chapters 3 and 4 give us a glimpse into some things that happened in Babylon's reign or the Babylonian era. Here's that first section for your notes. This is all from chapter 2, facts about the kingdom of God. It's established with a supernatural power. It's a kingdom it's a stone that's cut but not with human hands. It's not the same kind of kingdom as these kingdoms. It's not an earthly kingdom. It's not established by man. It's Established by a supernatural power. To be specific, the resurrection power of the Holy Spirit. That's poured out on the day of Pentecost based on the work of Christ. Number two, the kingdom of God comes with certain victory. Number three, the kingdom of God has the principle of global expansion. Number four, the kingdom of God will never end nor be defeated. Supernatural power, number one, certain victory, number two, global expansion. Number three, and number four, it will never end nor be defeated. That's all from chapter two. Chapter three and four again, the Babylonian error. Chapter 5 and 6 show the transition from Babylon to the Medo -Persia era. From Babylon into the Medo-Persia era, the transition. from chapter 5 and chapter 6. Chapter 7, remember this, parallels chapter 2. It parallels chapter two. It's a different vision symbolizing the same thing, but it also gives more detail. It builds upon what we got in chapter two. So instead of uh an image with different sections that symbolize those progressive kingdoms. It's different beasts that devour each other and setting up progressive kingdoms. Now I have some more. Um quick hitting kingdom. You already have five kingdom facts, right? Or four, four. You already have four kingdom facts. If you have a fifth, let me know so I can put it on my notes. Number five. The kingdom is set up by the ascended son of man. By the ascended son of man. Historically central, theologically crucial event of the risen Christ, then ascending into heaven and being seated at the right hand of God. The kingdom is set up by the ascended Son of Man. Number six, the kingdom is possessed by the saints on earth. This is all from chapter 7. Possessed by the saints on earth Why does the Son of Man receive kingdom dominion and kingdom authority? For his own sake? No, he was already the preincarnate Son with infinite glory for all eternity. He's doing this for sinners. To redeem sinners, so that redeemed sinners can possess the kingdom on earth. Again in chapter 7, it parallels chapter 2, not only in the Progressive Kingdoms, but it also parallels chapter 2, and you get again, restated again, perhaps even stronger. the principle of certain victory, the principle of global expansion, and the fact that it will ne God's kingdom will never end nor be defeated So, number five, set up by the ascended Son of Man. Number six, possessed by the saints on earth. Number seven, it's a redemptive kingdom. See how it builds on in chapter two. We found out it's a supernaturally established kingdom and has a supernatural power behind it. But what is that power unto? It's unto redemption. It is a redemptive kingdom. 7 verse 14, the second part of it. All peoples, the nations, and languages should serve him. The supernatural power is a specific supernatural power. The kingdom power. It changes the human heart from being rebellious to being obedient. The kingdom of God, the power of the gospel. Creates believers. It creates true servants of God. It's not a kingdom of military might of political maneuvering, of cultural advancement. It's a kingdom of redemption. Christ saving sinners for the glory of God, so that all peoples, nations, and languages should serve him. It's not about killing people, oppressing people, enslaving people, fighting at wars from an earthly perspective, but it's about the gospel creating servants of God. Number eight, also from chapter seven, but also different sections in throughout Daniel, particularly the second half. But you see this principle throughout. This should be number eight. Did I just say number seven? It should be number eight. Eight? I said eight. The kingdom is established and experienced in the midst of persecution. The principle of persecution does not mean persecution does not mean that God is failing, does not mean that the kingdom is failing, it just means that God's enemies are fighting back against God and his kingdom. So persecution is going to be there. That's all from chapter 7. Chapter 8 is interesting. Chapter 8 jumps backward. Because in by chapter six you're you've already moved from the Babylonian era to the era of the Medes and the Persians. Then you get that vision of chapter seven, and then chapter eight it jumps backward into the Babylon era. But here's why it jumps backward. Um because in chapter eight you get a prophecy regarding The Medes and the Persians into the Greek era. So from the con from the timeline of when it's happening, it jumps backwards. But from the content of the visions, it's tracking with the progression of the kingdoms. So chapter 8 gives a prophecy regarding the transition between Medes and Persians into the Greek era. Chapter 9, the 70 weeks, we find out there's going to be a two-stage restoration of Israel. There's going to be a provisional restoration. A restoration of the old covenant nation to the land, to Jerusalem, rebuilding the temple, truly, literally under the old covenant, a restoration. of the typological kingdom, but then there's going to be an eschatological restoration, the kingdom of redemption in the last days. The kingdom of redemption in the last days. Now I have your final two kingdom facts. This number nine is the longest one. Learning this from chapter 9. Among other things, the kingdom of God will be marked by the arrival of Christ, the anointed ruler of God. You already knew that, didn't you? You already knew that the whole New Testament is about this. God fulfilling his kingdom promises, his salvation promises in Christ, his Messiah. Christ and Messiah mean the same thing The anointed ruler of God, who will atone for sins through suffering. Still in number nine. I told you, number nine is really long. It's all about Christ. Among other things, the kingdom of God, its establishment, will be marked by the arrival of Christ, the anointed ruler of God, who will atone for sin through suffering, which is referring to obviously the centerpiece of our faith. the cross, the death of Christ, and he will rule in true righteousness over God's kingdom Son of God is a title. It's an office. Jesus is the Son of God. He's God's representative ruler over his kingdom. That's number nine. You could just put it's marked by the coming of Christ. It's marked, the setting up of God's kingdom is marked by the coming of Christ. But specifically. He atones for sin through suffering and he rules in righteousness. And number 10. God setting up his redemptive kingdom Will be followed by the climactic historical judgment on this Old Covenant Kingdom and the final doing away of the Old Covenant Kingdom. Which is completed in the year AD 70 with the destruction of the temple. Judgment upon that generation for the rejection of Christ. So that too, the first coming of Christ is not something that happens in one day or one year or even ten years. It's um it's a it's a progression. As his history is transitioning from old covenant to new covenant and from a kingdom of man being the dominant power on earth to the kingdom of heaven being the dominant power on earth. Neither Babylon nor m nor the Medes and the Persians nor the Greek Greeks nor the Romans have little um outposts of their kingdom all over the world, in all kinds of countries, even into what we would call unreached people groups, living in obscurity, but which kingdom does? The kingdom of God does. It has been spreading. It has been growing. It has been sprawling slowly, gradually, like Jesus teaches in the parables. But it's still growing. It's still reaching out to the lost. That's chapter 9. Two stages of restoration of Israel. Provisional, then eschatological. Of course, we know the faithful remnant Within Israel, there's always a faithful remnant of true believers. Just get this marker away from me. I keep going back to it. Faithful remnant within Israel becomes a foundational for the church, and then Gentiles are grafted in. I I like to think of the overarching story of Daniel in Simple terms, although I know that's not all simple. I know there are some difficult things, but it begins with the uh nation of Israel. Under judgment. The people are under the law and they're under the judgment because they're lawbreakers. And that's what being under law is supposed to do. That's what the law is supposed to do: show that we're lawbreakers and show that we're under judgment. But this is how the book begins. It's uh it's a bleak picture. Israel, the kingdom of God, under judgment, and still under law. But the book of Daniel ends with this promise of the age of redemption and the age of grace. So it It's sad when you begin to read Daniel, if you start to understand that these are real people living in Jerusalem, real people living in Judah. Some of them true believers in God who loved God and wanted to serve Him and obey Him. And they were attacked, killed, taken off into exile, just put to shame. But at the end of the book, it's a glorious, glorious picture of hope and the coming of the Christ, the coming of the Son of Man who will establish God's kingdom, a kingdom of remote. Redemption in the age of grace. That brings us to chapter ten through twelve, which is the final vision. So chapter ten through twelve is the final vision, which depicts the history. That transitions from all the from the Medo-Persian era all the way to the establishing of the kingdom of God. Medo -Persian era to the kingdom of God Tonight we're only looking at chapters verses one through twenty. Rather. Verses one through twenty. So look at let's turn and look at Daniel 11. And we'll begin with the reading of verses one through twenty. And as for me, in the first year of Derise to meet, I stood up to confirm and strengthen him. That's the heavenly messenger speaking. That's not Daniel speaking. And now I will show you the truth. Behold, three more kings shall arise in Persia, and a fourth shall be far richer than all of them. And when he has become strong through his riches, he shall stir up all against the kingdom of Greece. And then a mighty king shall arise, who shall rule with great dominion and do as he wills. Now you're into Greece. This is Alexander the Great And as soon as he has arisen, his kingdom shall be broken and divided toward the four winds of heaven. Not but not to his posterity, nor according to the authority with which he ruled, for his kingdom shall be plucked up, go to others besides these. Now you're into after Alexander the Great, and the K his kingdom divided to eventually to four generals. Verse five, then the king of the south Shall be strong. We're going to back up and look at look at some of the historical facts behind this. Then the king of the south shall be strong, but one of his princes shall be stronger than he and shall rule, and his authority shall be a great authority. After some years they shall make an alliance The daughter of the King of the South shall come to the King of the North to make an agreement, but she shall not retain the strength of her arm and he and his arm shall not endure, but she shall be given up, and her attendants, he who f he who fathered her, and he who supported her in those times Verse seven. And from a branch from her roots one shall arise in his place. He shall come against the army, and enter the fortress of the King of the North. If you haven't picked up yet, we're into a large a large section of just military strife and conflict between the kingdom of the the North and the Kingdom of the South. And we'll get to who that is, but this is where we are. Ongoing warfare between North and South. And he shall deal with them and shall prevail. Verse 8, he shall also carry off to Egypt their gods with their metal images. And their precious vessels of silver and gold, and for some years he shall refrain from attacking the king of the north. Then the latter shall come into the realm of the king of the south. but shall return to his own land. His sons shall wage war and assemble a multitude of great forces Which shall keep coming and overflow and pass through, and again shall carry the war as far as this fortress. Then the King of the South, moved with rage, shall come out and fight against the King of the North And he shall raise a great multitude, but it shall be given into his hand. And when the multitude is taken away, his heart shall be exalted And he shall cast down tens of thousands, but he shall not prevail. For the king of the north shall again raise a multitude Greater than the first. And after some years he shall come on with a great army and abundant supplies. Are you getting all this? Wouldn't this be a great memory verse to give some children at like a summer camp? The final vision of Daniel. Verse fourteen. We're almost through. We're only going to verse twenty. In those times Many shall rise against the king of the south, and the violent among your own people. So he's telling Daniel, your own people. So here we're talking about Jewish people. And the violent among your own people shall lift themselves up in order to fulfill the vision they were trying to bring about, the fulfillment of prophecy, but they shall fail. Verse 15 Then the king of the north shall come and throw up siege works and take a well fortified city, and the forces of the south shall not stand, or even his best troops For there shall be no strength to s stand. But he who comes against him shall do as he wills, and none shall stand before him, and he shall stand in the glorious land which which I take to be the promised land, which really would have been right in between it wa technically it was part of the Kingdom of the North, but it would have been right in between the Kingdom of the North up here and the Kingdom of the South down here. Would have Have been the promised land, would have been Israel. Um where was I? Verse 13. For the uh wait a minute. No, 17, wrong paragraph. Glorious land with destruction in his hand. Now verse 17. He shall set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom, and he shall bring terms of an agreement. and perform them. He shall give him the daughter of women to destroy the kingdom, but it shall not stand or be to his advantage. Afterward he shall turn his face to the coastlands. And shall capture many of them, but a commander shall put an end to his insolence, hint, enter the Romans , Indeed, he shall turn his insolence back upon them, and he shall turn his face back toward the fortress of his own land, but he shall stumble and fall, and shall not be found Then shall arise in his place one who shall send an exactor of tribute for the glory of the kingdom, but within days he shall be broken, neither in anger nor in battle. And you can put a slash there right before verse twenty one. From verse 21, I believe, all the way to the end of the chapter is about one ruler. But we'll get to that. next week, I believe. Um, alright. There you go. Now what makes this really difficult is we just don't have exhaustive knowledge of history. The most difficult part of Daniel is not the symbols in the prophetic visions. Right? Are they difficult? Yeah, they're difficult. And the most difficult part of Daniel is not this very detailed and fast-moving historical account. Ancient history. I believe the most difficult part of Daniel is the main theme, that God really is sovereign over history, over nations, over kings, and rule. rulers over borders and boundaries. Because the first two difficulties are difficulties of knowledge of the intellect. But you see, the that difficulty, accepting the fact that God really is in charge of everything, that's an issue of the heart. That's where we have to humble ourselves. That's far more difficult. than intellectual challenges. So there are great intellectual challenges, but let's remember the main spiritual challenge to humble ourselves before a sovereign God. Let's get into this vision or this prophecy rather and See what we can come up with. First of all, let's look at the setting. Because in verse 1 of chapter 11 The angel says to Daniel, As for me in the first year of Darius the Mead, I stood up to confirm and strengthen him. So the angel is saying something that he he did in and for and through Darius the Mead. That year is 539. That is right here. Now this is what's confusing, highly debated. One of the things, one of the things in Daniel, that the beginning of Cyrus. the great, who issued that decree that uh the Jews could return and begin the restoration. The beginning of Cyrus the Great's reign and Darius the Mead is the same year. In historical data, there's no record of Darius the Meade. That's a huge matter that scholars research and debate over and write about. But the important thing, well I want to say two things about it. First of all, the angel is saying something that he Did. So I think what the angel's doing is just highlighting the fact that he's so God's sovereign over what's happening, but he's sending his angels to carry that out. So the angel is basically telling Daniel that he was overseeing this change of dominion through Da Darius. In the first year of Darius to meet I stood up to confirm and strengthen him. If you go back to chapter 10, verse 1, you see why I'm making not a huge deal about this, but a little bit of a big deal. Chapter 10, verse 1 tells us the date where Daniel is actually receiving this prophecy. In the third year of Cyrus, king of Persia, a word was revealed to Daniel. So Daniel is getting this word that we're reading about in 536 BC. Right. This is where the angel was going to appear to him. Chapter 10, verse 1, and it's the third year of Cyrus. Within that vision, the angel points back to something he did. It's confusing because that's the first verse of chapter 11 And it can give the impression that it's happening in 539, but it's not. It's happening in 536. One more thing on Darius the Mead. Turn to chapter nine, verse one on who he is. Because he's reigning simultaneous to Cyrus the Great. Chapter 9, verse 1, in the first year of Darius, the son of Ahusweris, by descent Amede. Okay, there you go, Darius the Med. Who was made king over the realm of the Chaldeans? Some people, some scholars think that he was the general who uh was key in the Persian takeover. But either way he's a regional Ruler. He was king over the realm of the Chaldeans. Remember, it's not the kingdom of the Medes, it's not the kingdom of the Persians It's the kingdom of the Medes and the Persians. So it looks like Darius the Med has been allotted dominion within this kingdom, but the emperor, the ruler over the whole deal, is Cyrus. Back to chapter eleven, verse two He says, and now I will show you the truth. Now I will show you the truth. We already know the major theme of what this angel is going to refer to Daniel. If you look back to Chapter 10, verse 1, he says this the word was true, and it was a great conflict. So it's going to be a great conflict. It's going to be battle. It's going to be warfare. It's going to be a time of fighting over dominion. And then also verse 14 in chapter 10 I came to make you understand what is to happen to your people in the latter days, for the vision is for days yet to come. Then 11 2, and now I will show you the truth. Verse 2. Behold, three more kings shall arise in Persia. So we're still here. Three more kings will arise in Persia, and a fourth shall be richer, shall be far richer than all of them. And when he has become strong through his riches, he shall stir up all against the kingdom of grace, exceeding riches and wages war against Greece. This is Xerxes. Xerxes, who reigned from four eighty-five to four sixty-five Then in verse 3, it jumps forward, and I believe what's happening here is the angel is highlighting the most powerful, most extravagant from an earthly perspective, rulers, the most significant rulers. Um he really wants to get to this battle between the kingdom of north and kingdom of south. So he jumps forward to Alexander the Great in verse three. A mighty king shall arise who shall rule with great dominion and do as he wills. As soon as he has arisen, his kingdom shall be broken and divided toward the four winds of heaven. Alexander ruled from three thirty-six to three twenty-three. Alright, 336 to 323. But he did not conquer Persia until 334. So I hate to throw all these dates at you, and you don't need to memorize these, but I think it does help to see the progression. Because that's a major theme in Daniel, the progression of the kingdoms that God is overseeing. So dominion transferred from the Greeks to the Persians in 334. After Alexander, Greece was ultimately divided. I mean it didn't happen overnight. There was uh wars and uh All kinds of political things going on. But ultimately the kingdom's divided. Verse four As soon as he has arisen, his kingdom shall be broken and divided toward the four winds of heaven, but not to his posterity. Not to his children, but ultimately would go to generals, nor according to the authority with which he ruled, for his kingdom shall be plucked up and go to others besides these. So he would not have a dynasty. Verse 5 now, he slows down. Verse 5 he slows down. Then the king of the south shall be strong. King of the South would have been the Kingdom of the Ptolemies. P -T-O-L -E -M-Y. Ptolemy I began his reign in 305. Kings of the the Kingdom of the South is the Ptolemies named after obviously Ptolemy I. This basically would have been Egypt into Libya. Egypt into modern day Libya. South of the Promised Land, which would have been right in the The king of the south will be strong, but one of his princes shall be stronger than he and shall rule, and his authority shall be a great authority. I apologize. We're not going to be able to get into all the details and all the historical facts behind these. I'm just going to highlight some. We're going to skip over that one. Verse 6. After some years they shall make an alliance We will talk about that. The daughter of the king of the south shall come to the king of the north and make an agreement, but she shall not retain the strength of her arm, and he and his arm shall not endure. She shall be given up in her attendance, he who fathered her and he who supported her in those times. The major thing, the major thing is going to be this ongoing war , warfare between The king of the north and the king of the south. We said the king of the south were the Ptolemies in Egypt and to Libya, south and of course west of the promised land Which would have been right in the middle. King of the North would have been the Seleucids. The Seleucids. Began in 312 by Um Seleucids. What is the first one? So that would have been West Asia, Isra Israel, up into Syria and Iraq and then into Iran, almost to India, if not all the way to the border of India. So when you can picture now if you look just look at a map on your phone or in your Bible, Israel the promised land, and then you have the the king of the south below that and to the west, Egypt into Libya, and then the king of the north would have been north and going east, Syria, Iraq into Iran. Just want to zoom out. This is only going to take a second, but I want to zoom out just to get sort of a bird's eye view of this era. Because it's a pretty long era in this in this period right here of this divided kingdom We're not going to talk remember in verse uh what is that verse where it said earlier in the chapter Alexander's kingdom was divided four ways. We're just going to talk about these two because that's Unless I'm mistaken, that's the only two that are talked about. They're definitely the major ones talked about in this chapter. But a bird's eye view of the that northern kingdom of the Seleucids. This began in 312 and it ended in 63 BC when it was annexed by what kingdom? What empire? Rome. Yeah. So the northern kingdom would have been annexed by Rome. So you already see that transitioning happening here. You're getting to You 're getting to the time of the end, as the northern kingdom is annexed by Rome in sixty-three, and the southern kingdom becomes Roman province in thirty BC, at the upon the death of Cleopatra. Okay, Cleopatra the Seventh. So Mark Anthony and Cleopatra, I'll let you a Wikipedia for that intrigue story. Um but they were both killed in Mark Antony's Nemesis Octavian Conquered, and Dominion went from the southern kingdom of Greece to Rome to that fourth kingdom in thirty B. BC. That actually would have been the last Greek independent state until it was finally conquered by Rome. Octavian, the one the one who conquered That king of the South and brought dominion to Rome. Octavian was the nephew of someone you know at least a little bit about from history class. Pretty important figure in Roman history Julius Caesar. Yeah, this is Julius Caesar's nephew. Eventually, he would be the Emperor, Caesar Augustus Who you could read about in Luke 2, chap Luke chapter 2, verse 1. So you could see already the transition is on the horizon. Once this kingdom is divided, there's going to be conflict. We'll get back to this chapter talks a lot about that conflict. But ultimately, clearly in history, what God said would come true is coming true. This this last beast, this last kingdom, uh would take the dominion, but in those days, God will set up his kingdom. That's when Christ comes Uh back to Daniel eleven. Let's look at verses five and six. What I'd like to do is Look at this paragraph by paragraph and just give the main point. There's so many details. We can't give them all. I think the bird's eye view thing, hopefully we've established that. Kingdom of the North versus Kingdom of the South. Ongoing battle until the Dominion comes to Rome. Alright, verses five. And six. The king of the south shall be strong, but one of his princes shall be stronger than he, and he shall rule, and his authority will be a great authority. And after some years They shall make an alliance, an alliance between north and south. And the daughter of the king of the south, you can look this up. Her name was Bernice , would have been the daughter of Ptolemy II. The daughter of the king of the south shall come to the king of the north and make an agreement. So this is the marriage treaty. I mean you've heard about these. You know about these throughout history. Um a marriage treaty. So Berenice Marrying Antiochus the Second in two fifty-three BC Uh but she shall not retain the strength of her arm, and he and his arm shall not endure, but she shall give she shall be given up in her attendance, he who fathered her, and he who He who supported her in those times. So there's a marriage treaty. Now verse seven through nine. And the branch from her roots From a branch from her roots, one shall arise in his place. So this would have been Bernice 's brother, a branch From her roots. Her brother Ptolemy the Third, who attacks and pillages the north, he shall come against the army and shall enter the fortress of the king of the So here you have King of the South attacking King of the North. He shall refrain from attacking the King of the North, then the latter shall come into the realm of the King of the South, but shall return to his own land. You know you don't have to memorize all the details in the order, but it's king of the north versus king of the south. It's just gonna be ongoing warfare, just back and forth. It's almost like in the account of the giving of the the law where Moses is up the mountain, down the mountain, up the mountain, down the mountain. Where's Moses? He's he 's on the mountain. He's either on his way up, on his way down, the top, bottom, but he's up down up down. So the you don't have to memorize all the details, but you know this. Moses is the mediator of that covenant between God and man. Same thing here. Ongoing strife and battling for dominion between north and south. Verses ten through thirteen. His sons, uh, this would have been the sons of the king of the north, sons of the kings of the north. The most difficult thing for me in studying this was just tracking with the pronouns and who it's talking about. He, he, he, he, he. And it's just to take careful note and go slowly of when the subject changes And it's a different he. This king, that king, the sons. Who is it? This is the sons of the king of the north. Um who would have been Antiochus the third. His sons shall wage war and assemble a multitude of great forces, which shall keep coming, and overflow, and pass through, and again shall carry the war as far as his fortress Then the king of the south, moved with rage, shall come out and fight against the king of the north. He shall raise a great multitude. But it shall be given into his hand. And when the multitude is taken away, his heart shall be exalted, and he shall cast down tens of thousands. But he shall not prevail. For the king of the north shall again raise a multitude, greater than the first, and after some years he shall come with a great army and abundant supplies. Campaign after campaign, ongoing war. Brothers and sisters, it should help us to appreciate the nature of the king Of God. The kingdom of God is a matter of peace, righteousness, holiness, and redemption. It's not like these kingdoms. And we look at this and we're like, well, d why do we need to know all this history? First of all, just appreciating the context, it's prophesied to Daniel. It's to inform Daniel and the people of God about what's coming. And when it starts happening that they shouldn't lose heart, God is going to re restore his kingdom and set up his kingdom. But it also at the end of the book it highlights the different nature of the wicked kingdoms of man And the kingdom of God. The violent kingdoms of man and the kingdom of God. The murderous, selfish kingdoms of man versus the kingdom of God. And it should make us grateful. grateful, abundantly grateful, and filled with joy that we're citizens of the kingdom of God. And that this this kind of murderousness is not unchecked in the world. But who is it under the sovereign control of? God. So there is an importance to this historical stuff. It's not just for scholarly debates and all of this stuff and research and those things are important. You know, I learned from scholars and I watch debates and learn from those debates. But this is the word of God. There's got to be some kind of perspective that's helping us grow in our faith and helping us to appreciate what God has done. When I see this just fighting, fighting, killing, killing, selfishness, all kinds it makes me happy that this is not the end of the story. That this that this does not have unchecked reign on the earth, but that God is in control and that we have a hope and a kingdom that we we don't fight, we're not fighting this fight. We're fighting with prayer and with love and with righteous living by the Holy Spirit and with preaching and teaching and sharing and disseminating the truth of God so that others can be saved from this darkness and this wickedness of man and come into the kingdom. Verse 14. You see this Jews participating, trying in their own strength to bring the fulfillment of prophecy And gain dominion on the earth. Verse 14. In those times many shall rise against the king of the south, and the violent among your own people shall lift themselves up in order to fulfil the vision, but they shall fail. Verse 15 continues the warfare. Then the king of the north shall come and throw up siege works. and take a well fortified city. And the forces of the south south shall not stand, or even his best troops, for there shall be no strength to stand stand. You see the kingdom of the north starting to get the edge here But he who comes against him shall do as he wills, and none shall stand before him. And he shall stand in the glorious land with destruction in his hands. So he's now brought his campaign into the promised land. With destructed the southern kingdom, but it can't be sure about that. With destruction in his hand, he shall set his face to come with the strength of his whole kingdom. And he shall bring terms of an agreement and perform them. This is Antiochus III. I think he's called Antiochus the Great. You'll have to double check me on that. this campaign. And it looks like in verse seventeen he tries through a marriage treaty to get control of the southern kingdom, but it backfires. He gives his daughter, Cleopatra, not the Cleopatra I mentioned earlier. The Mark Antony in Cleopatra is Cleopatra VII. This is just Cleopatra. Uh it looks like the King of the North marriage treaty to gain strength backfires. He shall give him the daughter of women to destroy the kingdom, but it will not stand or be to his advantage. Afterwards he shall turn his face toward the coast lands and capture many of them. So now he's coming up out of the promised land, out of the land of Israel, and moving west, really the southern border of Turkey along the Mediterranean Sea, the coastlands moving toward if If you know the map, moving toward Greece, moving toward Italy, the c moving toward the coastlands. What's being attempted? Sprawling dominion. But a commander shall put an end to his insolence. Now most Bible scholars have that as a Roman commander Indeed, he shall turn his insolence back upon him, then he shall turn his face back toward the fortress of his own land, but he shall stumble and fall and not be found. Most scholars have this, uh, Antiochus III being assassinated in 187 B. C. And in verse 20, you get it one verse about a transitional figure, Seleucus the Fourth, then shall arise in his place One who shall send an executor or an exactor, an exactor of tribute for the glory of the kingdom But within a few days he shall be broken, neither in anger nor in battle. This is one of the ironically, I mean that's such an obscure verse. Um because there 's so much story going on here and then every once in a while you get you get just a transitional verse or a transitional figure. But the reign of this figure in history, I believe, was 12 years. So Leucis IV, who reigned from 187 to 175. But what's difficult about the interpretation is it says within a few days he shall be broken, neither in anger nor in battle, talking about him coming to an untimely And so what's probably happening is whenever he sends this exactor of tribute for the glory of the kingdom. Um within a few days of that, his dominion is brought to an end. Now most scholars, at least the ones I read, have this uh uh tribute being tried to tried to take tribute from the temple Some kind of corruption, trying to defraud the Jews, defraud the temple, and take tribute that they should not have taken. He sends this exactor of tribute for the glory of the kingdom, and then within a few days of that, his rule comes to an end. an end. We're ending there, even though verse 20 starts a new paragraph. Does anyone have verse 20 starting a new paragraph? Yeah. So, because it is a transitional verse, I would have put it with the other, I would have put it in the previous paragraph. Because from verse 21, now this is debated. Listen, don't take my word for it What's that from? Reading rainbow? Don't take my word for it. Dating myself there. This is debated, so be like those people in the book of Acts, the Bereans. Go home, study, read, meditate, pray. I believe that verse Twenty-one through the end of the chapter is about Antiochus the fourth Epiphanes. Um not everyone believes that. Again, you have to work it out with study. And that's something that I didn't you know I didn't read it once and come to that view. You know, the fact of the matter is sometimes in Bible study we've got to do our homework. And we've got to read and think and outline. But I have some, I think some pretty basic exegetical points just from the text of why I think that is all talking about one figure That takes all the way to the end of that that period of Greek dominion Any questions? Who is sovereign over the nations of the world? Yeah. When did God set up his kingdom? First coming of Christ, you better say that. It doesn't mean you'll consummate his kingdom yet. He set it up. He set it up. And he's now growing it and advancing it through the gospel. Honestly though, any questions or thoughts? Yes. Yeah, I've seen that. I've seen it too. I've seen that too. Not sure Cyrus was of of m a mead though. I think that's the problem. Cyrus was a Persian. three years are between that time period when you have um once the thing got arrived and once exiled. Yeah well I think they're both here, five thirty nine. This three year difference this is when the the angel comes. Or if you take the other interpretation, where Christ comes. Um there I mean There are difficulties with Darius the Mead, for sure. If you're interested in that stuff stuff, then look at what's that? Yeah. Yeah. Um there are different there are many solutions that are that are proposed. The fact of the matter is it's just something we don't know, but that doesn't uh negate what we do know. Or so whoever that figure is in history It doesn't change the overarching story of what's happening and where it's headed. That's right. That's right. Man is not. Yes? So are you saying that um kingdom of God or you may want to take the ascended right? Oh, that's a great question. No, I think certainly the incarnation and the earthly ministry of Christ, because John the Baptist preaches, the kingdom has come near you, Jesus preaches the kingdom Has come near you. And in Jesus' own teaching, he says the kingdom of God is upon you and has come, and the kingdom of God is in your midst. So, and the kingdom does come in stages. I think in terms so so there's different stages. Um yeah, that's a great question. No, I I would agree a hundred percent that the kingdom It's this principle, I forget the way it was said in seminary, that the kingdom of God, as you read through the gospel narratives and the New Testament, has arrived and is arriving, and that both of those things are true. For for sure. Yeah, I think I was just trying to highlight the historical significance of the ascension and the Pentecost and the day of Pentecost. I I think those have been pushed to the peripheral to the periphery a little bit in Christian teaching and preaching, but these are s major s major s historical events of great significance When that spirit is the Holy Spirit is poured out for the church is a major time is a major What's the word I'm looking for? Milestone? Threshold? Something like that? Yeah. Does that answer the question? Yeah. What's that? Landmark. Yeah. Landmark. Yeah. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, thank you for your word. And I pray that we would seek first your kingdom and your righteousness and trust that you'll provide everything else that we need. And uh help us in our hearts to love you and to serve you, to love each other. Serve each other in your name. To Christ we pray. Amen.