Let's go to Jonah chapter three, calling this message obedience times two. If you remember the message from chapter one. It really was disobedience times too. It was uh Nineveh's disobedience. They were a sinful place, so God was going to send them a prophet named Jonah, but then we saw Jonah's disobedience. He didn't get up right away and go headlong in obedience to the voice of God and go to Nineveh, but he obeyed and he fled from the presence of the Lord and he ran from God. This chapter, we see the obedience of Jonah, and upon the preaching of Jonah in Nineveh, we see the obedience of Nineveh. There's really a wonderful Chapter Obedience Times 2 Jonah's obedience and then through the preaching of the word, Nineveh 's obedience. Let's go ahead and read the chapter, and then uh I am going to pray once more, particularly for the message before we get into the outline. Jonah chapter three verse one. Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time, saying, Arise. Go to Nineveh, that great city, and call out against it the message that I tell you. So Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, three days' journey in breadth. Jonah began to go into the city, going a day's journey, and he called out And yet forty days Nineveh shall be overthrown. And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least. The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth, and sat in ashes. And he issued a proclamation and published through Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles, let neither man nor beast herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water. But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth, and let them call out mightily to God. Let every one turn from his evil way and from violence From the violence that is in his hands. Who knows but that God may turn and relent from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish. When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that he had said he would do to them, and he did not do it. Well the flow of the chapter is really really simple. I mean you get that in Jonah throughout. You have these simple storylines. Jonah obeys That's number one. And then after Jonah obeys, Nineveh obeys. That's number two. And number three God saves Nineveh. God saves Nineveh. You have Jonah obeying. You have Nineveh obeying. You have God mercifully sparing Nineveh. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would help us to hear your word with faith, to receive it into our hearts, that it would transform us just a bit more into the likeness of Christ for his name and for his glory. Father, give us humble spirits. Give us eager spirits, eager hearts to feast on your word. Show each one of us what you want us to hear. This evening. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Jonah obeys, Nineveh obeys, and then God saves Nineveh. I think I'm going to mention this once again in this message, but really saving this for a little bit down the road in chapter four. Historically, what is going on here is incredible. You see in Nineveh what should have been happening in Israel. There are prophets in Israel at this time historically that are crying out for repentance, and it's hitting stubborn, hard hearts of Israel. You go into Nineveh, Jonah, who at the beginning of the book of Jonah himself was a rebellious prophet. Jonah goes to Nineveh and you see what happens in Nineveh. You see in Nineveh what's supposed to happen in Israel. God's chosen nation. It's one of the reasons you see this depression in chapter four of Jonah, why Jonah's upset. So we'll get back to that, but historical setting is important and it is incredible what's happening here So the first point to talk about is that this time Jonah obeys God. Jonah obeys God Now, if there's not personal practical relevance there for each one of us, I don't know where you can find personal practical relevance. What God wants from us is obedience. We are to be his obedient children. Christians are the group of people in the world, a big group of people too, right? The group of people in the world who've been set apart by God to live in obedience to him This time Jonah obeys God. Praise the Lord. That's not how the book began, is it? This time Jonah obeys God. Don't overlook that. This is a really big deal. Don't overlook the big deal of obedience In your life, in our lives. This is the God's grace to us. It's a special thing. Look, this comes from verses one through four. Then the word of the Lord came to Jonah a second time. Saying, so this is revelation to Jonah. This is God's word, supernatural, special revelation from God to Jonah. And God says, verse 2, arise, go to Nineveh, that great city, so that's one Get up and go to Nineveh, that great city. By the way, do you remember where Jonah is at this point? He's on the shore We don't know exactly how long after, but this is what in the narrative, this happens immediately after the fish vomited up Jonah. on the shore and he's on dry land and at that point the word of God comes to him again. So first of all, get up, go to Nineveh, that great city. And then he says, once you're there, call out against it. The message that I tell you. Call out against it the message that I tell you. Well, that's a good uh reminder to each one of us. Especially those of us in the church who preach or teach or share any kind of devotional, the message that we share is the message God has told us It's not a message that we make up. It's not a message from the world's opinion or popular vote within the church. The message that God has told us, the message of Scripture, based on where we live in history, we have the complete canon of Scripture, the whole counsel of God revealed. Old Testament, New Testament. God has told us this is his word. This is our message. He says, Jonah, get up and go to that great city. That's the first component of his call. And then you call out against it the message I will tell you. And then verse 3 Jonah obeys. Jonah arose and went to Nineveh according to the word of the Lord. Now Nineveh was an exceedingly great city, just talking about its grandeur and its size specifically. Three days' journey in breath. So a three days' journey, not to get to the city, but once you get there, that's he's talking about the size of the city. It's three days' journey to get through the city. So Jonah began to go into the city going a day's journey. So I just in modern terms, you can just Think of it that he's approaching the downtown. He's really approaching the hub, the center of the city. Probably where not only the most dense population, but marketplaces and gathering spaces where people would have been Jonah began to go into the city going a day's journey, and he called out, Yet in forty days, and Nineveh shall be overthrown. So there was going to be a historical judgment coming upon Nineveh. That's not true for every city throughout history, but there are certain times in history you can think Sodom and Gomorrah where a historical judgment comes against that city. We're not told specifically what that was going to be, but you even see that with Israel. Well you see that with the northern kingdom, Israel. Eventually they're taken into exile into uh by Assyria, and then you see it with the southern kingdom, Judah at the hand of Babylon at the hand of Nebuchadnezzar, God using Nebuchadnezzar and God using the armies of Babylon as his instrument of judgment against the southern kingdom Judah and Jerusalem. Was in view, but there was in view an historical destroying of the city of Nineveh. Forty days is the warning. Forty days the city will be destroyed. And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth from the greatest of them to the least of them. Obviously, there's a summary of Jonah's message. We know there had to be something in his message that the people were called to believe God. Otherwise they wouldn't have seen the importance of believing God. There would have been something in his message about repenting. Otherwise there wouldn't be repenting. So there was a warning of judgment, but then also the way of salvation. Turn to God. Believe in God's mercy. That you might be spared. And of course, that's exactly what happens. They believed in God's mercy, that they might be spared. They repented and turned to the Lord, and they were spared from that historical judgment. This time Jonah obeys God. He received God's word. It's a good application there for us. We should be a people who receive God's word and long for God's word and want to know what does God want me to do? Where does God want me to go? How does God want me to live? He received God's word. He obeyed God's word. We don't want to be just Bible hearers. We don't even want to just be Bible believers. We want to be Bible doers, Bible appliers. Jonah received God's word Jonah obeyed God's word, and then Jonah preaches God's word. Not every Christian set apart for the office of pastor and for the preaching duty. But we all can proclaim the great things that God has done for us. We all can share and proclaim the fact of salvation in Christ. in different ways. Preaching is one form, one genre of communicating the gospel. But we can all communicate the gospel. We can all share the gospel in its historical facts, its objective reality. But also how it's Transformed our lives and how it now shapes our lives after it's transformed our lives. Jonah obeys God. Praise God for that. Pursue obedience. Receive God's word. Obey God's word and preach God's word, sharing the good news. And obviously there's something here that's implied in the text. It's the subtext. The power of preaching, the transformative power of preaching. God sent a prophet into Nineveh to preach. the word of God to preach the salvation of God, to preach the need for salvation. And it's that preaching that God uses as his instrument to change minds and change hearts and turn them to live for Him the power of preaching. There's two elements in general, just thinking about in our day, the power of preaching and our call and duty as a church. One of the reasons God puts churches in communities is to preach, through the power of preaching that God will save souls. Two elements of that preaching are going to be preaching people's need for salvation, number one, and then number two, preaching God's provision of salvation. I mean if you just want an uh a bird's eye view or a flyover of the two main elements of preaching for all the details and specific applications. The church preaches man 's need for a savior, and the church preaches God's provision of a savior, Jesus Christ. And it's the preaching of those two things that will bring men and women under the conviction of their sin to see that they need a Savior and then the gospel to change hearts to turn to this Savior Jesus Christ. for salvation, the power of preaching. Look at a couple verses with me. John sixteen eight is a good summary verse. For this one aspect of preaching, preaching the need for salvation. We to do that we have to preach God and who He is and His holiness and His law. That we've sinned against God, we stand guilty before God, we can't do anything to get ourselves out of that situation. We need a savior, we need to be saved. As that's being preached, it's the Holy Spirit that does the work in the human mind to see these realities. John 16, 8, Jesus is talking about the ministry of the Holy Spirit after he's going to send the Holy Spirit. And he says, when he, talking about the Holy Spirit, when he comes, He will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. So the Holy Spirit, through the preaching of the church, through the apostolic witness and ministry of the church, The Holy Spirit is going to show men that they are sinners. The Holy Spirit is going to teach us about what righteousness is. And the Holy Spirit is going to show us that we are under the judgment of God because of our sin and because of our falling short of God's righteousness. The Holy Spirit will do that. Through the Word of God, through the preaching of the Word of God. The Holy Spirit will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. And when that happens in a human heart, that human now knows he or she needs a savior. They know that they need to be saved, and so we also preach not just the need for salvation. But we preach, and this is the centerpiece of our message, we preach God's provision of a Savior, Jesus Christ. God provides what we need. We can never provide it for ourselves. John 6 40. John 640, of course, you know on this point that God provides a Savior in Jesus Christ. You know there's countless summary verses of this. This is the This is the summary message of the whole Bible. God provides a Savior and the Lord Jesus Christ. So I'm picking just one that is one of my favorites. John 6. Verse 40. For this is the will of my father. But what's the will of his father? That everyone who looks upon the Son and believes in him should have eternal life, and I will raise him up on the last day. Eternal life is a spiritual condition. Eternal life is knowing God. John 17. Eternal life is having a Relationship with God, a right relationship with God. Eternal life is being reconciled to God through Jesus Christ, and the way that happens is through faith. The one who looks upon the Son And we look upon him as we see him in the gospel , who looks upon the Son and believes in him, has faith in him. trusts in him, depends on him, you can say it in many different ways, abandons all hope, and gives themselves freely to Jesus Christ. The one who believes in him will have eternal life. They'll be reconciled to God. And here's the culmination of that. We'll be risen on the last day. Will receive a resurrection body and dwell with Christ forever in glory, the gift, the culminating gift, the full blessing of eternal life We must look to Christ. There is a great need for salvation. All people need a savior. So we preach the need for a savior, like Jonah did. We do it in our hi according to our historical setting. But we also preach God's provision of a Savior, Jesus Christ. Paul said in the Corinthian letters, I decided to know nothing among you except for Jesus Christ and Him crucified. It's the centerpiece of his message. It's the core of his message. We preach men's need, and we preach God's provision to meet that need. Let's get make sure we're back in Jonah. So what's the first point? The first point is that Jonah obeys God. Brothers and sisters, that's a big deal. That's the work of God in his heart. It's one of those simple storylines in Jonah. In uh chapter one, Jonah is disobedient. In chapter two God saves Jonah. Jonah has this uh he he almost has this becomes this living example. He's disobedient and then he's saved and then he's obedient. That's a really good m mapping out the Christian life. First we're disobedient people, then God saves us. Now we're obedient people, and God gets all the glory for it. Second point, a great repentance breaks out in Nineveh. This comes from verses five through nine. First, Jonah obeys God, and then a great repentance breaks out. This comes from five through nine, which we'll look at in just a minute. But I want to make a uh a theological point, a practical point. to connect Jonah's obedience with the repentance breaking out in Nineveh. And hopefully this helps us to think about how important our membership and involvement in the local church is. God uses Jonah's obedience to have a great impact in Nineveh. Don't think of Jonah's obedience just in the abstract. He's not living in a vacuum. He's in the world. Obeying God, he's doing what God told him to do. God uses Jonah's obedience to save souls for his glory. That's how we should think about the church. That's how important it is to be active and involved in the church, to be praying for the church, to be praying for God to use our efforts. God used Jonah's obedience, and the second point, the second major point that we're talking about is the effects or the result. Great repentance breaks out in Nineveh. Verses 5. Through nine. And the people of Nineveh believed God. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth, from the greatest of them to the least of them. From the highest to the lowest, from the richest to the poorest, from the greatest of them to the least of them. Isn't that something? We have the tendency in our natural fallen pessimistic flesh to think that a great work like that in a nation is beyond God. He could never do that. And God doesn't want to do that. He wants just bits and pieces. Well, whatever God does with our preaching and with our efforts, that's up to Him. But we shouldn't not believe that God can do something like this. We should believe the power of God. It's one of the things the thunderstorm teaches us. The incredible, shocking, awe-inspiring power of God. The greatest of them to the least of them, the word reached the king of Mineveh. And he arose from his throne. I mean, she's thinking about a pagan, idolatrous, wicked, violent king in the ancient world. The king of Nineveh arose from his throne, removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth and satin ashes Repentance is what that's symbolizing. And he issued a proclamation and published through Nineveh by the decree of the king and his nobles let neither man nor beast nor herd nor flock, taste anything. Let them not feed or drink water. He's calling for a fast. He's calling for a national fast, stretching even to the livestock. But let man and beast be covered with sackcloth and let them call out mightily to God. Call out mightily to God. Call out to God. Cry out to God. Here you have a the king, the highest Uh civil authority, the king, is telling the people to pray, pray for salvation, cry out for mercy, call upon God. Isn't that amazing? This should have been again, this should have been happening in Israel. You see, what's happening here in Nineveh should have been happening in Israel at the time. Anos and Hosea are ministering and preaching at this time, preaching judgment against Israel, God's displeasure with Israel We'll look more more with that in when we get to chapter four. But you see incredible things happening in Nineveh here. Verse 8. Let man and beasts be covered with sackcloth. Let them call out mightily to God. Let everyone turn from his evil way. And from the violence that is in his hands. So he's telling people to pray, and what else is he telling people to do? He's telling people to repent. Stop the violence. Turn from wickedness. Pray. Repent. Call out to God. And also turn to God and live for Him. Who knows, verse 9? Who knows? God may turn and relent and turn from his fierce anger, so that we may not perish. He the king has this thing in his mind at this point where he knows his only hope of escape is if God has mercy toward them and turns from this destruction. So whatever else we say about him, and we look at this prayer, and we look at um his call for repentance, his call for prayer, his call for repentance, we know he believed that what Jonah preached was true. Jonah priest, 40 days, destruction is coming. The king believes that it's true. Now for anyone sitting under the preaching of the Word of God, that's really our first task. Believe that it's true. And that's the biggest and hardest task. Only the Spirit of God can change our minds and change our hearts to affirm God's word is true. But the king believes This is true. God is real. We deserve judgment. Judgment is coming. Why did he believe that? The preacher of God said so. The prophet of God said so. He believed that it was true. He was convicted by it and he called out for Prayer and repentance. A great repentance breaks out in Nineveh. First you see faith and repentance. Look at verse 5 again. Faith and repentance. And this isn't this how we got started on our walks. And isn't this what we want for other people? Faith and repentance. The people of Nineveh Believed God. That's faith. They called for a fast and put on sackcloth. That's repentance. That's repentance. An outward expression of repentance is emphasized. But always, always, always, true saving faith is always, always, always, is six always enough? True saving faith is always accompanied by repentance. It's on the basis of our faith that we're saved. We're saved by faith because faith unites us to Christ and Christ is sufficient to save. But it's always accompanied by repentance, because the salvation that we receive uh is not only our record of sin being expunged, but it's our hearts being made new. It's our hearts being made new. It's our minds being made new and turned. It's faith and repentance. We should pray for faith and repentance for those who are visiting the church, becoming the church and not yet saved. We should pray for faith and repentance in our families. And jobs, neighborhood, nation. We should be praying for God to work this work of faith and repentance. We should be praying for the preaching of the Word of God, that God would make it fruitful, that it would Uh bear the fruit of faith and repentance. We must believe and have confidence in God that God will give people the gifts of faith and repentance. And he'll do so through his word by the power of the Spirit. That's the only way it can happen. Faith and repentance. Secondly I want to highlight the national impact. the national impact. We've already alluded to this verses verse the end of verse 5, the greatest of them to the least of them But it's the people and the king. The word reached the king of Nineveh, and he arose from his throne He removed his robe, covered himself with sackcloth and satin ashes, so he does this outward expression of repentance. And then he issued a pop proclamation and published Through Nineveh. Interesting. Because Jonah, at the beginning of the story, he's the only one preaching. But God changes the heart of the king. And now God in his providence is going to use the king and his position and his authority and um his reach. God First through his prophet and through his word, now through the king because of a changed heart. God is going to use the king to disseminate his message. It's an amazing thing. We should never underestimate God's providence. And here the what the example is a governing official, the highest governing official, God using him. To get his message out there. God can do that. God can use that. That's not beyond God. He's allowed to do that. Alright, sometimes we think that like Because we've bought the lie of secularism uh that God also has. Like he's not allowed to touch world leaders and governing officials. Of course he can. Of course God. God changed your heart and God uses you as his witness in the world. He can do that with anyone. He can do that with anyone in any sphere of human society. He can do it with teachers, he can do it with judges, he can do it with a president, he can do it with a school principal, he can do it with anyone, in any job, in any sphere. He can do it with moms, he can do it with dads, he can do it with brothers and sisters. God changes hearts and then uses those people as his instruments to get his word out to have a greater impact in the world. God uses his people. and uses his servants. There's a national impact through God's providence. So let me rip through. It's always dangerous when I say I'm going to rip through real quickly five points, isn't it? Just t things for us to contemplate on this point. Number one, don't think that something like this is too big for God We're commanded to pray for our leaders. So first of all, don't think that something like this is too big for God. We look at see We don't know the power of God. We'll look at someone and we'll say, Well, he's so wicked, he's so godless, or she's so godless, she's so far to the left, God could never use them, God could never change their heart We shouldn't think like that. What was the Apostle Paul doing before God saved him? He was executing and applauding and overseeing the execution and persecution of Christians. By the end of the book, he's God's chosen vessel to bring the gospel to the nations. We don't look and make a worldly judgment on how wicked someone is and think that God could never change them. God could never use them. We have no idea who God's going to change and use. We have no idea. He transcends our categories. He transcends our presuppositions and presumptions about people. Don't think this is too big for God. To use someone Like the king of Nineveh to disseminate his message. And secondly, I've already alluded to this, we should pray for our nation and pray for our leaders. We should pray for widespread repentance to break out. The Church of Jesus Christ is filled with the Holy Spirit. The believer is filled with the Holy Spirit. The church is filled with the Holy Spirit. We have the gospel of Jesus Christ, the most powerful spiritual tool on earth, the most powerful, most influential spiritual Weapon on earth is the gospel. We're filled with the Holy Spirit. We should have confidence that God is going to change hearts. From the highest to the lowest, like highest to lowest. We don't know which ones, but we know God can do it. We should pray for our nation and pray for our leaders. Number three, it is a good reminder that uh leaders are accountable to God World leaders, government leaders, govern gov governing officials are accountable to God. They'll get a free pass They are accountable to God for how they lead in the government, just like how I'm accountable to God for how I lead in my home. Now we're accountable to God for how we lead in the local church. They are accountable. They don't stand outside of God's holy law and God's holy um word as if they're not accountable. They are accountable. The king of Nineveh was accountable before God. Number four, leaders who believe, world leaders who believe Will witness to Christ. I've already talked about that. If they're made true believers, they will give witness to Christ, and God in his providence will use that witness. to advance his kingdom. The same way he uses your witness, the same way he uses my witness, the same way he uses the witness of any believer. And fifth, God will use leaders in his providence for his purpose. Sometimes we don't understand that. Sometimes we we don't see the end from the beginning, the way God sees the end from the beginning. We don't know exactly the details and all the fine workings of his providence, but we know, because it's just page after page after page in this book, we know that God will use people and his providence for his purposes. We know that God is working out a purpose. He's not an arbitrary God. The story of world history is going somewhere. Christ is building his church. Back to Jonah. This time Jonah obeys God. Number one. Number two, a great repentance breaks out. Or number one. Jonah obeys God. Number two, great repentance breaks out. And number three, God spares Nineveh in a great show of mercy. Really, you know, you get this in chapter two when Jonah is mercifully saved from this from drowning. God used a fish to save him from drowning and spit him back on dry land. Now God uses preaching by a prophet to save Nineveh from being destroyed It's all about God's mercy to save, God's power to save. God shows up when it seems like all is lost. Number three, God spares Nineveh in a great show of mercy. This comes from verse 10. When God saw what they did, how they turned from their evil way, God relented of the disaster that He said He would do to them, and He did not do it. He spared them from that historical judgment. That Jonah had been preaching and warning against that it was coming. God spared them, and now God has a Nineveh city of believers. If not every individual. A majority? If not a majority, let's just say a whole lot. If not a whole lot, let's just say Some children of God, true believers, calling out to him in prayer, repenting, believing the prophet of God. That's salvation. That's what salvation is. He removes and erases this judgment against them. And you see that historically worked out as he spares them from this destruction. Now, we've been saved if we've come to Christ in faith and if we've repented. Let me give you three Ending notes to take home with us. Number one, we should be full of gratitude. You know, it's so easy to sometimes get wrapped up in thinking about what we don't have. and get distracted by you know what's going what's going on that's wrong, all the difficult things. We have so much more than we could ever deserve. We have so much more than we could ever deserve. We have more than we could ever hope for or wish for. We should be a grateful people and we should exude that great that sense of gratitude And shine forth that sense of gratitude. People should look at us and think, why are they so happy? Why are they so thankful? What do they have? That our sins have been forgiven. We have a relationship with God that cannot be taken away from us. We have the hope of eternal life. Gratitude should fill our hearts. Gratitude should fill our words. As a church, but also as individuals. Secondly, the second note to close on, we should have a burden for the lost. You know, if we're truly saved, we we also know what it means to not be saved. We know the the enslaving power of sin We know the wages of sin, which is death and eternal separation from God. We know the joys of salvation, the peace of knowing Christ, the comfort of having the Holy Spirit. The comfort of having God's word as a guide in the midst of this uh sin -cursed world. We should have a burden for the lost. We should have a heavy burden for the lost that they would uh find salvation in Christ. So connected to that, if we have a burden inwardly, we'll also have an urgency. In seeking and ministering to the lost. And uh the third note, so first of all, gratitude. Toward God for our salvation. Secondly, a burden for the lost for their salvation. And thirdly, um, our prayers and energies Should be for the advancing of God's kingdom. That's connected to salvation. God's kingdom is a spiritual kingdom. It's about saving souls for God. It's about bringing people to heaven. Our prayers and our energies should all be directed toward the kingdom of God. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. We should be seeking first the kingdom of God. We should be wanting others to hear about that kingdom, hearing the word of that kingdom through the gospel, and coming to faith in Christ and repenting. So we should be a grateful people inwardly, if nothing else. We should have a burden for the lost. And uh You know, it's it's so ironic. You're going to find out in chapter four that Jonah actually didn't have that burden. For Nineveh. And still God used him. And thankfully, even though we don't have the burden for the loss that we should have, still God uses us because it's his word and his spirit is Not by our power or by our merits. But our prayers and energies should be directed to toward the kingdom of God, for the for the glory of God, for the health and for the good of his church and for the salvation of the lost. Let's pray. Father, I'm thankful for your word to us, thankful for this example we get in Jonah. I'm reminded of your providence tonight as we look at this. I'm reminded of your power tonight as we look at this. And of course, we're reminded of your mercy and grace and salvation. Did we see uh in this historical event, but also we know it's the story of all things, your salvation in Christ, and God we are thankful just to be a part of it. It's in Christ we lift this prayer and we say thank you, God, for being our maker and our savior. Amen.