Today is Daniel 11, 21 through 45. Today is called Greek war against God. Greek war against God. Now, as we get into the passage, you'll see exactly what that means. If you want to wage war against God, and yet you live on earth, who do you direct your attacks toward? You direct your attack toward the people of God. And under the old covenant administration, you would center your attack on the temple. What did the temple represent for ancient Israel? The dwelling place of God. Yeah, God with us. That's right. And then the the sacrificial system represented the way sinners can come into God's presence. symbolically, right, salvation, right, the way of grace. So the temple represented God with his people, the dwelling place of God. And remember the um the two rooms inside the tabernacle, and then they would be two rooms inside the temple. was the holy place where the priest would minister, but then there was a curtain and there was the Holy of Holies. Right? And inside the Holy of Holies was the Ark of the Covenant, which represented God's what? If that's a palace of a king, the t if the temple, it's God's throne. It's a throne of law, Ten Commandments, it's a throne of mercy and grace because of the mercy It's a glorious throne because of the cherubim and the gold. And this is where God was enthroned symbolically. with his people. And if you're an earthly king and you want to wage war against God's people, you wage war uh or if you want to wage war against God, you wage war against God's people. You persecute the people of God. And if you want to bring shame to the one true God and publicly humiliate the one true God, you would desecrate the holy the holiest place. You would desecrate the temple. So this is why I'm calling this study Greek War Against God. That's not the only thing that happens in this passage, but that's one of the things that happens in this passage. I believe uh that verse 20 through 45 is talking about one Greek ruler One king of the north. Remember, we talked about the kings of the north and the kings of the south. Last week the kings of the north were the Seleucids, the kings of the south were the Ptolemies. I believe this is Antiochus IV, Epiphany. Say more about him as we go through. One more thing, I want to erase this so that as we go through the paragraphs here, I can put almost a theme on the different paragraphs So that we can track. But I think it's interesting you think about this time when God sent his son to be the savior of the world and to set up the kingdom of God. Through death and resurrection. What are the two kingdoms that set themselves against the Son of God? They're up here One kingdom and then two kingdom. It was apostate Israel and it was pagan Rome. Set the kings of the earth conspire against God and his anointed And yet, through death and resurrection, God's anointed procures the victory and brings many sons to glory. You can see it's all about the kingdoms And that's why in the New Testament, apostate Rome persecuting Christ, or apostate Israel rather, uh persecuting Christ and conspiring against Christ with Rome, and then in the book of Acts and throughout the letters of the New Testament, you have the same thing, apostate Israel and also pagan Rome, both persecuting forces against the church, and yet it's Christ who is victorious. It's Christ who prevails. Satan does not prevail over God and over God's kingdom in Christ. It wages war against God, but it doesn't, they it doesn't procure victory. It's God who is victorious. Verses 21 through 24, and we'll just call this the rise to power, because we see a rise to power of a contemptible ruler. I'm writing it backwards. You see how my mind works here. Rise to power. You see a rise to power of a contemptible ruler who is the king of the north. And uh you probably will be happy to know that I'm not going to talk about As many historical details, we'll get into the level of the historical details and dates as we did last week, just because of the sheer volume of information in here And all that happens, and I want to look at this as a unit. So we'll be more general this week than last week. Verses 21 through 24: the rise to power. In his place shall arise a contemptible person to whom Royal Majesty has not been given. He shall come in without warning and obtain the kingdom by flatteries. Armies shall be utterly swept away before him and broken. even the Prince of the Covenant. And from the time that an alliance is made with him, he shall act deceitfully And he shall become strong with the small people. Without warning he shall come into the richest parts of the province. And he shall do what neither his fathers nor his fathers' fathers have done, scattering among them plunder, spoils, and goods. He shall devise plans against strongholds But only for a time. You see it wasn't with a proper Uh transfer of power, but through some kind of political maneuvering, perhaps even Through murder, he attained the kingdom in an inappropriate way. Verse 21, he obtained the kingdom by flatteries, and he was a contemptible person. And he is what? Set on war. I mean the murderous hearts of these pagan rulers. This is the kind of king Praise God that in his providence and in his plan, he doesn't let this go unchecked in human history. We ought to be very, very thankful for that. Because if God were to remove his common grace, or to remove his grace, the violent I mean you get a picture of it in Genesis with the world before Noah. Where it just unhinged sexual immorality and oppression and violence and idolatry. This is what this is what sinful people do. So the rise to power, kingdom, and the kingdom of the north. Now, without getting into the details, the only other thing I want to point out about this is the context. The storyline hasn't changed. We're still in this era of Greek demand. Dominion post Alexander the Great, and we're talking specifically about a ruler in the Seleucid Kingdom. If we back up to last week's study, which we're not going to do, we'll see that this does take us to Antiochus IV. forth Epiphanes. Prior to him, the Jewish people and the Jewish worship was uh allowed and he even respected from a societal standpoint by the ruling entity, whether it was whether it was uh the Seleucids or the Ptolemies But this changes with Antiochus. And I think that's why there's so much um so much of this vision, so much of this prophecy is given here because of the significance Of this changes with Antiochus, um, who issues a decree that would forbid Jewish worship and starts a campaign of persecution against the Jews in the promised land and he even desecrates the temple So not a good guy. And it's his rule that led to um Jewish rebellion the rema and climaxing in the The Maccabean Revolt from 167 to 141 BC. Think back to the main theme that the angel told Daniel about what the prophecy would be conflict. It's going to be conflict and there's going to bring there's going to be suffering. And there were persec there 'll be persecution of Judeans throughout the promised land. Kingdom. And obviously, if the temple, you know, Jerusalem is a part of that as well in Judea. So we're dealing with Antiochus IV, Epiphanes, and his reign of terror and reign. Reign of persecution against whose kingdom? Against God's kingdom. This is before the coming of Christ. This is old covenant administration. Israel is the kingdom of God. So to set yourself against Israel is to set yourself against God. Verses 25 through 28, you should be able to guess what's going to be there. War and persecution. War and And persecution. Verse 25. He shall stir up his power and his heart against the king of the south with a great army. Um you see the word heart? It's just a heart that's just bent on terror and violence and war. And the king of the South shall wage war with an exceedingly great and mighty army, but he shall not stand, for plots shall be devised against him Even those who eat his food shall break him. So probably his closest friends and political allies turn on him. That never happens today in politics Right. This is just same stuff going on. His army shall be swept away and many shall fall or many shall fall down slain. Verse twenty-seven, and as for the two kings, that's the king of the It looks here like they're attempting some kind of treaty, but Not working out. They're just both in it for power, saying whatever they need to say, politicizing. But to no avail, for the end is yet to be at the time of point And he shall return to his own land with great wealth, but his heart shall be set against the holy covenant. He shall work his will and return to his own land. So looks like the king of the north that comes down and wages war against the king of the south coming down obviously to do that through the promised land Through Samaria, through Judea. And it looks like there's some kind of attempted treaty when he gets down there to the king. Of the South. Doesn't work out. He is going back north to the Seleucid Kingdom And his heart is set against the holy covenant. He shall work his will and return to his own land. Now, because of the paragraphs that follow, we know exactly what this means, even if there is any confusion about holy covenant. It's talking about the people who live under the Mosaic Covenant. This is a king who sets his heart against Israel. He sets his heart against this holy covenant that God has made with the nation of Israel. Israel. He shall work his will and return to his own land. Twenty-nine through thirty-two, you see the desecration of God's house And for me, which doesn't make it Truth. Absolute truth. But for me, this is probably the most difficult point of interpretation in Daniel Which is saying a lot because there's a lot of difficult things in Daniel of God's house. Temple would be correct, but I'm using house. In the New Testament, after the coming of Christ, um what's God's house on earth? Church His people, right? The temple of God. The temple foreshadowed and prefigured that, among other things. God with his people. And ultimately, God is with his people through Christ. And we are filled with the Spirit of Christ. The church is filled with the Spirit of Christ. That makes us God's house. But the Israel being distinct from the church, being a different Entity, the temple was the house of God. Verses twenty-nine through thirty-two, the desecration of God's house. At the time appointed he shall return and come into the south But it shall not be this time as it was before. Remember he was heading back up home. He was heading back up north after that failed treaty. And on his way up north he set his heart against the people of God. Well now he's coming back down south. For ships of Katim shall come against him And he shall be afraid and withdraw, and shall turn back and be enraged, and take action against the Holy Covenant. He shall turn back and pay attention to those who forsake the Holy Covenant Forces from him shall appear and profane the temple and the fortress, and shall take away the regular burnt offering. And they shall set up this statement right here, the end of 31, I think is the for me personally is the most difficult thing in Daniel, at least top five. They shall set up the abomination that makes desolate. He shall seduce with flattery those who violate the covenant, but the people who know their God shall stand firm and take action. So there are those he's able through flattery and probably bribery and certain perks. There are those Jews, beginning of verse 32, who he can seduce but but there are some the people who know their God shall stand firm and take action who stand against Him and stand firm in their faith in covenant with God. So he desecrates the temple, the house of God, and takes away the regular bread. At that time, on planet Earth, that's the worst thing you could do. That is the worst sin you could have committed. On earth at the time. It's a sobering, sobering thing to storm the house of God, to desecrate the house of God, to person Persecute the people of God and to take away the offerings that God instituted as a reminder of His mercy and salvation. Incredible. And this is what happens. So now it makes it all of this is flushing out if you look way back in verse 21. All of this is flushing out and giving some details on this. In his place shall arise a contemptible person. Now, the reason this phrase is so difficult, at least in my eyes, Um they shall set up the abomination that makes desolate. Because in the prophecy of the seventy weeks in chapter nine also talked about the abomination of desolation. We went to Matthew 24. In Matthew 24, and the New Testament sheds light on the Old Testament. The New Testament explains the fulfillment of prophecy. The New Testament is the fulfillment of prophecy, and it gives us this interpretive lens. And in Matthew twenty four, I believe it's absolutely clear that Jesus is I mean he says that the abomin abomination of desolation, spoken of in Daniel, let the reader understand Is going to be fulfilled within that jet generation in Judea. I think it's without question. one generation. It can't be disagreed with that Jesus is talking about something that from the standpoint of Jesus' life on earth was going to be in the future. But here you have the context is clear that this is before the coming of Christ, and you have another abomination of desolation. So it probably gets back to something that Jordan said after class last week about. You'll have a short-term fulfillment of a prophecy, and then you'll have the ultimate fulfillment of prophecy. So remember that the promised restoration to Israel was two general stages. There'll be a provisional restoration. of the old covenant kingdom. But then in the latter days there'll be the eschatological restoration, the final kingdom, the ultimate kingdom of uh of God that's set up in Christ. And this old covenant kingdom of an Israel, which was a nation, a geopolitical nation, the nation of God on earth, was a type and shadow of the kingdom that Christ has set up. Which is a kingdom of redemption spreading over all the earth. It's not a nation. The church is different than Israel. It's a distinct entity. It's not a nation. It's collected It's an ever-growing collection of local churches of believers in Christ. That's why I think that's so difficult, is because you have this abomination of desolation Clearly, here that's going to happen within the Greek dominion. Now I wish I still had that diagram up there. Here within the Greek dominion, but Jesus talks of one that's going to come after his life on earth. Whether you place that within one generation , which I think is clear in the text, or you place that at the end of toward way toward the end of this age, closer to the return of Christ. Christ. Either way, I think there is an answer, even though I made a big deal about it being very difficult. I think there is an answer. There's a short-term fulfillment that pertains to The old covenant kingdom, but then there's an ultimate fulfillment that happens when that new covenant kingdom is set up. And that last abomination of desolation is what corresponds to the destruction of the temple. Here it's just the desecration of the temple. And that's a key distinction. And it is desecrated in the year A. D. 70, but it's also destroyed in the year A. D. 70. And that is God putting to an end, once for all, that old covenant kingdom. and system of offerings outwardly and formally. We know technically and literally that sacrificial system came to an end upon the death of Christ on the cross, but outwardly and visibly it came to an end with The destruction of the temple. Well, study more on that and let me know what you learn. I'm always eager to read more about these things, especially And you've got to be careful what you read because there's a ton of things out there, and a lot of it's very good, and a lot of it is just wacky. But if you keep this some of these principles in mind, that just keep it in the context. Don't try to make the story about something other than what it is. Right now he's talking about what's happening in the Greek dominion. Greek era of dominion on earth. So there's no reason to start speculating that this could be sometime far off in the distant future. Um anyhow, enough on that. The rise to power of a contemptible person within the Seleucid Kingdom War against the the South, the Ptolemies , heart set against God's people, and now actual persecution and desecration Of God's house. And then we come to 33 and 35. Tells us a little bit of what God will do through this persecution. And despite this persecution, 33 through 35 talks about the suffering and refining of Israel I have just enough room to get that on there. Okay, verse 33. We're doing pretty good on time, huh? I think that's the quickest ever I've gotten through. That many verses? Well, it's only eleven. Let me not get too excited. 33 through 35 And the wise among the people shall make many understand. Now this I believe this is talking about within the people of God. The wise among them shall make many understand, though for some days they shall stumble by sword and flame, by captivity. And plunder, there's the suffering, there's the persecution. Let's not rush by this. Sword , military, force, slaughtering. The innoc innocent flame burning cities, burning houses, um probably burning People by captivity, so some of them are sent off as slaves, sold off into slavery, even, and plunder Obviously, they would take the possessions of the people they're persecuting and murdering. Verse 34: When they stumble, they shall receive a little help. And many shall join themselves to them with flattery. So it looks like there's some who would want to help and uh Look, maybe some kind of like m not mercenaries literally, but a mercenary spirit. Well they're they'll help, but it's really for their own benefit. with the situation that the people of God were in at the time being persecuted, they would probably do anything for a little bit of help and some would take advantage of that. Use it to advance their own cause. Some would join themselves to them with flattery, and some of the wise shall stumble. So that they may be refined, purified, and made white. Made white is a symbol for God purifying the sinner, God cleansing You keep seeing those phrases. I know they're jumping out of you it's the the time of the end is not yet but the time of the end is not yet but it keeps saying that because it's moving closer and closer and closer to that fourth kingdom of Rome and God setting up his kingdom. So all of these things are happening, but these little statements are made about it still awaits the appoint of time and similar statements are little clues and reminders that God is still in control. This doesn't mean that God has lost control. This doesn't mean that God is aloof and all of a sudden now the king of the Seleucid uh Empire is now the sovereign ruler of all creation and sovereign over the kingdoms of It's just because it's not God's appointed time yet that these things are allowed to happen. So you see the flow. The contemptible person comes to power. What does he do first? He immediately is waging war. Right after that his heart is set against They're suffering greatly. Remember some of the visions that we're looking forward. Um brought Daniel great trouble. They were very troubling to Daniel. And this is one of the reasons. Most of the time they entailed and included great suffering for God's people. The suffering and refining of Israel God does use our sufferings to refine us, and he can do that in a variety of ways. He can make us to trust in Him. rather than ourselves. If m it can help us to learn to find comfort in Christ, not comfort in our situation here on earth. Um it can keep us focused, it can get us focused, and it can keep us focused on eternity rather than temporal life now. It can remind us that no matter what happens in these bodies in Christ, one day we'll receive a resurrection body. So, suffering can refine us in very specific ways that help us to focus on God and live for God in new and deeper ways. Ways that we wouldn't know about if we didn't go through suffering. And he strengthens our faith through that suffering. A spear, the tip of a spear, is not going to be good if it's not sharpened. Um sharpened violently and sharpened well so that it might be useful. And this is something God does in our lives. And the differing degrees and different ways for each of us according to God's wisdom and how he wants to use each one of us. He doesn't do the same exact work through every single Christian. But for the work he has prepared for you, he's prepared sufferings and purification for you, and the same for you, and the same for me, and the same for those outside. And God knows exactly what he is And you see that here from a historical viewpoint of what he's doing with his people. We go through 36 Through thirty-nine, the height of rebellion. He thought it would be here. And Kind of is. I mean, these these it's all goes together at some point. You've got to say, well, this is just one extended satanic expression of of pride and violence on earth. The height of rebellion Alright. Here he now just makes public and brings to its full expression the heart that's behind this desecration. Wait till you see this. Verse 36 through 39. King shall do as he wills. Oh what's that a that's a biblical way of saying what? Think about the book of Judges. Just do whatever he wants. But don't don't all sinners do that naturally? Yes. So why would you say about this? It's an acute case This is a an incredible case of a person whose conscience has been He's just doing whatever he wants. He shall exalt himself and magnify himself above every God. And This is the height of rebellion. Speak astonishing things against the God of gods. Now just fix your eyes on that. Speaking astonishing things against the God of gods. Do people still do that today? We still do it today. It's the height of rebellion. It's really the outward expression of the rebellion in the heart. that's has set itself against God. And here, just going on public record, and as part of his leadership as king of this of this kingdom. That by the way, God in his sovereignty, God made him that king and allowed him that He's speaking out against God. He shall prosper till the indignation is accomplished, for what is decreed shall be done. Again, another reminder: God is in control, and when God's when God's purpose And God's timing is done for this indig indignation and for this sin. It's going to come to its end at God's appointed time. Verse 37 He shall pay no attention to the gods of his fathers or the one beloved by women. He shall pay, he shall not pay attention. to any other God, he shall magnify himself above all. He shall not honor the God of fortresses instead of the or he shall honor the God of fortresses instead of these God of fortresses. Would have just been God of war. Just just God of uh just outright war and rampage on earth. Military he's he just has nothing on it in his heart except for military conquest and And persecuting God's people. The God of fortresses instead of these, a God whom his fathers did not know. He shall honor with gold and silver, with precious stones and costly gifts. He shall deal with the strongest fortresses. With the help of a foreign God. Those who acknowledge him, he shall load with honor, he shall make them rulers over many, and he shall divide the land for a price So lots going on there. Again, I told you earlier I don't really want to get into all the historical details and dates and events and names Like we did last week. I think at some point that can take the focus off of the general point. And the general point is clear. God. And not only does he think he's God, I mean there's a lot of people that you know to some extent think think we're God and feel like we're God. I mean he's actually trying to live it out. As Daniel comes to an end, it's very reminiscent of how Daniel Daniel begins. This sounds just like Nebuchadnezzar. This sounds exactly like Nebuchadnezzar. Contrast what we just read with chapter 4. 34. What the lesson Nebuchadnezzar finally learned. Chapter 4, 34 through 35. I'll give you a second to turn back there. This is after Nebuchadnezzar was disciplined and shamed by God. Put in his place by God. At the end of the days, I, Nebuchadnezzar, lifted my eyes to heaven and my reason returned to me. And I blessed the Most High, and praised and honored him who lives forever. I love that summary statement by Nebuchadnezzar at the end of verse 34. That's the purpose of life on earth. To bless the Most High and to praise and honor Him and recognize that's Him who lives forever and ever, not us. This is what human life is meant for: to know God and to love and worship and serve Him. Anyhow, he continues in the middle of verse 24 about God's kingdom and authority. He says this, for his dominion is an everlasting dominion. And his kingdom endures for generation to generation. All the inhabitants of the earth are accounted as nothing. And he does according to his will. Remember that was that's what was said about um Antiochus Epiphanes that we just read, verses thirty-six and following. He'd do what he would He does what he wills. God is the one truly who does according to his will among the hosts of heaven and among the inhabitants of the earth, both realms, and none can stay his hand. Or say to him, What have you done? Well, God has the right to do these things. He has the right to exercise dominion in heaven and on earth. And he has the right to do according to his will and do whatever he wants. And he's the one who really has a power where none can stay his hand. And he's the one who truly has the wisdom where no one can say, What have you done? and call into question what God has done. And yet this contemptible ruler in Daniel eleven is acting like he is the one. Who can do all those things, who has that authority, who has that prerogative, who has that wisdom, who has that power. And it's the height of rebellion for A leader. Okay, so who puts nations in place? God does. Who puts leaders of nations in place? God does. And they are accountable to him Leaders, world leaders, national leaders, state leaders, county leaders are accountable to God. They will answer to God for how they rule, for what they teach. for what they legislate, uh for the for the way they execute justice and or mercy or fail to execute justice and Or mercy. Leaders do not live in a vacuum. They're on the hook. They lead on earth in the presence of God, and they are accountable to to him. So to step in and act like you are God and lead in a nation or in a state or in the county As if your God is is uh completely opposite the purpose why God put those leaders in place But we live in a fallen world. We live in a fallen world, a world that's given over to sin and corruption. So what do sinners do when sinners get into this This high place of authority that's supposed to be to honor God and rule according to God's will and wisdom, what do they do? Well rather than rule aga for God's will and wisdom, they set themselves against God's will. And that's what you have here, the height of rebellion. The king shall do as he wills, and he will speak astonishing things again Against the God of Gods. , Using the name of Jesus Christ in slanderous and profane ways, desecrating the name of God. And they will get their Just judgment for that, lest they repent and come to Christ. And repentance is always on the table for these pagan leaders, strewn over this planet. Repentance is on the table. Height of rebellion. Now the last section, verse 40 through 45, you really just see unhinged violence. Island forty through forty-five or unchecked I mean it's not literally unchecked, so I'll put that in quotation marks, but from an earthly perspective. It's just an outpouring of violence. So now when we zoom out and look at this large passage, do we get a flavor of life on earth? And life in the Middle East, life for the people of God during the reign of this last um actually we don't know technically it was the last, but it looks like it But there would have been more rulers in the Greek era before the Roman era. Anyway, you see what the what characterizes this time. At the time of the end, the king of the south shall attack him. But the king of the north shall rush upon him like a whirlwind with chariots and horsemen, and with many ships, and he shall come into countries and shall overflow and pass through Let me just stop right there and just say something that's I believe pretty significant to the interpretation of this paragraph. This is a hotly debated paragraph. Um the story hasn't changed. It's still talking about the King of the North and And um in verse 41 you'll see that he shall come into the glorious land which is The promised land, and tens of thousands shall fall, but these shall be delivered out of his hand, Edom and Moab and the main part of the Ammonites. The story hasn't changed. That's been going on all throughout Daniel with the four kingdoms. And it hasn't changed in Daniel 11. What's happening in the Kingdom era of Greece after Alexander, and you have these warring kings, the king of the north and the king of the south, in the Greek era, the story hasn't changed. Still within that historical era. Nothing in the text gives a hint that he's talking about another place, another time in history. It's the same story. Verse 41. I already read that. Verse 42, he shall stretch out his hand against the country. The land of Egypt shall not escape. He shall become ruler of the treasures of gold and of silver, and all the precious things of Egypt, and the Libyans and the Kushites shall follow in his train. So this is now the kingdom of the South, and you see significant conquest within this kingdom of the South, the where the Ptolemies uh Verse 44, but news from the east and the north shall alarm him, and he shall go out with great fury to destroy and devote many to destruction. He shall pitch his palatial tents between so uh uh an encampment, right, a royal encampment between the sea and the glorious holy mountain. Yet he shall come to his end with none to help him So obviously he's not the one who's who lives forever and ever and whose kingdom shall have no end. God is, and that's why things like that are said. Setting in contrast. These kings of man and the kingdoms of man with God and his kingship and his kingdom. One is wicked, one is holy, one is temporal, one is eternal. One will come to an end at some point, inevitably, one will never end. God's dominion will never end. Unhinged violence, basically. Just uh a last ditch effort to Conquest as much of God's planet as possible. It's really just military strength and spreading his kingdom through terror and murder and uh also politicking, alliances, lies, flattery, seductions Um manipulative alliances. But he comes to his end and there's none to help help him. Now there are there is an interpretation that it When you move from verse 39 to verse 40, that this leaps to the far end of history and is talking about the Antichrist. And in fact, a lot of reading, if you do on Daniel, it will give no arguments for it. There's nothing in the text that you can draw out. You haven't seen the word antichrist here. You won't find it. But it'll just start talking about the Antichrist campaign just out of nowhere. And it just flows naturally with everything else that's being written. And I read those things, I'm like, okay, yeah, well, where are you getting that? Like you have you have to make an argument for these things. You have to show those things from Scripture. So the Antichrist uh is not let's turn to first John. Let me put my ribbon in Daniel. The Antichrist is not a pagan military Leader or a pagan political leader. The Antichrist and Antichrist 's plural are false teachers within the church. Church. That's the biblical teaching of Antichrist, and there's only three verses that talk about Antichrist. First John 2 Who is the liar? But he who denies that Jesus is the Christ This is the Antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son. No, in the context and even in that verse, obviously you have false teachers in the church who are denying the apostolic Doctrine about the God the Father and God the Son. How do you understand that spiritually? That's the Antichrist. He's infiltrating the church with heresy. It's a very simple um conceptually it's a very simple thing. It's false teachers who Infiltrate the church and with false teaching teaching try to injure believers and try to draw people away from the truth. You'll infiltrate the temple and desecrate the temple in the old covenant era. In the new covenant error, you still will infiltrate the temple. Which is the church, and you'll desecrate the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ through heresy. So that is the Antichrist. False teachers within the church here centered on Christology and theology proper. Denying the Father and denying the Son. 1 John 4 3. Or we could start actually by 1 John 4, 1. Beloved, do not believe every spirit. We'll come back to that. But test the spirits To see whether they are from God, which implies what? Not every spirit that's active on earth and is Producing teaching within the church and ministry within the church, not every spirit is from God. Test them to see which ones are from God. For many false prophets have gone out into the world. By this you know the Spirit of God. Every spirit that confesses that Jesus Christ has come in the flesh is from God. And every spirit that does not confess Jesus is not from God. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you heard and was coming and is now in the world already. False teachers, false doctrine of Christ, here now focusing on the incarnation. And that he truly came from God. But do not believe every spirit And sometimes that's hard to do. People love religion. Religion makes can stir people's emotions. People feel good. And there's lots of unbiblical things that go on, some antichrist things that go on that have a veneer of biblical language How does Satan present himself? As an angel of darkness? No, he presents himself as what? As an angel of light. And it's very attractive. We've got to exercise discernment Just because people are very emotional and very excited and using the name Jesus doesn't make it from God. We must exercise discernment. What's their doctrine? What are they teaching? What are they preaching? What do they really believe? Do not believe every spirit. God said that command. Do not believe every spirit, but test the spirits, which means exercise discernment. To see whether they are from God. And then how do you test the spirits to see whether they are from God? You test their teaching. You test their teaching and measure it against Scripture. Is this apostolic doctrine, is this biblical doctrine, or is it contrary to biblical doctrine? Now no we've said this before, and I hate to give these disclaimers. I feel like it softens the point. No one's teaching is perfect. But there's a difference between heresy on the one hand and biblical gospel teaching on the other hand. And we should be mature enough to be able to say, no, this is wrong. This is heresy. Just because someone's passionate about it and can draw a draw a huge crowd, get get very popular and publish a lot of books, that doesn't mean it's from God Test the spirits. Anyway, all this. This is the context of the Antichrist and the spirit of the Antichrist. False teaching within the church that infiltrates the church to try to injure God's people, to work against God's plan. And of course, there's a lot of self-interest involved too. There's a lot of money in false teaching. There's a lot of fame to be had in false teaching. The Antichrist. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, which you heard was coming, and now is in the world already. So at the time of John writing 1 John, which is in the first century, to a local church in the first century, it was already true that the Antichrist, the spirit of the Antichrist, was in the world. And brothers and sisters, the spirit of the Antichrist has been in the world ever since, manifest through false teachers who deny the Lord of Jesus, Lordship of Jesus. Jesus Christ in one way or another. One more verse. Second John seven. And that will finish out our Little Antichrist rant. Second John verse seven Many deceivers have gone out into the world. Those who do not confess the coming of Jesus Christ in the flesh, such a one is a deceiver, and the The Antichrist. Now why and that's the second time. It said this in First John two that they're going out into the world. They're going out into the world. Yeah, they're posing as missionaries. That's what they're doing. That's what missionaries did. That's what the evangelists did. They went out into the world. They took the true gospel out into the world to start churches. Um here if you have that's the Antichrist, what does Satan do? He just tries to counterfeit and mimic what God is doing, just use it for ill ends. And that's what false teachers and antichrist those who have And they're trying to spread false gospel just as just as much as the apostles are Trying to spread the true gospel. And they're working toward their own name and glory just the way apostles are working for the name and glory of Jesus Christ. It's just a counterfeit. It's just a wicked version of the apostolic ministry. This is the spirit of the Antichrist, deception, lies, doctrinal lies, specifically when it comes to Christ and the other verses. Mentioned God the Father. That's not a military campaign. That's not someone who's starting a war. That's someone who's manipulating people through false teaching and false religion. That's the spirit of the Antichrist. Alright. We have five more minutes. I'm through the material. So um let me pray first and then then we'll Take questions and any discussion points that you have. But um let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we are thankful for For your mercy, and we're thankful for your grace. And we're thankful that in power you intervened in our lives to save us from our sins because we are corrupt. Even as forgiven people, we still have corruption living within us. Us. We long for the day where you'll take that away and purify us fully in your presence. Until then, please help us. Help us to grow in our faith. Give us humility. And strengthen us for the battle ahead. To Christ we ask. Amen.