Daniel twelve this evening, but I gave you the packet because I do want to Look at a lot of different verses and passages on some major topics. I guess if there's an overarching idea of the Evening, it would be the idea of understanding that we interpret the Old Testament through the lens of the New Testament. out on their own. We don't ever, ever, ever want to try to interpret the Old Testament as if Jesus never came, as if the New Testament was never written. The New Testament tells the story of Jesus and the early church, right? But that's not all that it does. It also explains how Jesus and the early church Fulfills prophecy. And so I think that will help us in getting the overarching significance of things like Daniel 12. Let's pray and then we'll jump in. Father, we thank you for your word. Father, we thank you that by your grace you have saved us. We thank you that by your providence you have brought us together. Father, strengthen the bind and the bond that we have with each other in the Spirit. Help us to grow increasingly in the love we have one for another. And the care we're able to show toward each other. And Father, the burden that we have and the love that we would have for the lost in our community. Father, we pray for a great gospel harvest through this church and this community that you would get all the credit, all the praise, all the glory, that every spotlight would shine on you and your Father, use us. Our lives here are short in the relative scheme of things. We are but a vapor. We're here and then we're gone. But, Father, never let us think that that's insignificant. But show us the significance of how you will use us for your name and glory. Help us in our study tonight to be edified and to learn And to grow in our affection for you. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Alright, we are in Daniel 12, but what is the first item on our agenda? You see it before you Yeah, we have to tie up a loose end. I did I was going too fast at the end of last week. I did say there were three passages that talk about the Antichrist and we went to all three of those passages. But for one of those passages, I only looked at the second part of it. We looked at 1 John 2. 22, but we didn't look at 1 John 2. 18 through 22. Because there's another reference in there. And so we'll begin there. I felt like I shortchanged you last week on the Antichrist reference. First John 2, beginning in verse 18. Children, it is the last hour. Does he mean that literally? Like it's the last hour of history No, hour can be used for age. That's John's way of saying it's the last days. Children, it is the last hour, and as you have heard that the Antichrist is coming So now many Antichrists have come. So is there one Antichrist or are there multiple Antichrists? Multiple and one Antichrist is coming, so now many Antichrists have come. Therefore, we know that it is the last hour They went out from us. Who went out from us? The many Antichrists, right? They went out from us, which tells you that they once were at least visibly A part of and connected with the true church. Sobering, isn't it? But they were not of us. For if they had been of us, They would have continued with us, but they went out, that it might become plain that they all are not of us. But you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you all have knowledge, which is just a way of saying you have the Holy Spirit and you understand biblical doctrine. They're holding to the They've not rejected you know really a rejection of the incarnation was the at the center of this antichrist heresy in first John. A rejection that Christ really came in the flesh. But you have the uh you have been anointed by the Holy One, and you have all knowledge, or you all have knowledge. That's the second time I misread that this in the past sev several months. I forget there was another sermon or class where I read that and I had to correct myself. No, you don't have all knowledge, but you all have knowledge. What's that? Yeah. If I ever get that wrong and I don't catch myself, please, please stop me We do not have all knowledge. Only God has all knowledge. But if we've received the truth, uh we do all have knowledge. Verse 21. I write to you, not because you do not know the truth. truth but because you know it and because no and because no lie is of the truth. There's advanced philosophy for you right There. No lie is of the truth. Who is the liar but he who denies that Jesus is the Christ? This is the Antichrist, he who denies the Father and the Son. No one who denies the Son has the Father. Whoever confesses the Son has the Father also. I love that kind of language in 1 John. He does talk about the Holy Spirit, but he talks a lot about One of the most basic um ideas of Christianity is if you have a relationship with Jesus, you have a relationship with the Father. That's not like an extra step that we need to take. And he says, you have fellowship with um the son, therefore you have fellowship with the father. Those who deny the father also deny the son. Sun. So anyway, it is the last hour. It was the last hour, and it still is the last hour. And And the spirit of Antichrist, false teaching, and you see what they do. They start their own movement and break off from the biblical church. Because this way it can be all about them rather than all about Christ. And it's a shame. That's the loose end on the Antichrist. Now let's look at Daniel twelve. We're going to do this Bit by bit. Bit by bit. And uh if you weren't here at the very beginning, I'm just gonna say again, I've had to be very selective in what we're pursuing tonight. We won't be able to pursue everything From verse one, at the dawning of the last days, there will be persecution and warfare involving God's people. And that's communicated here through the lens of warfare in the angelic realm. And you saw that earlier in this vision too. There's warfare in the angelic realm, but that's that's this window into warfare and conflict and persecution. In the earthly realm involving God's people. So persecution. Now, verse 2: And many of those who sleep in the dust of the earth shall awake. Some to everlasting life, and some to shame and everlasting contempt. So there's a resurrection, some is a resurrection unto life, some is a resurrection unto contempt, which would be judgment. A defining characteristic of the last days is resurrection power. Now, this is one of the ones I the one of the things I do want to pursue. Maybe the thing I want to pursue the First, just an important note on the nature of prophecy. Prophecy often will view things that are far off as if they're close. It's viewing things that are far off. It's really zooming out and so from our vantage point in the last days with the New Testament written when the f nature of the fulfillment is explained, we we can see that things may be far apart For instance, it's prophesied that when the Messiah comes, he'll bring salvation and he'll bring judgment. Well, he's brought salvation, he's accomplished salvation, but he's not yet brought final judgment And final ultimate victory and consummate that victory over all the rebellious of the earth. So in prophecy, those things may look close, but in the fulfillment they're spread out. Because prophecy views far off things as near, not in all the times, but often. It would be like looking at the United States from space. Maryland looks close to California from that vantage point That's when you're from far off from prophecy, but if you go down there, you go down there, you enter into the fulfillment from that vantage point, uh California's quite far. So it's a different vantage point. So in prophecy sometimes things Look close when the fulfillment comes, they're far apart. I think the general point in Daniel is that This kingdom that God is going to set up, right? Because that's been the central prophecy all throughout Daniel, that God is going to set up his kingdom. It'll be a redemptive kingdom. It will never end. It will never be destroyed. It will cover the whole earth. Cover the whole earth The nature of this kingdom is that it functions on resurrection power. Isn't that what our salvation is? Isn't that how we were born again, being risen to newness of life in Christ? That's how the New Testament talks about conversion. I think there are one, two, or both of these things going on here. Flip the page to number two. Um yeah, that's my general point. I I I think that this is a statement about the operative power and the nature of God's kingdom in the last days in general, resurrection power I mean, if you think of resurrection power out of the New Testament, the whole story falls flat. There's nothing there. First, undoubtedly the whole church age is marked by resurrection power. You see resurrections by Christ, resurrections by the apostles. You see at the death of Christ, God sovereignly raises many saints to life and walk the streets of Jerusalem. Resurrection. Of course, Jesus resurrection and its uniqueness. It's uniqueness, his resurrection with the first glorified heavenly body. And then you have the first and second resurrection in the New Testament. Let's look uh let's turn to these John five twenty-four through twenty-nine The power of resurrection worked by the Holy Spirit Defines the last days, the kingdom of God in the last days. It's the kingdom of resurrection. Verse 24 in John Chapter five. Truly, truly I say to you, whoever hears my word and believes him who sent me has eternal life. He does not come into judgment, but he has passed from death to life. What's another way of saying you came out of death and you passed over into life? That's resurrection. That's a spiritual resurrection. Truly, truly, I say to you. An hour is coming, and is now here, when the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. For the Father has life in himself, so he has granted the Son also to have life in himself, and he has given him authority to execute judgment because he is the Son of Man Now verse 25 is an hour at that time, he says, an hour is coming and is now here. So it's already arrived. It's already arrived, although it's still arriving. Where the dead, spiritually dead, will hear the voice of God, and those who hear will live. This is talking about conversion to Believe in Christ as Savior is to receive the gift of eternal life. It's to come alive spiritually. And then he says in verse 28, Do not marvel at this, for an hour is coming. Now this one is only coming. If this one is only future. It is not now here, like verse 25. An hour is coming when all who are in the tombs So this is all. This is not just those who hear the voice of the Son of God and live. This is all who are in the tombs. Will hear his voice and come out. Those who have done good to the resurrection of life, and those who have done evil to the resurrection of judgment. That's a future judgment. That's uh two kinds of judgment, one to life, one to um to judgment One resurrection to life, one resurrection to judgment. This is universal, it's all. This is one general resurrection of all. It's only future, and it will lead to life for some. And judgment for others. So there's two resurrections there. We won't go here, but you can study these on your own. Ephesians 2. one through five talks about the conversion of the believer as a resurrection of God, making us alive with Christ, even though we were dead in sin. I know that rings a bell for you. We were dead in trespasses and sin. But God made us alive in Christ, that's resurrection. And he talks the same way in Colossians two, and Colossians three and Revelation twenty. Obviously that's A much debated passage on the first resurrection. I believe John, who's the author of John the Gospel, John 's Gospel and the Book of Revelation, is using Jesus' teaching here on the first resurrection, which Experience now, which is conversion, coming to spiritual life out of spiritual death, and then the second resurrection, which Jesus also teaches about, which is universal and It's only future, and it will be a resurrection of life to some and a resurrection unto judgment for others. Either way, either way you cut it. Resurrection power is the power of the last days. This is how the kingdom of God spreads. The gospel spreads, and through the power of the Spirit. People who are spiritually dead are risen to newness of life in Christ. That happened to us. If we're in Christ, that resurrection life of Christ now dwells in us And we also look forward to the final resurrection of our bodies. So undoubtedly the whole church age is marked by resurrection power. That the point in Daniel could be as simple as that. Looking forward to this kingdom that God's going to set up, it's going to be a kingdom of resurrection, ultimately, resurrection of life unto For some and resurrection unto judgment for others. But let's go to number two. Let's go to number two. Because uh there's something else that could be going on here I'm not opposed. I'm not totally convinced of this, although I kind of want to be. Maybe both things are going on, because you'll see that this has to do with the resurrection symbolizing the resurrection or the uh sorry the restoration of God's people. And that is ultimately what Daniel is prophesying too, the provisional restoration of the old covenant kingdom, and then the final restoration of the new covenant kingdom. So this could be at work Also, or this could be the only thing. Resurrection can symbolize the restoration of Israel to God. Ezekiel 37, Valley of Dry Bones, you can see that. And Romans 11:15. Um which is about the future large scale conversion of ethnic Jews Toward the end of the last days. After the nations are discipled, there will be a large-scale A turning of the Jews to Christ. So this is intriguing to me because in Ezekiel 37 Dead bones coming to life, which is resurrection, symbolizes the restoration of the old covenant kingdom. And Romans 11:15 talks about the restoration, the future restoration. uh unto salvation in Christ. Sym so this symbolic point I have to give weight to. This is why I say I kind of want to I want to be really persuaded of this. Either way, it's intriguing and it's a good reminder of the nature of prophecy. It's a good reminder of the nature of prophecy. Symbolism is common in prophecy. Genesis 3. 15 You can look on your sheet. I have a lot here, but I kind of want to go quickly through these just to remind us that many times prophecy must be interpreted literally. Or uh symbolically. Literally, the the meaning of the symbols will literally happen, but often the reality is communicated through symbols. Genesis 3. 15 promises that the Redeemer will crush the serpent's head, but the serpent will bruise his heel. This has been seen as the first prophecy and promise of Christ throughout church history. Is this literally how Jesus achieved our salvation? By stepping on the head of that serpent that was there in the garden, and by the bruising of his his literal heel, he saved us from our sins. Cross. Malachi 4. 5 prophesies the coming of Elijah, the return of Elijah before the day of the Lord. And in the New Testament, Jesus teaches that that is fulfilled in whom John the Baptist. It's not a literal returning of Elijah. Now Jesus teaches that explicitly. That's not Allegorizing or spiritualizing or speculating that is taught by Jesus is recorded in the words of Scripture for us to know. We saw this Sunday night, Jeremiah 1. 13. God says there's a boiling pot, boiling pot of judgment tipped over that's going to pour out on them. Is that literally how they're going to be judged? No, you have to keep reading and get the interpretation of the symbols. It's gonna be Babylon. Psalm 758. This is one of the most common and one of the most important ones in all the scripture. For in the hand of the Lord there is a cup with foaming wine, well mixed, and he pours out from it, and all the wicked of the earth shall drain it down to the dregs. Is that literal? Uh the context is is punishment, the penal for the penalty of sin. Is it literally going to be a cup with foaming wine that God's going to pour out on people to punish them for for their sins? No, of course not. That's absurd. That's silly. Vince is over here laughing. Stop, Vince, you're gonna make me laugh. What does it symbolize? God's wrath. Some of us got God's wrath. Right, which is important for understanding the passion narrative and the death of Christ, where he drank the cup that we deserve so that we wouldn't have to drink it. Is Jesus literally a lamb? Just because in prophecy and a prophetic vision, God communicates to John that Jesus is a lamb slain but standing. No. It's symbolizing Christ and his sacrificial death. Is Satan literally a red dragon with a literal earthly chain, an iron chain on his neck? No, he's not. That's a symbol. So over and over and over again, I almost hate that I have to do like what, ten of these? I'm not sure. On one page, because this is all throughout scripture. In Acts 2, Peter teaches that David's promised heir that would sit on his throne Peter preaches that that is fulfilled in the resurrection and ascension of Christ. Because David's throne represented David as king, his rule, his authority, his dominion as a representative of God over the kingdom of God. Jesus is the one who fulfills that at the throne of God in heaven. The old covenant kingdom, therefore the old covenant throne was a type and shadow of the new covenant kingdom. Acts 15 I believe this is James. Teaches that the tent of David being rebuilt and restored is fulfilled in the gospel going to the Gentiles and bringing them into the church. Read this tonight, Acts 15. The promise and the prophecy that David's house, David's tent will be rebuilt and restored and will expand. is fulfilled in the gospel going to the Gentiles and bringing them into the church. Not the literal reestablishment of the house of David in an old covenant kingdom. That's not what the New Testament teaches about the fulfillment of these of that prophecy. Revelation I'll give you these for your devotionals tonight also. Revelation twenty-one two and then Revelation twenty-one nine and ten. And here's your question. And you have to write an essay on this, okay? Three pages. Double space, Times New Roman, one inch margins. No title page. What is John seeing? Is he seeing a city or is he seeing a bride? That's your c that's your essay. It's both. It's a bride, it's a city, and it's a city, it's a bride. Well which one is it What is it symbolizing? See that's the question. It's symbolizing the people of God, the church. It's symbolizing the church. Um Jeremiah thirty-one thirty-one. Here's an overarching one. Extremely significant. Jeremiah 31, 31, the new covenant is promised to the house of Israel and the house of Judah. Now at the Last Supper, Jesus says that his blood is the blood of the new covenant. And then in Hebrews 10, this new covenant includes not only the house of Israel and the house of Judah, but anyone who comes to God through faith in Jesus. Well how can that be? That new covenant was only promised to the house of Israel and the house of Judah So how can it be that Gentiles, people from any tribe, any nation, can enjoy the benefits of this new covenant? The new covenant was established in and through and with the faithful remnant of Israel, and Gentiles are grafted in to be heirs of the covenant. It's very, very simple. But if you only take a a hyperliteral philosophical principle of interpretation, you'll miss it. You've got to get the symbolic aspect of prophecy in its right place That doesn't mean that the interpretation of symbols is arbitrary. Oh, what do you think it means? Well, Vince, what do you think it means? Well, what do I think it means? No. The New Testament teaches us how to interpret and understand the Old Testament. Romans 2, 28 through 29 is a related verse that gives a little bit of clarity on that. For no one is a Jew who is merely one outwardly Nor is circumcision outward and physical. But a Jew is one inwardly, and circumcision is a matter of the heart by the Spirit, not by the letter. His praise is not from man but from God. That's the difference between a Jew who is lost and a Jew who is saved. The same thing could be said about people from America, you could be lost or you could be saved, or any other nation, you could be lost or you could be saved. But it's a matter of the heart, not outward observance, not outward appearance. It's a matter of the heart. Have you believed in Jesus Christ and received the Holy Spirit? Back to Daniel 12. Resurrection. Resurrection is the power of the new covenant kingdom. And the new covenant kingdom will come to its consummation on a final day Of a general resurrection. Resurrection unto life for some, resurrection unto judgment for others. Verse three In Daniel twelve, those who are wise shall shine like the brightness of the sky above. And those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars forever and ever. Now think about these symbols. Those who are wise. Now in the Bible, what does wise mean? Does it just mean someone who's like has a lot of degrees, like worldly philosophers? No. Has insight go ins like true insight. True insight. Right? Oh good insight. I didn't hear that first. Yeah, there's good insight. Has proper insight. Uh what's another word for wisdom? Insight, knowledge, but it's also um uh a synonym to what's that? Common sense. Common sense? Understanding. Understanding? Yeah Godliness. Biblical wisdom is godliness. It includes it includes everything everything you guys said. Because these are just different ways of talking about Receiving God's word and living according to God's Word. So knowledge, insight. What's the one you said, Vince? Understanding It's practical godliness. And it says the god the wise or the godly will shine like the brightness of the sky above. Shine like the brightness of the sky above. I think that's talking about daytime. Otherwise it wouldn't make any sense for him to say it. So is this dim or bright? Well, of course it's bright. Shine like the brightness of the sky above. So there'll be I know we don't like to think this, but um godliness, growing and spreading godliness. In the last days. And then it's and then widespread repentance. Those who turn many to righteousness Those are evangelists or soul winners, those who turn many to righteousness like the stars forever and ever. So it's uh it's fruitful evangelism that doesn't stop. In the last days. Now we live in the age, it's not always been like this in America. We live in the age of a pessimistic theology where um We don't like to we have sometimes have a hard time seeing this, that since the coming of Christ, the kingdom of God The church of the Lord Jesus Christ has done nothing but grow and expand and spread fruitfully and faithfully over the earth. There weren't Christians in this Atlanta. It wasn't called Maryland at the time, but in Maryland, the first coming of Christ. You have a world covered in darkness, covered in darkness. And then you had God's chosen nation, Israel. Within that, you had a small number of true believers. That's why it's called a faithful remnant. Not the faithful masses, the faithful remnant. Now where do you have true children of God? All over the place. And it's still growing. It's still increasing. The wise, the godly , those who have right knowledge are growing and spreading. The truth of God is being known and And shining like the brightness of the star above. And many are being turned to righteousness. Those who turn many to righteousness, like the stars forever and ever. So unending, fruitful evangelism throughout the last days and spreading godliness Verse verses four and nine. These are the ones, uh verses four and nine, and then verses eight through thirteen Just won't have time to pursue some really intriguing things. Uh but you, Daniel, shut up the words and seal the book till the time of the end. Many shall run to and fro, and knowledge will increase. Then I dana looked, and behold, two others stood, one on this bank of the stream, and one on one on this bank of the stream, and one on that bank of the stream And someone said to the man clothed in linen who was above the waters of the stream, it's kind of hovering there, right? It's weird. Hovering above the waters of the stream. Similar to like the spirit hovering over the waters at creation. How long shall it be till the end of these wanders? And I heard the man clothed in linen who was above the waters of the stream, who raised his right hand and his left hand toward heaven And swore by him who lives forever that it would be for a time, times, and a half of time half a time And when, so basically three and a half. That's one of the things we can't pursue. There's other uses of three and a half. There's some in Revelation. There's some symbolism of that time frame. But uh we just don't have time. But uh if you do pursue this further, that's one of the things you can look up time, times, and a half a time, and that when the shattering of the power of the holy people comes to an end. Which uh the all these things will be finished. And that's what I take that also to be the final doing away the old covenant people. The shattering of the power of the holy people comes to an end. I take that to be the destruction of the temple in A. D. 70. We already saw in Matthew 24 a couple weeks ago that Jesus says the abomination of desolation, which in Daniel 9 was in conjunction with the destruction of the temple. He said that would happen within one generation of his life. Verse 8, I heard but I did not understand. So we shouldn't be all too discouraged if we don't uh understand everything. And we don't understand everything in Daniel. We don't I don't think I understand everything everything about any book or chapter of the book. Bible. That doesn't mean we can't understand a lot of things, but we don't understand everything, and neither did Daniel. However, however, we have something Daniel did not have. We have the New Testament. So Um at least the fact that Daniel does not understand, it should clue us into we don't want to try to interpret Daniel without the old without the New Testament. Because Then we just we won't understand it. Then I said, O my Lord, what shall be the outcome of these things? He said, Go your way, Daniel, for the words are shut up and sealed until the time of the end Many will purify themselves and make themselves white and be refined, but the wicked shall act wickedly, and none of the wicked shall understand, but those who are wise shall understand. And then he gives it, he already said time times and a half a time when this will happen. Now he says some more. That's uh Actually make things more difficult than if we were just to leave it out there. Verses eleven and thirteen are pretty tough. And from the time that the regular burnt offering is taken away And the abomination that makes desolation is set up. There shall be uh twelve hundred and ninety days, which is roughly three and a half years. So it's probably the time times and half a time. Um Um blessed is he who waits and arrives at the thirteen hundred and thirty-five days. So you persevere through that three and a half years and you You're able to make it another month and a half, basically. He says, blessed is he who waits and arrives there. In other words, you've made it through Uh time of persecution and suffering. But go your way till the end, and ye shall rest and shall stand in your allotted place at the end of days. I think there's something um very subtle but very powerful about thirteen. Daniel's to go his way. Daniel's going to die, and it says You shall rest, but then it says you shall stand in your allotted place at the end of days. Daniel can look forward to that future hope of resurrection. Be standing in the resurrection of life on the last day of the last days. So we're in the last days, but there's going to be a last day of the last days. And Daniel will be there with all the children of God from all ages. Daniel did not fully grasp the prophecy or the timing aspect. The timing aspect is a really big deal here. And in Daniel, the uh the two biggest debates is going to be the timing, the timeline of all these things, and then the nature of the fulfillment and the nature of the kingdom and how that all works out. Um again we have the New Testament which not only tells the story of Jesus and the Church, but it also explains uh how that story is the fulfillment of prophecy and the establishing of God's new covenant kingdom, which is kingdom that's been promised all throughout Daniel. Um God's kingdom that will be global, globally successful and we'll Never end. Um, another homework. I feel like I've given you a lot of homework tonight. And I know I'm going fast. I was serious when I said earlier. I want to be done, Daniel, tonight. Because we have Fellowship Supper, and then we have an Easter cantata. Acts 3, 22 through 26 is a really, really rich passage That is one of the passages that teaches us the proper way to interpret Old Testament prophecy. The days of the church age are the fulfillment of prophecy, not the postponement of the fulfillment. It's taught there, and then you can follow out your marginal references. and your cross references. Let me pray for us. And then we'll chat again. We have about four minutes. And the chat last week was really Uh uh enticing and intriguing. So we'll we'll chat again. Father, thank you for salvation in Christ. Thank you for this church. Encourage us. Use us, grow us, humble us, Father. We pray for the search committee. We pray for the new associate and his family that you already have chosen. It's just through Providence that you'd reveal that to us. And Father, we just pray for many, many, many, many decades of fruitful, faithful gospel ministry here, long after we're gone, that this church would remain biblically sound and Biblically faithful, passionate about the gospel of your son. It's in his name we pray. Amen.