We're going to be in Luke 11. And for a brief part, we're going to be in Matthew 12. There's a cross-reference in Matthew 12. So probably what will be best is Put a marker or ribbon in Matthew 12. And then let's get to Luke 11. Tonight is Luke 11, 29 through 32. The sign of Jonah is the topic. What that means is we're talking about the glory Of Christ's resurrection. The glory of Christ's resurrection. The risen Christ is God's climactic sign. of his mercy toward the world. And it's the preaching of the risen Christ, Christ crucified and risen, that's to go to all the nations, preaching Christ and the resurrection and the judgment that's to come and repentance in his name. So the sign of Jonah, this is our conclusion to our series in Jonah. Luke 11, 29 through 32. Let's pray. Father, I pray that you would answer my prayer and quite simply show us the glory of the resurrection of our Lord Jesus Christ. And I pray by your grace in our hearts we would fix ourselves on things above and not things below. That you would affix our desires and affections to eternal things, heavenly things, and not earthly things, things that are going to be gone one day. Father, I pray you would show us Christ Show us Christ as a sufficient sacrifice on the cross and as the only source, the living source of eternal life. Our priest in heaven. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Talking about the resurrection is uh is an exciting night. It's not something we should reserve just for Easter Sunday, but it's one of those top five pillar doctrines of Christianity. You know, you go God Scripture, Jesus, his death, and his resurrection. I mean, this is one of the most important doctrines of the Christian faith. It's the doctrine of hope. This is our hope. We have a living hope. Our hope is not in an idea. Our hope is in a person who lives and reigns in heaven. Jesus. He is our anchor. The resurrection is critical for this. It's a top-tier doctrine. It's a pillar doctrine. It's a doctrine of hope. I put this passage on your handout, 1 Peter 1-3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, his great mercy, he's caused us to be born again unto a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. By the risen Lord, the power of the risen Lord, and with hearts coming to faith in the risen Lord, we've been born again. To a living hope. It's not a dead hope. It's not a hope that we'll pass away. It's not a hope that we'll erode. It's not a hope that we're Their fear of losing, but it's a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. It's a top-tier doctrine. It's a doctrine of hope. The resurrection is also the doctrine of public vindication. This is God's public vindication of the righteousness and the holiness and the perfect obedience of His Son, Jesus Christ. We'll talk more about that. In a later point. Let's go ahead and read the passage in Luke 11, 29 through 32. When the crowds were increasing , He, Jesus, began to say, This generation is an evil generation. How's that for an opening statement? Pastor John, have you ever begun with that? If I was preaching that passage, I would be this generation is an evil generation. Now in Matthew and for most of the gospel narratives, that's specifically, that kind of phrasing is specifically talking about that generation of Israel. Rebellious apostate Israel who did not receive their Messiah but rejected them and crucified him. Luke does broaden that out in terms of the crowds in general The wicked rejection. This generation is an evil generation. It speaks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it, except the sign of Jonah. Whereas Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh. We get that paradigm in your mind. That's a person who functions as a sign to other people. As Jonah Became assigned to the people of Nineveh, so will the Son of Man be to this generation. Verse 31, the Queen of the South, that's the Queen of Sheba, will rise up at the judgment with the men of this generation. And condemn them. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold Something greater than Solomon is here. The men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation and condemn it. For they repented, the men of Nineveh, that is, they repented. At the preaching of Jonah, and behold, something greater than Jonah is here There was a wisdom that Solomon had, but now there's a greater wisdom that's arrived on planet Earth. There is a preaching. In Jonah's ministry, but now there's a greater preaching that's arrived on earth. In fact, it's the greatest wisdom and the greatest preaching to ever exist on earth is the wisdom and the preaching of the Lord Jesus Christ. Something greater than Solomon. Far greater. And far greater than Jonah. And the preaching of Jonah. You see clearly the sign of Jonah. The end of verse 29. It's going to give this generation the sign of Jonah. Just to track out the flow of the message, shocker, I have three points. First we'll talk about hypocrisy. That's how the passage begins. The hypocrisy of the crowds. You try to make it look like they have genuine interests, but they're they're wicked, evil generations. First we'll talk about the hypocrisy of the crowd, and then we'll talk about the mercy of God, the mercy of Christ. He does not say, No, I'll give you no sign. He actually says, Oh, you'll have a sign. There will be a sign. Just as Jonah was a sign of God's mercy and a bringer of the message of salvation to Nineveh. The Son of Man will be a will be assigned to that generation. So first hypocrisy, then mercy, then accountability. I'm sure you saw that toward the end of that passage. The scene is a scene of Judgment. It's courtroom scenes. People being condemned. Hypocrisy will be first. The hypocrisy of the crowds and then God's mercy will be second and there we're really going to zoom in on the resurrection and then finally Accountability accountability because there is a final judgment coming. First of all, hypocrisy. Look with me at verse twenty-nine again. When the crowds were increasing, Jesus began to say, This generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jonah. Just because the crowds are increasing doesn't mean that faith is increasing. And just because there's a religious curiosity does not mean there's a genuine interest in truth. It's actually not difficult at all to get people interested in a religion. Man-made religion has always been very popular and very marketable But we don't want crowds without faith. It's not our goal to be a big church or to be a fast growing church. But to be a biblically faithful church, to be a spirit-filled church, to be a Christ-honoring, Christ-loving, Christ-serving, Christ preaching. church. Church that loves each other and loves the laws. We do not want crowds. We want true faith. We also don't want just a uh hip a hypocrisy. It tries to act like they haven't made up their minds yet. And like they're trying to act as if there's one more sign given that will convince them. And it won't they've already made up their minds. That's why Jesus rebukes them. The curiosity, but there's not genuine true interest in truth. And there is still is a genuine and a true interest in truth out in the world. By God's providence and by God's work, God does stir people up to have a true interest in spiritual things. God does that We can't do that. We can't control that. People can't do that on their own. But God is active. And God is working. He does stir up. Through the witness of the church, through your personal witness, through the preaching and teaching of scriptures in various ways, he stirs people up to have a true interest In his word and in salvation. But that's not what this is. That's not what these crowds are about. Now, what is a sign? Because obviously the sign Is the critical component. What they're asking for, demanding actually , Jesus says, I'll give you the one. Assign the supernatural proof of God's authority. Or of his faithfulness or truthfulness. It's a verification, it's a supernatural display, a proof of his authority or of his word, the truthfulness of a word he spoke. And I have one here , man, these are all throughout scripture. You know, these different various signs and miracles that God gives to prove himself, to encourage his people. I have just a few examples, a classic one from Exodus 7. God speaking to Moses. Exodus 7, verses 2 and 3, you shall speak all that I command you. Good ministry principle for right there. We speak what God commands if we don't have authority to be teaching our own opinions. You shall speak all that I command you, and your brother Aaron shall tell Pharaoh to let the people of Israel go out of his land, but I will harden Pharaoh's heart. And though I multiply my signs and wonders in the land of Egypt, dot dot dot, Pharaoh will not repent. But signs and wonders, God is going to give supernatural proof of his authority and of his power and of the judgment that would be coming if they wouldn't repent Judges 6, 36 through 38. It's not always a sign that's uh of judgment. Here's a different kind of sign or a different kind of supernatural proof given to Gideon. j Most of you know this story well. Then Gideon, uh Judges 6, 36 through 38, then Gideon said to God, if you will save Israel by my hand, so now here is salvation. Not a uh a condemnation on Pharaoh, but if you'll save Israel by my hand, as you have said, behold, I'm laying a fleece of wool on the threshing floor. If there is dew on the fleece alone and it's dry on all the ground, then I shall know that you will save Israel by my hand, as you have said. And it was so. God gave him that sign. God gave him proof. God gave him, to put it mildly, encouragement. God gave him a supernatural Vindic uh verification rather of his promise of his word. When he arose early the next morning to squeeze the fleece, he wrung enough dew from the fleece to fill a bowl with water. John two eleven. This this is uh John two, so which miracle is this? Canaan, yeah, turning the water and the wine. This, the first of his signs, Jesus did at Canaan in Galilee and manifested his glory. And his disciples believed in him Mark 2, 10 through 12 is another classic occasion or event in the gospel narratives. The man that had been the chirolytic had been lowered down through the roof by his friends. But verse 10 of Mark 2, but that you may know that the Son of Man has authority on earth to forgive sins. So that's what he wants them to know. So do something that's It enabled them to know for sure, for certain, that he has this authority to forgive sins. He said to the paralytic, I say to you, rise, pick up your bed and go home. And he rose and immediately picked up Is bed and went out before all of them, so that they were all amazed and glorified God, saying, We never saw anything like this. a sign, a supernatural proof of his authority, or the truthfulness or faithfulness of what he had said or what he had promised. So the crowds here are demanding a sign. And one of the ways you know that they're being hypocrites is because Jesus had done many, many, many signs. And Jesus' fame and eyewitness testimony of all of his signs, all over, everywhere he went, was well known. The world had never seen power like this, had never seen miracles to this magnitude and this amount. In fact, John says at the end of his gospel, if we were to write all these down, it would be enough to fill the whole world. We just wouldn't be able to stop writing down. All that Jesus did, we have a selection. A small selection, relatively speaking, in the scripture. Jesus did many, many signs. There's no good excuse for them to doubt his authority or his word. That's what they're demanding a sign. Give us proof. Supernatural, verifiable proof It's hypocrisy. Religious hypocrisy of the crowds, and so Jesus says, this generation is an evil generation. It seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except the sign of Jones. Which if you're ignoring sign after sign after sign after sign, you're not in a position, uh not a position of integrity to then demand another sign and act like if you see one more sign, now you'll come around That's the issue here. Hypocrisy. Secondly, mercy. Mercy. Look at verse thirty. As Jonah became a sign to the people of Nineveh, so the Son of Man, which refers to Jesus, it's one of his titles. The Son of Man is the uh Is this this glorious being who receives, he's a human, but he's a glorious human who receives the kingdom From the Father, and then shares that kingdom with the people of God, the Son of Man. For as Jonah became assigned to the people of Nineveh, so the Son of Man Will be assigned to this generation. So will the Son of Man be to this generation. Now quickly turn to Matthew 12, 39 through 40. Matthew adds a little bit of elaboration on the nature of this sign. Jonah was assigned to Nineveh. So the person was assigned to other people. Likewise, Jesus will be assigned to that generation. The person, again, the person will be assigned to other people. Matthew 12 39. He answered them, an evil and adulterous generation seeks for a sign, but no sign will be given to it except The sign of the prophet Jonah. And now here's the elaboration in verse 40. Just as Jonah was three days and three nights in the belly of the great fish. So will the Son of Man be three days and three nights in the heart of the earth. It's a sign of someone who was presumed dead and left for dead, but is Back to life. The sign is resurrection. Jonah was all but dead. Jonah was about to die. I don't think you remember this from Jonah chapter 2. He's about to die he cries out to the Lord for help he cries out to the Lord to save him and the Lord appointed a fish To save Jonah and bring Jonah a three days' journey to the land and spit Jonah back up on the dry land. Life from the dead That's literally true for Jesus, light from the dead, and not just a resuscitation of Jesus. Mortal body in his incarnation, but a new body, a glorious body, a spiritual body, an imperishable resurrection body. The resurrected man is the sign, climactically and literally, eternally, Christ. The resurrection of Christ is the ultimate climactic sign to that wicked generation. But you can extend that out for all the world. We preach the risen Christ. We preach life from the dead. Christ's life from the dead and then our life from the dead in him. That's what salvation is. Eternal life that he earned. He attained. He now possesses in heaven and then shares with us God's children. He shares that with us, he delivers that to us or applies that to applies that salvation to us, strict traditional language, through the preaching of the gospel and the power of the Spirit. Jesus gives us salvation. Jesus gives us eternal life. The resurrection life of the prophet is the sign. The sign of Jonah. This is God's mercy. This is God's mercy. Because if there's anything else we can say about that generation, they don't deserve a sign. They're just like us. They don't deserve salvation. They don't deserve a preacher. They don't deserve a risen Savior. By God's mercy, He provides a sign. By God's grace, he provides this gift. God's mercy to hypocrites. Reminds me of my own life. God's mercy to an undeserving sinner. God's grace to an undeserving sinner. This is what church is about. This is why we worship God for His grace that He's multiplied, multiplied to us in Christ, day after day. Praise God for His mercy to hypocrites. Let's talk about the resurrection. The resurrection, it is proof Of Christ's authority. It is the power of Christ in us. It is the promise of Christ. With us. It's the proof of Christ's authority. It's the power of Christ in us It's the promise of Christ with us. By that I'm extending it beyond Christ with us now by his Spirit. I'm extending that to Christ with us in glory forever. Proof and power and promise. First of all, under proof. Now I've got four of these, okay? The resurrection of Christ is the public , supernatural public proof that he is who he said he was. That he is who he said he was. The things he taught about himself, that he's the Son of God, that he has the authority to forgive sins. It's true. It's proof. It's his public vindication. He is who he said he was. Secondly, he can do what he says he does. He can do what he says he does. He can reconcile sinners to the Father. If you come to Him, you come to the Father. If you love Him, you love the Father. He is who He said He was, and He does what He said He can do. Proof. Third, it's proof that the Father accepted the offering that Jesus made on the cross. And our salvation is based on that. So I hope that point stirs your heart to some degree. The resurrection of Christ Is supernatural public proof that God the Father accepted the sacrifice of Christ as a sufficient and satisfactory offering that takes away our sins. The Father must accept that sacrifice. Of course, he does, because it's a perfect sacrifice. Blessed be the name of Jesus. He is who he says he is. He does what he says he He can do what he says he does, and his offering for sins was acceptable to the Father. Resurrection is also proof that he is the coming judge for all the earth. He is the coming judge for all for all the earth. the Acts 17. I'll flip your page over, and I have your heading here just under resurrection. These are miscellaneous Cross-references for this entire section. The first one is Acts 17, 30 through 31. This is Paul's preaching. Where? Do you remember? Acts 17. Yeah, in Athens, Morris Hill, in the Areopagus with the philosophers. And he actually talks about the resurrection as of Christ, specifically as proof that there's a coming judgment. Verse 30: The times of ignorance God overlooked as times before the coming of Christ. The times of ignorance God overlooked, but now he commands all people everywhere to repent because he has fixed a day, a day, a single day, a day On which he will judge the world, the whole world in righteousness, by a man whom he has appointed. Who do you think that's referring to? That's referring to Jesus Christ, the man whom he has appointed as the Christ at his right hand He's fixed a day which you'll judge the Lord of righteousness by a man whom he has appointed, and of this he has given assurance to all By what? By raising him from the dead. Do you see the order? Do you see the logic of Paul's argument? He's not giving historical proofs for the resurrection. He's preaching the fact of the resurrection, and the resurrection itself is the proof of a coming judgment. Because the judge The man whom he has appointed has been risen from the grave and now has ascended to heaven and reigns at the right hand of God with supreme authority. The resurrection is first of all proof. Jesus is who he said he was. He can do what he said he can do. His offering was acceptable. His offering for our sins was acceptable. So that our sins truly are atoned for in divine justice, holy justice has been satisfied And it's also proof that is a coming, that he is the coming judge for all the earth. Resurrection is not only proof. It's also power, the power of Christ for us and also alive within us. And You probably could guess. I also have four under this one. I don't plan this out or force these into the outline. It just happens this way sometimes. It 's probably a subconscious um something some some subconscious necessity that I have for things to be evened out or or parallel and ordered in some way. But I have four points under Christ's power, resurrection power. First of all, it's the power of conversion. Power of conversion. And it's actually an emphasis in the first Peter 1, verse 3 that we looked at. earlier when he links us being born again to the hope and the power that comes on the basis of Christ's resurrection. The power of our conversion, right from a heart that doesn't love God to a heart that loves God, being filled with the Spirit, the power of the conversion of a sinner doesn't come from the sinner. It doesn't come from the church. It comes from Jesus. It comes from Jesus. Jesus saves sinners. The power of conversion belongs to him The risen Christ. It's also the power of sanctification. Turn with me to Ephesians 1. Unless I put this on here. No, I put this on your sheet as well. Ephesians 1, 19 through 20. The power of sanctification. Christ did not leave us after our conversion. No, he lives in us, and he's conforming us to his likeness by his spirit, by his word, by his grace, and by his Power. Ephesians 1, 19 through 20, whenever you're at the end of Ephesians chapter 1, one way or another, you've got to lop it off in the middle of a sentence because you're working with really, really long sentences in Ephesians 1. So he's talking about the power that's at work in the believer. And he says, what is the immeasurable greatness of his power? Toward us who believe. I just pause right there. Now look at the phrase, immeasurable greatness. Immeasurable greatness. Infinitely big. How about that? Infinitely big. How about this? There's no end. We're talking about the power of the being that created the universe. His power, the immeasurable greatness of his power toward us who believe, according to the working of his great might. That he worked in Christ when he raised him from the dead and seated him at the right at his right hand in the heavenly places. So he zooms in on a specific instance of God Exercising his power the resurrection of Christ. And in the context, believer, this is the power that's at work in you. And this is in the context of Paul's prayer that they would understand this and know this. And glory in this, their hearts would be open to see the great resurrection power of God at work within us. He hasn't left us. He's living in us. And he's sanctifying us. He's the power of conversion, taking us from lostness to being saved. And he's the power of sanctification, gradually conforming our minds. Hearts, words, and lives to the likeness of Christ. And He's the power of our assurance He's the power of our assurance. That means our confidence that we stand before God's holy throne as approved children. Not as rebels, not as those who are guilty, not as those under wrath, but as those under grace. We are his children. We believe we are his children. He loves us. We belong to him. He'll never forsake us, that's assurance. Oh, I pray you have that assurance. But I only pray you have that assurance if it's Christ that that assurance is rooted in. Otherwise it's a false assurance. First Corinthians fifteen, seventeen through twenty, talking about the resurrection and the uh supreme importance of the resurrection. If Christ has not been raised, your faith is futile, and you're still in your sins. Okay, so if Christ has not been raised, your faith is meaningless, and you're still in your sins. Then I just I hop down here for time's sake and look at verse 20. But in fact, Christ has been raised from the dead, the first fruits of those who have fallen asleep. The living Christ Is the anchor of our hope in heaven. He is our assurance. And often believers struggle with whether they feel the assurance they have in Christ. But whether or not you feel like you're assured in Christ, if you're in Christ, you have assurance. You may not believe it as well as you want to believe it, but if you're in Christ, nothing can take that away from you. You have assurance. You have assurance. Christ is your assurance. So if you have Christ, you have assurance. Is that right? Is that easy to follow? Christ is our hope. Christ is our anger. Christ is our assurance. We must not look to our own works at all to supplement Christ or, heaven forbid, as a complete substitute. And another verse here on the risen and living and reigning Christ as our assurance. Hebrews 7. 25. Consequently, he's able to save to the uttermost those who draw near to God through him. Since he always lives to make intercession for them. Now, you would expect, you might expect or probably expect that after this first part of the sentence, He's able to say to the othermost, those who draw near to God through him, you might expect something like this, since he died for their sins. And that's true, but that's not what he says here. He says, since he always lives to make intercession for them, Jesus is alive. Jesus is our priest. He serves as our great high priest in heaven, always making intercession for us. And here, the author of Hebrews gives that as the reason why we can have confidence and assurance and able to say to the uttermost, those who draw near to God. Through him. I love that phrase when that uh comes up. Through him. It's common in scripture you'll see in him or in Christ, talking about our relationship with him. Here I also like this preposition of we come to God through him. God reveals himself to us through Christ, and then we come to God through Christ. He's the mediator. There's one God and one me-air between God and man, the man Jesus Christ. So we have The power of conversion that we've experienced when we came to faith in repentance based on the gospel, the preaching of the cross, the power of sanctification, Christ working in us, conforming us to his likeness, the power of assurance. Four, four, the power of future glorification. This could be it Well any of these could be a sermon on their own, but in terms of what's heaviest on my heart tonight, I would love just to stop this sermon. Preach an entire sermon on future glorification and then come back and finish this sermon. We don't have time for that. But when Christ returns, we'll see him as he is, and then we'll be transformed to be like him, and we'll receive a resurrection body, just as Christ has a resurrection body. And when we receive that resurrection body, we'll know nothing of the weakness that is currently ours. We'll know nothing of the temptations. That we carry around with us all day now. We'll know nothing of the sickness and nothing of the sorrow and suffering and tears. We'll know nothing of the sin and the flesh. that we know now. In that day when we receive resurrected bodies, they will be imperishable, incorruptible spiritual, powerful, glorious, heavenly bodies with no sin at all, and not even the potential to commit sin. And think about the power of this body that we'll be given, the power of this body that enables us to be in the presence of God and not disintegrate right on the spot. This is a body that enables us to be in the full presence of God in heaven. It's incredible. It's absolutely incredible. The power that we will possess when we receive our resurrection bodies. The resurrection of Christ is proof, and it is power. Power to experience in our lives now, and power that we'll experience to the fullest in the future. The resurrection of Christ is proof , his power, it is also promise, promise that we'll be in his presence. Promise that he'll be in his presence. This is the natural consequence of that resurrection body that will be with Christ. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians 15, 42, if you have a Bible with you. 1 Corinthians 15 You can memorize 1 Corinthians 15 is just uh the resurrection chapter. It's an easy way to do it. 1 Corinthians 15 is the definitive Chapter on a theology of resurrection. First Corinthians fifteen 42. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown perishable as our bodies now? Is raised imperishable. What is sown in dishonor is raised in glory. Sown in weakness, it's raised in power. It's sown in natural body, it's raised in spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there's also a spiritual body. And thus it is written the first man, Adam, became a living being The last Adam, which is referring to Christ, he's the second Adam and he's the last Adam. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit or a quickening spirit. That's referring to the ascended Christ who gives eternal life to all who come to him in faith. He's a life-giving spirit. But it's not the spiritual that is first, but the natural and then the spiritual Right now we live in the natural. Right now we're part of a natural. But spiritual is coming And uh in a real sense, even though we still live in the old creation, and we still have bodies that belong to the old creation, spiritually we're citizens of a new creation And by virtue of the Holy Spirit within us, we actually literally do share in the new creation already, the first fruits of the Spirit within us. Not spiritual at first, but the natural. And then the spiritual. The first man was from earth, that's Adam, a man of dust. The second man, referring to Jesus, is from heaven, or of heaven. And as was the man of dust, so also are those who are of the dust, that's us now, and as is the man of heaven, so also are those who are of heaven. Just as we have borne the image of the man of dust, so shall we also bear the image of the man of heaven. We'll be with him. This is the great promise. There's no chapter after this After we receive our resurrection bodies and dwell with Christ forever in the completed and perfected and gathered church, forever worshiping and serving God in the new heavens and the new earth, that's the final chapter, the greatest chapter. That's eternity. That's the eternal state. Resurrection bodies. The presence of Christ. We will be with him, with resurrection bodies. Mercy, mercy, the mercy of God to provide supernatural and public proof of all of this. So that we might share in it. Apart from that proof, we wouldn't have any access. You know, if Christ was still in the grave, or if Christ was risen, but then God didn't send preachers to preach And uh pour out the Holy Spirit to enable those preachers to preach. You know, there's a historical progression that happens With the first coming of Christ, it launches this historical progression that will define the last days of the risen Christ building his church on earth. And he will not be stopped and he will not be defeated. The promise of being with him. There's the hypocrisy of the crowds. There's the mercy. The mercy. of God to provide this resurrection sign and this resurrection proof, power, promise. Thirdly, the accountability. We have to say something about the accountability. Let's go back to Luke. 11. Luke 11, 31 through 32. Got to say something about this coming judgment. This is the accountability, particularly here, of this generation. That's the context of what Jesus is teaching. But we're all accountable before God. The whole earth is accountable before God. It's God's earth. The Queen of the South will rise up with the judgment with the men of this generation and condemn them. For she came from the ends of the earth to hear the wisdom of Solomon, and behold, something greater than Solomon is here. So she came. She traveled a long distance because she had a genuine interest in Solomon's wisdom. And here, what you have in this gospel event is crowds amassing With a superficial interest. It's not a true interest. That's why he brings up the Queen of Shiva as an example. There was the wisdom of God revealed in Solomon, and she had a genuine interest when she went to seek that out. And they're not doing that. A greater wisdom is right there in their midst. They don't even have to travel. It's right there. Greater wisdom, and they are not receiving it, not truly desiring it, but hypocritically demanding more signs to prove it and verify it. So, they're accountable for that. In verse 32, another example, the men of Nineveh will rise up at the judgment with this generation. and condemn it. For they repented at the preaching of Jonah, and behold something greater than Jonah is here. A better preacher. The fulfillment, the historical fulfillment, the climactic call to repentance. The fruition of gospel promises come to their historic fullness in the person and the work of Christ. Eyewitnesses! Eyewitnesses! And they don't believe it. And they're not repenting. So they're on the hook for that too. There's an accountability. There's a wisdom that's revealed in Jesus. It's the greatest wisdom the world has ever known. It's the wisdom that enables us to come to God and gives us the power to live for God. That's what wisdom is. And preaching, the preaching is not only greater than Jonah, but greater than everyone. Jesus preaching on earth, but then on the day of Pentecost, the greatest preaching. The greatest preaching is the preaching of Christ crucified and risen. That's how you measure preaching. What makes it great? Is it preaching Christ according to Scripture For the glory of God. That's what great preaching is. It's not about style, it's not about personality. It's not about if there's a couple good jokes and emotional stories in it. Preaching, Christ crucified and risen, the only hope of sinners. That's great preaching. Greater preaching than Jonah. And the reason that's great preaching is because that's what God says preaching should be, but just from a practical standpoint, that's what actually does bring sinners into a relationship with God. The preaching of Christ. That's what does it. That's what does it. That's what peels back the blinders. That's what changes hearts. That's what shines the light into the darkness. It's Christ. Preaching Christ according to Scripture for the glory of God. Urging all to repent because all are accountable. And the final passage I wanted us to look at is Romans 10. And just say a few more things about preaching. Jesus preached. He died, was buried, was risen Ascended to heaven, on the day of Pentecost, poured out the Holy Spirit unto his church, and the church has been preaching in Christ ever since, transforming the world, building Christ's church. Romans 10, 14, and 15. I just want to say a few things about the centrality of preaching in the church, the uh centrality of preaching, the role of preaching in advancing the kingdom of God on earth. Romans 10, 14. How then will they call on him? I'm sorry about calling on God, right? Calling on God to be saved. How will they call on him whom they have not believed? And how are they to believe in him whom they never heard? And how are they to hear without someone preaching? How are they to preach unless they're sent? As it's written, how beautiful are the feet of those who preach the good news. That's what's at stake. Preaching the good news. Preaching the good news. But they have not all obeyed the gospel. That's specifically talking about Israel tossed in Israel. They've not obeyed the gospel. Isaiah said, Lord, who's believed What do you have heard from us? But faith, verse 17, faith comes from hearing and hearing through the word of Christ. Four quick points about preaching, and I will be quick, I promise you. Preaching is not only about Christ. Preaching is the work of Christ. Preaching is the work of Christ. It's Christ you working through us, or there's no work being done. It's just a religious show. Preaching is about Christ. Preaching is the work of Christ. We're nothing. We're nobody. We're just servants. Who by God's grace puts this person in this place, this person in that place, this person in that role. Christ is the one taking care of all of that by his grace, by his sovereign appointment. He's the one at work in his church. He's the one at work in salvation. He's the one at work in sanctification. He's the one at work in evangelism and missions. And strengthening and purifying the church, Christ is the one doing it. And preaching is the centerpiece of it. Not the only aspect, but it's the sub, it's the centerpiece. It's also the work of Christ. Number two, of course, that brings into view the power of the Holy Spirit. Cannot ever divorce any of that from the power of the Holy Spirit Spirit, the third person of the Trinity, fully God, sovereign, immeasurable power of the Holy Spirit. A practical application there, we must trust in the work of the Spirit. We want to grow spiritually, you've got to trust in the work of the Spirit Not our own efforts, not our own feelings, not outward religion. We've got to trust the Spirit. And secondly, we've got to call upon the Spirit. Call upon the Spirit. Pray for the Spirit. Ask for the Spirit to work and to help you. To help us, to grow us. Preaching is not only about Christ, it is the work of Christ. Secondly, by the power of His Holy Spirit. Thirdly. Through human instruments, through the church. Isn't it amazing? Through human instruments, God achieves these supernatural ends. That's how the kingdom of heaven works. It's a glorious thing. Spiritual ends. Supernatural ends, heavenly eternal ends, through sinful, weak, pathetic vessels like us, God's achieving these things. And that's why everything that's happening in the church and in your own individual spiritual walk is to put his power and mercy on display, not ours. We're the vehicle of his display, but it's his display of his glory. And not ours. This is through the church. Applications on that. Oh man, that should give us a great humility. That should just give us just an ocean of humility in our hearts. That God, infinite in power and perfect in holiness, is doing these wondrous things through us. To Him be the glory that should humble us, not make us proud. And it also should give us a great urgency. It should give us a great urgency to want to reach the lost and reach the world for Christ, knowing that we're his his vessels, his instruments for Saving souls, manifesting his glory. Finally, finally I'll review those three real quick just because I want these to link together. I really do. Preaching is not only about Christ, it is the work of Christ. We've got to believe that. Secondly, it's through the power of this Holy Spirit Third, through the church, through human instruments, it boggles my mind. Fourth, that preaching of Christ is not only for unbelievers, it's for believers. We're talking about Christ being priest. It's not only for unbelievers that they may be saved. It's for believers that we may grow up into our salvation. We may be further sanctified, that we may grow in our faith, be strengthened in our assurance, be encouraged for this battle. Persevere. Christ is not only something that we Christ is not only something that we know that we need, but that we desperately desire That we want in our hearts, that our affections are oriented toward him, that we love him that we desire communion with him. We want to talk to him and hear from him and be led by him, not just agree that he did these things in the past. But we want him a relationship with Christ. So the preaching of Christ is for believers. We should have a great, great desire to come and hear of Jesus Christ. That's the center of our worship, is the preaching of Christ. And it's our heart's desire is prayer. Father, if we love you, it's because you first loved us. You sent your son to die for our sins and you took him up out of that grave through eternal life, and we're so thankful that By his resurrection, you've given us a living hope. Father, thank you for the word. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you for the Bible, and thank you for this church. I pray that you help us, encourage us, use us for your glory. In Christ we pray. Amen.