I want to remind you of where we are, what why we are doing different psalms, and why they aren't in order and that kind of thing. Psalm 27 verse 4 has always gripped my heart. You don't need to talk Turn there, but listen to what it says. about One thing I've asked from the Lord, David, praying, that I shall seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life. And listen to why he wants to do that, to behold the beauty of the Lord and to meditate in his temple The series that we are in the midst of is Beholding the Beauty of the Lord, Psalms of God's Glory. So we are going to different Psalms that I judge. that's the arbitrary part of it. Particularly portray God's glory, his greatness And his goodness in magnificent ways. And it's my aim to teach through Psalms, particularly focused on that. That we might worship and praise Him more deeply. This is something that is not just a summer series. This should be something that is a part of your devotional life. The Psalms certainly are meant in God's inspiration of Scripture to be a praise book, to be a prayer book for each one of us in personal work. So in many ways these sermons come out of personal devotion in the Psalms over life, and you should they should resonate in your heart. in that way as well. It should give you an interest in the Psalms if you've not used them them in personal devotions that you would They teach us to praise. They teach us to pray. When King David had the tabernacle and the ark moved to Jerusalem, He appointed singers and musicians to continually be there to give thanks to the Lord. And I want you to realize that the words of Psalm 96 are some of the words sung as that ministry of praise began. And you can read of that. We're not going to go there, but 1 Chronicles 16, beginning in verse 23, is where we see the words. Very close to the words of Psalm 96. The Psalm celebrated Israel's place as God's chosen nation. And their responsibility of heralding the Lord to the world I mean sometimes we think of Israel as just the promised land and you know God going to keep them on that promised land and that's all there was to it. But no, there was always this heralding assignment given to them. There's an attitude in this psalm that we should embrace, and the attitude is this thing about God revealing his glory to us Is bigger than just us, that is, reading it as an Israelite, bigger than just Israel. If the Lord is creator of the earth, all the earth Should not all the earth honor and praise him? That's the attitude of the song. And we can have that same attitude today. That the praise and glory of the Lord is not simply for the church. There's many out there that should be recognizing it. And so it is an encouragement to our mission. For us that more and more hear of the greatness and goodness of our God. Now, uh a good way to benefit from the Psalms. And and I say this from personal experience. It's one of the things that I like to do in seeking to benefit from the Psalms. is to ask the question of a psalm, what truth about God is the psalmist expressing either explicitly or underneath what he is saying what truth about God, what doctrine, what theology is in This psalm, because most often the thrust of the psalm, whether it's its praise or the prayer of the psalmist, or its hope, or its exhortation, it hinges on those truths about God. So I'm going to read this psalm, and you have your copy open. And I want you to notice what in particular we learn about the Lord. Be ready to underline that if you don't mind marking your Bible. Especially you'll notice these truths about God when the psalmist is giving the reason for his exhortation. So I just want to give you a chance to do this exercise in your seats as a preparation for the message this morning. Verse 1. And I'll slow down when I think you should be underlined. Don't worry. I'll give you some hints. Sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Sing to the Lord, bless his name, proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day. So you you do learn there in passing that he's a God. God who saves. Tell of his glory among the nations, his wonderful deeds among all the peoples. But here's where it gets interesting. For you see that word in verse 4. FOR 4 Here is what is motivating the psalmist. Great is the Lord. And greatly to be praised. He is to be feared above all gods. For all the gods of the people are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. That's significant. Splendor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the people. Ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts. Worship the Lord in holy attire. Tremble before him all the earth. Say among the nations, the Lord reigns. There's a foundational truth of God's sovereignty And it is motivating the psalmist 's exhortation. The Lord reigns. Indeed, the world is firmly established, it will not be moved. He will judge the peoples with equity. Let the heavens be glad. Let the earth rejoice. Let the sea roar and all it contains. Let the field exalt and all that is in it. Then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy. before the Lord. For here's another F-O-R, giving reasons, for he is coming, for he is coming to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. So truths about God that the psalmist expresses, theology that is here, well, certainly in verses 4 and 5, there is one great God, the Lord. Verse 5 points out specifically he is creator. Verse 10, he reigns. Verses 10 and 13 He is coming to judge the earth. Now there's more about God than those, but those particularly I find fuel by God's inspiration the psalmist 's heart and bring this exhortation that we call Psalm 96. And the question I ask is: these things being true about God, how should we respond? There is one great God, the Lord. He is creator, he reigns, he's coming to judge the earth. How should you respond to that? How should we as a church respond to that? What is a fitting response to the glory, the revealed excellence of the Lord. That's the question that I put before you and seek to answer. And number one We should praise and testify of the Lord. Now understand, two things are mentioned. Praise We've had the opportunity to do that. And testify of the Lord. Now that's something that maybe you did in your seats, but probably you haven't done that in the last few minutes. Testify. We've done it through the words of the hymns. I understand that. That is an important testimony. But I mean by this, let others know. About our God. Verse 1. Sing to the Lord a new song. I stop on the word sing. Just, I understand some of you are self-conscious about your voice. I want you to know with all the love in my heart, heart, God is not worried about your singing. skill. This is a command. He looks at our hearts. He knows if our hearts are singing. So by all means, you better have your heart singing. But if your heart is singing, I want you to know God is honored with your voice. Giving expression. Sing to the Lord. He is the focus. He is the audience, not those around you. Our singing is always then to be a prayer. Activity. Sing to the Lord. A new song. New creative expressions Fresh from the heart, praise. Every generation in my lifetime has come up with uh wonderful songs of praise. Not all the best. We don't use all, but but some that have stood the test of Time. Seek ye first the kingdom of God. I first heard that in college still, just a nice melody putting that that scripture to to song. Or um uh uh Um oh boy, senior moment. Uh yeah. I I I I incr Mm. In Christ alone, right? Thank you. That that song is older than we think it is, and it's it's one that will stand the test of time. So so these new songs that we add to the ones that are so rich and And helpful both in their melody and in their doctrine. Sing to the Lord all the earth. This is where the psalm gets interesting to me Well, not that the other part isn't, but all the earth is the choir that should be honoring the Lord. But it's not. And so there is a call to everyone and everything that the Lord is worthy of everyone's praise. That's the attitude we should go around life with. That those that aren't should be. Let's pray that they would be. Let's call them to do that. That's particularly the second point of the message. Verse 2, sing to the Lord, bless his name. We must be recognizing the name, that is, the character, the greatness and goodness of the Lord, and blessing. Blessing means speaking well of, praising Him. In song is mentioned here, proclaim good tidings of his salvation from day to day. So his greatness and goodness, which is how I summarize his His glory, his majesty. His greatness and goodness is especially shown in his salvation, verse 2. That is his grace and mercy to forgive sin. and not to give us the death that we deserve for our sin. We look at Psalm 96. believers today with a New Testament story of salvation. And so I read, proclaim good tidings of his salvation, and I think of Romans 3. 23. That all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. That's my story. I think of Romans 6:23, that the wages of sin is death. That's what I was heading for. And I think of Romans 5, 8, and 9, but God demonstrated his own love toward us, and that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us, took the death for us, much more than Having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the wrath of God through him. Amen. Amen. We are to proclaim these good tidings, this good news from day to day. Each day, by the way, the new sins of believers, you and I, the new sins of believers in Jesus are covered by that same gracious and merciful sacrifice. So there are good tidings of his salvation that are should be fresh for us because we know of that forgiveness when we sin today. When we sin tomorrow. And we should express anew our appreciation in praise to the Lord and in testimony to all the earth. Look at verse three. Tell of his glory among the nations. The nations need to know of the greatness of God. Do they not? They do. We who know it are to communicate. Tell of his glory among the nations, his wonderful deeds among all the peoples. The nations need to know the goodness of the Lord. And we who know it are to communicate it. He gives to all people life and breath and all things as Paul proclaimed in Athens. And of course We would count his greatest deed that all need to know to be the sending of his son Jesus to be Savior. For God so loved the world. That he gave his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. And so God wants that good news of his mercy to be known. To what he cared about, for God so loved the world, all peoples, he wants all peoples to know to tell of his glory among the nations, his wonderful deeds among all the peoples, for great is the Lord. And greatly to be praised, that is, by more and more people with more knowledge and appreciation Verse 4, he is to be feared above all gods. Now don't stop there, or you'll think that there are other gods. There aren't. But there are other gods in the minds of people. One of the things, particularly in David's day, hindering the proper praise of the Lord was the belief in other gods. among other nations, particularly in Israel from time uh i later on in its history as well. Verse five, For all the gods of the peoples are idols, but the Lord made the heavens. What a statement. We need to unashamedly proclaim that to the world that the Lord is to be acknowledged. as supreme and is to be acknowledged as supreme for two reasons. The other gods are idols. They are simply physical images representing imaginary gods. And the Lord, notice, is creator, the end of verse 5. All the gods of the people are idols, but the Lord He made the heavens. He's for real. He spoke and it was done. He's creator. He made the heavens, the sky, space, and as creator He is owner, he is ruler, and he must be acknowledged as such by all. Look at verse 6. Splendor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. Think of those who had visions of the Lord's glory and wrote about them. The glory of God in his heavenly abode. I think of Isaiah Ezekiel. Paul also, but John particularly because he wrote of it, they had no doubt of God's supremacy. His splendor, his majesty, his strength, and his beauty were to them, would be to us overwhelming. Isaiah saw the Lord sitting on a throne. Lofty and exalted, with the train of his robe filling the temple. That would be part of the king's glory, what he was dressed in, and God's In this vision filled the temple. And in Isaiah's vision, Seraphim, angels were calling out, Holy, Holy, Holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Ezekiel speaks of something like glowing metal, fire all around and within. And of a radiance all around, like a rainbow. And so you read of that and you just think, oh my, what that would have been like. John speaks of one Like a jasper stone and Sardius in appearance, with a rainbow around his throne, and from whose throne came flashes of lightning and peals of thunder. Now these are visions. These are not actual sight sightings. These are visions of the invisible God. But God gave these details to these Visions, so that Isaiah, Ezekiel, and John could speak of his splendor and majesty, his strength and beauty. Indeed, he is worthy of our praise. He is worthy of our testimony. What is a fitting response to the glory, the revealed excellence of the Lord? Number two. Call all people to acknowledge and honor the Lord. That is a fitting response for you as a believer to the glory of the Lord, that you would call others to acknowledge and And honor him. Look at verse 7. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the people, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Families of the people is not talking about our church roster families. No, it is talking about people groups of the world. They are called upon to give the Lord the recognition he is due. That's what ascribe to means. It means attribute to God what he is due. So to speak of his glory, to speak of his excellence, to speak of his strength. There are some 16 to 17,000 people groups in the world. And that means a group of human individuals distinguished by their ethno-linguistic uniqueness, their language, other things about them. And they share a common self-identity, so usually a common place that they live. Sometimes they're spread out. But over one-third of these, of those sixteen to seventeen thousand, Over one-third of those representing some forty percent of the world's population are considered unreached with the revelation of the Bible. So four and ten in our world. And yet, according to verse seven They, the forty percent, are responsible to give the Lord the glory that he is due. Though they are without a Bible, Let me tell you, they are not without revelation. Remember Romans 1. Always remember Romans 1. Let me just read 19 and 20. That which is known about God is evident within them. For God made it evident to them, for since the creation of the world, his invisible attributes, his eternal power and divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made, so that they are without excuse. Ascribe verse 8 to the Lord, the glory of his name. That is, acknowledge the Lord's nature and character. The world is Called to do this. We are to call the world to do this. The psalmist is doing that. We are to echo that. Let me just ask you, where do you start in ascribing to the Lord the glory of his name? Certainly we learn things about his character, we learn theology. Creation is all around us. I love looking at it. Listening to it, enjoying quiet moments. We live in a part of the world though that has Bibles, don't we? God's revealed world and word, and in it the Lord has revealed his glory. One place I like to go in the Bible is to Exodus chapter 34. because Moses specifically asked to see God's glory. And we're told here, ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name. Well I think i in my mind, well what did Moses Learn of God. And in Exodus thirty-four, verses six and seven, the Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God. Compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in loving kindness and truth, who keeps loving kindness for thousands Who forgives iniquity, transgression, and sin, yet he will by no means leave the guilty unpunished visiting the iniquity of fathers on the children and on the grandchildren to the third and fourth generations. God is great, God is good, God is a God who judges. We'll see that in this psalm particularly. Ascribe to the Lord the glory of his name. Bring an offering. Again, this is a call to People groups, people all over the earth. Bring an offering and come into his courts. The psalmist is inviting Gentiles to come to the temple, bringing appropriate gifts. I think of the magi coming from a distant land to honor the newborn King, Jesus, bearing gifts of gold, frankincense. And Myrrh. I think there's a fulfillment of this verse in the Magi coming and doing that. And I think also this verse is teaching us That the Lord is approachable by the nations. He is not just for Israel. He is not just for those he has saved today that are part of his church. is open and we are to call people to acknowledge and honor him. He is approachable, but he is holy. Verse 9, worship the Lord in holy attire. So we invite all to come, but they can't come with their own self-conceived ideas of what God is like. No, worship the Lord. In holy attire, or you may have a phrase such as in the splendor of holiness. We must recognize that He is holy, and we must come in reverence, is the point. There must be reverence because we come as sinful creatures before a holy God. He is holy and we are not. Now, as a church, we understand we come in Christ and we celebrate that But we still don't come bounding in casually. No, we come reverently in Christ. I think there's a preview of God's grace here in verse 9. As Gentiles are invited to worship in holy, priestly attire, it seems like, because back then the psalmist would have been thinking of what the priest wore as he came near. uh to to to the temple and ministered in the temple. And I think we as New Testament believers obviously understand this is fulfilled in Christ. That's how we can come in holy attire. We can be clothed in His righteousness. We have none of our own. We can come into God's presence because of Jesus. His righteousness. Jesus even tells a parable of a wedding feast, you remember, many of you, and a man rejected at that wedding feast, and you probably remember why he was rejected. And sent out and cast out. He was not wearing wedding clothes. To remind her that God is holy, to remind her that we can't just assume a relationship with him. We come on his terms. All fall short of God's righteousness. We cannot stand in his presence without holy attire. And listen, in history, we who are part of the church today, we were a part of the people groups, we were a part of the world, and faithful people kept testifying, and the message came to us, and we are now clothed in Christ. We are forgiven. We have the gift of righteousness. We don't lose our fear of him. Tremble before the earth all tremble before him all the earth. All the earth is called then to be fearful of the Lord, their creator. He's not to be treated casually ever. Verse 10: Say among the nations, the Lord reigns. Indeed, the world is firmly established. It will not be moved. Say among the nations, the Lord reigns. The Lord is sovereign. He is in sovereign control of the world that He has made He is in sovereign control of all that is happening in the world that he has made. We say that by faith. We don't always understand how the tapestry will look when it's finished. But the threads will come together and we will say we will praise him that he reigns. And verse ten, he will judge the peoples with Equity. He judges because he's creator, owner, ruler. He has every right to judge what he has made And he is a just and thorough judge. Equity teaches me that. He's going to be just, but he's going to be thorough. This brings us to the third point. What is a fitting response to the glory, the revealed excellence of the Lord? It is to call on creation. Listen, to rejoice. in his coming judgment. Verse eleven. Let the heavens, that is sky and space, okay, as it's used here. Let the heavens be glad. Let the earth rejoice. So we're calling on the natural world to have a response to God. We don't often think that way, but Scripture tells us to think that way, and I'll show you why in just a moment. Let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar and all it contains, let the field exalt and all that is in it, then all the trees of the forest will sing for joy. Creation from Genesis 1, creation has suffered from the curse incurred from Adam's sin. We see that in chapter Chapter 3 of Genesis. 2 And we know creation groans. Think of Romans chapter 8, verse 20 through 22. For the creation was subjected to futility, not willingly but because of him who subjected it, in hope that the creation itself will also be set free from its slavery to corruption into the freedom of the glory of the children of God. For we know that the whole creation groans and suffers the pains of childbirth together until now. Now it's giving A personification here of nature. We know that nature has no soul. That tree does not have a soul, so to speak. We don't think that way. That's a wrong way to think. But we do know that creation, God's good and perfect creation , suffered harm and the curse. And Paul is inspired to write that that's going to be Reversed in the new heaven, the new earth. Creation will not groan or suffer. Creation will perfectly Show the glory of God. Creation, then, we say, longs for the new heavens and the new earth promised when Christ comes in judgment So let the field exalt and all that is in it, and all the trees of the forest will sing for joy before the Lord And here's why they're singing for joy, for he is coming, for he is coming to judge the earth. Well, we as New Testament believers know that the He is particularly the Lord Jesus Christ, whose coming is a comforting promise to the church as well as a certainty of judgment. To proclaim to the nations. Let me quote from our statement of faith, the Baptist faith and message God in his own time and in his own way will bring the world to its appropriate end. According to his promise Jesus Christ will return personally and visibly in glory to the earth. The dead will be raised, and Christ will judge all men in righteousness The unrighteous will be consigned to hell, the place of everlasting punishment. The righteous in their resurrected and glorified bodies Will receive their reward and will dwell forever in heaven with the Lord. A summary of what will take place. And listen to the judgment aspect of that in Revelation chapter 20, beginning with verse eleven. And what we're looking at is verse 13. There is joy in proclaiming, thinking about the coming of God to judge the earth. There's joy in that because That's what God's glory and honor deserves. So there's joy in that. But I want you to realize how serious that is. Because not only is there joy, there's a burden for those that are not ready for judgment. Revelation 20, verse 11. I saw a great white throne, and him who sat upon it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled away. And no place was found for them. And I saw the dead, the great and the small, standing before the throne. And books were opened, and another book was opened, which is the book of life. And the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books, according to their deeds. And the sea gave up the dead which were in it. Death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them And they were judged, every one of them according to their deeds. Then Death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death The lake of fire. And if anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, a book of those believing in Jesus If anyone's name was not found written in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Verse 13. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. And Scripture teaches, and this Psalm teaches, that all creation and all the church can and should celebrate this truth. It is one of the ways that we praise our God. We praise you, God, that you are a God of judgment and that all sin will be judged. But you only celebrate that if you're ready for it. That's the truth. Romans 3 10 says it is written, There's none righteous, not even one. On our own, we're not ready for it. No, we need a Savior. We need the Lord Jesus Christ. Some implications briefly because we've been talking about them. Number one, praise the Lord. Praise him individually. Praise him in the assembly. And this psalm calls us to praise him openly. It should be part of our testimony. Secondly, testify of the Lord openly, purposefully, and I would say naturally, because these truths are precious to you Thirdly, encourage others to acknowledge and honor the Lord. This is the idea of God saving souls from all peoples, all nations represented around his throne. So as you meet people, notice them Pray for people. Be involved in the mission efforts of the church locally and globally and individually. Your own mission efforts as you see and meet and speak. Speak and interact with others. Rejoice, fourthly, rejoice in his coming judgment I would encourage you to listen to the news of our world with confidence and with prayer. Because the Lord reigns. So that could be the news of a medical report, Nancy. Could be the news of Russia invading Ukraine. But listen to the news with confidence and with prayer. Speak of God's judgment with honesty, with confidence, and with gospel invitation. Let's pray. Father, we give thanks to you. We thank you for Psalm 96. We thank you for how it calls us to be a people of praise, but also a people of testimony. How it calls the world to acknowledge you and we calling the world to acknowledge you. So thank you for what you teach of yourself and then the implications of that. as we've looked at them. And I pray, Father, that the book of Psalms would continue to be precious to every believer's heart As a book of praise and prayer. Lord, I pray for those who are not ready for judgment, who are listening to this message. May your Holy Spirit, I know it's not my words, I wish it could be. But I actually am thankful that it is not. I'm thankful that it is your Holy Spirit that convicts of sin and of righteousness and of judgment to come. So I I'm always praying and pray this morning that you would do that work. To those who have heard who are without Christ. Bring conviction on their lives. Bring a desire for them to be right with you. And if they have questions, Lord, I pray that they would bring them. To a pastor or a friend that could answer those questions. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.