Your copy of God's Word and turn, if you would, to the book of Revelation. Chapter seven and verses nine and ten And as you're finding your place there, let me just make a couple of comments before I read that passage. You're familiar with the Great Commission from Matthew 28. Where we are charged to make disciples of all the nations. And that phrase, all the nation i i is a or the word nations translated is a word that is also translated peoples sometimes Gentiles. Jesus clearly meant all of the peoples of the world, or people groups, as we use that term in missions today. And we know that uh from how the word is used, but also from Acts 1. 8. He said, there, you shall be my witnesses. before he ascended, both in Jerusalem and in all Judea and Samaria, even to the remotest part of the earth. And here in chapter seven in the book of Revelation John, in one of the visions into heaven, gazes upon a multitude from the nations. from the remotest parts of the earth. It's not my intention to explain all of this, but to just notice some things that we see After these things I looked and behold a great multitude which no one could count, from every nation and all tribes and peoples , and tongues, standing before the throne and before the Lord, Lamb, clothed in white robes, and palm branches were in their hand And they cry out with a loud voice saying, salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. Let's pray. Father, encourage us in the commission that you've given us from this passage. I pray. Jesus' name. Amen. This vision of the future instructs and encourages the present work of missions, the Great Commission. Notice what we see. Or let me just ask you, what do we see? Look at verse 9. We see a great multitude Notice which no one could count. Now if you'd been at the Ravens game, which I guess is still going on, I don't know. You know, you could look out in the stands, full stadium probably, and you but you could count. They know how many went there. But this is a great multitude which no one could count. What do we see? We see a great work. Accomplished by our great God, by our Lord Jesus Christ. Listen to this from a letter from the IMB. Words, uh most of this from Paul Chitt would be. IMB president, International Mission Board President. He writes for 176 years. Think about that. Tenure, uh not his tenure, but I and B tenure. Long time. For 176 years, Southern Baptists have sent missionaries to proclaim the gospel of hope among the nations through the International Mission Board. And he writes, we get to be a part of the most important work in the entire universe. And here we see a glimpse of the result. Well who do we see? We see people, notice, from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues. Every people group represented. Every, not some, all, not most, but every Again, from Paul Chitwood. Through the International Mission Board, Southern Baptists have worked in nearly every country Of the world and prioritize getting the gospel to those who have yet to hear. Ninety-one percent of our International Mission Board missionary teams Are engaging the unreached, and the overwhelming majority of International Mission Board financial resources are spent among the unreached In 2020, in the midst of a global pandemic, IMB personnel reported more than 144,000 people coming to faith in Jesus. Jesus Christ and more than eighteen thousand new churches planted. Of the eleven thousand nine hundred and forty six people groups that had been numbered around the world. 7,307, uh 317 remain unreached. So approximately we'll just say two-thirds, close to two-thirds of the people. People groups or or three fifths maybe it's i is the fraction still remain unreached. Remain unengaged with the gospel. And there are definitions of unreached and unengaged. But I'm reading those statistics to let you know that the task is still immense. And in Revelation chapter 7, by God's grace we know, not by the International Mission Board, but we continue to work at it, but by God's grace, every, every people group is represented. And that's what he writes next. John did not report seeing a multitude from some nations, tribes, peoples, and languages. He saw a multitude from every nation, all tribes. peoples and languages. And until every nation, all tribes, peoples, and languages are represented in that great multitude, the vision of heaven is yet unfulfilled, and the mission of the church on earth remains. And that mindset is what has been fueling the strategy of the International Mission Board for the last last year. uh many years now, at least twenty years, they've been focusing on the what's called the ten forty window. Those are um if I got it right, latitudes, yeah, where there are a lot of unreached peoples. So what do we see? The great multitude. Who do we see? People from every nation, tribe. Where do we see these people? Notice they are standing before the throne And before the Lamb. They're in the presence of God, in the presence of Christ. We have this hope. That's the hope of the gospel. Think of the alternative. Where are you if you are not there in that day? Well, you are in a place of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord, according to Second Thessalonians. Thessalonians, chapter 1. So, where we see these people should cause us to have great burden that more that we know, more that are unreached would be a part of this great multitude one day. How can they be there? Well, we see that they're clothed in white robes, and that's certainly symbolic of their forgiveness, of sin, of their righteousness. Which they didn't have, but they were clothed in it. And we learn, of course, in the gospel that we are clothed. We have the righteousness of Christ credited to us. We understand that truth, how they can be there. It's through the gospel. It's a message we understand, a message that we can share, a message the IMD is sharing with others. And why are they there? Verse 9. And Then verse ten, the end of verse nine. W what it what's their purpose in being there? Well notice palm branches were in their hands, and they cry out with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne. and to the land. Why are they there? They're there for the glory of God. For the glory of God. John Piper said, missions, well, where's Jason? Is he still here? Don't see him. Okay, he might have had to leave because he has a sick daughter, but I sometimes get the quote wrong. But missions exist because worship doesn't. It's along those lines. In other words, there are there are people that are not glorifying God and and we we share the gospel and they become people in them Bring glory to God. That's what's happening here in this vision of heaven. Well, we want to um we want to be encouraged at what we are actually doing on the on the field. A lot of money from our church, twelve percent of our income goes to uh of our normal offerings goes to the cooperative program and a large chunk of that goes to the international Mission Board. And then this time of year we have the gall to say, hey, give above your normal giving to the Lottie Moon Christmas offering offering. We encourage you to give sacrificially to that. every year. Uh a a rule of thumb for me has been uh to give at least as much as I w uh as I would spend on, say, the largest Christmas gift I would give to anyone. I I certainly want to give that much So uh w I want you to see some of what's going on through the offering money. Let's roll the uh the video. Years. As a team, God compels us together to reach a massive city. Mexico City is a free for all of traffic. Millions and millions of people. They are not an isolated country. full of mariachis coming in from Europe, South America, from unreached people groups, and we want to follow those lines to take the gospel all over the world. Different experiences, different backgrounds. We're only a team of twelve people, but we can't reach them by ourselves. We're seeking to be catalytic in the way that we're working. guys mentoring with guys who are interested in pastoring or missions at the local churches. We cannot do it alone. God still call on people to reach all the nations Before Christ I lived in a house with a demon. When I was growing up in a Hindu family, a demon possessed my mom every week. Hindus actually believed my mom was a goddess. And they called me son of the goddess. I was 25 years old when someone shared the gospel with me and Christ changed me and my entire family. I was no longer the son of the goddess, but son of the living God. As a new believer, I didn't know where to start. But God called men and women into my life to disciple me, to teach me, and to walk alongside me as I shared Christ with friends, family and strangers. When God called me into ministry, these men and women, these missionaries became my close friends and partners. We looked out over big cities and tiny villages. Talking on false beliefs they had inherited and we begged God to breathe life into them and God answered God used us and other believers to draw a harvest of dozens, hundreds and thousands to Christ. Together with my partners, I organize these Christians into house churches. We encouraged them in evangelism and we disciple them in God's word. The churches kept growing and the gospel kept going out. Dawn has come for gospel work in South Asia. Join your South Asian brothers and sisters. Join the IMB as laborers in the greatest harvest field in the world. Now is the time. Now it's your turn. When I first came, I thought it was capable for the task. There were so many different things that I had to die to and realize I have no power to do these things. I'm just asking God to do for them what I cannot do. Show yourself to your people. Show up. We wanted to go to where there was lostness, northern Mozambican coast. The centuries of Islam that were there, witchcraft, my first thought is what have I done? How am I gonna be affected? This is the beginning of a battle. We came in 2004. With my one-year-old firstborn. All of our kids come and minister together with us. Children open the door to build those relationships with the women, how to share their faith, how to reach out to their families, where it was much more close to the gospel. But there is a sacrifice involved. Witchcraft in this culture is what sustains their life Who you marry, your health, whether or not you catch fish. Infant mortality rate is high. They live in fear of something happening to their children. When people come to Christ, for them it is a life and death decision. Is this worth my life? Adelina was a very well-known wish doctor. After about a year and a half, we're getting ready to pray, and Adelina just says, I want to get rid. of my witchcraft and we'll take down the witch doctor hut. So Sunday afternoon, after church When that wall fell down It was just a complete release to God. I no longer need to be afraid of these things. Our work in the local village has spread across the bay through the influence of family members. They have made professions of faith. We're starting to see national believers go out as missionaries through persecution, through hard times. God has galvanized their faith far beyond anything that I could teach. Be still and know that I'm God. Adelina starts telling her story about how she has new life in Christ When I must see now, I'll read your name, we could be here in the house or things. God has been faithful to show himself in ways that I never would have expected him to show himself. It's only the work of the Holy Spirit. That tide is turning, and momentum is building, that God's kingdom is coming to this coastline. I kind of see part of my story like Joseph. God brought them out of something that at the beginning of the story makes no sense. Even in the middle of the story, you sometimes wonder, God, what are you doing? It's an isolated country run by a military government and under civil war for the last sixty years. I had to live in a hotel. We weren't allowed to go very many places. We were even watched and followed sometimes. I was able to get permission to live up there teaching English. So I started having this Bible study Within a year we had baptized believers. I knew that's where I was supposed to be. One morning I got to the school, another friend pulled into the compound just frantic. There were investigators. I just been kicked out of my country. I felt lost. I knew where my heart wanted to be, but I had to trust that God had a reason. And I have to be okay with not knowing why. I was in a neighboring country. I was in this big city. I went to the market to buy some food. All of a sudden I hear the language of my people. And I realize there are about a half a million of them living in my country. They come here just overwhelmed with life in the big city. I felt a lot like they were. I was a refugee. I was in a country I didn't want to be in, but I couldn't go back. Some of them found community in a local church here. And I went to the pastor of that church and asked them, what were the needs here? And after some discussion he said, what we need is a Bible school in this city. How to share their faith, how to start a church I don't know how to start a school, but if I need to learn a new skill, I'll learn a new skill. The first day of school I had fifty students show up. They just kept coming and coming. Little or no sleep just because they're hungry to learn. And at this point they're reaching their own people. And they go to a different part of the city to share their faith with factory workers, many of whom have never heard the name of Jesus, show them love, share Christ with them and plant the gospel seed. Reforms are happening in the country I was banned from. They have new leaders now. I've been granted entry and I'm making plans to move back again. Looking back on all this, I see that wherever God wants me to be, that's where I feel like I'm home. Tens of thousands of people rallied Monday to protest last week's coup. Hundreds were arrested despite the growing international condemnation In the book of Acts and Acts chapter twelve, there's a lot of geopolitical things that are happening that everyone would have been talking about, would have been dominating the headlines. And yet, in the background behind all of that, without anyone realizing , the kingdom of God was spreading like wildfire all over the known world at that time. We work in an area of Southeast Asia that's experiencing a lot of turmoil and upheaval right now, a lot of anger, a lot of fear. At the same time, we've seen opportunities to share the gospel. People are very hesitant to believe in a God that they can't see. People worship both the spirits and Buddha. But when the pandemic hit and all of a sudden everyone was afraid and everyone's lives were being changed because of this virus that was unseen. Well, hey, you're scared of something that you can't see. Let me tell you about something that you can't see that will free you from that fear that will give you life. Just outside our city there's a small village of about fifty people. We got connected to an elderly woman, our national partner had been sharing the gospel with her, she said, I believe I'm in and she has since been just an incredible force that God's used. In the last year and a half or two years, we're hearing stories of thirty homes in this village coming to faith, and this entire village coming to faith, and half of this village come to faith. God's moving in some pretty exciting ways, but there's still a long way to go. Not knowing what the future holds has been really challenging. Even though there's upheaval and chaos in our region and around the world, we are more confident than we've ever been that this is exactly where we need to be. This is exactly what God has called us to do In the background, maybe not making the headlines, people's lives will be changed, disciples will be made, and the kingdom of God will spread like wildfire. For a hundred and seventy-five years, God has given life to this organization. He has called us to go. Thousands have answered that call, and Southern Baptists have joined together to send that From every walk of life, from every part of our country, they boarded ships and planes, leaving behind all that was comfortable, predictable. Safe and secure. All to go and share the good news of Jesus Christ. Into deserts and jungles, across mountains and seas. They planted their lives preaching Christ. Crucified. Many completed their service and came back to their homeland. But some Did not. Some would perish on the field. They would starve, become ill. or be struck down on distant and dangerous roads to present the gospel. And some would be struck down For simply preaching the good news of Christ. In moments of extreme violence, many would choose to stay in danger to bring peace to those in the midst of chaos. Those are dark days for all of us. When we lose our brothers and sisters. When we feel the very real stain of death. On those days, we all ask , is it worth it? Is it worth the high price? The ultimate price? Etched on the hearts of missionaries throughout Time are words like these. My life is of no doubt. My aim is to finish the race. To live as Christ And to die is gain. So we take up our cross to be living sacrifices. Greater love has no one than this. To lay down one's life for one's friends. These lives were not lost. These lives were given. We may never know the full impact these missionaries have given on this side of eternity, but some stories we do know. Stories of God pouring out his spirit on tribes and nations because missionaries modeled the one true sacrifice. Generations forever altered. Life is a gift. How will you use the life you've been given? So So John looked and behold a great multitude which no one could Count from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, palm branches were in their hands, and they cried Out with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb One thing I would say is that it's worth it when you see that scene in heaven. Revelation 7, 9 through 10 gives us hope for success on the mission field. We honor God by believing that Until Christ comes again, God is saving souls. Revelation 7, 9 through 10 encourages the work of gospel access for unreached people groups because all are mentioned in these verses. And so we honor God by by pressing on. That those have been difficult decisions for Southern Baptists because Because it meant leaving other areas where there might be more people coming to Christ, but where there were churches that could do the work of evangelism, to go to places where there weren't churches. And so seeking to give gospel access. I remember having a conversation with Keith, the leader of the team. in uh the the Arabian Golf Shia team and uh just asking him what he thought about the investment and uh lack of tangible results. How did he deal with that? And and it was an honest discussion and and he said one thing he felt convicted of is that Every area should have gospel access. And he felt like that's why we're here. And we certainly they have seen some fruit. It's been limited, but they are giving gospel access through the work that they do uh teaching English and other other things. It was similar in with Jeff and Jamie in Northern Africa. Thirdly, or fourthly, I would say just regarding some implications here. Revelation 7, 9 through 10 reminds us that there's no other way of salvation other than looking to Christ the Lamb. The Lamb is mentioned here to the one who sits on the throne and the Lamb. Well, he is the Savior. He is the only way that one can be a part of God Of this group, every person of the great multitude in these verses has heard and by God's grace has responded to the gospel. And so every generation must continue to faithfully proclaim the truth, holding John's vision and other promises and commands of Scripture as As our marching orders and as assurance that Jesus will bless the work of the church. He's building the church. Bless the work of the church as we carry out. uh the Great Commission. Some further words from Paul Chitwood, the uh president of the International Mission Board The prayers and financial partnership of Southern Baptists make possible our work on the front lines of lostness, getting the gospel to the unreached. and the unengaged. Uh when Jeff and Jamie went through their training down in Virginia, they were reminded over and over as they were getting uh you know, inoculations or whatever they were getting to to get on the field, they were reminded this is because Because of the Lati Moon Christmas offering, or this is because of the cooperative program. They were reminded what puts them and keeps them on the field i is the giving of Southern Baptists. through the church. He writes, a missionary or excuse me, a Mississippi pastor told Paul Chitwood Mr. President, everything the IMB needs, more missionaries and more money, is in our churches. But you're going to have to ask for it It's time to ask. We need more workers in the field and we need more money to support them. So I will encourage us in that same way. If God would lead you to the mission field, say yes. He will support you. And you have A church and a mission-sending agency that will work with you to get you where you are to be. in God's will. And I would say to every member that is not to go, to be involved in prayer and in sending through through our So I encourage every member tonight and have encouraged every member of our church to be involved in the Lati Moon Christmas offering and to be involved. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. You are so good. We know that whether it was a parent or a pastor, There was a our friend, we had gospel access, burden our hearts for places where that's not the case, and there's really no hope of it being the case anytime soon. We thank you for our sending agency looking to those places, trying to give gospel access. We're not the only ones. Lord, we thank you. you for other groups, other churches, other denominations, other sending agencies. And we pray that through your grace uh you would use us well. Help us to support what by your empowerment has been put in place through Southern Baptists and to support it well. We pray that you would increase our missionary force. And we pray that uh the funds would not lack to support them in the years. Ahead. We pray for an outpouring of generosity. In Jesus' name. Amen.