We'll continue contemplating and studying mercy, but this evening, an emphasis on God 's mercy. to us. Our passage is first Peter one three through nine. First Peter one three through nine nine. Remember that mercy is compassion for the hurting, especially those who've offended us or those who are indebted to us for one reason or another, having compassion for them having a gentle, tender-hearted kindness toward them. Mercy, again, is the opposite of vengeance. Mercy is the opposite of holding a grudge. Mercy is the opposite of an unforgiving spirit or you could say a harsh critical spirit. That's on one side, but on the other side you have a mercy That's and that's what mercy is. And um we're looking at God's mercy for us. So let's look at the passage, First Peter one three through nine, and then the message will be really The outline will be really simple talking about the great mercy of God. And we're going to look at five blessings that come from God's mercy mercy. Pretty simple Pretty easy flow. Five blessings that come from God's mercy. 1 Peter 1, beginning in verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he has caused us to be born again to a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, to an inheritance that is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. You have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes, though it is tested by fire. May be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him, and rejoice with joy that is inexpressible. And filled with glory, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. And hopefully it stood out to you really early in the passage, the idea of God's mercy, and then also the idea that that comes to us on the basis of the resurrection. Through the power of the resurrection. Look again at verse 3. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy. He's caused us to be born again to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. Did you see those two ideas coming together? Did you see the intersection or the interface of God 's great mercy coming to us through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And that's all in verse three, which is pretty incredible. It's a rich verse about the great mercy of a great God. And that's what we're Talking about and meditating on this evening. The great mercy of a great God. Five blessings that come to us as a result of God's mercy. Number one, new life with a new hope. New life with a new hope. This comes from verse 3. New life with a new hope is ours by God's great mercy Through the resurrection. Verse 3: Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. According to his great mercy, he's caused us to be born again. That's the new life. He's caused us to be born again. Our first birth was a natural birth, but our new birth, our second birth, is a spiritual birth. We had the old birth Born, these bodies coming into the world, but we have the new birth, the spiritual birth, being born again, which is our spirits coming into relationship with God. Into a relationship with God. That's the new life, and that's what he says. He has caused us to be born again, and then he says this, to a living hope through the resurrection of Jesus Christ. from the dead. The idea is unto a living hope. He's caused us to be born again. Now we stand and we possess a living hope. A hope that's not a dead hope, like the false counterfeit hopes in the world around us. Uh but a true and lasting hope. A living hope, a living Lord, a living savior, a living hope. Now the rest of the passage and we won't get ahead of it, but the rest of the passage um expounds on what that living hope is. But for right now he just says, You've been born again by the mercy of God. You've been born again through the resurrection of Christ, and you've been born again unto or into A living hope. So, new life with a new hope. You'll notice that this new life with a new hope is fixed on the worship of God. It's fixated on the worship of God. The passage begins with actually the words of a doxology, the words of a praise. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, exclamation point. Before Peter talks about the new life and the new hope that we have through the resurrection of Christ. He lifts a word of praise to God. He says, Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. And it is always a timely reminder to us. That worship is the heartbeat of Christian living. Not just congregational worship, although that is vitally important for practical discipleship. But I mean in the heart. A heart that's filled with worship unto God. A heart that's filled with gratitude unto God. A heart that's filled with praises upon praises unto God. That is the fuel of Christian living. It's the heartbeat. of Christian living. Yes, you could even say it's the lungs of Christian living. Just filled with Lifting up these kinds of praises. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ. He is worthy of all praise, and he's worthy of all blessing. And we need to be people who are fixed on and fixated on the worship of God. Brothers and sisters, isn't that what God has set us apart for? Isn't that why he plucked us up out of the kingdom of darkness and brought us over here into the kingdom of his beloved Son, so that we would worship him rather than live for ourselves, rather than chase the fleeting treasures and pleasures Of sin and of this world, but to worship him. Um it's fixated that new life with a new hope is fixed on worship. It's also the fruit of mercy. Well that's the overarching theme. So we've already said that, but just to point this out again, um after he gives this word of praise in verse three He says this, according to his great mercy. Dot dot. So for now, let's just see that phrase. According to his great mercy. Whatever it is he's about to say, whatever's coming next, is on the basis of God's mercy. Whatever's coming after this is according to God's mercy. This all flows out of the mercy of God. If there was not in God's heart, if there was not a saving mercy, then salvation would never have come into our lives. You see, it began in the eternal purpose of God. It began in the heart of God. A redemptive mercy for sinners. And that's when redemption was planned before the foundation of the world. God's eternal purpose of salvation in Christ. But that's what he says, according to his great mercy. So this new life that we have is a new life with a new hope. It's fixed on worship. It's the fruit of mercy. You know, it's out of love that parents care for their children. It's out of love that husbands ought to love their wives. It's out of love that wives ought to respect their husbands. It's out of love that children ought to honor and obey their parents. It's out of love that brothers and sisters In Christ, pray for each other and encourage one another and serve one another in the spirit of Christ. It's out of love. And it's out of love. Brethren, that God has given us new life with a new hope, but a very specific kind of love. It's a merciful love. It's a merciful love. And it's a gracious love and it's there's other aspects of it. But it's all just details of God's love. It's the fruit of mercy, this new life with a new hope. And finally, under underneath new life with a new hope. It's founded on Christ's resurrection. It's fixed on worship. It's the fruit of mercy. And it's founded upon Christ's resurrection, the historical event of Christ's bodily resurrection. The historical event of Christ's bodily resurrection, verse 3, still verse 3, caused us to be born again to a living hope. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead. And yes, you're probably thinking, well, I thought it was on the basis of his righteous life. And I thought it was on the basis of his sacrificial death. Yes, and yes, but that's not what this verse is about. Christ had to be risen for us to experience God's saving mercy. And it's the risen Christ who saves us. Right? Amen? It's the risen Christ. He's not on the cross anymore. But the risen Christ is living And the risen Christ is reigning. And the risen Christ, when you receive the Holy Spirit, it's the risen Christ who gave you the Holy Spirit. It's the risen Christ who came into our lives and brought the truth of the gospel into our lives. And birthed salvation in our hearts. Christ saves us. So it's through the power of the resurrection that this mercy comes to us. Through the resurrection of Jesus Christ from the dead, and we share in that resurrection life even now. Inwardly, inwardly we share in resurrection life, though the outer man has not yet been risen. Inwardly, we're we've been risen, we've been united to Christ, we've been made alive together with Christ, we're seated with Christ above, and we Experience the power of resurrection life even now. Well, how do we experience the power of resurrection life even now? Well, have you ever truly repented of a sin? That's resurrection life. Do you have any amount of true holiness in your life? That's resurrection life. Do you have in your heart a true adoration and cherishing of God Almighty? That's resurrection life. You see, it is a it is a a quality of of life that's different from this fallen mortal order But at the center of it it's it's a spiritual, ethical kind of life. It's life that enables us to love God. It's life that enables us to Pursue holiness, resurrection, life makes us the kind of people we ought to be. People who walk in the footsteps of Christ. Just a couple quick cross-references here on the necessity of the resurrection and how it relates to us being saved. Romans 4. 25 Speaking of Christ, Paul says he was delivered up for our trespasses and then raised for our justification. Which is a pretty cool verse. Because most of the time when we talk about justification we go right to the cross, and that's proper to do that. But again, that's not what Romans 4. 25. It says he was delivered up for our trespasses and then raised for our justification. He has to be raised for our justification. Because if Christ is still dead, and rather than being a living priest in heaven who saves sinners, then this justification will never come to us. And one more Acts 2. 33 Peter preaches this on the day of Pentecost, speaking of Christ again, being therefore exalted at the right hand of God And having received from the Father the promise of the Holy Spirit, he has poured out this that you yourselves are seeing and hearing. That's an incredible picture. Christ being risen by the Father. Christ receiving the promised Holy Spirit. And then Christ pouring out that Holy Spirit for the salvation of sinners All this under new life with a new hope, all of this under verse 3. The great mercy of a great God, this first blessing of God's mercy New life with a new hope. Secondly, secondly, the second blessing that comes to us as a result of God's mercy is a new inheritance. A new inheritance. I've been I guess I've been alluding to that all along. We just talk about the resurrection. I cannot help but uh but at least allude to The future resurrection inheritance. But a new inheritance, if you prefer, you can put a new destiny. If you prefer, you can put a new end goal for your life and existence. But the Bible speaks of it as an inheritance. This comes from verse 4, and then we'll also look at verse 9. Verse 4, staying on the same thought. It's not a new sentence. here. Staying on the same thought. You've received this new life. You now have a living hope. And then verse 4 says this to an inheritance That is imperishable, undefiled, and unfading, kept in heaven for you. Man, I've always loved this verse. I've always loved this verse. To an inheritance that is imperishable, number one. Number one, is not rotting away. It's not decaying. It's not getting old and losing value. It's not getting weaker. It's an imperishable inheritance, which means, brothers and sisters, it means it's not of this order. It's not of this order where things are perishing, imperishable. But that's not all he says. I mean that would be good enough, right? It's imperishable, but then he says undefiled. The inheritance that you have as a child of God in Christ is undefiled. It's not tainted by sin. It's not tainted by sin. It's not been corrupted by sin. And it's not susceptible to being corrupted by sin. Now that's a good that's a great inheritance right there. Just these two things. You have an inheritance Something that Christ earned for us. Something that Christ won. And he brings us into his kingdom so that we can share in his reward. It's imperishable, it's undefiled, and it's unfading. It's unfading. It's not losing its glory. It's not becoming less valuable. It's not becoming less beautiful. And it never will. Imperishable, undefiled, unfading. Its glory is a glory that does not fade. It does not lessen The experience and the joy of when you enter into this inheritance will not get boring for you over time and eternity. It's an unfading. And undefiled and imperishable. Three really great descriptor descriptives. Three really great adjectives about our inheritance. Yes? Yes? Yes? Are we there? Yes. But but could you imagine if it were up to our strength To hold that in place until we get there? Could you imagine if we're if we're up to us and our wisdom and our power In any way based on us to hold that inheritance, to keep that inheritance in place, or to keep ourselves on the right path to receive that inheritance, certainly we would lose it. So this last descriptor might be the best one. You can decide which is the best one from your perspective. Um but if you take this one out, none of the other ones matter. So for me I say that's the best one, because what does he say after unfading? It's kept in heaven for you. And it's Jesus who keeps this inheritance for us. And even while we're on earth, there's something There's some uh there's something that Jesus is doing for us and in us so that from our perspective we make it there. But from the perspective of the inheritance itself, it's being kept in heaven for the children of God. This is Christ's purpose, not just to win salvation for sinners, but then to give salvation to sinners And to secure their eternal inheritance for them, so that we do not have to work for our inheritance and we do not have to secure our inheritance. Before God's throne. Because if we know anything about ourselves, if we know anything about sin, we know we would never make it. The only thing we would inherit would be judgment, and rightly so. So you have inheritance that's imperishable, undefiled, unfading, kept in heaven for you. And also, verse 9: obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. The salvation of your souls, which is the outcome of your faith. Again, now in Peter especially in other verses too, but in Peter especially this salvation is that future It's that final manifestation of salvation, the last judgment when the children of God are delivered from that final judgment. Children of God are spared from that final global judgment against mankind's sin. You're obtaining the outcome of your faith. the salvation of your souls. So stepping into that, or I guess better, receiving that inheritance. on the last day is parallel to, and it's all captured underneath this idea of the salvation of our souls. And this is why we do not live for the flesh in this life. And this is why we walk by the Spirit in this life. Because we've been united to Christ. He secured an eternal inheritance for us. He's keeping that inheritance for us. And that changes the way we live now. Because we're looking to Christ above. We're looking to our inheritance in the future. And that reorients us so that rather than live for the passions of the flesh, we're living for Christ, and we're living for heaven, and we're living for the glory of God, and we're seeking to walk by the Spirit, not by the flesh. In fact, and we're all give you some devotional work for later tonight or in your morning devotions tomorrow. Romans 8, 12 to 17. Paul links those two things together. The way we live The things we seek, the things we pursue, and the perspective that's shaped by eternity. All that to say We have a new inheritance. We have a new destiny in Christ. We have an inheritance that is imperishable, it's undefiled, and it's unfading, and it's kept in heaven for us. That's like nothing else we have in this life. I mean it's connected to things we have in this life. But it's like I mean we don't have anything right now. We don't possess anything that's imperishable. Except for the Holy Spirit. We don't possess anything that's undefiled except for the Holy Spirit. We don't possess anything that's unfading. Uh except for what we have within us by the Holy Spirit. And we certainly don't have anything that's kept in heaven for us because we're not in heaven yet. So this is about the future inheritance. We have a new inheritance. You could gain the whole world. You could gain all the popularity in the world. But when you die, what does it matter? I mean, really, what does it matter? If you fall under the judgment of God rather than this inheritance, then those riches mean nothing. Thirdly Great mercy of a great God, the third blessing that comes to us as a result of God's mercy. We have a new power in our lives. A new power in our lives to sustain us. through troubles, a new power in our lives to give us endurance through temptations. A new power in our lives. Verse 5 Who by God's power are being guarded through faith for a salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. Again, that's that salvation what Peter is talking about is the future salvation. That salvation ready to be revealed at the last time. It's not talking about the past personal salvation. And I've said this before. You know, eventually I'll do a little booklet or maybe a sermon on this. How scripture uses the idea of salvation in three I mean they're connected but they're distinct. The past salvation when we were born again, the ongoing salvation of being progressively sanctified. Which is being saved from the ruling power of sin in our lives, and the future salvation of being delivered from that final judgment. And that's what this is here, that future salvation ready to be revealed in the last time But what really captures what really captures my heart in verse 5 is that I am being guarded by the power of God. And that you are being guarded by the power of God. Because it says, who by God 's power are being guarded. So in verse 4 Peter was fixing our attention on a future inheritance that Jesus is keeping for us in heaven. But now Peter fixes our attention on what God is doing in us and for us in our lives here down below on earth. He's guarding us. But the power of God. Is there a greater power than the power of God? I mean the power of a million angels doesn't even touch the power of God. Now you talk about just the power of one weak, pathetic, foolish sinner. So thank God above that He is guarding us so that we would receive this grand inheritance. And he says, guarded through faith. Well, why would that be a surprise for us? Faith is always the way that sinners receive the grace of God. Faith is the receiving arm. It's the receiving instrument. It's the way sinners experience the grace of God. It's the way sinners experience the power of God. The power of God to have victory in temptation is experienced through faith. Once we start looking inwardly, we forfeit this power of God. It's through faith, it's by looking to another that we experience the power of God. So of course, what when he says we're By God's power we're being guarded. Of course, he's going to say through faith. Because we're not inactive We're not inactive. We're not just sitting around twiddling our thumbs waiting for eternity. We are actively and proactively looking to Christ and believing in Christ and by faith expressing. Experiencing the grace and power of Christ, that's Christian living. We walk by faith. It's not only how you get saved, but it's the mode of living once we get saved. Now he says guarded. Guarded. Guarded from what? You know, if we were to put a whiteboard up here and just Ask you, what do we need to be guarded from? We could come up with a hundred things of what we need God to guard us from in this world and in this life. I mean many things inwardly, many things outwardly. Boiled it down, well the scripture boils it down, really these categories, broad categories of what we need God to guard us From and therefore what we need to be praying for God's power in our lives for. Number one, the passions of the flesh. We need to wage war against the passions of the flesh. In fact, uh Peter says that, 1 Peter 2, 11. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles, abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. Well nobody's abstaining from the passions of the flesh apart from the power of God. Put that right on the table. I mean you could do it outwardly. The Pharisees did it outwardly. You can make it l you can come up with an outward form of godliness, but Not have the real inward power of godliness. But the passions of flesh all of the flesh are waging war against our soul. That's an internal battle. That's an inescapable battle for the believer. And it's only by God's power that we'll be guarded from and have victory over the passions of the flesh. Number two, now this is closely, closely connected the deceitfulness Maybe that's just one precise application of the passions of the flesh is very susceptible to the deceitfulness of the sin of sin. Sin takes things that are bad for us and twists them and persuades us that they actually are very, very good for us. Things that are the worst things ever that would come into our lives. Sin has a way of uh uh twisting it and making us feel like we absolutely need those things in our lives for us to be happy and live a fulfilled life. And we need God's power. And I need God's power. And brother, sister, you need God's power so that you would be wise and discerning so that you don't fall for the lies and the deceitful Of sin to take us away from the things of God, but we want to by faith stay on the things of God. Uh number three, and again, this is closely connected to the deceitful Of sin. Maybe we're just looking at different aspects of spiritual warfare here. But number three, we need to be guarded from the schemes and the lies of fill in the blank. You know Of Satan, of the devil, of the evil one, yes. The schemes and the lives of the evil one. And brothers and sisters, that's in our individual lives, but that's in the body life of the church too. Satan hates the kingdom of God. Satan absolutely hates local churches, and he wants to divide, and he wants to discourage, and he wants us to get us off the path of obedience. And Satan also hates holiness and practical obedience in the lives of individual believers. And he wants to get us, he wants us to veer off course. We need to be in prayer daily for the power of God. We need to be in prayer daily for the grace of God to guard us against the passions of the flesh, the deceitfulness of sin, the schemes and lies of the evil ones. And number four, and from the threats and persecutions of the world. God to guard us. God's power to guard us through the threats and persecutions. That doesn't mean we'll never receive threats. That doesn't mean we'll never receive or be the receiving end of persecutions. But by God's power, when those come, we won't forfeit our confession. When those come, God will give us the endurance to make it through and not lose heart. God's goal, brothers and sisters, is not to spare us from every possible discomfort and displeasure that could come in This world. God's goal is to get us to glory. God's goal is to, through the trials and tribulations and persecutions, in the midst of those, God's central goal is to teach us how to trust in Him more and more. Trust in him more and more as he gives us endurance and as he strengthens our character through persecutions and through threats from the world around us. Could come from the governing authorities as it does different parts of the world and it did it obviously in scripture you see that. But these threats and persecutions can come from family and extended family. family, it could come from friends or people at school or people at work. I mean, there's all kinds of ways that the world can lash out against you because of your faith in God. And we should not be surprised when that happens But we definitely need to turn to God for strength when that happens. And number five, we need to be guarded from Just the discouragements and the weakness of our frail humanity. You know, our number one problem is sin, but sin is not our only problem. You know, let's just say you take all the sin out of our lives right now. Now this is theoretical, so track along with me, okay? I do not believe in the doctrine of sinless perfection in this life I do believe the doctrine of sinless perfection after this life. But for the illustration, just take all the sin out of our lives. Well we still have we still have some problems. And let's just say it in very simple terms. We're still weak. We're still very weak, frail, finite, which means limited. I mean we're just extremely limited, weak creatures And we need the strength of God to endure, even without sin. It's because of sin that we need grace and sanctification But it's also just because of the weakness of humanity that we need divine enablement to do what God has called us to do. And so the discouragements and the weakness that we have, just because we're finite human beings. We need God to guard us, to guard us and to strengthen us every day of our lives. That is, if we're going to live for Him and not ourselves. You know, if you commit yourself to growing in prayer, and in particular, if you commit yourself to just learning from Scripture All the multitude of ways that the believer needs the grace of God. And learn to commit yourself to learning from Scripture. All the ways that we need to, we need God's power and we need God's grace. Well that's gonna fill up the prayer time and that's just one cu that's one part of one component of prayer. One part of one component of prayer is crying out to God for the grace and Strength and power that we need daily. And one particular thing is guarding. We need God to guard us. That's what he says: by God's power, we're being guarded through faith. Um a new life with a new hope, a new inheritance, a new power in our lives, a number fourth, this on these five blessings. Result from God's mercy. Number four. Did I say number fourth? Number four, which is the fourth point. That's what you get when you try to look at your notes and the clock at the same exact time. Four. Fourth. We have a new purpose. We have a new purpose. Verse 6 and 7. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. So that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold, that perishes though it's tested by fire, may be found to result in praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. It's pretty neat, isn't it? Here's another mentioning of that final day. Another mentioning of that final salvation. Another alluding to that final judgment. The revelation of Jesus Christ When he is revealed from heaven in final glory to consummate his kingdom. And um He says a lot He says lots of things in verse six and seven. First of all, he says, in this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you have been grieved by various trials. You can underline the word rejoice. And I didn't put in the notes to expound on this, but you'll notice also that that is in verse 8. Believe in him and rejoice with joy. That can link back to the first point I made about worship being the fuel, worship being the heart. Christian living. We're a people who rejoice because our hearts are filled with joy. You have the joy inwardly, and what it leads to outwardly is rejoicing. In this you rejoice, though now for a little while, if necessary, you've been grieved by various trials. You have been grieved by various trials. Now in the context, I believe that's what Peter's referring to first when he says by God's power you're being guarded through faith. Here comes a trial that you're going to endure by the power of God. And here he says various trials. And he says grieved by various trials. So whatever grievous and uh various trials this audience was experiencing, if they were to put their faith in God to sustain them. And then, because this point is new purpose though, right? Number four is new purpose. Verse 7 he says, so that. So that. So there's a purpose in this. There's a purpose in the trials. There's a purpose in being guarded by the power of God through faith. He says, so that the tested genuineness of your faith Um and then skip over what's between those uh big hyphens, those big dashes. The tested genuineness of your faith may be found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus. Christ. That's our purpose. That's our purpose. Praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. There's a contrast. Um more precious than gold that perishes, though it is tested by fire. That's a metaphor, really. It's a comparison and a contrast Gold is purified when it's brought through the fire, so also the Christian is purified. The Christian is Tested in their genuineness, the tested genuineness of your faith, but it's leading to praise, glory, and honor at the revelation of Jesus. Jesus Christ. God will use trials in our lives as testings to strengthen us, to mature us, to give us endurance. But the difference is our faith is more precious than gold. That's the contrast. Our faith is more precious than gold. They use this gold because gold is commonly seen as something that's very, very precious, very, very valuable. If you've got a lot of gold maybe got something going on. Here he says your faith is more valuable than that. And your faith is going to be tested. And we do have a purpose to live for Christ and not ourselves. And to look to God, not our own strength. And to not turn against God or turn away from God when the when the various trials come, when we're grieved by various trials. But we're to see that as the in God's providence and God's sovereignty as He's testing us and through this testing He'll give us endurance and He'll give us maturity and He'll get us one step closer to praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. And finally, we have a new first love. Verse 8. We have a new first love. We can rehearse this. Again. Number one, new life with a new hope. Number two, a new inheritance. Number three, a new power in our lives. Number four, a new purpose in our lives. And number five, we have a new first love. Five great blessings that come to us as a result of God's mercy, the great mercy of a great God. Now new first love comes from verse eight. Though you have not seen him, you love him. Though you do not now see him, you believe in him, and you rejoice with joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. The joy that we have within us, Peter says, is inexpressible. It's so great that you really can't put it into words. And we try to put it into words and you can put it into words and you can put it into a poem and you can put it into a hymn. You can put it into a Christian song. But you can't you cannot fully express the nature Of the joy that we have in Christ. It's just beyond human expression. That's why it says inexpressible. But then he says filled with glory. It's a glorious joy. It's a joy that's Filled with glory. It's a heavenly joy. It's a joy that manifests. It's a joy that shows forth the love and power of God. That's why it's filled. with glory. It's not a earthly joy. It's not a limited joy. It's an inexpressible, glorious joy that we experience by the power of the Holy Spirit. We have a new first love. Though you've not seen him, you love him. The first thing he says in verse 8. And our love for Jesus is different than our love for anybody else. And our love for Jesus Jesus is different than our love for anything else. Because our love for Jesus is our love for God. Our love for Jesus is our obedience to the first greatest commandment, which is not just to love God, it's to love God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. It's to love God first. It's to love God most. It's to love God just not just as one love amidst a whole bunch of other loves, but to love God supremely. To love God the way God deserves, as first and foremost, to love God with a love that is synonymous with worship. We worship God. We love Jesus as God, as our Savior. Though we've not seen him, that's why it's through faith. And though you've not seen him, you love him, and though you do not now see him, you believe in him. You believe in him, and you rejoice with a joy that is inexpressible and filled with glory. And I don't have the time, but uh but if I did have the time, again in verse eight, the next the next word we would go to is believe. Believe in him. Because these are all great glorious things, but we can't experience any of them apart from faith. All the blessings of God are Experienced all the power of God is experienced through faith, received and experienced and enjoyed through faith. So even here, you love him, but don't forget this: you believe in him You believe in him. If you do anything else, beloved, hold on to your faith in Jesus Christ. And God will work out the details from there Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus and all that He's procured for your glory and obedience to you, but for our good, for the good of our souls. And we pray that you would continue to encourage us daily with gospel encouragements. Remind us of the new life that we have, the hope that we have, the power that we have, the inheritance we have, the love that we have by the Spirit. And Father, we pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.