Welcome to the podcast of North Harford Baptist Church. I'm Matt Fortunato here with Anthony Wilson. We are the pastors here. Visit us at northharford. org or you can visit us on our sermon audio page, North Harford. Baptist Church. Our topic today is how can a nation change for the better? How can a nation change for the better? Basically, wanting to talk about From a biblical perspective, how a nation can only change for the better when more and more people are saved by the grace of God and as a result of that give their lives over to God. So thinking of 2 Corinthians 5. 15 that he died for us, that we might no longer live for ourselves, but live for him. Um the relevancy uh should be obvious to us, uh hopefully, that we want the moral fabric of our nation to improve. We we want things like more peace, less violence. more understanding of truth of morality, less uh of a love for wickedness. And so it's really this idea of What's called in Scripture, a righteous nation. Let me look this passage up for you. I want to start with this verse just to get the wheels turning. It's Proverbs 14, 34. And um here's what it says righteousness exalts a nation But sin is a reproach to any people. Alright, so righteousness exalts a nation. It lifts it up, it improves it, it makes it an example to others. You know, implied in that is if this is something that we should want, this is something we should pray for, this is something that we should strive for. But the second part of that verse is the opposite. Sin is a reproach to any people. Which is collective. It's a collective noun, people, plural. So of course sin is a reproach to a person, but it's also a reproach to any people. It's not something we should want. We should want to be going in the other direction of a more righteous nation. And I don't have these verses because I want to I want to kick this over to you as soon as possible, but Just because one generation can be defined by widespread wickedness and unbelief, that doesn't mean the next generation will be like that. The classic example is the generation of the Exodus, that first generation of Israel that was brought out of Egypt, is said in Scripture to be, by and large, unbelieving. But then the next generation was by and large said to be obedient. And it says in the end of Joshua that Israel obeyed God all the days of Joshua and all the days of the elders that outlived Joshua. Now in the unbelieving generation of the Exodus That does not mean that every single person was lost and there were no saved people. It just means that by and large the nation was defined by their widespread disobedience and rebellion. And then when you have an obedient, righteous generation, the opposite is true. Or the same thing is true in the opposite way. It doesn't mean that that everybody is saved. And there's no wickedness, no crime. It just means by and large what the nation at that time was characterized by was belief in God, an understanding of truth, a biblical morality, and a widespread desire to obey God, not the traditions and arbitrary morals of mankind. So one more time, Proverbs 1434. Righteousness exalts a nation, but sin is a reproach to any people. So I wanted to kick it over to you with the question, if a person himself or herself as an individual, or if a family unit Once a more righteous nation, where do they start? We see that When we hear people pray, uh we have our uh church prayer group uh gathering on first Sunday of every evening or first Sunday evening of every month. We have our men's prayer, we've had other prayer times And I think every time we hear people praying for an end of war, we hear people praying for a change in the culture of of destruction and harming one another. We hear people praying for civil leaders. So we recognize that everyone wants a change. uh wants the world to be more Christ-like. And I I think we don't know how that can happen. That seems that's too big, right? We're talking about the world. Let's maybe just talk about America. That's too big for us to talk about. But what about uh I can't even deal with Maryland. How are we gonna get Maryland to be more righteous? And that's why we must start with ourselves. We start with the individual person and it starts with repentance of sin. We have our sins and we've confessed, we've we have faith in Christ. And then we go on living our lives and we have all these little uh these little petty sins that we have allowed to fester in our lives. We said, oh, that's fine. We'll we'll deal with them. It's fine. We can just keep living our lives. It's fine. No, that's we want we want our nation to change. We start with ourselves. We start to walk in obedience to Christ by confessing our sins, seeking Him in all things that that all things, in everything we do. It's like uh I was trying to figure out an analogy, either army or farming. Uh which analogy I was gonna use. I went with the farming one. You have enough time to do to do both and then we'll tell you which one is better. I'll go farming. I if we wanted to plant a field, the first thing we gotta do is plow this field. Now, we wanna get it done with. We wanna we're microwave culture, we want it instantly. But to start plowing a field, it starts with a single little point on that plow that starts to pull dig up the dirt and you go one row at a time. And th back in the day when you had a single plow with a horse, that would take a day, maybe two days to plow one field. But it was you dedicated that time. Likewise as Christians, if we want to see the nations change, we want to see the nation Could be you righteous, we want to see a change in our culture. We need to start at this pinpoint within our own lives. Starts in your own life, they'll transfer into your family. You'll see that multiply into the church, into the community around you, but it has to start. with you. Reformation and revival starts in the individual first. And that's going to lead us to to see a change in the nation. I think I've noticed that a lot of Christians separate the spiritual On the one hand, separate that out from the concrete and the practical devotion on the other hand. And so we know that the kingdom of God w is only going to spread. and only going to have an impact by the Spirit of God and by the Word of God, the spiritual But at the same time, God has purposed to bring that about through people, through disciples, through the local church of Jesus Christ. And so we can't separate the spiritual, my personal private relationship with the Lord, my personal spirituality. that exists primarily just up in my head and in my private life. We c we can't be there. We can't separate that out from God's design from advancing his kingdom and having an impact in society. I mean could you imagine if every professing Christian in our nation, or in Maryland, like you said, um, was pouring themselves and her pouring himself, pouring herself a hundred percent into just simple biblical discipleship. busy in prayer, desperate in prayer, growing in godliness, members of a biblical local church, not just a church, but a biblical church. um consistent in the worship, consistent in the fellowship, because you're building up the body of Christ. You're building up and supporting the church of God. And it's through the church and the ministries of the church that the kingdom spreads and has an impact. So what you're saying is uh is I think right on the money Each Christian taking a personal starting point, taking personal accountability to want to be a part of this. Yeah. So I did the math. So we're talking about the starting with the simple thing. We need to start with ourselves the simple thing. If if a Christian spends fifteen minutes a day, fifteen minutes in prayer and Bible reading combined. So you want to do 14 minutes of prayer, one minute Bible reading, or whatever it is. 15 minutes a day, if you do that every day for the year, you'll spend over three days. worth of that year prayer and Bible reading. Man. And you go fifteen minutes? Yeah, I I probably I can do twenty, thirty easily and not even think about it. But that's that small thing, you now s dedicated days of your year to those simple Christian devotions that we're called to do. And how much is that going to benefit you? How much is three days of the year of prayer and Baba reading going to help you and influence the culture. I I don't think we can grasp that if then we multiply that and that grows and matures in us. that we want more. Fifteen minutes isn't long enough. Give me another hour. Or I have to be in church. I want to be with the saints and worshiping the living God. That grows. But it has to start somewhere. It's a seed that grows and multiplies over time. It's probably connected to if we really believe that God uses our prayers. Do we really believe that God uses our prayers to accomplish his will, to spread his gospel, to advance his kingdom, to bring about change in the culture, change in society, change in our own lives and homes? And um I can almost predict uh there's probably somebody who's hearing this who is thinking, oh there there they go. Preaching a work, salvation. We're not talking at all about how to be saved. Uh we're talking about things that should be true about people who are saved. We're not talking about how to get into the kingdom. We're just talking about Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. So just take that out of your mind if you're thinking we're preaching salvation by works. We're may maybe we are talking about works and discipleship and spiritual disciplines and obedience. That's after salvation. Yes. Paul helps clarify that in Romans 6. Verse 17 says, But thanks be to God that you who were once slaves of sin have become obedient from the heart to the standard of teaching to which you were committed, and having been set free from sin, have become slaves of a righteousness Wow. So you're right. We you don't become, you don't do the good works, you don't live r in a righteous way to become the slave to God, you have been freed from the bondage of sin, brought into the family of God, which now you desire to live and do righteousness unto the glory of God. Um, so yeah, it we have to completely twist that. We start with a new heart, new birth, and new creatures. When we're born again in the Spirit, those new creatures live in accordance to God and seek his righteousness. So it it we have to start fighting against sin and temptation. We have to dedicate ourselves to the worship of God within the individual, the family, and the church We have to start gathering together and loving time with other Christians. Why? It's because we have been freed from the bondage of sin and brought under slaves to God. No greater master could we have. And God gets the credit for that. It's not like to use your the first thing you brought up, don't um, that we need a return to repentance and a return to prayer to give just fifteen minutes to prayer. If if we do that and we give 15 more minutes to prayer, if somebody does that and gives more attention to the repentance God gets the credit for that. That's a result of grace. That's not us doing works to make sure that God loves us, or that's not us trusting in ourselves to bring about the kingdom. Um if if that's the mindset, then that's just one more thing we need to repent of. The mindset is trusting God's power, trusting um the work of God's Spirit. And so, yeah, uh anything that we do in repentance or uh some kind of revival in our own discipleship or revival and the body life of the church and getting plugged in. God gets all the glory, all the honor, all the praise, because that's just the fruit of grace. Um, can I take it maybe a little deeper? Maybe this is too spiritual. Bible reading prayer, going to church is too spiritual. What about the that these minor things, these these little things, I shouldn't say minor, the little things that we do. Um, how about husbands? Start to love your wives better. You're going to radically change the culture around you. Wives, start to respect and submit to your husbands as Scripture has instructed you. You're going to radically change the culture around you Children, respect and obey your parents as Scripture has commanded you. You're going to start to see the culture around you change. And that we see that's going to go throughout not just the family, but it's going to Drip into other places. When your kids have a friend over and they see you loving your wife and your wife respecting you and the children obeying, they're gonna go, that doesn't look like my home, but I like this This is good. This is how it's supposed to be. When you have guests in your your home and they see you pray and say, that's not what we do. We're usually fighting it by this point of the day. You see, and when you see uh you uh confessing that you wronged your wife and someone witna your children witness that, they're gonna go, that's the kind of your daughter's gonna say, that's the kind of husband I'm gonna be looking for There's a man that acknowledges when he's wrong and loves his wife so much. So it's not just in the Bible reading prayer gathering together. Those things are are necessary. Yeah. But these little things are in every aspect. Well it's a great point about discipleship because you're right. We we were focusing on the obviously um formal the church and our private devotions, but those are just two pieces of the discipleship. And we're called to be disciples in all areas of life. So going to work and not joining in crude, raunchy joking at work. Not joining in the the culture of always complaining and grumbling about the management and the bosses and the schedule. Did you see the schedule this week? I can't believe they're doing this too Just grumbling and complaining and cynic cynicism and gossiping and slander. Just being a light in the darkness and just having a different mindset, a different way of speaking. um being humble, being gracious, being compassionate to people because we don't know what people are going home to. We don't know their their troubles or their struggles or their sufferings and And not only at work but at school or in all of our hobbies, you know, reflecting the character of Christ. So no, I what did you say earlier? Not to go too deep. That that's not too deep, man. I that's That's Christianity, brother. That's just striving by the grace of God that He would do it. Not we would do it, but that He would conform us to the likeness of Christ to shine His character. in um in all areas of life. I think a important thing to think about when we are Trying to picture and starting to pray for a more righteous nation, right? An improvement in the morals, an improvement in the worldview and ethics. and what that would look like and on different social issues. It's important to have a long term perspective. I mean if I mean just think of an illustration of our individual lives. You know, our growth, our sanctification. is a long-term project. And this is years, decades of growing in the Lord to see improvement in our attitude, in the way we treat our wives, in our parenting. in um trying to control our temper. Just have have self-control on anything. I mean we could pile along the examples. And Any true spiritual change, reform, revival, whatever trendy word we want to use, right, is going to take time. It's going to take Time. Paul says in Romans 1. 16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. At the center of this is going to be the gospel and its power to save sinners as a result of sinners being saved. we'll see all of the different changes and effects and impacts in a person's heart, in that person's life, in that person's home, and then you get more and more people saved, more and more people giving their lives over to Christ you'll have more and more widespread change and renewal in a culture and society. So it won't You know, I think of the uh king some of the kingdom parables where you have the unstoppable power of the kingdom of God. From a seed, the mustard seed, which is the smallest, to a full grown tree, it's the biggest in the garden. From a little bit of leaven that eventually infiltrates and works through the whole lump of dough, but it takes time for the spread, it takes time for the impact. So hopefully that's an encouragement there. to not lose heart, but to give ourselves more and more to the things of God, to the to the things of the kingdom. But not trusting in our own efforts and not expecting that it's going to happen on my timeline. Yeah. When we w I'll shut up here in just a second and hand it back over to you. When I want it to happen on my timeline, it's because in my heart I want the glory. And when people see the i the impact and the effect, I want them to connect it with me and something that I did or something that I wanted. And so it's this pride of the flesh where we want the results to look like how we map it out and to manifest when we want them to manifest That's not the way it works. Yeah. Yeah, this long-term vision we have to have as Christians. This is going to be our children will get to see this reward. Our grandchildren will benefit from the preaching and the work that's happening now in our nation. And we have to have that mindset. I think about, you know, when when God created the earth, he had two humans in a garden and said, this is all yours, this entire earth, take dominion, be fruitful, multiply. And then at the very end of the story in Revelation, what do we see the Bride of Christ coming down out of the heavens like a city We went from a void creation to a city that it all belongs to Christ. So you have this, and we're talking thousands and thousands of years that we have this long history from God's creation to be fruitful and multiply. will be completed at uh at the return of Christ. We that's the promise we have. And we have that same mindset in our own lives that What we're doing now, uh, the nation being righteous, the nation being uh more, uh being better, being living more in the uh laws and commandments of God That's a long term. We should have that mindset, always thinking the long term. But we also must believe that we serve a God that's a miracle worker. Uh and so it could happen tomorrow. We just w we have to have that mindset. And so when it happens, we can't be upset and said, wait, I thought I thought I had ten more years to do this. Uh think about the early church when when Stephen was was put to death, uh they thought Saul was the most dangerous man. that was on the earth, that was going around, persecuting the church. The worst person you could see was Saul. But how did God use Saul to build the church? throughout the world at the time. He converted him. No one, the day Stephen was put to death, no one thought Saul's going to be the guy that's going to accompl that God's going to use to accomplish this. So we have to have that mindset as well. Don't be surprised. Don't be surprised that it took the murder of Charlie Kirk to start to awaken people within our nation. Don't be surprised that the people you least expect to be in this fight are the ones that God's going to use. At the same time, we must be patient and trusting the Lord that it may be a long time as well. So that balance of holding both in the hand can happen immediately, the miracle of God. And not to be surprised and at the same time don't be surprised if it takes generations for it to And don't be skeptical. Yeah. I think there's in part of the spirit of age that we live in is a cynicism and a skepticism. that um that all of culture, the whole world i is basically just going down the toilet drain and and Christ is just looking to get a few scraps along the way. Um and I think you'll see um what you're describing where something does happen quickly where there there is a a um widespread infusion of life. So I think that happens when there's a turning point. from the the decadence and downward spiral of a nation. But then when you when God in his providence is going to turn that around to start going on the upswing, I think that's when you'll see something clearer. and miraculous like what you're describing, it'll be it'll be discernible. But that doesn't mean it's always going to be at that at that same power But over the long haul, we know the kingdom is going to continue to spread to the four corners of the earth. Christ is going to build his church to cover the earth with the knowledge of the glory of God that the waters cover the sea. That narrative is so encouraging that you brought up in Acts where Stephen is publicly executed, martyred for his faith, and the Christians are afraid for their lives, so because of this great persecution that breaks out, they scatter, but they scatter, preaching the word, preaching the gospel. And the apostles stay in Jerusalem, so the chur the church is still there in Jerusalem. So you have gospel ministry in Jerusalem, but now you have the kingdom and the gospel and the church spreading. And then the irony that you brought up, God saves Saul when he's on a persecution campaign. Yeah. And Jesus said to bring gospel, the gospel to the nations. And so we have to believe in the promise of God to spread his kingdom. the faithfulness of Christ to build his church, the power of the gospel, the power of the Spirit to save sinners for the glory of God. And and the result of that will be will be changes. And and we we uh worship um uh a miracle worker. I I have to remind myself of that all the time. My salvation is miraculous. That is the work of God is a miraculous thing. And throughout history, the church has always started tiny and blown up to be massive, and that's a miracle. Uh the the first how did the church get into the continent of Africa? It was one eunuch that uh heard the truth and was baptized and then went and uh arguably Ethiopia is one of the oldest churches uh outside of Jerusalem in the world. From one one eunuch that that then went into that nation, worked with the Queen, and the gospel went forth. And we don't have biblical records of how that happened, but we see its presence there. Um the the Americas. It was a group of Christians that believed and had hope that there was a better life out there, a better way of living that would be glorifying to God and better for the family. We now have the Mayflower, Mayflower Pack. It was fifty Christians at that point that came over here and the church blew up in the Americas. Their intention was to uh to proclaim the gospel to the Native Americans living here. And that's that's miraculous, yet it's small things. That's fifty people. We're thinking we gotta have uh we gotta have an army's worth. No, it's small Some minute things that we don't see, but God uses for these huge things, uh, which is what our motives have to be correct. That's the biggest thing. Our motives have to be correct. If it's for our glory, our gain, our profit, it's gonna fail. It's gonna be worthless The motive when we say we want a better nation, it's not just because we want less crime, uh, we want different politicians, we want uh more money. That can't be it. Our motive must be to the glory of God. We we believe our nation can be changed, we believe the nation can be better to the glory of God. Not on a political line, but to the glory of God. First Corinthians 10, 31. So whether you eat or drink Or whether whatever you do, do all to the glory of God. That should be our mindset. We're repenting of sin to the glory of God. We're loving our spouses to the glory of God. We are preaching the gospel and seeing the nation changed to the glory of God. That's our goal. Um it won't be stopped. It reminds me of the twofold the twofold benefit of Righteous things or holy things. Yes, they do help people. They are a blessing to people, to you and those around you. But ultimately and supremely, they honor God and glorify him. They manifest something of God's character They manifest something of God's goodness or God's holiness or God's wisdom. Therefore they they shine forth the glory of God. And so yes, we It is possible and we should pray for this, we should want this, and we would love this if instead of living in a culture where there's not only widespread approval of abortion but glorying in it. We would love the opposite. We would love the opposite because it would be a blessing to people and it would glorify God. We would love politicians who instead of rejecting the Bible, embraced the Bible as the Word of God, embraced the Bible as the source of truth, and then did their jobs according to the principles and morals and ethics in God's truth from a heart that really wants to honor God. That would help people We want policymakers to know Jesus Christ and to know Scripture and to do their jobs and to make policies. We want judges. We want judges who understand what righteousness is and what mercy is and to do their jobs. Again, all of these things. We we don't want a culture where there's widespread approval and uh commending and glorying in all kinds of sexual immorality, heterosexual immorality homosexual immorality and deviancy and transgenderism. We want the opposite. We want widespread love of holiness and purity And there's there's always the twofold blessing that will help people. It will help husbands, it will help wives, it will help children, it will help families and communities and schools And it will glorify God. Why? Because it shines forth his character and his will. Yeah. And it's fulfilling the the two greatest commandments. We're loving God by calling for obedience to him. And we're also loving our neighbor. Because it's really loving when you don't murder your neighbor. Newsflush, if we didn't know that. It's really loving when we don't lie to people and say that They were created wrong and need to change their gender. It's actually loving when we tell them, no, you were made in the image of God. Uh you're d you're specifically designed. But our culture has said that's not true. Our culture says that's that's not loving, that's hating. That's why as Christians we need to stand on the Word of God, but seek to glorify God in all that we do, and in that we will love our neighbor better. I also think was we keep the glory of God forefront in our minds, we fight against some of the straw men or the scary ideas that the culture lobs at us. Oh, so you want to force people to be Christian, because we're saying you wanna you you want uh a righteous nation. Well well no. We never said that. That's not what we're claiming. But what we are claiming is the only way to have righteousness and the only way to have true justice is by the word of God. It's by obedience to God. So we're not forcing someone to be a Christian, but we're we're saying we want our judges to make just decisions. To do that, you need to know God. And I believe God blesses and gives grace even to unbelievers in that But we we can't allow the scare the the world to try to scare us over. The fear mongering. Yeah. Um your theocracy, uh uh you're like Iran. These are these are things that the politicians have said when we're just simply saying, No, we want we want righteousness in our land, we want justice in our land, and that can only be by God. It's a man it's manipulation. There is a veil of darkness. um and a man a spiritual psychological manipulation that people will let leaders will try to employ. Um if you if you're not Pursuing the things that you mentioned, justice, righteousness peace even, if you're not pursuing that with a foundation of biblical truth, all you're going to get is the opposite of those things. Right. You'll get lawlessness, chaos, unrest. increasing increasing violence, increasing division, and that's exactly what we have been seeing. Welcome to twenty twenty five. Welcome to twenty twenty-five. Right. So Um but there's such a powerful manipulation that can be used in the fear-mongering tactics. Let me bring this toward a close here, which is hard because this is this topic is not only so important, but so broad, and there's so many different things that come into view. I wanted to end coming back to the idea of prayer And you're thinking about something that we are commanded to do in Scripture is to pray for our leaders. Pray for our leaders. In 1 Timothy 2, verse 1. First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people. For kings and all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life godly and dignified in every way. This is good and it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior who desires all people to be saved and to come to the knowledge of truth. And there's so many different ways we can pray for our leaders at the federal level, at the state level, at the local level, and there's so many different kinds of leaders. I would just highlight this What should be our first prayer, at least in my opinion, this should be our first prayer for those who God has put in authority over us through his providence is for their salvation that they come to a knowledge of truth. That's why it leads right from this command to pray for our leaders into this statement that This pleases God, and he desires all people to be saved and to come to a knowledge of the truth, which includes kings and those who are in uh uh positions of authority. And so W whatever job we have, you know, if we're saved on Sunday We go back into that job on Monday, we will be doing our job in a different way, from a different heart, from a different mindset, with a different attitude, the whole Christian process of growing and maturing doesn't happen in one day. But the change begins immediately and it's no different for people who are judges, president, vice president, senator, and on and on and on, judge They go into their jobs as having a knowledge of the truth, having salvation in Jesus Christ. They will do their jobs differently, namely they'll do their jobs to the glory of God, which is going to help people, not hurt them. And the Christian in their prayer uh is seeking for to live a quiet and peaceful life. It's not for this takeover and control, but it's because this is how we're designed We're designed to live within our family and to worship the Lord. And we need justice in our land to do that peacefully and quietly. So our prayers for our politicians and our judges to follow the commandment of God and to be his servant as he has called them to be Um it's to our benefit as we've talked and it's to the glory of God. Uh and we will see the world change because of that. Right. And it's a big thing all throughout scripture, the character and the righteousness of leaders, right? So w we want them to be saved because We don't want corrupt leaders. We want righteous leaders. We don't want leaders who are taking bribes. We want leaders who have integrity We don't want leaders who are lazy and just receiving a paycheck but not doing their jobs and not fighting for the benefit of the people in a proper way. We want uh those who take their jobs seriously and show a great responsibility and accountability. And it all goes back to the heart, to the to the character of the person. So I'm going to say one more thing and then I'll let you get the last word and close us in prayer however you want to do that. But just maybe clarifying another critique that a listener Um could have. We are not saying at all, and we haven't said, you can listen to the playback, that God will establish his kingdom Through culture or through politics or through any other avenue of society. We're saying that when God advances his kingdom through the word and the spirit, through the power of the gospel, it will have an impact in culture, politics, and on and on and on. Yeah. There's a result Not the cause. Yes. Yeah, and that's where we have to start small. We're in our own lives and then we're preaching the gospel and the gospel is going forth and it's multiplying. We're trusting the work of the Spirit in that. And we believe that will go all the way up to the ears of the king. It happened in Jonah. As as Jonah went in preaching uh forty days uh till the coming destruction, the people believed and then they went to the king and told him what Jonah was preaching. On the reverse, we also believe the miracle worker God that can change culture that we didn't expect, can change politics when we didn't expect it. King Nebuchadnezzar, right? There's a few times where he calls out and recognizes who God is, Yahweh, the true God, and then tells the nation that He's the true God. No, I don't I don't see evidence in Scripture that King Nebuchadnezzar is is saved and came to uh faith in Yahweh in Christ, but We do see these miraculous things happening. So I think it 's happening in both ways. One by the grassroots of the preaching of the gospel And then all of that is under the other way of the miraculous work of God. Yeah. And we should celebrate all of this. That special providence. Yeah. And he does it through leaders. Yeah. I mean God uses leaders to bring about changes and to do special things with his people. And it's but it's not by force. We're not yielding the sword to force it. We're y wielding the sword of the Word of God and the gospel to to s trust that it'll happen. Amen. Let's pray. Holy God, we come before you and we thank you for our salvation. We thank you that you have redeemed us. And Lord, give us eyes and mind. And a hope to see that you can and you will redeem many, many others. May we seek a nation that is righteous walking in obedience to you. May we cry out to our politicians and to our leaders to do this, to come to you in faith. To believe in you, to confess their sins. Lord, may we seek laws and movements within our nation that is glorifying to you, that is loving you and loving our neighbor better And Lord, grow us in our confidence in your work and the power of the Spirit. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen. Alright, we'll see you next time. If you have any questions for us, email us. at info at northharford. org. That's info at northharford. org. You can visit our webpage, northharford. org, or our sermon audio page again, North Harford Baptist Church. Thanks for listening.