Find your place in first, I'm sorry, Ephesians, the first chapter. And we'll be in verse 15, beginning and go through the end of the chapter, verse 23. And then we come to the Lord's Supper, celebrating the truth of the gospel. You have an outline, and it's rather extensive, and I don't apologize for that. I'm trying to respect the uh the words, the flow of the passage. So the outline for me when I am developing it through the study of the scripture, Helps me to see all the trees, but be able to back up and see the forest as well. So perhaps it can do that for you. It helps me to do that. I'm thankful this morning to have pastored a church long before I arrived, committed to praying for one another. and for the culture, the community and such. And there's there's always been a prayer list as long as I've been here. There's always been a prayer chain. There's always been time for public prayer. There's always been request a time for requests in classes, time for prayer in the worship services, etc. Now there's prayer huddles. Prayer and there is an uh uh there are prayer suggestions and the devotional material that has been developed for us as well. I'm thankful for all of that. One thing that I keep coming back to personally and corporately is the use of biblical prayers. We have two of Paul's prayers in the book of Ephesians. And we should see these prayers in our Bible as, listen, Divinely inspired prayers that teach us how to pray according to the will of God Remember, the Spirit helps us to pray according to the will of God. Well, here is a very definite way that the Spirit who inspired the Scripture is helping us to pray according to the will of God. It's there for us. in the text. And the aim of this sermon is to show the need in our lives for what Paul prays for. That's a part of learning this passage, but also to encourage the praying Of this specific prayer for ourselves and for one another. So we want to understand why he would be praying it for the church. And then we want to use it to pray for one another. The reason for the prayer is in verses 15 and 16. Let me pray before we begin. Father, I ask your blessing now as we go through the text. Help us to understand. Help us to grow in knowledge of you as is this prayer in Jesus' name. Amen. In context, Paul has acknowledged their salvation. So if you back up to verse 13, in him you also after listening to the message of truth, the gospel of your salvation, having also believed, so acknowledged their salvation. He also acknowledged the indwelling Holy Spirit as thirteen continues, you were sealed in him with the Holy Spirit of promise, who is given as a pledge of our inheritance with a view to the redemption of God's own possession, to the praise of his glory. For this reason Because God is worthy of praise. For this reason, I too, having heard of the faith in the Lord Jesus which exists among you Saving faith is what Paul is referring to here. I know it's popular to talk about faith in our culture, faith in this or that. Paul is talking about the faith, saving faith, that is Acknowledging Jesus as the Son of God, who came to earth, incarnation, who died for sin, crucifixion. who rose from the dead, resurrection, and personally receiving him as Savior and Lord. That is the faith Paul is talking about And, he's heard, of your love for all the saints. Such love for brothers and sisters in Christ shows The genuineness of one's faith. From Scripture, we understand that a significant manifestation of true faith is love for one another. Authentic faith is always accompanied by love. Listen to 1 John 4. 8. The one who does not love, and John is talking about loving one another, The one who does not love does not know God, for God is love. So if you struggle in the area of loving one another, it can be an area to grow in as a believer, because we all have those challenges with certain personalities and such. But if you just don't like others in the body of Christ, it could be Time to look at whether you have believed in Christ because He transforms the heart. He gives you a love for the brethren. He gives you a desire to be with the brethren. Faith without love, according to Scripture, not according to Pastor John, faith without love is not saving faith. It may be head knowledge, it may be intellectual assent, but it is not saving faith. Saving faith is accompanied by love for all the saints. We see that here as Paul begins this prayer. And so back to verse 15. Because God is worthy of praise, and because his saving work is evident in you, I, Paul, verse 16, do not cease giving thanks for you while making mention of you in my prayers. So two responses. Continued thanksgiving to God for their salvation and continued intercession. Notice that Paul's prayer life included making mention by name of the Ephesian church in his prayers. Now it may be obvious, but it's significant that Paul's prayers included praise to the glory of God's grace and the mentioning of churches. That have begun, that are doing the work of the gospel, brothers and sisters in Christ. And then what follows is the content of his intercession for the Ephesians. But let's not neglect The giving of thanks for God's salvation, we see that at the beginning of verse 16, and thanksgiving for those who are part of the church. That is We would apply it to ourselves, being thankful for David Good and Anita Gerhart and John Euler, Vince Minocello, Nancy Canut. I'm not going to name you all, but I'm thankful for you all. All that are believers in Christ, all who have come and joined North Harford Baptist Church. I'm thankful for others who are here visiting us. But Paul here is mentioning by name, mentioning in his prayers. And so it's an example for us to mention one another by name in our prayers. The roster , whether you're looking at it on paper or online as a member, is a wonderful way to do that. Now we look at the prayer, verses 17 through 19. First of all, who we pray to. Paul reflects in his prayer on who he is praying to. Now it's okay just to start with Your request. But we find this often in Scripture to slow down and remember who we pray to. And number one, to God who is the author of the gospel, verse 17. That the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. It's not just a phrase that Paul had committed to memory. He's thinking. God of our Lord Jesus Christ, the idea of the Son of God taking on humanity as Jesus, fulfilling the promises of the prophesied Messiah and through death and resurrection recognized as a low as Lord. Paul is praying, God, this was your idea. You are the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. Its fulfillment made possible the salvation of all that God would draw to Christ. And so as Paul comes to pray, he acknowledges the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. To God who is the author of the gospel, who do we pray to? To God who is glorious, the Father of glory, verse 17 continues, glorious in his wisdom. glorious in his power, glorious in his manifested, bright, shining excellence that we see evidenced in Scripture. Glorious in his creation, his holiness, his justice, his mercy, his grace, we could go on. The simple reflection upon the majesty of God, who we pray to. When we do that, sincerely, fills our heart with reverence, fills our heart with focus. I'm praying to the God of the universe. Thank you, God. It fills our heart with expectation. I'm praying to the God of the universe, who is sovereign over all. One writer said, uh speaking of these things, God is not a celestial errand boy to go fix and mend situations at our request. No, our prayers need to be more than that. We need to focus on who He is who we are asking. To do this or that. He is the creator. He is all powerful. We would honor him, I believe. By enriching our vocabulary of praise as we address him in prayer. Not to do that in rote repetition, but in heartfelt adoration. Jesus, I believe, teaches us to do that when he, in the Lord's Prayer, says, pray in this way, our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done On earth as it is in heaven. That is a way to begin a prayer, an example of how to begin a prayer, a model for how to begin a prayer that focuses you on who you pray to. And so we are to address reverently, as Paul puts it here, the Father of glory, the God of our Lord Jesus Christ. And then what we pray for, we pray for knowledge of God. Verse 17, that God may give to you a spirit of wisdom and of Revelation, think unveiling is the idea of that word, wisdom and of revelation in the knowledge of Him. Now, Paul is writing to believers, so he is not talking about the initial opening of one's mind and heart to the truth of the gospel. Paul prays to the Father of Glory that believers here might be granted the ability to see more of God's glory. Moses asked to see God's glory in the book of Exodus. And God put him in a crevice on Mount Sinai and allowed him to see just a portion, the backside of his glorious radiance as it passed by I often think about what it would have been like to have been here or there as I read the Bible. And you know, if you could travel back in time, if it was possible to have such a time machine. To witness different things that we see in the scriptures, that might be a good choice, to be there in the crevice with Moses, looking at the glory of God. But I want to tell you something. We have an advantage over Moses. For the greatest revelation of God is in Christ Jesus 2 Corinthians chapter 4, 6 says, For God who said, Light shall shine out of darkness, is the one who has shone in our hearts to give the light of the knowledge of the glory of God, listen, in the face of Christ. Knowledge of God is linked to salvation in Christ. And Paul prays that they know God because he knows that they are saved. Now note the foundational request, foundational nature of this request. Essentially it is, may God help you to know him. May God help you to know Him. Listen, this is the quest of every believer, and thus our prayer, to know the God of creation. To know the God of salvation. Reverently, because the fear of God is the beginning of wisdom we learn in the book of Proverbs. Scripturally, because God has spoken through the inspiration of biblical writers. And there is great hope that this prayer for knowing God will be answered because God has given us A helper that is alluded to here, a a resident, an indwelling teacher, the Holy Spirit, who helps us to know God 1 John 2. 27 says, His anointing, the Holy Spirit's anointing, his presence in our life, a reference to the Holy Spirit there, his anointing teaches you about all things. Let me hasten to say we are not expecting new revelation. That's not what Paul is saying in the verse when he says, may God give you a spirit of wisdom and revelation. We're not expecting new revelation, but the unveiling, the increased understanding of what he has revealed. Your conversion, my conversion, it didn't give us complete knowledge of the Lord. When we're saved, we are Understanding what Jesus has done for us. We are dependent on it. We are trusting it alone for our salvation. But to know God is the lifelong quest and purpose of every believer. And this is here in verse 17 and 18 a prayer that God would bless the journey. Verse 19 focuses the prayer for knowledge. Knowledge for God's blessing in Christ. Look at verse, I'm sorry, verse 18. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. Able to see is the idea. Being given light is what that word enlightened means. Paul is praying then for intellectual understanding. That warms the heart. Do you see that? The eyes of your heart may be enlightened. Intellectual understanding, not just to put on the shelf in a library in your brain. But no, intellectual understanding that warms the heart, that gives you, produces love for God, reverence for God, kindles that Notice the interesting phrase, eyes of your heart. Your heart, made new in Christ, can now see and now needs to see, yearns to see, hungers to see. An example of this is the response of the two men on the road to Emmaus who had heard Jesus, they didn't know it was Jesus, but had heard him explaining the things concerning himself in all of the Scripture, and after he was revealed to them, they said to one another, Were not our hearts burning within us? While he was speaking to us on the road, while he was explaining the scriptures to us, I pray that the eyes of your heart May be enlightened, so that you will know, verse eighteen, what is the hope, confident, expectation the hope of his calling, what are the riches, abundant wealth is the meaning of the glory, greatness, excellence, of his inheritance in the saints. And what is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe? So may the eyes of your heart be enlightened to know the things in the rest of verse 18 and 19. Let's look at them. The hope of his calling, the hope of God's calling God's effectual call that drew you to the point of repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. In other words, your testimony, how did that happen? uh in Christ. We are we are confident that He will never leave us or forsake us. That's part of the hope of uh of God's calling. Jesus will never lose not even one of those God has given to him. And we belong to and will always belong to Jesus, the hope of your calling. Listen to Jesus speak about it in John chapter 10, verse 27. My sheep hear my voice, and I know them, and they follow me, and I give eternal life to them, and they will never perish, and no one will snatch them out of my hand. Are you saved? Have you trusted Jesus Christ as your personal Lord and Savior? Have you seen what He did on the cross was the only hope you have of being forgiven? That He died for your penalty of sin? If that's the case, if you've trusted him, if if God's effectual calling has come to you and you've responded to that. Then you will never perish, and no one will snatch you out of the Lord's hand. The hope of his calling. Secondly, the glory of his inheritance. The inheritance is all the things that go along with being saved and adopted as a son of God. Some of the blessings are given now, some of the blessings are for our future glory. But how easily we can be distracted from the riches of the glory of God's inheritance to us by the allurements of the world. And we're warned about this in 1 John chapter 2, 16 and 17. All that is in the world, the lust of the flesh, the lust of the eyes, and the boastful pride of life, is not from the Father, but is from the world. The world is passing away. Paul said in Romans 8, verse 18, I consider the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared with the glory that is to be revealed to us, the glory of his inheritance. So don't give your life, don't give your time, don't give your attention, don't give your energy to the temporary things of the world that are passing away. But keep focused on your inheritance in Christ. And then the surpassing greatness of his power. It's talking about Paul is praying for God's enablement of believers and Power to accomplish his will in and through them. Do you and I sometimes give in to the world and the flesh? Do we sometimes doubt our salvation? Paul is praying that God would open the eyes of the Ephesian believers to the fact that God's blessing in salvation is not dependent on their power, but on God's power. So do not despair. You can rely on God's infinite power. So that's the prayer. And then the assurance that the prayer will be answered. In verses nine, the rest of verse 19 through 23, God is all powerful. God accomplishes his will, and this is most profoundly seen in the exaltation of Christ. And that's where Paul goes by the inspiration of the Spirit. So verse 19, these , the calling, the rich inheritance, the assurance. of his power keeping us are in accordance with the working of the strength of his might, which he brought about in Christ. How did he bring it about in Christ? Well, first of all, Christ's resurrection when he raised him from the dead, verse 20. Some simply cannot believe the miracle of rising from the dead. But we believe this is God 's power exalting. his son. Secondly, Christ's ascension is mentioned, verse 20, seated him at his right hand in the heavenly places. After forty days Jesus was received up in heaven for forty days, different resurrection appearances, but on that 40th day he ascends to heaven in the presence of his disciples. Acts chapter 1 He was lifted by God's power off the earth and into heaven. And if a photographer, if cameras existed, if a photographer had been present, you could have taken a picture. And it could have made the front cover of a magazine. But we believe it because it's in the scriptures. It was just as real as any real event we would see on camera today. Jesus is bodily in his resurrection bodily in heaven and is present with us now in the person of the Spirit So we see the power of God in Christ's resurrection, in his ascension, and in his coronation, which is talked about also in verse 20, that God seated him at his God's right hand in the heavenly places. Now this is figurative. God doesn't have a right and a left hand. He is spirit. He doesn't have body parts. But the right hand of the Father means, as we know, the place of highest honor, the place of highest authority. And so here and now, Jesus is Lord of all Verse 21, far above all rule and authority and power and dominion in every name that is named, every earthly power, every spiritual power. The terms in this verse refer to angelic beings having high rank. Jesus is not just above these in power and authority. Notice he is far above them Because he is God. He is divine. He is God the Son. They are created beings. He is far above. And he's not just over good angels, but all angels, including the bad ones Satan and his demons. They have no power over, no power apart from what Christ would allow them to have. Jesus is Lord of all. In verse 22, we see Jesus is Lord of all time, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. You know, when the dust has settled at the end of this age, these last days, when the tribulation has ended and the wrath of God judges The world, who is it that we see exalted as Lord? Well, we we know. Revelation 19 tells us. I saw heaven opened, and behold, a white horse, and he who sat on it is called faithful and true, and in righteousness he judges and wages war. A little further down in the chapter And on his robe and on his thigh he has a name written King of Kings and Lord of Lords. Jesus is Lord Of all time. And thirdly, Jesus is executing his lordship over all things, verse 22, and he, God, put all things in subjection Subjection under his Jesus feet. Nothing that exists Anywhere on the earth is excluded from Christ's dominion. And therefore nothing can prevent the realization of God's will for the church And did you hear that? Nothing. And if I ask you, you would agree, is anything outside the control of the Lord Jesus Christ? You would say? No. Practically, that means for us, nothing can prevent the realization of God's will for the church. Nothing can stand in the way of us realizing the glorious inheritance that is graciously reserved for us. I tell you, knowledge of God. leads to confidence in your life. Not a self-confidence, but a confidence in him leads to assurance in your life, leads to praise as it does here for Paul. Well, Jesus' authority and power, though sometimes hidden, is not dormant. No, not at all. It will be more obvious when he returns, certainly, but it is obvious now to any who depend on him for salvation, who come to him and and pray, repenting and believing. No, they sense his power, they know it in their inner being. They we we have as believers strength, we have wisdom, we have courage when we pray for those. The authority and the power of Christ is being exercised presently in many, many ways. And we know those ways too as we pray and have answers to our prayer in our soul of soul in our souls and for the body of Christ. Jesus is exercising his lordship over all things. And he's exercising his lordship over the church. Verse 22 Put all things in subjection under his feet, and gave him as head over all things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. As Lord , Jesus exercises authority over all things for the sake of the church. Since we are part of his glory as his body. You see the connection. We are connected to him. What he is doing, we're a part of it. We are the body. The church is his body, the expression of him on earth we are to be in truth and godly living. As our physical bodies carry out what our brain directs us to do. That's the illustration. So the church is to carry out what the Lord directs us to do. We physically manifest his wisdom. We physically manifest his love one to another and to the world. We physically manifest what he's all about, his desires, his motives. And thus the church is the fullness of Him, as Paul puts it here. That is a vital part of His glory. Understand that, Church. We're just not a side note. Jesus comes back, that's the big thing. No, the church is glorified with him. We are a part of this as his body. We are the bride that has been chosen as a helpmate for him. That's the illustration of marriage. It points back to Christ and the church. He is the groom. We are the helpmate. And we glorify him when we carry out Christ-like works. And notice in verse 23, it's not us, it's not the branches finding strength within ourselves somehow to honor the vine. No, our strength comes from the vine, the fullness of Him who fills all in all. Jesus is the assurance that Paul's prayer for knowledge of God will be answered. Jesus is the supreme Example of God accomplishing his will. He is God the Son, and in him we know the Father. And we, chapter one, assures us. are in Christ. So hear what I said again. In him we know the Father. Chapter 1, if you go back and look at the phrase in Christ, in him, you will be assured that you are in him. So we are set up well to know God, as Paul prays here. So the implications. Well, I've tried to connect the inspired progression of thought in the passage. That's what the outline attempts to do. But let's back up and let's see the forest again. I think it is a truth I know it is a truth that we were born and we are born again to know God. To know God. God is worthy of you knowing him. God is worthy of educated praise from your heart to him. So salvation, knowing Christ and what God has done through Christ, that sets you on the path. And it is the path of knowing and praising God because I do believe God is i is manifest, every part of his character is manifest most clearly in his saving work, and so we continue to study salvation and understand it, understanding God's love, God's wrath, knowing him more. And it glorifies him to not only preach the gospel, but to seek deeper understanding of the gospel. And you were born to glorify him. And knowing him is necessary to glorifying him. But you were born to glorify him. You were born again to glorify him. It's why we assemble to sing, to learn of him, that we might know him and glorify him. And if you haven't been born again, By receiving Jesus as Savior and Lord, then you are separate from God. You need to know that sin separates you from God, and dying in that condition is a separation for eternity. And getting what you deserve, God's wrath for your sin. But I point you to the cross where one who did not deserve it took it for you, and that was Jesus, the Son of God, taking your sin upon himself. That you might be free from sin's penalty. If God is stirring your heart, drawing your heart to Jesus, then come to Him. Repent of sin. Be sorry about it. Pray that God would forgive you because Jesus died for your sin. You can do that right now. And you can do that. As we celebrate a picture of the gospel through the Lord's Supper, which is for believers, members of the church, but you, if you are not a member, can listen and pray and become. Through prayer, through repentance and faith. So that was number one, and I took a tangent. But we are born and born again to know God. Number two, under implications, we should pray. According to Ephesians chapter 1, this passage, we should pray that we grow in the knowledge of God. Confident. That God can and will answer such a prayer. So that's summarizing the prayer. It is a prayer that we would grow in knowledge of God. And then Paul unpacks that, what it means. It's tied to the gospel, certainly. as we saw. But in your prayers for one another, it may not be on the prayer sheet, okay? Because on the prayer sheet we will focus on things we've learned about one another during the week. But you should, and this is what tonight is all about, we should be voicing, using the inspired prayers of Scripture for one another. I'm reminded of this every time I come to a passage, it's convicting that I didn't keep doing it the way that I should. So today is another day that I'm convicted. I want you to be convicted that we use the prayers of Scripture. For one another. Let's pray together. So, Father, I pray that the eyes of our heart would be enlightened so that we would know what is the hope of your calling. What are the riches of the glory of your inheritance in us? What is the surpassing greatness of your power toward us who believe? Father, help us to grow in knowledge in these ways. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.