Well, we're gonna be in Colossians chapter one. We're gonna be looking at verses nine through fourteen. I think uh Malik is probably the only person that's heard what I have to say about this passage before in our young adult small group. So apparently, brother the Lord just really wants you to hear this twice. For everybody else though, this is uh this is gonna be well hopefully the book of Colossians is not new to you. But uh Colossus. That is that is one of the uh one of the blessings of having a uh Having a small group where we are walking through a book of the Bible together, we there's lots of good preparation happening. Thought I I thought for a while about what to do with this evening and I thought, you know, you kinda have to make a snap decision and there were a few Different places I thought about going, but I thought we're going to most benefit by just meditating on God's Word and uh seeing what He has revealed to us. Well there's a question that I hope you all ask one another quite often, and I know I am asked it quite often, which encourages me. How can I pray for you? Maybe that question intimidates you a little bit because you have to suddenly think, oh what is going on in my life. But it's a question that hopefully we're asking of one another pretty often. How can we be lifting one another It's a way of uh knowing what's going on in somebody's life, where they are struggling, or where they're seeing fruit and growth. It's a way of uh knowing what's going on with one. another. Well there's another question that uh we probably don't think to ask just as much and it's not really a question that we would necessarily ask to someone, but I think it's an important question for us to ask. To ask of ourselves not only how can I pray for somebody, but how should I pray for somebody? And what I'm getting at there in that distinction is: how does God's word instruct me in the things that I should be praying for my brothers and sisters in Christ? How does Scripture define what we need? And how does Scripture define what God intends to do in our lives to equip us to live the Christian life? Faithfully. Another important question is: what kinds of prayers do we see modeled in Scripture? What do we see, the people of God, living faithfully in the first century? Praying for one another. Well, tonight we're going to spend some time meditating on what Paul prayed for the Colossian Church. Now, this was a church that Paul had not personally visited. Paul did not found this church, but it was a church that he loved, and it was a church that he had great concern for. He had been told by his fellow servant in the gospel of how Of how the Colossians had come to faith in Christ, and they had love for one another, their lives had been transformed Transformed by the power of the gospel, and they were walking in spirit-born love for one another and obedience to God. However, as Paul writes to this church, they were also a church that was being threatened by false teaching. That becomes very evident as you walk through this letter that Paul is writing to warn them against a threat of false teaching. There were those in Colossae who were coming in and who we don't know exactly the specific Nature of their false teaching, but they seem to be saying something to the effect of, yeah, Jesus is great. Faith in Jesus is great, but if you really want to be spiritual, you need to add these practices. Into your life. If you really want true spirituality, you need to obey these food laws. You need to live a life of asceticism and deny yourself. You need to worship these angels and these other divine mystical beings. You need to have secret spiritual knowledge imparted to you. Paul is writing to this church to encourage them in gospel faithfulness and to warn them against straying from the gospel. And this context matters because we need to see that when Paul is praying for them, he's not praying for them as we, I think, are often Tempted in our less sanctified moments to think about the prayer requests of others. He's not praying as one who's just polite, listening, but if we're honest, maybe a little bit detached. And maybe even a little disinterested. No, as Paul writes to this church and as Paul prays for this church, he's more like a loving Parent who is watching his children play on the edge of a cliff. And to add more to the metaphor there, there are some people that are telling his kids, hey, you see what's at the bottom of that cliff? You should jump off. Go jump off it, guys. It's great down there. And Paul is writing and praying urgently for them to walk in gospel faithfulness. Well, as we see Paul praying for the Colossian believers, there's a lot for us to glean about how we We ought to pray for one another. What specific spiritual needs ought we to be praying for? Brothers and sisters in Christ. The main point we're going to see tonight is that Paul prays for the Colossian Church to be equipped by God with all they need to walk faithfully in their Gospel calling. That's just a really simple way of summarizing this section of Colossians. Paul prays for the Colossian Church to be equipped by God with all they need to walk faithfully. In their gospel calling. We're going to see as we walk through this passage some specific things that Paul prays for them that should characterize our prayers for one another as we seek to live sub Side by side in gospel faithfulness. Let me first read this passage and then we will walk through it and discuss it together. Paul writes, and so from the day we heard, we've known not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints. In light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness. of sins. There is so much here, and Lord willing, we will get through all of it. But first, just notice at the very beginning of verse 9 This heart of ceaseless prayer for the Colossian believers. The first thing Paul says is that from the day we heard, which he's referring to, To having heard from Epaphras of their faith in Christ, their gospel faithfulness, we have not ceased to pray for you. This language of ongoing continual prayer represents his love and his concern for the Colossian believers. This wasn't disinterested, distant prayer. This was continual, ongoing, ceaseless prayer on their behalf. The application for us is that we ought to adopt the same posture of prayer for our brothers and sisters in Christ. We must pray fervently and ceaselessly. For those within our own fellowship, within our own family, and also those who are living faithfully in other parts of our county, other parts of our state, other parts of our country, and other parts of our world. Our practices and the ways we interact with people often are what we use to define our relationships with one another. another. Oh yeah, that person in church, yeah, I'm in a Sunday school class with him. Or that person, yeah, I sit three rows in front and a little bit to the right of him. Well, what if our relationships with one another were defined by our prayers for one another? Oh, that person, yeah, I'm praying for this. In their life. That person I pray for them. May that be so. May it be so that we are a people who prays urgently and fervently and ceaselessly. For one another. Well, the first thing in verse 9 that we see Paul praying for the Colossians is for them to be filled with the knowledge of God's will. Paul prays that the Colossians would be filled with the knowledge of God's will, he says, in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. Well, from the outset here, we're arriving at an important question about the meaning of an important word. In this context, what does Paul mean by knowledge of the will of God? In Scripture, there are two ways that the will of God, that term, is used. It can be used to ret to refer to what we might call called the secret or sovereign will of God. That is, everything God has sovereignly decreed to take place from before all time began. If you want to see that kind of use, I would Point you to Ephesians chapter one, verse eleven, where Paul says that God works all things according to the counsel of his will. So every specific detail of the universe, God has sovereignly decreed. So is it referring to that, what God has declared will take place, or the other way that Scripture talks of God's will is in terms of what What we might call his revealed will. That is what God has specifically revealed about himself and about what he desires from us. For that use of it in Scripture, I would point you to 1 Thessalonians 4, verse 3, where Paul writes, can allow Paul tonight, this is the will of God, your sanctification. Well the way we answer that question is really important. What Paul is praying for the Colossians to be filled with here is explain Extremely practically important for the way we live our lives as Christians, how we think about what we ought to be praying for, and how we think about what we need. Do we need to pray to be filled with the secret sovereign will of God. Do we need to be pray that God would reveal to us his plan for the future in order to walk faithfully? Or do we need to pray for God to reveal and fill us with the knowledge of what He has revealed in His Word, in His work, in the person of Christ? Well, to know which this is referring to, we have to attend to the context. The meaning of words is determined by their use in context. Well, first he refers to the knowledge of God's will as something that we are filled with, here that he prays for the Colossians to be filled with in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. So whatever we're dealing with here, we're dealing with something that it uh refers to and deals with spiritual wisdom that is Knowledge of how to live life well in a complex world, fundamentally by knowing the Lord. Wisdom begins with knowing the Lord. And then the other adjective here is understanding, knowledge of the truth, and then being shaped and molded by that truth. Well, based on that, and based on what we see, that the knowledge of God's will is supposed to Lead to and what's supposed to flow out of that in this passage. I think it's clear that Paul is here praying for the Colossians to be filled with the knowledge of what God has revealed about himself. In Scripture, in the person and work of Christ, and for the Colossians in their day, in the apostolic teaching. Paul is praying that they would be filled with the knowledge of who God is and what God wants for their lives, as it's been clearly revealed in His Word. And I want you to see that understanding that is freeing in your life Christian, in order to live your life faithfully today, you do not need God to reveal to you all of the specifics of His future plan. for your life. You need to know what he has revealed to you in his word about how you are to live. You need to know his truth. You need to know what God desires for you. We see that this is important because from this you can see in the turn from verse 9 to verse 10. Then, this first point, Paul praying for the Colossians to be filled with the knowledge of God's will, that's what leads to everything else we see in the text. See from verse 9 to 10 it says, to be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding, so as to walk in a manner There's a connection there. And then walking in a manner worthy of the Lord is fleshed out by the rest of the passage. So Paul here from the outset of his prayer is praying that the Colossian believers would be filled with the knowledge of God as God has revealed Himself in his word, in the person of Christ, and in the apostolic preaching. Well, I'm going to ask you a simple question, but Simple questions are often the most important because they're the ones we neglect to answer in our minds. We kind of go on autopilot. Where has God revealed his will? I've already said it. Let's see if you've been paying attention. Vince's pointing down to his Bible, that star student. Yeah, in God's word. So to be a people that are filled with the knowledge of God's will, we must be a people Filled with Scripture. We must be like those or like John Bunyan was described If you poked him with a knife, he would bleed biblian blood. His very blood was filled with scripture. We must be a people to be f a people filled with the knowledge of God. And I want you to just see that this is free Reading. We don't have to know every detail of what God has planned for our lives in order to walk faithfully today God has revealed what He wants from us in His Word, and we are free then to be joyfully bound to what Scripture calls us to do. And we're free then in our lives to make decisions that are faithful to what God has revealed in Scripture. We don't need some sort of crystal ball to reveal to us all the mysteries of what God has ordained for our lives or even for tomorrow. James chapter 4 tells us that we don't know even what's going to happen tomorrow. I think an implication of that is that we don't need to know what's going to happen tomorrow. Tomorrow in order to live faithfully as followers of Jesus. area who's recently retired. God has looked ahead and knows our future. We must look above and know our God. So Paul prays for the Colossians, and we ought to pray for ourselves and for one another to be filled with the knowledge of God's will as he has revealed it in his word. Word. We'll see the cause and effect here in the next thing that he prays for them. To be filled with the knowledge of God's will is meant to lead to next walking in a A manner worthy of the Lord. Next we see Paul praying for the Colossian brothers and sisters to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. Well, then he gives this uh descriptor to that, walking in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. It's quite a high standard, isn't it? The standard that Paul sets is perfection because God is perfectly holy. We want to again define and distinguish what it means and doesn't mean to say that we pray to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. We can say and declare in no uncertain terms that it does not mean worthy unto salvation. One scripture is clear that that's not possible, and Paul is clearly here writing to believers, those who had already heard and understood the grace of God. So when we think about this call to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, I think the the way in my mind, anyway, that it uh Comes down is to walk with consistency. That is, we are to live a life that aligns rightly with our identity as the people of God. We ought to live our lives in such a way that it is clear that verse 13 of this Passage is true of us that we have been delivered out of the domain of darkness and transferred into the kingdom of the beloved Son. Our identity has been fundamentally changed. Because of what God has done for us in Christ. And therefore we are called to walk and to live consistent with the calling. Our lives should say the same thing about us and about God that God says about us and about himself because of Christ. If you were to change your citizenship here on earth, your behavior would change For the impact of the illustration, let's go back in time a little bit and imagine someone defecting during the Cold War. That would determine a lot about that person's life. That would change a lot about that person's life. behavior, allegiances, desires. When your citizen citizenship changes, your allegiance changes. And therefore, your living changes. Well, Paul here is praying for the Colossians to live a life that is worthy of the high calling they've received of kingdom. Citizenship. Paul is praying for them to live lives worthy of the Lord, that is, lives that are consistent. With what God has done for them in Christ. Lives that outwardly reflect the inward change that has been brought about. We're going to then get into how Paul fills out this picture of what it looks like then to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. Before we move on, though, any thoughts or questions? Prompted thus far. I have one club. Yeah. I I that second part in verse uh let's see what verse it is that are right. filled with the knowledge of his will and all his ayah that you may walk worthy of the Lord holy pleasing. To me the natural way I thought about was If you're walking worthy of the Lord according to his word, then you wouldn't please him, right? Yeah. Sure. And we will never leave perfectly live that out in this life because we still battle with sin. But yeah, that that you're that's That's a good insight there, that it is a uh it's almost two sides of the same coin or just two ways of describing the same thing. To walk in a manner worthy of the Lord is to walk in a manner that pleases the Lord. Yeah, he thought he finishes that sentence by explaining what he's talking about. He does, yeah. And it's a long sentence too because Paul does not really I mean there's semicolons here, but Paul doesn't particularly like punctuation, so he fills it out even more, yeah. Any other thoughts, comments, insights, questions before we move on and walk through what how Paul's Paul fills out this picture of walking in a manner worthy of the Lord. I love that cold board uh illustration, it's very poignant. Uh and it is really what did happen. Oh you're talking about you know in sh in Christ. Yes. Sometimes we have to we have to d you know, delineate when we're moving on from the metaphor to the actual thing. Absolutely. That is what has happened to us in Christ. Yeah, absolutely. Well as we go on, as we look at Paul filling out this picture, I want you to notice a couple of things right off the bat. Uh to know me is to know that I'm a little bit obsessed with grammar. Notice that all of these verbs that Paul uses to describe walking in a manner worthy of the Lord are continuous. Verbs. They all end in ING, which indicates that these are ongoing processes in the Christian life taken together. It's not as though we attain to one thing and then move on. Okay, I have borne fruit in every good work. Now it's time for me to increase in the knowledge of God. And it's not even, I've borne fruit in good this good work in my life, and now it's time to move on to the next good work. No, it may be that God would have you increase More and more in one specific area of your life. Well, this is instructive because it's a reminder not to be discouraged. Encouraged. The Christian life and being conformed to the image of Christ through sanctification is an ongoing process. We may struggle with the same sins for many years, but no doubt the nature and the shape of that struggle is going to change over Over time. Sanctification is not a matter of just always moving from I struggle with this sin, okay. Now I'm gonna really work on this sin, now I'm gonna work on this. No, it's an ongoing process. And the shape and the nature of our struggle will change. But this process does have an endpoint. And we must trust that the Spirit is at work in us and that He doesn't intend to Abandon his work. Philippians 1:6. He who began a good work in you will complete it to the day of Christ Jesus. Christ is not like my two-year-old who gets out a bunch of toys, but then sets one down and goes to the next one, sets one down and goes to the other one, and doesn't finish playing with any of them. No, God finishes the things which He begins. And these ongoing processes in our lives of walking faithfully with Him will bring about the good fruit that God intends. Well we see next then that Paul prays for the Colossians to bear fruit in every good work. God intends for them to To live out their gospel identity through good works done under the good lordship of Jesus Christ. Paul expects and prays for gospel born obedience To everything that Christ has commanded. Well again, these are not good works for salvation. These are good works that flow from and circle back to the reality of the gospel within us. But these good works are indications that we are truly born again. They're evidence of the fruit of God's Spirit in our lives. And we ought to expect true belief. Now it's not up to us to define what that fruit looks like. It's not up to us to uh Compare the ripeness of one another's fruits, but it is a call to walk faithfully. And so we need to ask ourselves: how are we We are doing? Are we bearing the gospel-gone-grown fruit of good works? How are we treating others at work and at home? How are we spending our time? Are we aware and attuned to the needs of those around us? And are we striving to help meet them? Church, these aren't legalistic questions to ask of ourselves, and they're not legalistic questions to lovingly and tactfully ask of one another. We ought to be concerned with how we are bearing fruit together. Together in our lives. So this is always a call to examine our hearts. Well, there's a thought connected right next to the call to bear fruit. Paul prays for them to bear fruit and I want you to see that those two things are not at all at odds and not at all disconnected in Paul's mind. mind, to bear fruit, to grow in outward good works done under the Lordship of Christ, and to grow in our knowledge of God, our understanding of God Of who he is, our depth of love for his word, those go hand in hand together. These are both means by which we are called to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. We can sometimes uh Unintentionally, I think, or sometimes intentionally, create this dichotomy between practical stuff in the Christian life and the really big theological stuff in the Christian life And Paul doesn't seem to be aware that that's a distinction he should be making. Apparently, the Holy Spirit didn't tell him that, and we didn't find that out until about the 20th century or so. There's no dichotomy here. Paul intend God, Paul intends and prays for this, but God intends for us to grow in our knowledge of Him as we grow in bearing the fruit. of good works. Well I'll ask another ultra simple question because those are fun to ask. How do we increase in our knowledge of God? Vince is pointing down again. Absolutely, through study of his words, word, we must recognize the centrality and the And part of what that leads to also in our increasing in the knowledge of God is a A priority and a love for the local church. God has designed us not to Learn and to grow in our knowledge of God in isolation from one another, but God has ordained that we would gather together in communities bound together. To one another in specific local churches to grow in our knowledge of God. We should see The priority of sitting under the preaching of God's Word, the priority of studying God's Word together during our for our church, our Sunday school hour, our Wednesday night study. We should see the priority of having good, rich conversations with one another about the things of God, about theology. I also have it here in my notes, and I'm just going to read it how I have it in my notes. Read some books, for goodness sake. I truly believe that healthy cultures of discipleship in local churches are almost always healthy reading cultures. And what I mean by that is absolutely, fundamentally, centrally, the reading and the studying of God's Word, both individually and corporately. But we also should use the thousand two thousand years of resources of Christian thought and reflection that we have at our disposal. There are a lot of bad books out there, plenty of them, but there are plenty of good books out there that stir our hearts and engage our minds in In thinking well about who God is and what God wants for us. So, Christian Seek to be a follower of Jesus who desires to grow in your knowledge of God. And if you need some book recommendations, you can talk to me, you can talk to Pastor Matt, you can Just find somebody and ask for some books. And this is important in the context of Colossians because false teaching was to some degree threatening this church. And so Paul wants them and prays for them to increase Increase in true knowledge of God so that they can see and reject false knowledge of God There was this false, but maybe on the surface plausible knowledge being peddled by these false teachers, and Paul is praying here that they would be increasing in truth. True knowledge of God, so that they can recognize what's false and reject it. We ought to pray for a theological depth to our knowledge of God Church, we should long for a weighty and a robust understanding of who God is. Not merely so that we can have knowledge that puffs up in our heads, but so that we can know God. That's the purpose for which we were made, to know God. So Paul prays for his Colossian brothers and sisters to grow and increase in the knowledge of God. Next, he prays for them to be strengthened with all Power. We see that in the beginning of verse 11, being strengthened with all power according to his glorious might. Well, notice the source of the power that Paul prays for them to be strengthened by. It's according to the glorious might of Of the living God of the universe. The strength we need for faithfully living the Christian life comes from From God. He equips us with what we need. Second Peter chapter one, verse three. His divine power has granted to us all things pertaining to life and God. Well, this is a magnificent promise and prayer for several reasons. One, God does not leave us stranded , God equips us by his Spirit with the strength that we need. To faithfully live our lives in the weariness and the pain and the difficulty and the confusion of a sin-cursed world. If we just think for a moment how powerful and mighty and glorious God is, just take one narrative from the Old Testament and see what's revealed about God's power and God's strength. And think that it is by that power that God strengthens and equips his people to endure patiently. It's a marvelous thing. It means that we can look at whatever is in front of us in our lives and have confidence, not that we are so wonderful, and not that we are going to conquer all things, but that God Is going to strengthen us to live faithfully. So we see Paul praying for them to be strengthened. Notice also the purpose of the power with which God strengthens his people. It's for all endurance and patience with joy. I think there's something of a counter Agricultural wisdom and idea here because we often conceive of power as something that is used for conquest. The purpose of God's power strengthening us, though, is for end Endurance and for patience in the trials and difficulties of the Christian life. But that God will give us strength in the frailty and the pain and the struggle of our lives to endure We need to meditate on God's power in those moments, just as much in the moments when we are passionately going out to evangelize the lost. Church, we should see that this wasn't hypothetical for Paul. He was suffering And he was able to rejoice in his sufferings. We see that if you look down to verse 24 of chapter 1, Paul rejoiced in his sufferings. And so being strengthened by God for endurance and patience was not a hypothetical idea out there of something that would be really nice if God could do that. No, it was a real and vibrant truth that characterized Paul's life Well then there's this adjective that uh so often trips me up when it comes to endurance and patience. With joy. Oh, wouldn't it be easier if we could have a bad attitude sometimes? If we could just grumble every once in a while, wouldn't that be better? Well we it wouldn't be. And when we're honest, we can recognize that it wouldn't be. But the staggering is here reality here is that God's power in our lives is such that not only Only can we endure patiently the trials and the difficulties brought on by life in a sin cursed world But we can endure them with joy. And I think what Paul's getting out here is not just a trivial kind of uh shallow happiness of Of, you know, I'm just gonna ignore the bad stuff and just be positive. We hear a lot of that in the world. Just be positive. Um And I think one of the reasons that it rings so hollow so often is there's nothing really to ground it. It's like be positive, okay, but for what reason? Well, this is a Deep, abiding, gospel-centered joy that we're able to have that should be characteristic of the Christian life Because of what we know to be true about the world. This is a little uh preview for what uh I'll be teaching on at the men's breakfast. This Saturday, but if we understand rightly that all of human history is leading toward And is for the purpose of Christ's glory being magnified. If we understand that our most fundamental, eternal need has been met in the person and work of Christ Such that nothing in the entire world can separate us from God's love in Christ, then rejoicing ought to be our response. When we see what is true about the world, really true, yes, the world is sinful. Yes, the world is fallen. Yes, we should be broken by sin. We should be broken by the fact that there are many dying in the world without the hope of Christ. But deeper than that sorrow should be a joy that recognizes that Christ is reigning now and that Christ will reign for eternity. That sin does not have the last word. Oh, we need to have this biblical vision for all of history as one that ultimately resounds to the glory. And therefore we ought to be a joyful people. I may be a broken record, but one application Is that our corporate singing should vividly express this reality of joy amidst trials? I've said before that we should strive to sing deathbed songs. That's maybe a little bit alarming language, but I I mean it we should, corporately as a church, when we gather together, strive to sing songs that in the most Painful moments of our lives when we are on the brink of entering into eternity will give us a hope and a peace and a confidence in Christ. Our singing together as a corporate body ought to be a reflection of the joy that we have that equips us. Any thoughts, questions, insights before we move on to this last section where we We will see further the call to give thanks, but then also this just wonderful, really three-part gospel summary that Paul lays out for us. It is water. I've been told that I shouldn't use my water bottle because it's distracting when I flip the thing. up and so yes. My uh my wife has a great aesthetic sense and she uh she takes that into critiques of my preaching and teaching. for it. Well then you think of the song when you talked about like some of the those before the third of all. Absolutely. It's just like a reminder that like no matter what you do, like he already made for it and our salvation is dependent upon us again. Praise God for that. Praise God, absolutely. Anything else? Next, praise for the Colossians to be a people who are giving thanks to the Father. Expression of thanksgiving to God is an essential part of you living out your identity as a follower of Jesus Notice here that Paul is calling them to give thanks to the Father. Thanksgiving Rightly understood, always has an object. It has a person toward whom it's going. It's not just for just this vague sentiment of being thankful. Um Plenty of people will talk about gratitude, and oftentimes I wonder, well, to whom specifically are you grateful or thankful? Just the universe generally, we are called to be thankful to God and to express our thankfulness to God Now, this thankfulness is not turning a blind eye to the realities of sin and suffering in our lives. But as we've already considered, it's affirming that even in the most dire circumstances that we may face, we have reason to give thanks. Thanks to God. And fundamentally, the reason that we give thanks to God the Father is because of the gift of salvation in Jesus Christ. And it's here in the end of this passage where we get this just wonderful threefold uh description of the glorious work of the gospel. And that's what we'll spend the The rest of our time considering. Paul describes the gift of salvation in Christ Jesus as the receiving of an inheritance. He describes it as a kingdom transfer, and he describes it as a work of redemption and forgiveness. So, first, we see Paul describe the work of salvation as a work of receiving an inheritance. Paul says that we give thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. Well again, notice some language with me, some grammar with me. God the Father has qualified us for this. It is passive. We use the passive voice when we describe something that pertains to us but that we have not done. This qualification is not something we attain to by our own efforts. You could contrast that with the idea of qualifying for a race. When we qualify for a race, we've done something. Well, to qualify, to share in the inheritance of the saints, is not something that you have done, but something that God has done for you. Well, then there's this language here of the inheritance of the saints in Very simply, this inheritance is eternal life. This inheritance is all the spiritual blessings. that Christ has secured for us through his death and his resurrection. It's something that if you listen to Pastor Matt's preaching at all and you're awake at all, you will know that he will say it happens in two stages. Experience this now in part, and we will fully experience this reality in the new heavens and the new earth. You could think of a passage like Ephesians chapter 1, really all of Ephesians 1, where Paul just is on this uh glorious explosion of describing all the blessings and benefits. That we have because of the gospel. Well, a summary way of describing those is eternal life. Something that we inherit by virtue not of what we have done, but of what Christ has done in us and through us. God the Father, through the work of the Son, has qualified us to partake of eternal life. And what qualifies us? The sacrificial death. Of Christ bearing the penalty of our sin, and the righteousness of Christ freely imputed to us as a gift of God's grace. Friends, this is not mere forgiveness out of nothing, and we need to always remember that. God cannot merely look away from sin. Sin must be punished. And it was punished at the cross. We are qualified on the basis of Christ's work. Prior to this, prior to this work of God being born out in our lives, we had an inheritance already. The inheritance we had was death. Romans 6, 23, the wages of sin, that which sin earns, that which is ours by right, is death. Well, Christ took on the inheritance that was rightfully ours at the cross, and in exchange we inherit the gift of eternal life through him. Well, then we also see this summary of the gospel in this idea of kingdom transfer. Verse thirteen, Paul says that Christ has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us into the See that there's this two-part summary, there's this two-part action. We are delivered out of darkness and transferred then into Christ's kingdom. We are brought from one state to another. We could trace This theme all throughout Scripture of how there is this delineation of those who are God's and those who are outside of God's kingdom. And the seed of the serpent. We even see it showing up in the wisdom literature in the Proverbs in the wise man who fears the Lord and the fool who rejects the knowledge of God. Well, all of these are ultimately meant to point forward to the ultimate identifiers of those who are under the kingdom of darkness. And those who are under the kingdom, transferred into the kingdom of the Son of God. So, God the Father, through the work of the Son, has delivered us out of darkness and into Christ's kingdom. Notice again the subject here is God. We do not transfer ourselves from one kingdom. kingdom to another. We do not go to apply for the passport. It is something it God does in us Notice the verb tenses here. Told you, I really like verb tenses. This is indicating a past action of God that continues to characterize our state now and in the future. He has delivered us from one kingdom to another. We were under this kingdom, and now we are under a different one Well, prior to coming to Christ, we should see and think rightly about the fact that we were under the domain of darkness. Before you came to faith, whenever that was, you were enslaved to sin. Your allegiance was I think this idea of this imagery of kingdom gets at this idea that we were not only we were not merely kind of disinterested as sin. We were not merely passively sinners. We inherited a sin nature, but we actually bore our allegiance to the reality of sin and death. And therefore, we're under a state of condemnation before God. We should think rightly about who we were Before God intervened in our lives, so that we can understand rightly just how dramatic and how wonderful the reality of the gospel truly is. Christ, God through Christ, has delivered us from the domain of darkness and transferred us. Into Christ's kingdom. We have a new allegiance. Notice that it's not enough to be delivered out of this kingdom of darkness into a state of neutrality. We can't wave our white flag and live in no man's land. There's no mediating position for us between the domain of darkness and the kingdom of Christ. There's not some polite, uh, powerless kingdom for all the aggregate. To go to. We are either in darkness, in sin, or we are in Christ. Our salvation is not merely a clean slate, but it is entering into a a state of divine favor and citizenship with God. Well, we've been trans Transferred, this says into the kingdom of the beloved Son. The thing about a kingdom is it has a king. That king Is Christ. So we are called to live our lives, and we see this all throughout this passage: under the kingship, under the lordship of Jesus Christ. Well, notice the language specifically that is used here. Jesus is referred to as the beloved Son. There are a lot of uh places and ways we could draw out implications of this language. This is similar to the language that is used to identify Jesus as the Messianic King in Matthew chapter 3 at Jesus' baptism, the voice of the Father affirms: This is my beloved Son, with whom I am well pleased. And that is language that is intentionally meant to point out that Jesus fulfills all the old covenant expectations of an eternal Davidic king. But it also indicates to us something remarkable about what it means for us to be in Christ. Jesus is the beloved Son. He is beloved of the Father. From eternity past, the three persons of the Trinity existed in perfect love for one another And now, by virtue of our union with Jesus Christ, that same love is ours. Because we're united to Christ by faith, the love that the Father has for the Son, that the Son has for the Father, the love that the Spirit. Magnifies, we are brought into that love. We are beloved of God. That's an incredible thing that we're able to say about ourselves. And it's not true because there's something lovely in us, but because it's because of who Christ is and what Christ has done For us. Well, the final part of this gospel triad is that in Christ we have redemption. So we have an inheritance. We've been transferred into a kingdom But we were transferred into that kingdom by virtue of redemption. This is an economic term that means to be delivered by payment of a ransom. To redeem something, if you redeem a coupon, you are getting something for what you're putting down. Well, Christ delivered the payment that we owed for sin and released us from bondage to sin 's penalty, one of the classic ways That this is summarized is that we owed a debt we could not pay, and Christ paid a debt he did not owe. And through the redemption we have in Christ, because we have been bought by Christ, we also have forgiveness. God looks at us and does not see us according to our sins. Sin, but according to the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ. God sees our sins as paid for. Well, as Paul ends this prayer and then gets into the meat of the letter, it's almost as though he is praying for the Colossians to remember this gospel identity. And for that to be the thing that characterizes their entire lives And characterizes the specifics of our lives. So just to close, let me give one specific of how this looks for my own life. Not that this is a real scene, but it is a real real scene of me, let's say on a Tuesday night at around seven o'clock, the uh two year old bedtime routine is getting underway and the two year old has decided that in fact It is not time to go to bed. It is time to stay up and play. I don't know if any of you parents have ever experienced this. I'm sure all your kids are very obedient. And there's a conflict. And in the midst of that conflict, all parties involved reveal just how sinful they are. They are. The two-year-old shouts, screams, tries to run in the other direction. The twenty-seven-year-old, not only in heart, but often in In words and in thoughts and in actions reveals just how sinful he is, which the dynamic is made even uh more complex by the fact that actually I'm the one in charge. So, regardless of whether or not I'm sinning against you, you need to obey me, but I'm still a sinner, and I'm still responding to your sin through sin. In that moment. And and really it's it's not just that moment, but it is after that moment, after she has gone to bed, and I'm reflecting and thinking Of just how how frustrating it is to have the same anger arise out of my heart again and again and again. The call of this passage is to remember, Jason, you are not defined by your sin. Your frustration with your toddler cannot ever separate you from the love of God in Christ. You are a citizen of Christ's kingdom, and nothing can undo that. And you are called to live faithfully as a citizen of Christ's kingdom, which must affect that relationship and every other. And that can only be borne out in your life. By the strength that God supplies as His Spirit works in you. So, in all of the specifics and the trials and the struggles of your life and things you face as a follower of Jesus, Remember your gospel identity. Pray for those in this room, for those in our body, to remember their gospel identity. To be filled with the knowledge of God's will, and to, by God's grace, by the Spirit at work in us, walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. Let's pray together. Oh Father, we thank you for what is true of us in Christ. We thank you, Lord, that you have delivered us out of darkness and transferred us into the kingdom of your Son. God, I pray that you would help us to remember our gospel identity, and I pray, God, that you would do these things In our midst. God fill us with the knowledge of your will through a robust and joyful reading of Scripture. Equip us to walk in a manner worthy of you. God, may we be a church that bears fruit. May we increase in our knowledge of you. May we, God, be strengthened for endurance and for patience. And may we be a people of joy. And may we give thanks to you always as we are more and more each day anchored In the reality of what you have done for us and who we are in Christ. Pray all this in Jesus' name. Amen.