Turn, if you would, we're gonna start with um John chapter eight. And then we're going to go from there to another passage in John. But let's start with John chapter eight and verse thirty-one where we were this morning. As we look at the topic in the scripture of abiding in Christ, and that comes from this verse. So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed him, if you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine. And what I want to point out is is right in the middle of that verse, the word Continue in or the phrase continue in. That is the word that is most often in the book of John translated remain or abide in. And so receiving Christ, one way to speak about the principle from verse 31 Receiving Christ is a commitment to remain in his word. We give a profession of faith when we join the church. But that profession is shown to be true by remaining in, continuing in the Word of God. It's an indication that indeed we are born again. And so I want us to think about that tonight. in the broad sense of this has to be true of you, but also in the very uh practical sense of what is it So let's look at a favorite passage of mine, John chapter fifteen. John 15, we'll look at verses 1 through 11. We'll just kind of walk through this together, and then we'll look at some of the doctrine in it and some of the application from it. And just to introduce uh this this passage, Jesus you will recognize this as being the The upper room discourse. And he has said to the uh eleven disciples, apostles, Who have been with him night and day for over two years, he has told them, as we come to chapter 15, I am leaving. You're staying here. Okay? And the Holy Spirit will be with you. Keep my word, he encourages them. Pray in my name, he encourages them. It it's clear in chapter fourteen as we come to chapter fifteen, he's not saying you're on your own now. No, he's going he speaks about the spirit. Though Jesus would be physically absent after the ascension, he intended to be a very present Lord and builder of his church. And he gives the disciples a a memorable picture of this truth in chapter 15. So walk through this with me and And mentally stay engaged as we look at these phrases together. Verse 1, I am the true vine, and my father is the vine dresser. So the true vine, Jesus, who said, I will build my church, is pictured as the giver of life. That's what comes Through the vine. And it's labeled here true life. So let's think real spiritual life, what we need in order to live for the glory of God. Then we see another phrase here that's important, the vine dresser. My father is the vine dresser. God is pictured as the sovereign caretaker of the vineyard. What does a caretaker of a vineyard do? Well, they inspect it and they do whatever is necessary so that they produce the best fruit possible. Look at verse 2. Every branch in me, the branches would be coming off of the true vine, every branch in me that does not Not bear fruit, he takes away. And every branch that bears fruit, he prunes it so that it may bear more fruit. So obviously God's desire for the branches is that they be what? Thank you, fruitful. Yeah. I'll do that every once in a while, maybe. Keep you awake. If they produce no fruit, what does he do? No, cuts them off if they produce no fruit. If they are producing fruit, he prunes them that they might bear more fruit. But notice the two two things there. You're not producing fruit, you're cut off. Verse three. You are already clean. By the way, clean there is the same word as prune. In verse 2, so really, if I were translating it to help me understand it, you are already pruned because remember who he's talking to. is eleven that have been with him, you are already clean, already prune because of the word which I have spoken to you. So the disciples Because of Jesus' teaching, we 're pruned and ready to bear fruit. And I want you to note the importance of the word. As that which God uses to prune us. You are already clean, already pruned, because of the word which I have spoken. to you. And that tells me that I need to read my Bible with my heart open, ready to be proved. I need to hear the Word of God taught and preached with my heart open, ready to be pruned by the Lord, because he uses the word. Jesus continues to apply the illustration, abide in me and I in you. That's the same word as John 8 :13. thirty one, continue in, abide in me. So he's saying, remain connected to me as I am connected to you. Salvation brings us into unity with Christ. We are to rest in that unity. And uh purposefully um make the most of that unity. Come to him. Uh in other words, don't stay apart in your inner man, but keep coming to him. Abide in me and I in you. And by the way, since it is a command, which it is in verse 4, there's responsibility on your part. Okay? Responsibility to abide in Christ. That's why I say this is a very practical passage. We need to think not only of the big picture of what the Lord is saying, but what does it mean for me? What does it mean for me tomorrow? As the branch cannot bear fruit of itself unless it abides in the vine, so neither can you unless you abide in me. Abiding is necessary to being fruitful. And Jesus summarizes for emphasis in that. I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, there's the word again, and I in him, he bears much fruit. For apart from me, you can Remaining connected to Jesus we will bear much fruit. Think Christlikeness the fruit of the Of the Spirit, love, joy, peace, think also God's glory, think uh your witness to others and causing them to be spiritually hungry, bear much fruit, and that's the Father's design. That from what we receive through Christ in union with Him we bear fruit. And without connection to Jesus, verse five. We cannot be fruitful for God at all. Now I I can look back to a time in my life when I distinctly became more fruitful as a believer. And it had to do with beginning to read the Word of God and studying on on my own diligently. And And uh so I I I take this to heart, not only because of what it says, but I can look back and say, you know, this is true. This is true. In my high school years there might have been some fruit, but it wasn't until And I'm sad to say it wasn't until I was a young adult that I was convic well, might have been convicted before, but committed to uh A daily time of Bible intake and prayer. And fruitfulness began at that time. Growth Personal growth began in greater ways. Verse 6. If anyone does not abide in me, he's thrown away as a branch, and dries up, and they gather them And cast them into the fire and they are burned. Before it said, if you don't bear fruit, you're thrown away or cut off here. If you don't abide, you're not going to produce fruit you'll be thrown away as a branch and you'll dry up. If we're not connected, we are of no use in the Lord's work. At least verse six is saying that Verse 7. If you abide in me, and my words abide in you, there's there's some parallel there, okay? Parallel statements. If you abide in me So Jesus in verse 7 tells you and I what it means to abide, what it means to stay connected. What is it? Means remaining connected to his words, to scripture. And I don't mean without prayer. He's going to mention prayer next. uh in this verse. But but the scripture so important to receive what we need from Jesus in order to be fruitful. So this verse teaches that the key to abiding in Jesus is a consistent intake and understanding of the scripture. And I would say that abiding in the word teaches us how to pray. The verse goes on. If you abide in me and my words abide in you, ask whatever you wish and it will be done for you. And that's not a blank check. But it is saying that God's word will lead you to pray for God's will. So Jesus here is telling us How to produce fruit, pray for it according to the desires that His Word gives to you So you see the picture. You're taking in the Word of God. It's shaping your life, shaping your thoughts, shaping your desires, giving you burden to pray. You pray according to God's will, and God answers those prayers. Verse eight. My Father, Jesus says, is glorified by this. This is Christian living. My Father is glorified by this, that you bear much fruit and so prove to be my disciples. A fruitful branch, a fruitful life reflects well on the vine dresser God and shows evidence that you're saved, that I'm saved. Jesus wants you to abide not only so you can be fruitful, but verse 9 tells us, because he loves you Look at verse 9. Just as the Father has loved me, I have also loved you. Abide in my love. So it's more than just a mechanical making you more like him. It is a relationship. It is a friendship. It is fellowship with Jesus. As the Father loved Jesus, he loves us. That's an amazing statement. And we are to stay connected to his love. He tells us how, and again the scripture is instrumental. Look at verse 10. If we keep, or if you keep my commandments, you You will abide in my love. If you keep my commandments, you will abide in my love, just as I have kept my father's commandments. And abide in His love. Obedience to our Lord's word keeps us connected. Jesus exemplified this in his obedient walk to the cross. The climax of that was in the Garden of Gethsemane. Uh when he prayed, Not my will but yours be done. That happens just after what we're reading here. So what Jesus teaches here, the life of discipleship abiding in him Is the abundant life that He came to give, that He speaks of in John chapter 10, which we'll get to. It is a life of true joy. Look at verse 11. These things I have spoken to you, so that my joy may be in you, and that your joy may be made full. We can find happiness in a lot of different ways, okay? Things that make us happy in life, but we find joy in connection. To Jesus. We find joy in fruitfulness. We find joy in fulfilling the Father's purpose for us as his church. We find joy in bringing glory to him. So Jesus is saying this today to the church. He is saying it to the believer. And he's warning anyone who would be playing the part. of a believer, because I didn't dwell on it, but there's warning in this passage as well, to be cut off, to be taken away. So, what do we learn about God? What do we learn about Jesus? What do we learn about ourselves? This is one of the ways that I will meditate through a passage. What do we learn about God? Life is all about his vineyard, which means his kingdom. And he is the vine dresser. He has the authority to inspect the branches, you and I. And do what is necessary. And yes, he uses normal life, but he also uses trials to make us more like Christ, to make us more dependent upon him. Every believer, what do we learn about God? Every believer can expect pruning. can expect him to be cutting out of your life that which is keeping you from producing more and better fruit. You and I can remember s some specific ways that he's done that in our life. It might be you don't need to be focused on that, get that out of your life. I remember early on there were some things like that that I just in obedience to him didn't do any more so that I could grow. And it, you know, things like that come throughout the years as well. Hebrews chapter 12 speaks of them. Let me let me it j it just came to mind, so let me read that to you if I can find it quickly Yes, i since we have so great a cloud of witnesses surrounding it, let us lay aside every encumbrance, the sin which so easily entangles us. So it could be It could be sin, but it could also be things that are not necessarily simble sinful but are encumbering us, things that are not best for us, and God will deal with What else do we learn about God? God delights to answer prayers that honor His Word. What do we learn about Jesus? Jesus is the only one who can give us what we need to live as God in He's called the true Vine. That means a unique uh person. There's no other place to go to receive what we need in order to live. As God intends us to live. I'm not discounting the work of the Holy Spirit. You understand, Jesus speaks of that. But in this picture, it is He as the true vice. We come to him day by day in his word. Secondly, Jesus has given his church, his word, for the purpose of our obedience. And our fruitful prayer. This book, you know, is a prayer book. It is the prayer book for the believer because it tells us God's will and we're to pray according to Thirdly, about Jesus, we learn that He loves us and He intends us to know joy as He knows joy. That's encouraging in this passage. What do we learn about ourselves? We learn we are branches who should be producing fruit, which means in this passage, loving God. Uh or uh not only in this passage but in scripture now. Loving God, loving our neighbor, right? Uh the great commandment, loving one another John thirteen thirty-five, a new commandment I give to you. Making disciples. Matthew chapter twenty-eight Teaching them all that Christ commanded us, the Great Commission in Matthew 28. What else do we learn about ourselves? Well We should stay connected to the nourishment Jesus gives through Scripture. We should stay connected to the nourishment Jesus gives through Scripture. Scripture. And I realize I might be speaking tonight to someone in this room or someone who would watch this online who may be where I was as a young adult. And You're hearing this. If it convicts your heart, it's your time to grow, to your time to begin a new discipline in your life that honors Jesus and that will become Precious to you, a day-by-day time in the Word of God. And I don't mean that in a legalistic way. I mean that in a need way. I need him day by day. We also learn that his word should produce righteous desires and thus effective prayers that God will answer, making us fruitful in our prayers. And we learn about ourselves that we should keep obeying Jesus' commandments that we might know his love and his joy. and how obedience is connected to joy in life. Alright, some some imp some simple implications. I mean we've already been very practical going through this but let me just give you some words. Be encouraged. God has designed spiritual life in Christ and it is a design that works and it is very personal. So when we celebrate through the Lord's Supper what Christ has done at the cross, I want you to realize this is what He desires. He desires this fellowship which is open to us Because we are forgiven, because we are in him, because we can fellowship with a holy being, the Lord Jesus Christ. So be encouraged. God has designed spiritual life in Christ. It's a design that works. Secondly, be humble. Remember whose we are. Understand that we exist for His glory. It's His vineyard, not ours. Submit to His discipline that you might be more fruitful. In Christ, you are part of something that includes you, but you're not at the helm of it in any way. You're a part of the Lord's vineyard. And you are there to be fruitful for Him. Thirdly, be biblical. Prayers that God will answer are prayers according to the will of Jesus, which We learn in the Bible, abiding in Him, His Word abiding in us. Where else would we go? We've we've been given the canon of Scripture. The churches recognize that. You and I are to recognize that. and and absorb it throughout life. By reading it on your own, by being under the T Teaching of it. By always coming with a with a humble heart, a listening ear ready to grow. Fourth, be excited. Biblical prayers, God will answer them, and they will bring glory to God and joy to your hearts as Jesus builds his church. I I love I I have done studies over the years just encouraging my prayer life and I've shared some of them with you. Uh but just just how God's word would teach me, for example, how to pray about church planting. I remember when that was becoming more of an emphasis of our Convention. Just looking through how to be praying for that by looking especially at the book of Acts. So God's word teaching us how to pray, excitement that God is going to answer Or according to his word. And number five, be honest. Be honest. If there's no fruit No connection to Scripture, no kingdom desires to pray , no answers to prayer, no sense of Christ's love, no obedience, no joy. Then turn to Christ in repentance and faith because that's evidence that you're not saved. But we live in a day where you can't be. Turn to Christ. Let me give you one more picture. This is the picture of the vineyard. Look if you would at John chapter 3 verse 20. Just briefly here and then we'll conclude. With one final exhortation that you've heard many times from me as far as a practice application. But Revelation chapter 3 verse 20, you'll recognize when you get here that these are the letters of Jesus to the church. This one is to the church at Laodicea. They needed to be zealous and repent. But notice what Jesus says to them in verse 20. He writes to them, Behold, I stand at the door and knock. If anyone hears my voice and opens the door I will come into him and will dine with him and he with me. So what's wrong here in this picture Is there's some separation, but Jesus is wanting that separation to go away. Open the door. so that that unity will be in place again, so that the branches will be receiving from the true vine, going back to that picture. If anyone hears my voice, interesting. Doesn't say here's my knock, here's my voice, because if you're saved, you will experience that. I believe you will, that still small voice just causing you to know your need for time With the Lord. Know your need for what Jesus would do with his disciples. Get away with that. What Jesus did himself. Early in the morning he departed. He modeled it, he did it with his disciples, so that's an example for us. And he invites it here. So wherever you are in your practice of what we've discussed tonight, abiding in Christ, Jesus is saying, okay. Open the door. Hear my voice. My voice is a desire for you to be a branch that is receiving spiritual nourishment from the Word of God. I understand if you if you haven't been reading the Word of God uh often in your life, that may be a bit awkward at first, but you can talk to us about help. We can help you with that. But here's my my exhortation to you as I close, and that is Just picture your life. If you don't have this, this is my exhortation, is that your life would have daily, and that's not to be legalistic. But a target. Daily, unrushed time in the word and in prayer. I've said that so often. over the years. Daily, unrushed time in the word and in prayer. And you Your life will bring glory to God. Your life will be fruitful. Your prayer life will grow. As it is for many of you. Okay? Let's pray together. Father, I thank you for a chance to be encouraged by What we read in John 8. 31, you define the Christian life as continuing in your word. Thank you for that. Makes it clear to us how we should target personal growth. How we should target discipleship as a church. Yes, to continue in your word, to understand it, to apply it. To be branches that are receiving because we are attached to by virtue of Your grace by virtue and a practical way of our discipline to come to your word and to pray. So Lord, keep developing that in our our individual lives and keep rewarding that. Keep nourishing us that we might be, that our church might be. All we can can be for your glory and that we would know your joy in fullness. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.