Alright, let's take our Bibles and turn to Revelation chapter 2, verses 1 through 7. Revelation 2, 1 through 7. I'm calling this message an encouraging look at Christ's and his church. And that's uh the message is as simple as that in this paragraph, this letter from Christ to a local church. I want us to see Christ And his relationship to his church, how he speaks to her, how he ministers to her, his word to her, and I want us to be encouraged. Revelation 2, verses 1 through 7. To the angel of the church in Ephesus, right. The words of him who holds the seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands. I know your works, your toil, and your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil. But have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not, and found them to be false. I know you are enduring patiently and bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary But I have this against you that you have abandoned the love you had at first. Remember, therefore, from where you have fallen. Repent and do the works you did at first. If not I will come to you and remove your lampstand from its place, unless you repent. Yet this you have, you hate the work of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will grant to eat of the tree of life, which is in the paradise of God. Let's pray together. Father, as we come to your word, I am painfully aware. And hopefully we are all painfully aware. That you need to work during this time. We ask that your word would be proclaimed by the power of your spirit, that it would be received for what it is. Your Word. Father, I pray you would be the one to minister to each one of us in our minds, teaching us truth, in our hearts. Giving us a love for Christ, stirring us up to the things of Christ, and our will That you would reorient us and can you continue to point us in the right direction. Father, we pray that you would encourage us by showing us your Son Christ. And his relationship to, and his ministry to, and his presence with his church, which he bought by his blood. It's in his name we ask. Amen. The overarching theme of the book of Revelation is victory. God's victory, or God conquering, God subduing, all of his enemies And the secondary theme to that main theme of God's victory is our victory in Christ. We share in the victory of God in Christ by faith, by the blood of Christ. The central thing I want to preach this morning is that Christ is with us. Christ is with us. And if Christ is with us, if you're in Christ, that means Christ is with you. So that no matter what comes your way in this coming year, you can have comfort in Christ because Christ is with you, because you are in Christ. Difficulties are going to come our way All kinds of unexpected things are going to come our way. But we can stay grounded and we can stay growing in remembering that Jesus Christ is with us. Jesus Christ is with us. I cannot promise you more money in 2023. I cannot promise you better health in 2023. I cannot promise you the job you want or the promotion you want. I cannot promise that your uh your image with others will get better, you'll become more popular from a worldly perspective. I cannot promise you more material things. But what I can promise you is of infinite value that Jesus Christ is with you and He's meet all He's met all of our needs He's met all of our needs through his righteous life, his substitutionary death on the cross, his glorious resurrection from the dead, which is the foundation of our hope of eternal life because he conquered death. He ascended on high, he's given us the Holy Spirit, He's redeemed us from our sin, everything that we need truly and eternally we have in Christ. So even without money and even without health and even if without that job that we want, even without more things, even without the approval of what other people have to say, we can have meaning and purpose and security and assurance and joy because Christ is with us, church. Christ is with us. Christ is with you. Let that be your rock this year. That's what we live for. It's the reason. We live. He's our daily helper. And as we go through looking at Christ with us, we'll see, first of all, the presence of Christ, the presence of Christ with us. And then we'll see the pleasure of Christ upon us. The pleasure of Christ upon us. And that will just be that he is truly pleased with the good works. Of his church and of his people. The presence of Christ. And second, the pleasure of Christ. Third, we'll look at the pleading of Christ. You will see a pleading of Christ in this passage to his church to save people that they repent. So the presence of Christ and then the pleasure of Christ resting upon us Then the pleading of Christ that we would repent, and then finally the promise of Christ to us, the promise of Christ, hope of glory. Did you memorize all those P words? Presence of Christ, pleasure of Christ, the pleading of Christ, and then finally the promise of Christ. First of all, his presence The point is that Christ is powerfully present with his church forever. Powerfully present with his church forever. This comes from verse one to the angel of the church In Ephesus. We don't have time to go into all the background. The word angel is used in scripture for heavenly messengers, but also earthly messengers. They're messengers of God. There are different views on this. I take this to be the pastor of the church. It's a very simple arrangement. The letter is written by John. It's sent to the pastor. The pastor then preaches and teaches and reads and maybe distributes the letter to the church, to the angel of the church in Ephesus, right? The words of him who holds The seven stars in his right hand, this is talking about Jesus. This is from the call to worship. The words of him who holds The seven stars in his right hand, who walks among the seven golden lampstands. It's a picture of Jesus as a priest. ministering to the churches of God, to the people of God, and in his sovereignty, in his authority, and his power, and in his gracious care, holding them in his hand. Look at the very end of chapter 1. As for the mystery of the seven stars that you saw in my right hand and the seven golden lampstands The seven stars are the angels of the churches, and the seven lampstands are the seven churches. So this is Christ with his churches, Christ writing letters. to his churches. And the message is he is present with them. Christ among the lampstands. Christ the priest. Christ the minister ministering to his church. His presence with us is what encourages us. It's what helps us to get by young children. might be afraid of something, but knowing that their parents are present with them will be a help to them. A town may be under attack or being invaded. But knowing that the military is with them, knowing that soldiers are with them, they can have comfort You can have a sense of security. You might be lonely. And the prospect of knowing that a friend would be with you, it could be a great help to you. And this year when difficulties common difficulties are sure to come this year as they're sure to come in life. Remember that Christ is with you, church. Remember that no matter how bad it gets, Jesus will not leave you. He's ministering to you. And when difficulties come, we can avoid the pit. Of losing hope. And we can avoid the pit of giving up by remembering something very, very simple, but very profound as well. Jesus is with me. Jesus is with me, and he can help me. Discouragements will come. Different things. You can't predict what's gonna sometimes discouragements come from out of nowhere, and you're doing really well. And a discouragement will come and can knock you down, and they can knock me down. But so that we do not fall into despair. Brothers and sisters, when discouragements come, remember that Jesus Christ is with you. He is with you to serve you and to help you When blessings come and when successes come, we must also remember that Jesus Christ is with us so that we do not become self-reliant and start to treasure blessings. more than the Lord who blessed us. We must always remember that Christ is with us. Are temptations going to come this year in your heart, in your mind of course temptations. Are going to come. Trials of faith are going to come. But so that we do not get ensnared by sin, we must remember that Christ is with us. Church, Christ is with you 1 Peter 5, 6 through 8. Humble yourselves, therefore, under the mighty hand of God, so that at the proper time he may exalt you. Cast all your anxieties upon him because he cares for you. God cares for us in a way that we cannot care for each other. We're called to care for each other. Husbands, you're called to care for your wife. Parents, you're called to care for your children. Church, brothers and sisters, we're called to care for each other in the house of God. But God can care for each one of us in a way that we cannot care for each other. Cast all your anxieties on him because he cares for you. Verse 8: be sober-minded. And be watchful. Your adversary, the devil, prowls around like a roaring lion, seeking someone to devour. You must live life in fellowship with Christ. You must remember that Christ is with you. The Spirit of Christ dwells in you. So that when temptations and trials come, they do not drag you off to destruction. Opportunities will arise in 2023 Opportunities, will you take advantage of them? Opportunities to serve God will arise. Opportunities to serve others will arise. And to guard to be able to take advantage of those opportunities. to grow more and more in being servants in the name of Christ, to avoid the trap of selfishness. We must remember, hopefully you're getting the point by now. Jesus Christ is with us. And he in us and through us is working as his representatives and his servants in the lives of others. Christianity is not just about the individual, about God making us servants, conforming us to the likeness of Christ When opportunities come to serve God, when opportunities come to serve others, take advantage of them. Remember that Christ is with you. Opportunities for spiritual growth will come up. Opportunities to grow in faith will come your way. And they will come my way. Opportunities to grow in the Word of God will come our way. Opportunities to grow in our prayer lives will come our way. There'll be opportunity upon opportunity to repent in the name of Christ. They will come our way. Will we, remembering that Christ is with us, will we take advantage of those opportunities for the glory of God? Will we take advantage of the opportunities that God lays before us? 2 Peter 3, 17 and 18 is one of my favorite passages. And here Peter writes You, therefore, beloved, knowing this beforehand, take care that you are not carried away with the error of lawless people and lose your own stability. What a horrible thing that would be To be carried away by the error of lawless people. That means people who disregard God's will. People who disregard God's word. People who disregard God. Don't be carried away by their error. Verse 18, he gives the opposite thing, the contrast. Verse 18, he says this But grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior, Jesus Christ. To him be the glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen. That's part of our marching orders. Marching orders. To grow. To grow in the grace of Jesus Christ. To grow in the knowledge of Jesus Christ. And as that's happening, we'll be transformed into the likeness of Jesus. Jesus Christ. And we'll more and more grow in having a sacrificial heart of for service to each other in the name of Christ. And at the end of all that, who gets the glory? Who gets the praise? Who gets the credit? I love what Vince just did. He just went like this. That's right. Christ gets the glory for any spiritual growth that happens in us. Any spiritual words that come from our mouths, Christ gets the glory. Any good works, true good works that are done in us and through us by us are done by the Spirit of Christ within us, and therefore Christ gets all the credit and all the praise and all the glory. Hundred percent glory be to Jesus Christ. And that's why he says both of those things in verse 18. Grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen. Remember that Christ is with us. Christ is with us. He is God. He is our brother. He has infinite Mercy and grace toward the sinner, but he's perfectly holy. He has authority over all things And friends, beloved of God, he's chosen to bring us into a relationship with Him. Jesus Christ is with us. It's based on his work on the cross that we can be reconciled to him and that he dwells with us by his spirit. Now, if we forget. The presence of Christ in our Christian walk. If I forget the presence of Christ in my Christian walk in this Journey of faith, this work of ministry. It will be like trying to climb a mountain with my legs bound by a chain. That's a glorious mountain. That's a great goal to have, and it's beautiful at the top of the mountain, but I will get nowhere Just having the goal doesn't get me up the mountain. If my legs are chained, I'm going nowhere. That would be a utter failure. And in our Christian walk We must remember that Christ is with us. Christ is with us. Colossians 3, 1 through 3 If then you've been raised with Christ, that's talking about when you were born again. That's talking about when your heart was changed by the gospel. If then you've been raised with Christ. Brought to spiritual life is what that means. Seek the things that are above, where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds on things above, not on things on earth. For you've died, and your life is hidden with Christ in God. Died and your life is hidden with Christ in God The me who was a slave to sin died when God gave me a new heart. The you that loved sin Died when God gave you a new heart. When the gospel changed our hearts, we became new people. And we no longer are living for things in this world, but we're living for Christ who is in heaven. And Christ is in heaven, but he also is with us by his spirit. Trying to Walk this Christian walk and fight these Christian battles against sin and temptation. To do that and to forget the daily and moment-by-moment presence with Christ. It's not only like trying to climb a mountain with our legs bound, but it's like trying to enjoy a grand hall of priceless art and priceless artifacts blindfolded. How can you enjoy these beautiful things if we're blindfolded? Well you cannot. The blinders must come off And we must see who Christ is in his power toward us and his power at work within us and his purpose For us to grow in the grace of him, to grow in the knowledge of him, to grow in our service to him, to grow in our witness for him and of him in the world Christ is powerfully present with his church forever. He says, I'm with you to the end of the age. I'm with you always, even to the end of the age. And he is the one who holds the seven stars in his hand, and he walks among the seven lampstands. If we don't get the symbolism there, we'll miss. The very very very simple and very very very wonderful point. Christ is with us. He's the minister He's the Lord. He's the leader. He's the head of the church. And he's with us. Christianity, and I've said it several times, it's not theoretical. It's to be lived out. Not just believing certain things are true. It's having our lives transformed and reoriented by those things that are true And right at the center is that Christ is with us. That's the presence of Christ. Well let's move on to the pleasure of Christ. The pleasure of Christ. The point here is that Christ is genuinely pleased with the good works of his church. is genuinely pleased. There's a delight in his heart for the good works of his church. This comes from verses 2 and 3, but then also from verse 6. I know your works. And in scripture that phrase is it's not just a a statement about an intellectual knowledge that God has. It means that I'm aware of them and I take pleasure in them. I know your works, your toil, your patient endurance, and how you cannot bear with those who are evil, but have tested those who call themselves apostles, and are not, and found them to be false. I know you're enduring patiently, bearing up for my name's sake, and you have not grown weary. Now scan down to verse six, yet this you have, you hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. There's some kind of false doctrine, some kind of false teaching, and with that always comes some form of immorality that sneaks in with the false doctrine. This was a time of persecution for this church, for the churches at that time in the Roman Empire And when persecution comes, and when stress comes, and when trials of faith come, the temptation is leave faith behind and go on to something else. For your own safety, leave faith behind. Just to minimize difficulties and to increase comfort, leave faith behind. That's always the temptation. Well here's a commendation to the church. church. Jesus says, I commend you church for not leaving the faith. I commend you church. You could put it into three categories. He commends them for their service. He commends them for their endurance. And he commends them for their discernment. Their service. Their endurance and their discernment. Look at verse 2 again. I know your works and your toil. Well, what is that? That's hard work. That's hard work. And as I'm looking out, I see so many people who are involved in ministry in the church. Ministry. Participating in ministry, leading in ministry is hard work. It takes time, it takes sacrifice, it takes energy. Jesus commends their works and he commends their toil. And they've not grown weary. End of verse three. They've not grown weary. Does that does that mean that they're just never tired at all? They never need a break? No, all that means is they haven't given up their content They haven't given up assembling together. They haven't left the faith. They haven't left the truth. They haven't left the gospel. Part of what Jesus speaks to his churches is commendation, affirmation He commends their hard work. He commends your hard work. He really is pleased with the good works of his church. And then he says endurance. Not only their service, but he commends their endurance as he would commend your endurance, church. Uh middle of verse 2, your patient endurance. Your patient endurance. Just the phrase itself lets you know that there's Trials and difficulties and things that require endurance. When things are tough, they require endurance, and they require patience. Because when uh a difficulty or a trial comes and we pray for God's intervention to help us, that doesn't guarantee that if you pray that on Monday, he'll show up on Tuesday and deliver you from the trial. No, it requires patience. For the timing of God. Waiting on God to answer prayers the way God wants to answer prayers requires patience. Tell me it's true, church. It requires patience. Trials and difficulties require endurance, and endurance requires patience. It means waiting on the Lord to take care of things, not having having to have complete control over every single aspect and minutia of our lives, with our hands on the reins, like we can steer the ship. Even if we could, we'd steer it right into a cliff. But God is faithful and Christ is with us. We will endure patiently by the grace of God and by the Holy Spirit, or we will not die. But Christ is really pleased with the service of his church. He's really pleased and gives commendation and affirmation for the endurance of his church, and then also discernment He's pleased and commends the discernment of the church, and he commends your discernment in the church. He says that the end of verse 2, or really the middle of verse 2, you cannot bear with those who are evil But have tested those who call themselves apostles and are not found themselves to be false. And then down in verse 6. You hate the works of the Nicolaitans, which I also hate. So the Nicolaitans could be just another way of referring to those false apostles in verse two. If they're the same group Or there are two different groups. The point is discernment. The church had the discernment to recognize false teaching and false apostles and the the wickedness he says evil. That comes with that and that want no part of it. That's discernment. And Christ is pleased with their discernment. And He's pleased with your discernment. He commends your service and He commends your endurance and He commends your discernment. False teachers are very confident and very assertive, and they have no problem coming into a church and inserting themselves to gain a um a position of authority and influence and a voice. to gain to get their own teaching out there for their own agenda, build their own following, and destroy and bring division in the church of God. That's the one of the ways The enemy operates in the church age. It's trying to infiltrate the church of God with false teachers. Well, here you have false apostles trying to slither into the church. To destroy the church, and this church at Ephesus, end of verse two, found them to be false and wanted nothing to do with them. And they, verse 6, hate the works, hate the immorality and the false teachings of the Nicolaitans. That's discernment. Biblical teaching, biblical practice, biblical morality is what the church needs to be about. God commends their service and commends their endurance and commends their discernment. It's not legalism to think that God is pleased with your good works. It's is it's it's not wrong for a child to think that their parents are pleased with their obedience. Parents should be pleased with the obedience of their children. The children should want that. They should be motivated by the good pleasure of their parents. There's nothing wrong with that. Not legalism to want Jesus to be pleased with your service, with your endurance, or discernment. Aren't Christians the people who live for the pleasure of Christ? And not the approval and pleasure of the world around us? Don't we live for the affirmation and the commendation of Christ, not the commendation and approval of the world around us? It's legalism to think our good works would be the ground of God's favor. That's legalism. But to expect And to think that Christ is pleased with your good works is not legalism. That's part of the way we express gratitude and learn to grow in expressing gratitude. To God because we realize that the good works that are happening in us and through us are the result of God's work in us and through us. So we understand that. It's not legalism. Don't be ashamed of that We know we're saved by the blood of Christ. Amen? Are we saved by the blood of Christ or are we saved by good works? We're saved by the blood of Christ. He died for our sins. He reconciled us to the Father. He gave us the Holy Spirit. He's bound us together in the household of God. It's all of Christ. It's all from Him. It's all of Him. It's all for Him. Christ gets the glory. Christ is pleased with our works. And he's working in us. I'm going to share some verses with you on this idea of Christ being pleased. With you, church. With you. Not just Christians out there somewhere. Not just the church at Ephesus. Pleased with you, church. Christ is pleased with you and your good works and your endurance and your Discernment. Colossians 1:10. Walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. You can live a life fully pleasing to him. That doesn't mean you're perfect. That means the life that you're living will be pleasing to God. And then he outlines what that is. Bearing fruit in every good work and increasing in the knowledge of God. 2 Corinthians 5, 9. So whether we are at home or away, we make it our aim to please him. We live to please God. Not to live to please our friends. Not even to live to please our family. And church, not even live to please each other We'll just be driven by the fear of man. But we live to please Christ. We live to please God. Ephesians 5. 10 Try to discern what is pleasing to the Lord. I mean just try to learn what's what pleases God. Try to learn what pleases God. Try to discern what's pleasing to the Lord and then what's the implication? Then live that out. Then put that into practice. And one more, 1 Thessalonians 4. 1. Finally, then, brothers. We ask and we urge you in the Lord Jesus that as you receive from us how you ought to walk and please God, just as you're doing You do show more and more powerful verse. Powerful verse. First Thessalonians 4 1 Paul affirms that they're already walking a walk that pleases God. How you ought to walk and please God just as you're doing. Just as you're doing. And then he says this. Do so more and more. Do so more and more. You can live a life through faith in Christ that is pleasing to God. You can do good works. Done through faith in Christ that are pleasing to God. You can have a patience, endurance, and a steadfastness and a strength of faith about you through Christ. That is pleasing to God. And you can have a discernment, a biblical discernment that is pleasing to God. Church, Christ is pleased with you. You know there's I guess you could I guess you could boil it down to two paths that you could follow in life. I'll put it to three. I mean two of them really could be squished into one, but I'll put it to three paths we could follow in life One, we could live to just please ourselves. Forget what anyone else says, forget what my parents say, forget what my teachers say, forget what the pastor says, forget what But the church says I'm just going to live for myself and live to please myself. Another way you can live is you can live to please others. What do they think about it? What does this group think about it? What does it what did she say about it? What did he say about it? You can live and those are the two that really can be squished together into one We can live to please ourselves and just say forget everybody and everything else. We can live to please others and always be worried about what other people think, what other people say, what other how other people are gonna react. Who cares? The third path is the path we need to be on. We can live to please God. We can live to please God. What makes God happy? What does God say is right? What does God want from me? What will God say about each one of us? Well through faith in Christ he says there's no condemnation. Through faith in Christ he says we belong to him forever. He is with us, church. Christ is with us. He's present with his church and he is pleased with His church. He's pleased with his church. Now we need to go to point three. Because when Christ looks at me, things that he's pleased with. When Christ looks at you and there's things that he's pleased with, that does not mean that he's pleased with everything in the life of Matt. That does not mean he's pleased with everything in your life, in your heart, in your mind. We all have room to grow. I'm not a hymn writer. I could never be a hymn writer. I shouldn't say that. That's putting limits on what God could do I have no desire, nor do I think that I have any kind of s musical skills or talent or knowledge that I could be a hymn writer, but I think a good hymn could be written to this title, something of this in the refrain we all have room to grow. Church, we all have room to grow. Just because Christ is pleased with your service and good works and endurance and discernment that doesn't give Give us a free pass to have some pet hobby sins here and there. Or to look at these other areas where we're not growing but we need to grow and say, We have well I don't need to worry about this area because God's pleased with my work in this area. The third point is the pleading of Christ. Christ urgently pleads with his church to repent. His church. His church to repent. This comes from verses four and five. But I have this against you, that you have abandoned the love you had at first Remember therefore from where you've fallen, repent. Do the works you did at first. If not, I will come to you and remove your lampstand. That means you'll shut the church down. We see this happen all the time. To be a lampstand represents their status as a spirit-filled biblical church. So shut the church down. Remove your lampstand from its place. Unless you repent twice in there. The church needs to repent. Christ urgently pleads with this church to Repent. Now on the love they had at first. Obviously, there's something in their walk individually or just as a church, something that defined who they were as a church, something that they lost of their the love they had at first. You used to have this this love And for all the good that's happened in the course of the history of that church, for all the things that could be commended, for all the things that are pleasing to God, there is a love they had at first. Before all that, there's a love they had at first that they lost There's different interpretations of this. I'm just just for time's sake I'm gonna go right to what I think they lost and what I think this refers to. I think they got caught up in the routine of outward religion. And when you're caught up in the routine of outward religion, but Christ has not yet removed their lampstand. So there's still a true church, there's still a biblical church. The Holy Spirit still resides within them, so there's still good works, and there's still good service, and there's still endurance, and there's still discernment, but they've lost something. Obviously, they lost something. It's something it is a sin to lose what they lost. And I know it's a sin to lose what they lost because he uses the word in here twice, repent. Repent, or there's going to come a discipline, and the discipline will be shutting the church down, removing their lampstand. So we know whatever they lost, it's a sin to lose They got caught up in the routine of the outward religion. In some way, I believe they lost a true self-sacrificing love for each other 's. I'll show you the clue in here as to why I think that That's what the love they had at first was. A true self-sacrificing, self-giving love for each other 's The clue, first of all, in verse 4, towards the end, you can circle love. The love they had at first But then as you go into verse five, as you go into verse five, you see that the way To get back to that love is do the works you did it first. So you can circle the word works The love that they had at first was some kind was manifest through works. A sacrificial love for each Sacrificial love for each other is the prime expression of our inward faith It's the it's the first prime, it's the first expression outwardly toward each other of the faith we have inwardly toward Christ. First John three. We can just turn backwards. Uh this is Maybe five or six pages backward for you. First John three sixteen. First John three sixteen By this we know love that he laid down his life for us. And we ought to lay down our lives for the brothers. That's a laying down our lives for each other. But if anyone has the world's goods and sees his brother in need, yet closes his heart against him, how does God's love abide in him? And what's the in what's the implied answer? God's love is not abiding in him. Then flip forward To chapter 4, verse 7. It's probably on the same page, actually. Chapter 4, verse 7. Beloved, let us love Love one another, for love is from God, and whoever loves has been born of God and knows God. Anyone who does not love does not know God, because God is love. In John 's writings, and he got this teaching from Jesus, but it really comes out clearly in his writings Christian love is manifest in self-sacrificial love toward each other. Toward each other And it involves works. It involves good works toward each other, works of love, self-giving, self-sacrificing love. Oh, still in this is the last one, 1 John 4. Scan down to verse 19. We love because he first loved us. If anyone says I love God and hates his brother, he is a liar. For he who does not love his brother whom he has seen cannot love God whom he has not seen. And this commandment we have from him whoever loves God must also love his brother. Let me turn back to Revelation 2. If you see in Revelation 2 The end of verse 3, there were the reason why they're able to patiently endure and to bear up is for Christ 's name. He says, you're bearing up for my name's sake, and you've not grown weary. So they've not grown weary in that. They're still Christians. They're still believers But they lost something of a self-giving love for each other. Well persecution will do that. Persecution brings difficulty, it brings fear, it brings stress, and it can ha it can make us for our own safety and security turn inwardly And it's easy to go through the motions and go through the routine. Christ urgently pleads with them to repent. I have two warnings that I think will be helpful for us. The purpose of warnings are to uh to help us. If you warn a child who's running out into traffic, You're trying to help that child. Warnings help us avoid uh troubles or escape problems. Now I have two warnings on this. This is thinking about the previous point that Christ has pleased and this current point that he pleads with us to repent. First warning in this. Growth the first warning is this. Growth in some areas is not a free pass to refuse growth in other areas. Spiritual growth in some areas is not a free pass to harden our hearts against God's discipline and God's leading to grow in other areas. And second warning is this, do not take it, I mean this is just a recipe for disaster. Don't take it as a personal insult that you still need to repent and still need to grow. Don't take that as a personal insult. God is trying to help us. We should be trying to help each other. We all have room to grow. The fourth point is that Christ openly promises a great reward to his children. Church. This is the promise of Christ. We see His presence with us. This is everything. We must remember He is present with us. And then the pleasure of Christ that He is pleased. With your good works and your endurance and your discernment. Then the pleading of Christ to repent, where we need to repent. Finally the promise of Christ, this great reward, this comes from. Verse 7, He who has an ear, let him hear what the Spirit says to the churches. To the one who conquers, I will grant to eat of the tree of life. Which is in the paradise of God. Very simply, that symbolizes life in the presence of God. This is the great reward. This this life we have here won't last forever. But one day we'll be with God. And these bodies we have here won't last forever. But one day we'll have a resurrection body. And the sin we have in our minds and hearts and will won't last forever. One day we'll be free from sin. In the presence of God with a resurrection body, glorification is what that's called. Friends, that's what we live for. That's what we live for. For the hope of eternal life, the promise of Christ. Pray together and then we'll continue in worship. Father, we worship you. We thank you for the blood of Christ that cleanses us from all sin. We thank you for the Spirit of Christ. through whom he dwells with us. Father, we thank you. We thank you for all that you are, all that you've given in Jesus' name. Amen.