We're going to get started with a prayer and then I'll have just a few announcements and a short introduction of what we're doing this morning and then what spend as much time as we can with the dialogue slash Bible teaching and um Again, thanks for coming. Let's pray together. Lord Father, we thank you. Thank you for the lives that you've given us. Thank you for the gift of eternal life that you've given us by your mercy and by your Your eternal plan. Father, we thank you for your love. We thank you for this church. We thank you for answering our prayers and enabling us to do the outreach last week We pray and we are fully trusting in you to bear spiritual fruit through those efforts. We can do nothing apart from you. Father, we pray for our time together in the Word this morning. I pray for myself uh administ uh not administering but facilitating this and for Jason for uh what he has to say and teach and for each one here That you would deliver the word into our minds and into our hearts and turn us to Christ in all things and for all things. It's in his name we pray. Amen. So first of all, a huge praise to God and a huge thanks to God for giving us good weather that we could do the outreach this past week of the basketball camp and I mean I can't even begin to guess a number of volunteers uh that were here helping. It was just so many. It took so many hands and feet to be able to do that outreach and God provided over and above. So praise God for that. And thank you to the church and to other others who came in and helped with the outreach. Today, part of this process of trying to get Jason installed as a pastoral apprentice, not as a pastor, but as a pastoral apprentice, and the goal of that ministry is to provide a track toward ordination. And you know as well as I do what the world needs most is salvation and therefore the most practical, concrete thing the world needs most are biblical churches with biblical pastors preaching a biblical gospel because that's God's means of saving sinners. That's really my heart uh behind this uh apprenticeship effort It's important well, important is too little of a word, I guess. It's uh absolutely necessary that a pastor understands biblical doctrine. and agrees with biblical doctrine and is able to publicly articulate biblical doctrine through preaching and teaching, also through counseling. And our statement of faith here is the Baptist faith and message. And that's uh our summary of what we believe is biblical doctrine. Today I'm going to do a similar genre to what I did with Anthony when he came for his interview weekend. I'll just give a guiding question or a guiding topic and then Jason will take us to passages. And then he'll have commentary and teaching on those passages to deal with these topics. And if I feel like responding, I will respond. Sometimes that that actually will help him. Yeah. That'll help him. That'll take a little bit of the burden off, make it a more natural exchange. And the uh five topics we're going to talk about are going to be number one, the gospel, number two, the local church. Number three, the Holy Spirit. Number four, justification by faith. If we don't have justification by faith, then we don't have the gospel. We don't understand the gospel. And then the fifth topic will be The Bible as the Word of God, the Bible as the sufficient word of God. Now that is last on our list, but not least. I mean that's really the foundational practical belief the Bible as the sufficient word of God. Um and really what I Jason is going to just take us to passages and we can just leap right into it now Take us to some passages that talk about the importance of the gospel or even just the power of the gospel, and I'm hoping that through this will not only come the doctrine, but your passion for this doctrine and related to your passion for ministry. Absolutely. Well let's first turn to Romans chapter five. Romans chapter five, we're going to look at verses six through eleven. Romans five. I can't we don't have time for me to just read all of Romans, so we have to summarize and fix specific passages. But Romans five verses six through eleven. For while we were still weak, at the right time Christ died for the ungodly. For one will scarcely die for a righteous person, though perhaps for a good person one would dare even to die. But God shows his love for us, and that while we were still sinners, Christ died for us. Since therefore we have now been justified by his blood, much more shall we be saved by him from the For if while we were enemies we were reconciled to God by the death of his Son, much more now that we are reconciled shall we be saved by His life. More than that, we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ, through whom we have now received reconciliation. So when we think about the gospel, this word that means good news, the first thing we always need to ask is, well, what makes the gospel good news? And what we see throughout all of Scripture, but uh in a in a focused way here, the gospel is good news because we who were desperately weak sinners Enemies of Almighty God, worthy of a just wrath poured out on us for our sins when we were enemies of God God powerfully intervened to save sinners through the death and resurrection of His Son. Not because of any merit in us, not because of anything that was good in us and worthy of saving. But solely on the basis of God's great love for sinners, he chose to save. He chose to show his love in power by sending his son To die for sinners. And to be raised again so that we would be saved by his life This passage and really all of Romans opens up a window for us into our greatest need. Our greatest need is that we are enemies of God in need of reconciliation, and how God, and God alone, Has met that need in the person and work of Jesus Christ. And then I also love how this passage progresses and the culmination in verse 11 We see that the gospel, the way we are reconciled to God through faith in the death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, then fuels worship and rejoicing. Verse 11, more than that we also rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ. The good news of the gospel calls for rejoicing. It's something we should be happy about. And it also is what fuels and makes possible our worship both as individuals and then when we gather together as the body of Christ. Uh if for the young adults who are uh in my Sunday school class on Sunday mornings, you'll know that I really, really care about prepositions. And prepositions are really important in this passage because we see that we rejoice in God Through our Lord Jesus Christ. Every single Sunday when we gather together to worship God We must realize that we do not come into the presence of God to worship based on anything in us, based on any merit in us, but solely through Jesus Christ. So the gospel is the good news that we who were dead sinners are reconciled to God through faith in Christ And it is the good news that both fuels and calls for rejoicing and worship in God. Anything to add, Pastor Matt? I love that I love that point about the preposition through. And here it's talking about that rejoicing that we rejoice through him, but it's this image that anything we do that's acceptable to God is acceptable because Christ makes it acceptable. uh we are cleansed by the blood and everything that we think, feel, or do, anything that we ever do that's um would be considered a good work or an acceptable work. is because Christ's blood renders it so. One of the things I love about this passage is it talks about um the past and the future, the past accomplishment of Christ. but also that future deliverance uh when it's in verse nine at the end, we shall be saved or we will be saved by him. from the wrath of God. That's that's looking forward to the final judgment where the wrath of God will be executed against his enemies once and for all and will be saved from that wrath. That's a real thing. Um and of course I love this I love this phrase or this idea just that it leads to rejoicing. Just in general, we should be joyful people, uh a people who sing and a people who rejoice. Talk a little bit about based on uh the gospel and what you're just saying, just talk a little bit about Therefore, the role that the gospel must play in practical ministry, it is the good news and all of those things in that verse and all those things that we talked about. Therefore What's the role or the importance of the role of the gospel in just the week in, week out body life of the church? central confession of the church to which we hold fast. It's both what we proclaim to unbelievers, but it's also the central truth and central reality that we as followers of Jesus Christ Center and orient our lives around every single day. The proclamation of the gospel is for Christians This is why we need to be continually uh sitting under the Word of God in our own private devotional lives, but also gathering together to sit under the Word of God as it is preached. So that we more and more hear the gospel and are pressed further and deeper into our gospel identity as those who have been redeemed. By the blood of Christ. So it's our central confession, and it's what fuels everything else we do within the body life of the church. The way we interact with one another. We Love and serve one another as those who have been fought by the blood of Christ. When we look at our brothers and sisters in Christ, we ought to look at them through the lens of the gospel. Which is the grounds upon which uh going further in Romans, why we can forgive one another, why we ought to love one another well with generosity. It also informs how we think about ourselves and how we think about our practical uh living and our practical overcoming sin. Something I've I've heard you preach a lot recently is how our growth In grace, our sanctification happens as we look to Christ in faith, as we understand the reality of the gospel and how that shapes us daily. Yeah, it's the pattern of the epistles for Paul and others writing epistles to deal with practical and pastoral issues in the church. He points the church back to the gospel and teaches them how the gospel should be changing their hearts and changing how they relate to one another and changing how they relate to the world. So This is critical for our growth as individuals, as children of God. The gospel is not just for evangelism. It's for evangelism and for sanctification. and for advancing in discipleship. So we never move on from the gospel. Um all right. So the um the gospel I'm trying to remember the exact phrase that you use, the central central to something, this idea Central to what's because I'm so tempted just to put my phrase on it. I always say central to the body life of the church, but I want to y try to remember the words that you used. It's central to what's the central That's right. That's what it was. It's the central confession of the church, right? We never move on for it. We're always confessing it, always professing it, always preaching it, always turning our hearts back to it. Central profession of our faith, absolutely. Um let's go on and talk about the Practical relevance of the local church. I'm sure it's um uh each one of us knows, and I'm sure you know, that uh not Everyone who confesses Christ thinks that it's important to go to church or sees the practical relevance of going to church or even sees being a part of a church as a command. So, I mean a little bit as you're led by the Spirit, just talk about what the local church is. But really wanted to get to Why has God gathered us into a local church? What's the practical relevance of the way God has set this whole thing up? Well I've got two here. First, let's turn to Hebrews chapter 10. Hebrews ten. We're gonna start in verse nineteen. Hebrews ten, nineteen, we're gonna go down to verse twenty-five. Therefore, brothers, since we have confidence to enter the holy places by the blood of Jesus, by the new and living way that He opened for us through the curtain, that is, through His flesh. And since we have a great priest over the hand House of God, let us draw near with a true heart in full assurance of faith, with our hearts sprinkled clean from an evil conscience, and our bodies washed with pure water. For he who promised his faithful. And let us consider how to stir up one another to love and good works, not neglecting to meet together, as is the habit of some. but encouraging one another, and all the more as the day, as you see the day drawing near. So as we just think about the trajectory of this passage, We have, in summary form, some of the most just magnificent and earth-shattering truths that we could possibly imagine We, who again were desperately weak sinners , have confidence to draw near to the very presence of God. Because we have a great high priest whose blood was shed for us. If we if we really think about all of the implications of that and how just unfathomable God's holiness is, and therefore how wretched our sin is, and the fact that we now can confidently enter into God's presence, it's one of the most just magnificent things we could possibly fathom. We can draw near to holy God with confidence and full assurance that we will be joyfully received into his presence. But then as this passage goes on, it's almost like There's a bit of a letdown because the application is therefore just magnificent truth that transcends anything we could possibly fathom. Therefore, go to church. That feels like a little bit of a letdown almost. It feels like i i shouldn't there be more than just gathering together? But I think what that reveals in my own heart and what that can reveal in our hearts is that we haven't properly understood Just how central the gathering together of the body is. Because the gathering of believers in particular local churches, uh Confessing Christ together, understanding their commitments to one another, that is where we corporately and spiritually enter into God's presence together That's where we hold fast our confession of Christ together and where we spur one another on, again, deeper and deeper into this gospel identity. It's where we encourage one another to live faithfully in light of the fact that we've been reconciled to God and we live our lives confidently in God's presence through our great high priest. What we see in this passage and through all of the New Testament is that the ordinary gathering of believers in local churches, week in and week out, sitting under the Word of God, worshiping Christ together. That is the way that God shapes and forms his people. That is the way that God, by his spirit, more and more forges this gospel identity in us. Therefore, we must prioritize the gathering of the local church. We would have never designed things that way. I mean it's just not glamorous enough for us, this simple thing of people getting together to worship God together and And uh learn more about his love and his grace and his power. Um there's a passage I want to you said you had two on this, right? I have two, but don't forget your second one. Um One of the first things that came to mind as you were reading through that passage is that it's not God's eternal purpose just to save individuals. He's creating a people. He's creating a community of faith. And it's broken in this age, in this age, it's many, many, many communities of faith all over the place. In the age to come, it will be one huge fully sanctified, glorified community of faith. But uh there's no in the Bible there's no such thing as autonomous Christianity or Christianity in isolation. Sometimes w through imprisonment and different things like that, through exile or imprisonment or situations like that it w it could be a a necessity, but the ordinary plan and purpose and organization of God is to bring his people together in local churches. The I wanted someone of us to flip two more two pages forward to chapter twelve, verse twenty-two. At this point in chapter twelve. The author of Hebrews is contrasting the assembly at the foot of Mount Sinai when Israel received the law. He's contrasting that with the assembly of the church, not at the foot of Mount Sinai. not a people under law, but a people under grace. And when he describes the s the situation of the church Here's what he says. Part of it is Hebrews 12, 22. You have come to Mount Zion and to the city of the living God. Now those are symbols. He's going to give us the interpretation of that in the next phrase. The heavenly Jerusalem. You have come to the heavenly Jerusalem. It's just another way of saying the the heavenly nation of God. You're a citizen of heaven. You've come to the heavenly Jerusalem and to innumerable angels in festal gathering. and to the assembly of the firstborn who are enrolled in heaven, and to God, the judge of all, and to the spirits of the righteous made perfect. And the image is not one simply of people on earth gathering on earth, but it's an image of people on earth gathering the worship assembly of heaven. And our worship service is the way we do that as a as a community, as a congregation, and it always points forward to when we what literally join that worship assembly in heaven. So what we have here is a foretaste. Um but we have to think about the church, not only the worship service, but the church as a whole, as a heavenly people, as a spiritual people through spiritual realities. And when we do that now we Start to understand why it's so important and why it's so glorious. Alright, what was that second part you had on the church? Matthew chapter 16. Matthew 16 Verses 13 through 19. Well-known section of Scripture, but one that is so fundamental when we think about the practical importance of the church. Now when Jesus came into the district of Caesarea Philippi, he asked his disciples, Who do people say that the Son of Man is? And they said, Some say John the Baptist, others say Elijah, and others Jeremiah or one of the prophets. He said to them, But who do you say that I am? Simon Peter replied, You are the Christ, the Son of the living God. And Jesus answered them, Blessed are you, Simon Barjonh, for flesh and blood has not revealed this to you, but my Father who is in heaven. And I tell you, you are Peter, and on this rock I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. I will give you the keys of the kingdom of heaven, and whatever you bind on earth shall be bound in heaven And whatever you loose on earth shall be loosed in heaven. See several things here. First, we see the church's fundamental confession What we confess, what we are about as the people of God, is the proclamation that Jesus is the Christ, the Son of the Living. God. Jesus is reigning now as Lord and King. That is centrally what we confess when we gather together and when we live our lives out in the world. Jesus is the Christ. But we also see here in the sovereign plan of God the central role that the church plays in the expansion of Christ's kingdom. Jesus says, I tell you, you're Peter, and on this rock I will build my church. And I think that is both the rock of Peter's confession, the truth he confesses, and the rock of The apostles as Christ is building his church. What Jesus has ordained and established. To advance his kingdom in the world is the church, is the gathering together of believers saved by grace. Proclaiming Christ out into the world. This is the means that Christ has ordained to expand his kingdom We also see in this passage the tremendous confidence we should have in Christ's project of expanding his kingdom through local churches. He says that the gates of hell will not prevail against the church. I think I think it was Jeff Kelly who taught this passage one time, and Just ask the simple question, when's the last time you've seen someone use a gate as an offensive weapon? That lets us know that as the church, we are the ones who are Actually, on the offensive through the proclamation of the gospel. We are the ones who are laying siege through Christ, through the Spirit at work in us, to the kingdom of darkness. Well that gives us tremendous confidence that Christ will build his kingdom. We also see here and and I have to be brief here. I will go on a tirade about the importance of meaningful church membership, but we see the authority That Christ gives to the church. Christ's authority on earth is played out through local churches. He says that the keys of the kingdom of heaven are given to the church. Therefore, regardless of how specifically we interpret this passage, we should understand the centrality and the importance of our own local church in our own lives, in our own hearts, and in the expansion of the gospel and the proclamation of Christ's kingdom. Man, it's a huge comfort to me that the success of the spread of the gospel and the success of the growth of the church rests on God and not on me and not on us. And it's just another show of his mercy that he uses lowly sinners As vehicles to accomplish his purpose. It's crazy. If the the enemies are spiritual enemies, the weapons must be spiritual weapons. This idea of the conquest of the gospel to save Sinners, it's another one of those verses that just always brings me back to to personal accountability that I don't represent myself But I'm to represent the Lord and represent his word and represent his church. Um now that should be true for all Christians. We see ourselves as representatives of of Christ. And it's also another great reminder for me to prioritize the human soul in ministry. There's always pressure and always temptations to focus on temporal matters. Physical matters, not that those are wrong or unnecessarily bad to deal with some of those things, but it is just a nonstop twenty-four-seven job to self-consciously prioritize Souls. But that's that's what this is about. It's about souls. Um before we move on to the other topics, any questions on the gospel or the church? You're all very quiet. Very attentive. Very quiet. All right. Good hopefully a little bit of a pattern is emerging in these topics that we're not here for ourselves, we're here for the gospel, we're not here for ourselves, we're here for the church, and both of those things because of God's purpose and God's glory. Let's go on to the Holy Spirit. Now I said earlier this is one of our topics, but I told Jason ahead of time. I wanted him to talk Specifically about the reality and or the work of the Holy Spirit in our ministries, lives, and in the church So I just gave him a very broad, broad question about the power and the work of the Holy Spirit in Christianity, and we'll see what direction he he goes with it. I must have accidentally hit that button, sorry. Um but apart from the spirit we can do nothing. Um apart from the spirit all all we would be doing is just external religion. So this is another important topic and it's important that any pastor or pastoral apprentice is able to articulate the work and the power of the Holy Spirit. Hopefully I don't take it in a heretical direction. Any biblical direction you want. Thank you for clarifying. Words matter, specific words matter. Alright. John chapter sixteen. John chapter sixteen. Verses seven through fifteen. John 16, 7 through 15, Jesus says to his disciples, Nevertheless, I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away. For if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you. But if I go, I will send him to you. And when he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. judgment concerning sin because they do not believe in me, concerning righteousness because I go to the Father and you will see me no longer. Concerning judgment because the ruler of this world is judged. I still have many things to say to you, but you cannot bear them now. When the Spirit of truth comes, he will guide you into all the truth. For he will not speak on his own authority, but whatever he hears, he will speak, and he will declare to you the things that are to come. He will glorify me, for he will take what is mine and declare it to you. All that the Father has is mine. Therefore I said that he will take what is mine and declare it to you So in the first half of this passage, what we see, a couple things. First we see Jesus promise to send his spirit to his disciples. We don't have to, if we if our confession is Christ, if our hope is in the gospel, if our faith is in the risen Christ, we don't have to question whether or not the Spirit Is present in our hearts. The Spirit is the one who has regenerated us, who has made us alive. So we see the confidence we can have that Jesus will send his Spirit. And then we also see that the Spirit is the one who convicts the world concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment. Well, if it's the Spirit doing that, we have a joyful confidence that it's not us who do that work. We're called to be faithful. We are called to preach the gospel, but ultimately it is the Spirit that works to convict hearts, to open eyes. and to create new spiritual life in those who are dead in sin. This is just wonderfully, wonderfully comforting as we think about any sort of gospel ministry. Within the church. It is not our job to try to create faith in dead sinners. That's the Spirit's job. Therefore, we're free not to try to manipulate, not to try to create the right emotional setting and situation to kind of reverse engineer conversion. Rather, we are free to be faithful to what Christ has called us to do. We're free to speak the gospel, to be joyful. to sing unto Christ, trusting that it is his Spirit who does the work of convicting sinners When we think about evangelism and the uh the personal just terror that can be to go out into a world that rejects Christ and to think about actually initiating conversations about the gospel. We can have confidence that it is the Spirit who does the work of convicting the world concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment, not us. Again, therefore, we are free. If I'm picking up on a key word, it's this word free, of really being free in our methodology that we don't feel this this burden like we've got to get into the soul of a person and make changes. One of the principles for public ministry that Paul talks about in the Corinthian letters is the plain and straightforward presentation of the truth. Um I I think it was one of the one of the things that your dad was really, really gifted at and he had this freedom just Straightforward Bible preaching, straightforward Bible teaching, trusting that the Spirit will use the Word to do God's work in the heart. And that's a principle for all of us. Um I see on your notes you have another passage for the Holy Spirit. Try to go quickly. Acts chapter two. Acts chapter two. Oh we got time man. Yeah, we got over twenty minutes. Relax a little bit. Acts chapter two, verses forty two through forty seven. What you were saying um just made me think. We uh and this will come up when we look at the word of God last, but we are free to Be joyfully bound to God's word and what God's word compels and commands us to do. Acts two, verses forty-two through forty-seven. You're going to have to bear with me a little bit on this one because the Holy Spirit is not explicitly mentioned in this passage, but it is impossible to read this passage and not see the tremendous work of the Spirit. in God's people. Acts 2, 42 through 47. And they devoted themselves to the apostles' teaching and the fellowship To the breaking of bread and the prayers. And awe came upon every soul, and many wonders and signs were being done to the apostles. And all who believed were together and had all things in common. And they were selling their possessions and belongings, and distributing the proceeds to all as any had need. And day by day, attending the temple together and breaking bread in their homes, they received their food with glad and generous hearts, praising God and having favour with all the people. And the Lord added to their number day by day those who were being saved. So right before this, you have Pentecost. You have this inauguration of the church age and this powerful outpouring of the Holy Spirit. You have Peter boldly proclaiming Christ and 3,000 souls coming to faith. This dramatic, supernatural, kind of climactic moment in redemptive history. And then again, by comparison, what you see next seems in some ways just utterly ordinary. You see, the people of God who have come to faith in Christ, these 3,000 souls, devoting themselves to the apostles' teaching, devoting themselves to sitting under the Word of God. Devoting themselves to meaningful fellowship. I mean they're sharing meals with one another, they're practicing generosity, loving one another by meeting practical needs. They're daily attending the temples together. They're worshiping Christ, meeting with one another in their homes. praising God. And it's through these means that the Lord continues to add to their number those who are being saved. I think what we have here is after the Spirit is poured out in power on the early church, we see this kind of snapshot of what spirits Regenerated and spirit-filled people do. They faithfully live side by side with other Christians, sitting under the Word of God, committing to meaningful fellowship with one another. worshiping Christ together. And these are the means again by which Christ continues to add to the church, those who are being saved, those who are coming to faith. As we as faithful Christians are living our lives faithfully side by side with other believers I mean this day, Pentecost is a watershed day for human history because what you just said about this fellowship that's described in 42 to 47 That's the way God has organized his people on earth from that day till the day of his return. This is it. It doesn't say everything about the church or everything about the body life of the church. But this is the climax of history right here. The spirit that had been promised for so many ages is now poured out. The church is The church age is inaugurated. This is a roadmap. I love using this paragraph to talk about church membership or to talk about the body life of the church. Teaching, fellowship, breaking of bread, prayers, fellowship in the home, fellowship publicly also in the temple, glad and generous hearts, praising God, having favor with the people, that's being respected by the by the people, uh and the Lord saving people. I mean we don't we don't ever need to move on from that. We don't we don't and we're not in the business of innovation. Uh I love that phrase you used, joyfully bound to God's word. That'd be a good book one day. Joyfully bound. And then the subtitle can be something like Trusting the Word of God for all things in ministry. But we 're all Christian's book. You've got to have a subtitle, yeah. Jo j we are joyfully bound to the word. You know, I can think back. Um just thinking about the Holy Spirit. I can think back as a new believer, I had no clue just how much I needed the Holy Spirit. And many most days now, many days if not most days having been a believer for many years and serving as a a preacher and teacher for many years, I've re I really feel like I'm just getting started and grasping just how much I need the Holy Spirit, both individually, then as a father, as a husband, as a pastor for the church, for e for every every kind of ministry in the church. If the spirit doesn't work We we have nothing, but we have the word and and we tr we trust the word. Um let's see, what was next? Unless you had any closing remarks on the Holy Spirit. Um justification by faith. Yeah. Well one more thing on the Holy Spirit. Because this was really the theme of everything that you said. Just want to make sure it's clearly communicated. Maybe it's the kind of the behind the scenes theme of what you said. Uh when every time you're talking about the Holy Spirit, you're talking about dependency on the Word. And every time you're talking about the word and what the word is calling us to do, you're going back to the spirit. And that's the way we should be thinking. I mean that should be the architecture in our brains, spirit and word, word and spirit. All right. spirit filled church. We must be a word centered church. Romans chapter eight, verses thirty-one through thirty-eight. Could read again, could read all of Romans 8. But for our purposes we'll look at verses 31 through 38. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all? How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? It is God who justifies Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress or persecution or famine or nakedness or danger or sword, as it is written? For your sake we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life nor angels nor rulers nor things present nor things to come Nor powers, nor height, nor depth, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. Pick this passage for a few reasons. First is we think about justification, this legal declaration that we have been forgiven of our sins, that our sins have been placed on Christ at the cross, and that we have received the perfect righteousness of Christ credited to our account and we have been legally declared righteous. First, we see here and all throughout Scripture that that has nothing to do with anything within us. See so clearly in verse 33, it is God who justifies. Our standing before God is solely on the basis of God's work in Christ and looking to Christ by faith alone. But then I think we also see here the practical application of justification by faith in the life of the believer, which is confidence. before God and confidence in this world that nothing and no one can undo our standing before God If we have been declared righteous by faith in Christ, then nothing that we do and nothing that anyone else does or can do to us can undo what God has declared. And so when we when we think about growth practically in our lives as Christians, when we're confronted by the reality of our sin, and when we are discouraged by lack of growth. When we feel like we're caught in the same sins over and over again, we go back to this foundational reality that nothing that we can do Can undo what God has declared to be true about us. That our standing is in Christ, and that nothing can separate us from the love of Christ. And that's also what motivates and spurs us on and empowers us then to put off sin and to put on righteousness. But just I find such utter comfort in this kind of tirade that Paul goes on here at the end of this passage. Nothing Can separate you from the love of God in Christ if you have been justified by faith. So one, what what's the opposite of justification by faith, and maybe give some examples, historical examples, or just practical examples that you've you've seen people fall into or maybe you yourself have been tempted to fall into. If justification by faith is one thing, what's the opposite thing? What would be the contrasting thing in terms of the road to justification? Doing things that God has commanded and viewing our works as that which earns us favor before God So thinking that what we can do can actually create true and real righteousness within us that then makes us right before God. If we see what Scripture says about our good works, we see that our good works before God are filthy rags. They can do nothing to justify us and secure our standing before God. You know, I think about the fact that we are called to good works, and we're just like that passage you went to earlier, we're called to stir one another up in good works So it's another reason why it's always important to be teaching and preaching justification by faith. Because if we're pursuing good works, we're trying to be rich in good works as God has called us to do. But if this doctrine is not constantly being hammered into our hearts, we'll start to base our confidence before God on our good works. Because it because it does bring joy to do what God has called us to do. But we but there's a fine line there. Is it just bringing me joy or is it giving me security in myself that I I did something good? Um, you kind of alluded to the second question I wanted to ask at the very last statement you made when you said it's what's it's what spurs us on to something about obedience. Um but I wanted I wanted you to deal with something that Paul deals with in Romans. Um and you don't need to go to passages, you can if you want, but just in your own words. this doctrine of justification by faith, since our standing with God is not based on our obedience. Our eternal destiny is not based on our obedience. Does that mean that we can just live however we want with no consequences? That may sound like it's a joke, but it's not a joke. That's a real That's something that people really think and something that people really say and accuse of true Christianity, and Paul deals with it a lot in Romans. So Just deal with that from a pastoral standpoint. If someone believes that or if someone heard that, maybe they went went to a church where that was preached that since we're justified by faith, it doesn't matter how we live. The gospel of God's grace and salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone, is a gospel that comes to our hearts in power. Not only are we declared righteous, but we are brought from spiritual death into spiritual life and given new desires for righteousness. So the gospel that justifies us is also the gospel that fundamentally changes the disposition of our hearts and brings us from death to life. Therefore, the call to obey Christ should be a joyful call for the follower of Jesus. Because we're remade with new hearts that continually over time truly desire righteousness. We think we can h live however we want, then we're saying ultimately that we don't think the gospel actually has power to change our lives. Yeah, amen to that. I love that phrase that you used. You stole that from the Apostle Paul. The gospel comes in power. That's good methodology. Right, so as imperfect as our new desires are, they are new desires, and as imperfect as our our uh passion to obey, and as imperfect as our obeying is It's a true obedience because it's wrought by the Spirit. So the new heart doesn't want to go off and live an autonomous life. The new heart wants to live for Christ and pursue deeper fellowship with Him. The gospel comes to our hearts in power indeed. Alright, last topic. Didn't really leave you a lot of time for this one, but do what you can on this last topic, the Bible. We're gonna try to squeeze two uh passages in here. Psalm one. Psalm one Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord. And on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does he prospers The wicked are not so, but are like chaffs that the wind drives away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. I chose this because when we think about the centrality of God's word, when we think about the sufficiency of Scripture and orienting all that we do around the Word of God, we need to see biblically that this is not a burdensome thing But it's actually an invitation and a path to true and abiding joy. As fallen humans, we think that whenever what we perceive as limitations are put on us, that that's somehow trying to Steal away our joy and take away our enjoyment of life. But to delight in the word of God. is the path to true joy. I just love the language of this psalm. It's, I think intentionally, language that uh reminds us of Eden. It's Edenic language. Of the one who delights and meditates on the law of God, being like a tree planted by streams of water. There's this language of joy and of flourishing. And that's what God, by his Spirit, cultivates in us, both as individuals and as a body, when we devote ourselves to the sufficiency of God's Word. Devoting ourselves to God's word is not a wearisome task in the life of a Christian. It is a delight. It's where we find what we will truly what will truly satisfy the deepest longings of our souls Again, the language of other psalms, where we taste and see that the Lord is good. Well, that happens by sitting under the Word and by seeing how God has revealed Himself. So the call to be devoted utterly to the Word of God is not a burdensome call, and it is not a wearying or limiting call. It is a call to pursue joy. So, what you're saying is the Bible is not just a book about God. The Bible is a book through which God speaks. So that spirit filled Bible devotions at your dining room table it was God speaking. And spirit filled preaching and spirit filled teaching is God speaking. Well, uh I do want to leave A few I have just a couple closing comments, but I want to leave a few minutes for questions on any of the topics if you want anything clarified for from the gospel to the local church. to the Holy Spirit, to justification by faith, or anything on the Bible as God's word, a sufficient word. Are there any questions? Yes. Um We 're just not very well. So just for those who didn't hear, what's changed and t and talk a little bit about the difference between teaching in the school and pastoring serving in a church. Yeah, so that's that's a question that uh a robust and full answer takes a little bit longer than uh what I have time for. But uh fundamentally, uh Pastor Matt, you alluded to the difference. Um In a school that, yes, was a confessional Christian school, all the teachers were required to be believers, was clearly is fundamentally and clearly different than a local church. And to teach mostly unbelievers, uh and to teach in a way where the practical application of the word could not happen the same way just because of the academic nature of the setting, because of the fact that uh these were unbelievers. I had no sort of membership or or covenant with them the same way I do with my brothers and sisters of in Christ, this body. It was just a fundamentally different kind of setting in which to teach Where God has just over time, long before I started teaching at Perry Hall, but long uh but over time God has just continued to press into me an appreciation for and a desire to serve the local church. Because that again, as we've looked at passages, that's where Christ nourishes his people and that's how the gospel goes forth. So I I see them really as fundamentally different. Obviously this the content is the same. I was teaching the gospel and seeking to do that faithfully there, but I see them as fundamentally different settings ultimately. Yeah, it's a great question. And it's it's part of the pastoral call of local church ministry. Not everyone has the same calling in ministry. Um but there's a s similar, if not you know parallel situation with Anthony, who was working for a Christian organization in a Christian ministry, teaching Christian things, but as that pastoral call got stronger He was compelled in his heart and burdened into his heart to get located in a local church to be the the core of his ministry. Great question. Any other questions? Yep. Sure. Well the last passage that if I had time we would have gone to was Second Timothy chapter three, sixteen and seventeen, and then going on to chapter four, verse two. The scripture is the word of God. It is inspired by God, and therefore, by the nature of what it is, it has authority. If God has spoken, then we are called to listen and to obey. So Scripture holds absolute authority because it is God's word and therefore it's a sufficient guide and an authoritative proclamation for God's people. And again Submitting ourselves to Scripture ultimately leads to cultivating joy in the life of the believer It's another great question. It's a question Neil, I know you and I have talked about a lot just in our personal conversations and A lot of the absurdities that are are being done in the name of church and in the name of Christ today and and yet calling it church is because that domino has fallen where the word as the true and sufficient authority is no longer believed. And that opens us up to do whatever whatever we feel like doing, really. So I mean that's really that's the foundation stone. I've said that before. The authority of scripture is the foundation stone. Uh any other questions. All right, I'll just go into my closing comments. First of all, thank you. That's a lot of pressure, man. This setting this this crowd sitting down, uh talking about the most important things in the world is not easy to do. So I appreciate you praying and preparing for that. And uh we we just continue to trust in God and His will. And he'll work out the details of everything as we move forward, not only in our lives, but also in the church. Alright, so here's my closing comments. Hopefully you've uh seen my ministry and known me long enough to where you know that the things I'm most passionate about are the basic things of Christianity. The basic things of The Bible is the Word of God. The church is the people of God. The centrality of the gospel. The power of the Holy Spirit. Are the most glorious truths because they're at the center of how God has made himself known. They're at the center of how God enables us to know him and love him and serve him and worship him. These basic Christian truths are the most powerful things. They're the most practically relevant things because they are the things that change our hearts. Preaching Christ changes our hearts. Preaching and teaching the scripture as the word of God reorients our minds and uh renews our minds. Nothing to me is more glorious, more powerful, more practical. than simple, straightforward biblical Christianity. It's not my goal personally or pastorally that we would all just increase in head knowledge about different things that the Bible teaches, uh or just to increase in outward ministries and just do as many ministries as we ministries as we can, become as smart as we can. My number one goal for myself and for everyone is to increase in a love for Christ, to deepen our affections for Christ, which will lead to advancing in sanctification, which will lead to moving forward in discipleship. But we don't start with discipleship, we don't start with sanctification, we start with Christ, and we end with Christ. And it's through the Word, through the Spirit, that Christ Himself, the living Savior, will uh continue to fill our hearts with the love and joy and gladness in God and in God alone. So that's what I'm about, and that's why I structured this this way. I don't need to know if you're an expert in all the fine details of eschatology and all these things. I mean things that our statement of faith doesn't deal with, but just a basic architecture of what Christianity is. Um all right. Thanks for coming and I'm gonna pray for I'm gonna pray for us. And then uh we'll have to get the stage set up. So uh we'll we'll go ahead and do that. Father, thank you. Thank you again for your goodness to us. Thank you for your infinite power. We praise you for that in making all things and your wisdom and having a purpose for all things and your grace and mercy allowing us to be a part of your plan, purpose, and kingdom. Father, as we uh transition now to our time of congregational worship, we pray that through your Spirit and through your word you would speak to each and every one of us and anyone who would come this morning to turn our hearts to Christ, that we would love Him. And trust in him as our only hope in this fallen world. And it's in his name we pray. Amen.