We invite you to open up your Bibles to the book of Acts, chapter 12. We'll be looking at Acts chapter 12 this morning. I 've entitled this sermon, An Unstoppable Kingdom. As you're turning to the book of Acts, there's a question that I want you to consider with me this morning. Have you ever been anxious or worried about something, even though you knew for sure it was going to happen? Have you ever struggled to trust a promise? Even though you had every reason to believe that it was actually going to be carried through. As a kid, one of the great joys of my life was going to Pizza Hut with my my family. This was about peak fanciness for the Manry clan going to Pizza Hut. And we'd go somewhat regularly, and my parents knew that I was a pretty picky eater and that there was one thing I wanted. I wanted a stuff crust cheese pizza and that That's it. And every single time we'd go, we'd order one. And yet without fail Every single time we would go to Pizza Hut, I would be anxious that this would be the one time that my parents were going to forget to order a stuffed crust cheese pizza. They'd always ask what we wanted beforehand, they'd always make sure they knew what to order, and yet every single time I was anxious or worried that maybe, just maybe, this would be the time they wouldn't come through for me and I'd have to pick vegetables or pineapple off of my pizza like some sort of maniac. I had every reason to believe that they could correctly order a pizza. I had every reason to believe in their trustworthiness and their promises. And yet every time I would be anxious, doubting something that I could all but count on. As followers of Jesus Christ We are recipients, church, of far greater promises than pizza. In fact, we are recipients of some of the greatest promises that we can possibly imagine. We have received in Christ the gift of salvation by grace through faith. The forgiveness of our sins on the basis entirely of Christ's death and resurrection. We've been adopted as sons and daughters, brought into the very family of God. And we're told that nothing can separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus. And in fact, we've been caught up into this grand narrative of what God is doing in all of history of magnifying his own glory by redeeming a people unto himself. And by establishing and building up his eternal kingdom, we believe that Christ Jesus is reigning now as Lord. And that he is building and expanding his spiritual kingdom through the gospel being proclaimed and going forth in power. Dead sinners coming to life in Christ. We've received the promise that we look forward to a new heavens and a new earth where Christ will reign as king forever and where we will experience eternal life in his presence. These truths are the very foundation stones of our faith. And yes, when we look out into the world, we can be prone to doubt, can't we? When we see sin running rampant, when we see pervasive injustices, when we see evil being called good and good being called evil. When we see wicked, sinful people prospering, we can find ourselves questioning just how certain these promises really are, can't we? Or maybe when we look into our own hearts and we see the same sin struggles that we have dealt with for years and they're still there. We can wonder whether or not God is really working in us at all, can't we? There's this tension that we experience between what we know to be true on the one hand, what God has said in his word, and what we can say See right in front of us. In the face of so much sin and what seems like so much opposition, the questions we face are, will God's promises really hold true? Is Christ Jesus really on his throne? These are weighty questions. This is a weighty sense of tension that our hearts wrestle with. And it's with this weighty sense of tension that we look at the book of Acts this morning. Luke is writing this book as a follow-up to his gospel. And in the very first verses of his gospel, we are told that he's writing to a man named Theophilus. And he says that he's writing so that Theophilus would have certainty Concerning the things that he had been taught about Jesus. He wants Theophilus to have certainty that Jesus Christ is the anointed Messiah King, who had come to redeem his people. And now as he gives this account of the acts of the apostles, what happens after Jesus' resurrection and ascension into heaven. He's writing so that Theophilus would have certainty that the risen King Jesus is indeed building his kingdom as the gospel is is preached, starting in Jerusalem, going all the way to the ends of the earth. He writes so that Theophilus and by extension we in Christ today would have certainty that despite all opposition, despite persecution, despite weakness of God's people And despite all attempts to stamp out the spread of the gospel, Christ's kingdom will prevail. And as we look in this particular narrative in Acts chapter 12, what we're going to see is that despite opposition, And despite violent kings with vast resources at their disposal, Jesus Christ is the true and sovereign king of all. And no opposition can thwart or undo his purposes. In church 2,000 years removed from the age of the apostles, we serve the same Savior. We confess the same gospel and we labor for the same kingdom. The main point we're going to see this morning in this chapter is that Christ Jesus is building and expanding. his kingdom despite all opposition. And therefore, in a world today that is marked by sinful opposition to Christ and has been for the past two thousand years We must have confidence in King Jesus. We must have confidence in the gospel. Let's look now to Acts chapter 12 and we'll read all the way down to verse 24. About that time Herod the king laid violent hands on some who belonged to the church. He killed James, the brother of John, with a sword, and when he saw that it pleased the Jews. He proceeded to arrest Peter also. This was during the days of unleavened bread, and when he had seized him he put him in prison, delivering him over to four squads of soldiers to guard him, intending after the Passover to bring him So Peter was kept in prison, but earnest prayer for him was made to God by the church. Now when Herod was about to bring him out on that very night, Peter Peter was sleeping between two soldiers, bound with two chains, and sentries before the door were guarding the prison. And behold, an angel of the Lord stood next to him, and a light shone in the cell. He struck Peter on the side and woke him, saying, Get up quickly. quickly and the chains fell off his hands. And the angel said to him, Dress yourself and put on your sandals, and he did so. And he said to him, Wrap your cloak around you and follow me. And he went out and followed him. He did not know that what was being done by the angel was real, but thought that he was seeing a vision. When they had passed the first and the second guard, they came to the iron gate leading into the city. It opened for them of its own accord, and they went out and went along one street, and immediately the angel left them. When Peter came to himself, he said, Now I am sure that the Lord has sent his angel and rescued me from When he realized this he went to the house of Mary, the mother of John, whose other name was Mark, where many were gathered together and were praying And we not , when he knocked at the door of the gateway, a servant girl named Rhoda came to answer. Recognizing Peter's voice and her joy, she did not open the gate, but ran in and reported that Peter was standing at the gate. They said to her, You're out of your mind. But she kept insisting that it was so. And they kept saying, It is his angel. But Peter continued, Not Knocking. And when they opened they saw him and were amazed. But motioning to them with his hand to be silent, he described to them how the Lord had brought him out of the prison. And he said, Tell these things to Jac to James and to the brothers. Then he departed and went to another place. Now when day came there was no little disturbance among the soldiers over what had become of Peter. And after Herod searched for him and did not find him, he examined the sentries and ordered that they should be put to death. Then Now Herod was angry with the people of Sir and Sidon, and they came to him with one accord, and having persuaded Blastus the king's chamberlain, they asked for peace because their country depended on the king's country. For food. On an appointed day Herod put on his royal robes, took his seat upon the throne, and delivered an oration to them. And the people were shouting, The voice of a God and not of a man. Immediately an angel of the Lord struck him. And he was eaten by worms and breathed his last. But the word of God increased and multiplied. We're going to walk through this narrative together in four kind of basic movements or four points. So if you're Taking notes this morning, the four movements of the narrative that we'll walk through, we'll see first a powerful opposition, secondly a supernatural deliverance, third we'll see an imperfect obedience. And finally a great reversal. So we'll see a powerful opposition, a supernatural deliverance, an imperfect obedience As we walk through this narrative, I want it to be clear from the outset that the application for us today from this text It's not necessarily that we should expect the same kind of miraculous intervention and deliverance of God that we see Peter here experiencing. In fact, we're given warrant not to see that because the apostle James, another faithful minister of the gospel, was put to death. But what we need to see, church, is that the same God who delivered Peter is still building his church today. His power has not changed at all. His gospel has not changed. And so the question for us today is quite simply, where is your confidence? Is it in Christ or is it in something else? Church, how we answer that question is going to shape everything about how we live our lives as followers of Jesus and how we shape our ministry practices as a church. Well, we look first in this text to a great and powerful opposition. A powerful opposition. Every great story features some kind of great conflict. And from the very beginning of this chapter, we are brought into that conflict as we are introduced to Herod. King Herod Agrippa I was the grandson of Herod the Great, and he had a very short reign, but in that time he represented this violent physical threats to the people of God in the first century. He had great power and great vast resources at his disposal, and he discharged them, he used them To persecute the church. We see first here that it is at his command that the Apostle James is put to death. This is the first apostle we believe to be martyred for his faith. And he finds this to be a politically expedient move. He finds this to be politically advantageous for him. Which motivates him to keep going. Scholars note that Herod had a somewhat shaky relationship with the Roman government and the Roman Emperor that he was under. And so he sought to kind of curry the favor of the Jews so that he could establish his power in the region of Judea where he reigned to kind of hedge his bets or establish his power. Persecuting Christians, he found, just so happened to be a pragmatic way for him to build up his own kingdom. As an opponent of the kingdom of Christ, Herod is serving himself, amassing his own supposed power and control. Which is what all of us do who once were dead in sin and aligned with the kingdom of darkness. We lived for ourselves. We sought to build up our own strength. Well, to this end of Herod building up his own kingdom, he arrests and impris Peter during the peak feast of unleavened bread. Intending to bring him out after the festival had ended, apparently and presumably to have him executed for the Jews. In verse 4, we see that Herod spares no expense in locking Peter down. He's guarded, we see, by four squads of soldiers. Which would have each included four soldiers rotating every six hours. So a total of 16 people on rotation guarding Peter. This is a total lockdown. Vast resources expended. And we need to see from the outset that this moment in the life of the church in Jerusalem is a moment of crisis. James the Apostle had just been put to death, who was a prominent leader in the Jerusalem church. And now Peter is imprisoned and on death row. You can imagine the questions that must have been running through the heads of these followers of Jesus in the first century. How will the church survive? If its leaders are being killed off. Does God really care about us? What do we make of God's promises to build his church if the leaders of God's church continue to be done away with? How is God going to fulfill his promises? This narrative is just dripping with this sense of tension and suspense. Things here look just utterly grim for the people of God as they are in this crisis moment in the early church. But look at verse 5. Because in verse 5, in the midst of this crisis, we see this faint glimmer of light that breaks through the darkness. It says that Peter was kept in prison. But earnest prayer for him was made to God by the Church. So yes, the Church in Jerusalem is in crisis, but in the midst of that crisis They cry out to their God. Notice the adjective earnest that describes their prayers, or some of your translations may say fervent They were earnestly, passionately coming to God in prayer. See, they recognized that the God who had redeemed them from their sin is the sovereign Lord of all. And therefore, when crisis comes, we go to him in prayer, trusting that he hears us, and trusting that he actually chooses to work out his sovereign plan through the prayers of his people. In the midst of this crisis they go to God in prayer. Now there is an irony here that we're going to see later, because despite their fur fervent prayers, they didn't actually believe it when Peter showed up on their doorstep. Nevertheless, what we're presented with here in these opening verses are two fundamentally different views of power. You have two understandings, really two worldviews of what power is. On the one hand, you have the physical might and political power of Herod and all the resources that he could expend. But on the other hand, you have the spiritual, gospel-soaked power of our sovereign God, to whom we who are weak and Desperately needy go to in prayer. The question we're faced with from the outset of this text, and one that we face every single day, is turn Who do you believe is sovereign? Who do you believe is in control? Who is the true king and whose kingdom do you actually believe will prevail? See, if we were to be just dropped into this scene, it would certainly look like Herod is the one holding all the cards with all the power. Not these weak, persecuted Christians who are huddled together in someone's home. But what we see here is that the prayers of God's people almost peel back the curtain for us and tell us the true story of who's truly in control. And as this narrative and the story progresses, we're going to see that the conflict here isn't Herod versus Peter. It's not even Herod versus the church. It's Herod versus God. The question of this narrative and the tension of the narrative is who will get the glory? We see this conflict develop even more as we turn now to the supernatural deliverance that God accomplishes for his servant Peter. We turn secondly to a supernatural deliverance of God. In verse 6, we see that the dramatic of The dramatic tension of the story rises to its highest point. It's the very night before Herod was going to bring Peter out before the people to carry out this death sentence And Luke in verse 6 gives us these vivid details of Peter asleep between two soldiers bound with chains with sentries before the door guarding the prison. It's almost as though he wants to just highlight for us how physically impossible escape would have been. Peter was locked down. Things are as just bleak as they could be as we enter into this scene of the prison cell. Herod has expended these vast resources of his own kingdom against the kingdom of Christ. And Peter's death sentence seems just to be all but a certainty. But what we're going to see is that though Herod's resources and might were impressive , The resources of the true king are infinitely greater. Verse 7, the darkness of Peter's cell and the the darkness of the scene are just diffused with this great Light. An angel of the Lord appears before Peter. This great light shines into the cell. The angel strikes Peter on the side and wakes him up, telling him to get up quickly. And then miraculously Peter's chains that had just bound him fall off his hands. He gets up, he follows the Lord the the angels' instructions to dress himself, to put on his sand. There's this just so abrupt change, but it's important that we see that what had just a moment before been described as a total lockdown An insurmountable obstacle is undone in second. And church, we need to see in this the great power of the God that we serve. Our God is not intimidated by rival kings and their attempts to overthrow his kingdom. Our God is all powerful, all glorious. Consider just some of the language of Scripture and how it describes the power and might of our God. Consider with me Psalm 89. I'm just going to read verses six through eleven and meditate with me on the power of our God. For who in the skies can be compared to the Lord? Who among the heavenly beings is like the Lord? A great God greatly to be feared in the council. the Holy Ones, and awesome above all who are around him. O Lord God of hosts, who is mighty who is mighty as you are, O Lord, with your faithfulness all around you. You rule the raging of the sea. When its waves rise, you still them. You crushed Rahab like a carcass. You scattered your enemies with your mighty arm. The heavens are yours. The earth also is yours. And the world and all that is in it. You have founded him. Church, this is our God. This is the God who deployed his angel to rescue Peter from his cell. And this is the God, Church, who if you are here today and your hope is in Christ, This is the God who has delivered you from your sins through the work of his Son. And this is the God whose gospel continues to go forth in power today. Friends, are we seeing this? Him rightly. Have we allowed what we see in front of us in the realities of sin and brokenness in the world distract us or cause us to fall into unbelief? Of who our God truly is. Again, we see this just whole narrative peeling back the curtain for us and revealing to us and reminding us who is really in control in the universe. The angel of the Lord accomplishes this rescue mission. There's another important theme that I want to see, I want you all to see unfolding in this story. In verse 9, as Peter follows the angel out of his cell, it's not until after he's led past all the guards. after the iron gate of the prison opens, after he's let out into the street, and after he's uh led past let led out into the street and all the angel leaves him, that he realizes that what he's seen has actually happened. Before that, we're told that he thinks he's seeing a vision. And what this emphasizes for us is that it is God who is bringing about this deliverance, not Peter. God is the one who works in power, and God is the one who receives all the glory. We don't come away from this story being all that impressed with Peter. Or all that impressed with the church that's gathered in Mary's house. Instead, we come away seeing the great power of Almighty God, who works even through the weakness of his people. Oh, that should encourage us, church. That God works through weak people. As Peter finally comes to realize what has just taken place in verse 11, he clearly sees who has done what. In the proceedings, he says, Now I am sure that the Lord has sent his angel and rescued me from all that the Jewish people were expecting. The Lord has done it. And church, we need to see and we need to remember that if there is anything that is of true lasting spiritual value in our lives and in our church It's because God has done it. When we see fruit in our lives, when we see lost sinners coming to faith in Christ, when we see the kingdom of Jesus expanding, it's because God has worked in power for the glory of his name. And again, praise him that he chooses to work through weak and insufficient and ineffective jars of clay like us. What a great dignity it is that we who know our sin better than anybody would be used by our God in his great project of the gospel going forth. Church, if we long to be effective in kingdom work, and I hope that you do, we must look to God in faith. And we must pray earnestly for His Spirit to work in power We must adopt his methods and not our own. Trusting, Church, that he works by his word and by his spirit to bear gospel fruit in our hearts. If we don't see that it is God alone who works in power, then there's no point. So Peter is rescued from prison, not because of anything that he had done. But because the sovereign God intervened in power on his behalf, he thwarted the plans of Herod and the Jewish leaders who were seeking to stamp out the spread of the gospel. We see just how this narrative is kind of building up for this, and we're going to see it in the fourth point, this theme of reversal, reminding us who's truly in control and whose kingdom will ultimately stand. We see also here that God's redemptive plan is not dependent on the competency or the effectiveness of his people. This becomes even clearer in the next section. We turn next and we see the imperfect obedience of Christ's Church I don't know about you, but in my own heart, sometimes when I tell stories in retrospect, there's this tendency, or at least this temptation, to kind of embellish. You know, even if ever so slightly, just to kind of make yourself seem a little look a little better, look a little more impressive than you actually were in the moment. Well here there is no such thing happening Because what we see is that even as the people of God are gathered together and are praying, their faith was imperfect. And this provides for us yet another avenue to see that it is Christ Jesus who ultimately is the one building, sustaining, nurturing, and equipping his church. Not us. God calls us to be faithful, but God in his by his spirit equips and empowers our faithfulness. And oh, isn't that good news, Church? Can you imagine if this all depended on us, where we would be? God is gracious. We see that Peter goes to the house of Mary, the mother of John Mark in verse 12. Many from the Jerusalem church were gathered together and were praying. And when he knocks on the door, a servant girl answers. recognizes his voice and is so overjoyed that she runs to tell everybody in the house, leaving Peter standing at the gate. This is almost a comedic scene as Peter is trying to get in. He's just escaped from prison and he's left out in the cold. Remember though there's still this this tension, there's still the middle of the night. Peter had just been delivered out of prison. But when Rhoda comes in, and when he s she says that Peter is standing outside The immediate response of the people of God is unbelief. They they tell her she's out of her mind. Look at verse 15. They said to her, You're out of your mind. But they but she kept instilling. Insisting that it was so. And they kept saying it is his angel. She kept insisting that Peter was outside, and they kept denying it. They said, Oh, it must be his angel. At the time there was this Jewish superstition that every single person had their own guardian angel. So so Rhoda, that must be what you're seeing. You must just be seeing Peter's angel. It couldn't possibly Well we should notice in this the tremendous irony at play in this scene. On the one hand, these believers are gathered together and they're in the middle of the night earnestly praying for Peter as he is on death. Roe. Surely they were praying for his release. And yet when they show up at his when when Peter shows up at their door, they don't believe it could possibly be him In fact, they think that a Jewish superstition about guardian angels is more plausible and more likely than the deliverance of God. And church, how often are our hearts characterized by the same sort of unbelief? That we have seen, church, the salvation of the Lord, that we have tasted and And though we set before ourselves, as we gather weekly, the promises and the truths of his word, how often do we doubt his power to provide for our need? Or to sustain us through trials, or to build up his church. How often do we doubt that he's actually at work in us? This whole narrative and this whole book of Acts is a call to faith in the God who saves and who sustains his People. He may not choose to work through such miraculous means as he did in the age of the apostles. And me, he may even choose for our story to end more like the Apostle James. But Church, we mustn't doubt for a moment that he's any less active in the world today or in our own hearts and lives. Church, his gospel has not lost an ounce of its power. He is still saving souls, so may we look to him in faith. Well, in the narrative, Peter keeps knocking, and eventually the door is opened. And the believers gathered in the house see him and are amazed. He motions them to be silent and tells them how God miraculously brought him out of prison. And again, see here that God is the one who gets all the glory. And this should be a reminder to us, church, that we are called to encourage one another by giving testimony. Verbal testimony, which requires talking to people, oh my goodness, of how we see God at work in our lives or in the lives of others. You, I would bet money, don't have a story of miraculous prison escape. But surely you can talk about how you are seeing Christ as you're reading his word. Surely you can talk about how God is granting you victory. Surely you can talk about how he is saying sustaining you through a difficult season, through pain and through sorrow and through despair. And surely you can Encourage your brothers and sisters with where you're seeing evidence of his grace in them. Now, of course, this requires that we are looking through these things. This requires that we are tuning our hearts to what God is doing in our midst. This requires that we're paying attention to our brothers and sisters. and regularly seeking to know how we can be lifting them up to the Lord. But friends, may we encourage one another with such testimonies. May we prioritize as a body loving one another by actually giving testimony to what Christ is doing in his church, despite our imperfect obedience to him. But we see here that Jesus Christ builds and sustains his church despite the imperfect obedience of his people, despite our weakness, despite our sin. Despite the realities of his suff of our suffering, his kingdom is advancing as the gospel goes forward. And his kingdom will not fail. The gates of hell won't stand against It, Matthew chapter 16 tells us. Christ's kingdom will ultimately prevail and triumph over every rival kingdom that opposes his rule and seeks to see And we see this finally and vividly as we turn finally to the great reversal that concludes this narrative. We look finally at a great reversal. The tension, the question of this narrative began with this question of who's really in control? King Jesus or King Herod. And it certainly begins in a way that, just as an observer, we would think that Herod's the one who's holding all the power. But as it ends, there's no doubt whatsoever in this last section who the true sovereign is and whose kingdom will truly prevail. In verses eighteen and nineteen, Herod's response to Peter's miraculous deliverance out of prison is to Continue with business as usual. He has the prison guards put to death, which would have been the ordinary sentence for those who allowed a prisoner to escape. He goes down to Caesarea. He continues with business and life as usual, building up his own little kingdom. And then as he goes down to Caesarea, beginning in verse 20, we're presented with this scene that is just Fascinating. Because it's full of this political maneuvering, this false praise. It's full of the kind of pompous pride of Herod. But ultimately it's full of the powerful and just judgment of God. So we have the people of Tyre and Sidon. who are seeking to persuade Herod to resume trade with them. We're told that Herod was angry with the people of Tyran Sidon. And so now they're coming to him to kind of receive his favor so that he would resume trade with him. These were uh these two coastal cities and they depended on grain and other resources that would have come down from Palestine where Herod reigned. And so they're looking to win Herod's favor. They're seeking to re-establish trade. They have their own kind of political and economic goals here. And what we're going to see is that Herod is concerned utterly with one thing himself. Verse 21 presents us with this scene that is at once almost just comedic in kind of its absurdity. It's really an absurd, ridiculous scene. But at the same time it's deeply, deeply tragic. So we're told that on an appointed day Herod puts on his royal robes, he takes his seat upon his throne, and he delivers an oration, he delivers a speech. to the people. It's kind of this scene of just great pomp and circumstance. You can imagine him in his uh lavish robes I can't help but think of something like uh the recent coronation of King Charles III in England, which, yes, for all its interesting history and ceremony. When you see a 73-year-old man being paraded around in these massive robes, it just looks kind of silly. But that's kind of the the image of what's happening here. It's this scene building up the glory, the false glory of King Herod. And we see that the people of Tyre and Sidon, they're eager to play along to get what they want. So they're willing to take part in stroking Herod's ego. They shout out the voice of a God and not of a man. They're willing to play along. This whole scene is kind of tailor-made to magnify the false glory of Herod. It's almost like a worship scene, but the worship is directed to the just entirely wrong object But what we see is that when the true king enters the scene, once more the curtain is peeled back. And we see who the true sovereign is and who ultimately is worthy of all glory In verse 23, the angel of the Lord strikes Herod down. Notice the language here. It says, beginning in verse 23, immediately An angel of the Lord strikes him down. God's judgment here is swift and it is decisive and it's also gruesome The king who a moment before appeared to be so very glorious and powerful in his majestic robes becomes wormed, reduced to nothing. And we're told exactly why he receives such a decisive and swift judgment. It says, because He did not give God the glory. Herod sought to magnify his own glory, not God's. But our God is the one who says in Isaiah chapter 42, verse 8, I am the Lord, that is my name, my glory I give to no other. Church, God alone is worthy of all glory, all praise, and all honor. And those who sinfully stand in opposition to Him, who attempt to build up glory for themselves, will face his eternal and his just judgment. And we must see, church, that apart from God's grace in Christ, this is where every Every single one of us were. When we were dead in sin before God powerfully intervened in our hearts and brought us into new life in Christ, we looked at ourselves and we said, behold a God and not a man. Maybe we didn't put it in that language, but we lived for self when we were dead in sin. We sought to build up our own glory. This was the temptation that our first parents were faced with in the garden. It was the temptation to become gods and not men. Oh church, see from this text the sobering reality that all of us who do not turn to Christ in faith will face the just judgment of God for our sin, for our hearts that glorify self and not God. This is the state into which we are born And God may not work with such swift, decisive judgment in this way, striking dead. But that doesn't mean that his judgment is any less real. The reality of eternity, an eternal judgment that is rightly deserved by sinners, is real So, friend, if you are here today and you have not trusted in Christ, the call of this text is to repent and believe in Him. To see that you stand guilty before him, justly condemned for not giving glory to God, and that you can do nothing of your own to remedy this. But Christ has done all for you. Look to him in faith. Trust in his death on the cross, paying the penalty for your sins. Trust in his glorious resurrection, which gives us new life This narrative concludes for us with a great reversal. It begins In verse 1 with Herod the king as the supposed sovereign, the supposed man in control. But see in verse 23 that his kingdom is brought to an end in an instant But what we see finally in verse 24 is that Christ's kingdom does not end. Verse 24 gives us this summary, this glorious summary that the word of God increased. Which is a summary way of saying that the gospel continued to go forth. Sinners continued to be brought to faith and repentance. established and nurtured and grown up into Christ like biblical health. And from here the the go the uh the narrative of Acts actually turns and focuses on the gospel going forth to the nations through the missionary efforts. of Paul. What we see is that despite continued opposition and despite suffering and weakness, which we see all throughout the book of Acts, and which we see and should expect today, Jesus has taught us. Despite all attempts to thwart his reign, Jesus Christ continues to build his church. And as we conclude this morning, the question that we're faced with is the same question with which we began. Christian, who or what do you believe is truly in control? Do we believe that Christ Jesus is still building us? church and that no opposition can thwarts his kingdom purposes. Where's your confidence, Christian Is it in the latest news story? Is it in the next election cycle? Or is it in the sovereign king who we're told in 1 Corinthians must reign until he has put all his enemies under his feet. Practically one of the things a text like this ought to do in our hearts is root out the kind of cynicism that can so often plague our hearts. So often I find myself struggling with the cynicism that just I convince myself that people don't really change all that much. We're just kind of continuing on doing what we can do. That is not the perspective of God's word. That is not the perspective of faith, and that is not the perspective of the kingdom of Christ. Christ. Oh church, we must see that Christ is still working and still building his church. We must trust that he is still working in us and making us into glorious reflections of his Son Christ Jesus. Friends, do our hearts and our lives and our public witness reflect a joyful confidence in King Jesus or a confidence in something else? And even if our story plays out more like the Apostle James instead of the Apostle Peter, even if we, from our perspective, don't see the deliverance of God in our lives. Will we still trust that in the Lord our labor is not in vain? Friends, his power has not changed, and his gospel has not changed, and his mission has not changed. So the question for us is when we look out into a world that is filled with sin, or when we see sin in our own hearts. Will we by faith anchor our confidence to Christ Jesus and his unstoppable kingdom? Let's pray together. Oh Father, convince us by your grace and by your spirit that you are at work in this world and that the gospel continues to go forth. in power. God give us joy in Christ. May our public witness to the world be one of joy because we have been saved from death and sin to life in Christ. We are citizens of your kingdom and nothing, God, can be better than that. Lord, help us to trust that you are working in this body, that you are working in North Hartford Baptist Church for the spread of your kingdom. Use us We pray to be faithful unto you. Root out, God, the cynicism that can so easily pervade our hearts and that can so easily convince us that You're not truly at work. Or that other things are stronger than your power. God help us to see Christ rightly and to favor him We thank you, God, for the kingdom that you are building all for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.