I'm gonna tell you, I'm just so happy to be here with you to look out and see so many people gathering to worship the Lord. Um Don't let the pessimism of the world around us get to us. God is still working. God is still active. God is still Saving sinners for His name and for His glory. I appreciate you being here. There's nothing better for us to do than to come together and hear God's word and sing God's praises If you have a Bible, you can turn to Hebrews 11. Hebrews, or Hebrews 7, rather, Hebrews 7, verses 11 through 16. Let me see how legible this is. I made a slide for you on this passage. I did not check to see if it's legible or not, but either way, you have the passage you can turn to it. Hebrews 7 Verse 11 to 16. I'm calling this message another priest arises. And as we go through, you'll see two phrases particularly that stand out and tell us that that's what this passage is about. Uh that another priest arises. You you have this one kind of priest. They couldn't take away sins, but you have another priest arises, and this priest alone can take away our sins. Another priest arises. Hebrews 7 verse 11 through 16. Now, if perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood, for under it the people received the law. What further need would there have been for another priest to arise in the order of Melchizedek? Rather than one named in the order of Aaron. For when there is a change in the priesthood, there is necessarily a change in the law as well. For the one of whom these things are spoken belonged to another tribe, from which no one has ever served at the altar. For it is evident that our Lord was descended from Judah, and in connection with that tribe, Moses said nothing about priests. This becomes even more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek, who has become a priest. Not on the basis of a legal requirement concerning bodily descent, but by the power of an indestructible life. Let's pray. Father, as we open your word, it hopefully it's obvious to all of us that if you don't help me in speaking these words They'll have no impact for us. And if you don't help in the hearing of these words, they'll have no impact for us. But God, we're not here to trust in ourselves. We're here to trust in you. That you would drive your word into our hearts by the work of your spirit Oh, in a world of lies, Father, we hunger for your truth. We hunger to hear of your grace and of your mercy and of your love and of your Son, Jesus, who's our only hope. Father, I pray that you would help us. Would you help us by your word? Help us by your spirit. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen. Another priest arises. Another priest arises. Hopefully you saw that in verse eleven, or you could see it now in verse eleven toward the end. Another priest to arise. And then down below verse fifteen, when another priest arises. In the Old Testament you had human priests who would offer animal sacrifices, those symbolized forgiveness, but those could never provide forgiveness. Old priests, Old Testament priests, but then another priest arises, Jesus. He makes one sacrifice. He sacrifices not lambs, not bulls Not goats, not pigeons. He sacrifices himself, and this priest, Jesus, actually does take away sins. Aren't you happy about it, church? That Jesus Christ by one sacrifice, one sacrifice, erases the guilt of all of our sins. Past sins. Future sins, known sins, unknown sins, sins against each other, sins against him. God forgives our sin through Jesus Christ. You know, I picked this passage on purpose because it has some strange words or maybe some new words or concepts. I did that on purpose to make a point that even though there's new words and strange words, the message is simple and the message is clear. That God has done a great, great thing for us in Jesus. Now if you can get this, even if you don't understand all the words and all the phrases and concepts in this verse, if you're tuned into this message, you can leave this room and you can have the gist of Christianity down. You could have it down and you'd be able to explain it to anyone anywhere in the world that God has done a great, great thing for us in Jesus. And there's three P words in this passage we're going to work through. Perfection Priest and power. Perfection, priest and power. And under those headings, we're going to see the great, great thing God has done for us in Jesus What's this message about? Say it with me if you've been listening. A great, great thing that God has done for us in Jesus. And that thing is The gospel message, the gospel grace of Jesus Christ. God has done a great, great thing for us in Jesus. And you can understand it Even if you don't understand everything about it, you can understand that this is what Christianity is about. First of all, God has provided for us a great Perfection. So if you're taking notes, whether invisibly in your imagination or on the page, point number one: God has provided for us, God has provided for you a great perfection. Look at verse 11. It's the first key word in this whole passage. Now if perfection Had been attainable. See it? Perfection. This does not mean if you come to Jesus that all of a sudden you'll start living a perfect life. Perfect in all of your thoughts, perfect in all of your desires, perfect in all of your words. God help us. We know how much further we need to grow. Amen? This doesn't talk, this isn't alluding uh to the fact that if you come to Jesus, you'll all of a sudden be perfect in everything. This perfection means something very simple. It means the forgiveness of sins. It means being made perfect in the eyes of God. Now that's absurd. If we know ourselves at all, we know what a great, great gift this is. What a great, great thing God has done. That He has made us perfect before Him. A great perfection. The forgiveness of sins. And that's why another priest had to arise. Another priest had to arise. A priest in a different order. The Levitical Do you see that in verse 11? If perfection had been attainable through the Levitical priesthood, which implies what? It implies right, you right, you 're shaking your head, that it was not attainable. Levitical priests, human priests, offered animal sacrifices That were a reminder of the need for forgiveness and symbolized how forgiveness would be attained, but they did not attain forgiveness. Another priest needed to arise. And just to get it out of the way so you're not contemplating it the entire message and it becomes a distract distraction. What does the name Melchizedek mean? It means king of righteousness. And the significance of this is that Jesus, another priest who arise, not a Levitical priest, but a priest in the order of Melchizedek That means that he serves as priest , and he reigns as king. That's the significance. Significance. Jesus is priest and Jesus is king. Great, great perfection. The forgiveness of our sins. In fact, brothers and sisters, the whole book of Hebrews is about this. Turn, keep a marker in chapter 7. Turn back to Hebrews chapter 1. And look with me at verse 3. Speaking of Jesus, it says, He is the radiance of the glory of God. Does that mean it just means he shines forth God? That's all that means he shines forth the character of God. He's the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature And he upholds the universe by the word of his power after making purification for sins. Stop right there. After making purification for sins, this is what Jesus does. He purifies us from our sins. He cleanses us from our sins. What's our great great problem before we hear the Word of God in our lives? Our great great problem I remember these days like there were yesterday in my life, even though it's a lifetime ago. Our great, great problem is we don't think we need to be purified of our sins. We don't think we need a priest to arise and cleanse us of our sins. After making purification for sins, that's a priest, still in Hebrews 1 verse 3, it says something else, he sat down at the right hand of the majesty on high. Friends, that's the throne of God. Jesus reigns as king over all things on the throne of God, and he's a priest who loves us. What can there be that's better than that? That the Lord of all things, the infinite power, perfect in holiness, perfect in righteousness, perfect in all of his judgments, perfect in pure in all of his ways, loves us and cleanses us from our sins Do you see why this is a great, great thing that God has done for us? This is not a small thing. This is not is not like a gift card for free pizza for the rest of your life. We would be doing cartwheels in the street if we got that But this great, great thing that God has done for us, He's cleansed us of our sins. If He's the highest authority in all of creation, what other authority can step in and give us back the guilt of our sins? See, this is good news. This is why this is such good news. Because brothers and sisters, friends, what Jesus has done, the love of God through Jesus cannot be reversed once you receive it. Once you receive it by faith. A great perfection, the forgiveness of sins. Turn also now, Hebrews, turn way forward to chapter 10. I'm not sure if that qualifies as a way forward, but turn forward. In a moderate amount. Chapter ten. Verse one through four. Since the law has but a shadow of the good things to come instead of the true form of these realities, like if you're walking up to a tree You may be, depending on the position of the sun, you'd be walking in the shadow, walking in the shadow for a long time. But you're not at the tree yet. Once you get to the tree, now you're at the tree. Those Old Testament sacrifices were like a shadow. They let you know the tree was coming, but the tree hadn't come. The death of Christ on the cross is the real thing. It actually takes away sins. It can it can never, it can never by the same sacrifices that are continually offered every year make perfect those who draw near. Otherwise Would they not have ceased to be offered? That's a good question, right? If they actually took away sins, just offer them stop. Sins are taken away Since the worshippers, having once been cleansed, would no longer have any consciousness of sins. But in these sacrifices There is a reminder of sins every year. For it is impossible for the blood of bulls and goats to take away sins. Isn't it true? We need the blood of Christ, an infinite sacrifice, a sacrifice of infinite worth, an infinite value, a perfect sacrifice to cleanse us of our sins. Verse 3 really pops out at me. But in these sacrifices there's a reminder of sins every year. You come every year, offer these sacrifices, and what would those sacrifices had had what would they have spoken to us? If we were at that time coming year after year, sacrifice after sacrifice, it reminds us of our sins. It reminds us you need a savior, you need a savior, you need a savior, you need forgiveness, you need forgiveness, you need to be cle Isn't this the message we need to hear over and over again because we're so naturally hard-headed and stiff-necked? We need a savior. This is the announcement that the church has for the world. We need a Savior and tack right onto that, God has provided a Savior, Jesus Christ, who will cleanse us of all of our sins. So another priest arose, not in the order of Aaron, but in the order of Melchizedek, one who reigns over all things as king, and with that grand and supreme authority. forgives our sins and serves as our priest. Christian Worldview 101. That's what you came for here tonight, right? Well I really hope he gives us a bird's eye view, overarching picture of what is Christianity about. It's about Jesus, our King and our priest, who cleanses us of our sins. Is that a great perfection? Or is that a great perfection? All the money in the world doesn't matter. If we still have the guilt of sins, like a burden hanging on our shoulders. All the approval of the world around us matters nothing if we still have the guilt of our sins hanging on our shoulders. Now, if this is such a great perfection, it's important how we that we know how to receive it. And we receive it by faith, by trusting in Jesus Christ that His sacrifice alone cleanses us of our sins. His sacrifice alone. Not faith in Jesus plus my good works. Are you awake this morning? Will you get mad at me if I tell you the truth? That your good works and your religious performance means nothing as to the taking away of your sins. It doesn't make God love you more. Faith in Christ alone takes away sins. Not good deeds, not external religion, not trying hard to be good. Not being a part of a Christian family, not going to church, only faith in Christ saves the sins and takes away sins. And you can believe in him today. Christianity is for the masses Forgiveness is acceptable to accessible to anyone, anywhere. It's readily accessible. You do not have to go out and prove yourself worthy. Doesn't make sense. We need to be saved because we're not worthy. We could never be worthy. We could never make ourselves worthy or halfway worthy or even. 0001% worthy. But Jesus saves us out of grace and love and mercy if we receive him by faith. A great perfection. God has done a great. Have you heard it yet this morning? Has it made its way into your heart? God has done a great, great thing for you through Jesus. First of all, He's provided a great perfection. Second of all, he's provided a great priest. He's provided a great priest. This is the if you were to say, what's the theme of this paragraph? That's the theme. Because, because the perfection Is received through the priest. You come to the priest who is Jesus. Back in our main passage, Hebrews 7, verse Verse eleven, still, the end of verse eleven. Another priest to arise After the order of Melchizedek, rather than one named in the order of Aaron. Verse 12, for when there's a change in priesthood, you've seen it twice now, another priest, and now change in priesthood. There's necessarily a change in the law as well. That's talking specifically about the law as it pertains to the requirements for being a priest. Verse 13 , the one whom these things are spoken belong to another tribe, from which no one has ever served at the altar. In other words, there's never been a priest from this tribe. All the priests were in the tribe in the line of Aaron. Verse 14, for it is evident that our Lord descended from Judah. And in connection with that tribe, Moses said nothing about priests. Verse 15, this becomes more evident when another priest arises in the likeness of Melchizedek. Who has become a priest. So over and over and over, in this short little paragraph, itty bitty little paragraph, priest, priest, priest, priest, priest. God has provided a great, great priest. What does a priest do? It's a very simple concept. A priest brings God and man together. A priest is a mediator. A priest. Is sent by God and represents God to the people. And a priest also is one of the people. And he comes before God and represents the people, the God. A priest if there's two friends who are fighting and they're not talking to each other. And you step in and you try to get them talking to each other again and and persuading them that they need to forgive each other, that they need to be reconciled to each other. It you're acting as a mediator, you're act it's almost a priestly role. You're bringing two parties who were at conflict, you're helping to erase the conflict and bring them together in peace. That's what a priest does. A priest brings God and man together. He represents God to the people, and he represents the people to God. And we have this great, great priest. In the old covenant, Priests in the line of Aaron, just like the sacrifices were a shadow that pointed forward to the death of Christ, the priests themselves were a shadow that pointed forward to the work of Christ. Christ offers one sacrifice himself to cleanse us of our sins. Old Testament priests were a symbol of that Foreshadowed that, like if you're reading a novel, and we all remember from elementary school what foreshadowing is. Some things are said that gives you the impression that something is going to happen at some point. Maybe two chapters later, maybe four chapters later, something has been foreshadowed. Hasn't happened yet, but you know it's coming. The Old Covenant priests, Old Testament priests foreshadowed this great, great priest, this great Savior who would take away our sins. God has given us a great perfection. How has he done that? Because he's given us a great priest. You know, I grew up in a religious system where I was taught that right now on earth There are men who serve as priests and they need to mediate my relationship to God. And I had no idea that this was false. But this is the way I was raised. This is the way I grew up. That there's men who are priests. And if I want forgiveness from God, I have to go through them to get God's forgiveness. And and even other being, even um even uh Christians of old who've passed away can serve as priests. If I want to offer a prayer to God, I can offer a prayer to these uh saints, these Christians who passed away, and then they can mediate that prayer to God. The only one who mediates our relationship to God is Jesus. You don't need to come through another human being, through a priest, in order to get to Jesus, to get to God. You don't need to come through the church. There's a thing called priesthood of all believers. That's in a general sense we represent God on earth and we bring God's message of salvation to anyone and everyone who would listen. But no one needs to come through us and by our authority now we get them to Jesus. I also grew up learning that my religious performance and going through certain religious rituals also mediated my relationship to God As I got older, I left that system, not for any good reasons, just to leave religion altogether and live for the world. And in that season of my life was even worse. I thought I didn't need a priest at all. I thought I didn't need anybody to mediate my relationship. With God. Thank God, brothers and sisters, if you have tasted of the gift of salvation in Christ, it's such a glorious thing to think about. The lives that we were living, the principles by which we were living, the pursuits, the earthly selfish pursuits that our hearts were ever affixed upon and yet out of love God intervened and God brought his word and God brought his spirit and God changed our hearts to live for him rather than ourselves. We're not better than anyone. Church members, I hope you know this. We're not Christians, we're not saved because we're better than anyone, because we're smarter than anyone, because we're inherently more spiritual than anyone. Get these ideas out of your brain. We're saved by grace. We're saved by sheer grace and mercy. And here's why. Here's why. Do you want to know why? Heaven help me. Because salvation is a manifestation of God's glory, not ours. Hundred percent. Our salvation is supposed to turn us to God to worship Him and praise Him and thank Him. Salvation is for God's name and glory in the world, not ours and not the church's. So we've got to understand that we're saved by grace through faith. And we must, oh friends We must understand that you do not need to come through a human priest to get to Jesus to get to God, and you do not need to come through religious ritual to get to Jesus to get to God. You do not need to come to through the church or through church activity to get to Jesus, to get to God. Come directly to Jesus. Come right to Jesus. He's accessible for all, anytime. And turning to Jesus, I've said this before, if I ever stop saying this, would one of you please take me outside and rebuke me immediately after the service? I'm serious on this. Turning to Jesus is invisible. It's something that happens in your heart. It's not saying a prayer. It's not being baptized. It's not walking forward. It's nothing. The external obedience follows Turning to Jesus. But turning to Jesus is invisible. You can do it right now. You can do it right now. You could have lived your life for the for the devil your entire life, but right now You can turn to Jesus in your heart, which is invisible, and be saved and have all of your sins forgiven. And I pray that you would. This is what church is about This is what church is about. It's about forgiveness, a forgiveness that humbles each and every one of us. The local church, a biblical local church, should be like a lighthouse of humility in the community Not self-righteousness, not legalism, not a harsh and critical spirit, but people who have been humbled by the Lord God Almighty because we've been saved by grace. Am I going too long on this point? Let me know, because we have one more point. Oh, what a great, great thing God has done for us. What a great, great thing God has done for you and Jesus. He's given a great perfection. He's given a great Priest has given us a great power. This is one of my favorite phrases in the Bible. In verse 16, a great, great power. who has become a priest, not on the basis of a legal requirement concerning bodily descent, which just means his lineage. Remember it was talking about what tribe, he's from this tribe, or is he from that tribe? That's all that means. He's not a priest based on bodily descent, but by the power of an indestructible life. And that's why I'm preaching on this on Easter Sunday. The resurrection life of Jesus Christ. You see, if Jesus only died for our sins, we'd be in trouble. I think about you want to get you want to get a really, really nice gift for someone that you love. So you go out shopping, you find you sh you have to search high and low to find this glorious gift that you want to get. Finally you get it. You pay a lot for it. But imagine if you never bring it home. Does the gift is the gift of any good to that person? Oh, haven't received it. Now that's a metaphor. That's an illustration of if Jesus died for our sins but never rose again. Because, friends, Jesus is the one who actively, proactively, from heaven, saves us. He cleanses us of our sins. Jesus brings us to faith. Jesus changes our hearts. He went out and, for the illustration, purchased the gift of forgiveness, but he also brings it home to us. In the past, in the past, in history. We weren't there when Jesus died for our sins. But in our lives, personally, experientially, Jesus saves. And he brings that gift to our hearts, the gift of salvation. The power of an indestructible life, you could equally translate that the power of an incorruptible life or the power of an imperishable life. One of the really, really, really big deals in this section of Hebrews is that Jesus serves as priest continually and that will never end. He's always there if you want to go to him for salvation. He's always there if you want to go to him for help. He's always there if you want to lift your praises to him, your prayers to him, if you need help through a difficult time. He's always there. He has Compassion, he has empathy, he has unlimited power, and he's always there for you. He lives forever, he serves as priest forever in the presence of God And here that's described in this phrase power of an indestructible life. Resurrection life. Resurrection life. When we think about it, when you zoom out and think about what salvation is, it's receiving the thing that Jesus already received. Think about this. What Jesus received in his resurrection, the gift of eternal life, that's what our salvation is, receiving that very same gift from him. He was risen to newness of life, and when we come to faith, we are risen to newness of life. Do you remember from uh Boy, was it three weeks ago, four weeks ago? I don't know. They all blend together. Where I preached, uh, I think it was the first paragraph in First John chapter one. Talked about this gift of eternal life that we experience in how many stages? Let's see, now you're really on the hot seat. How many stages do we receive and experience? Yes, someone's doing two stages. When we hear the gospel and come to faith in Jesus, we receive resurrection life now internally. And on the last day, won't it be glorious? We'll receive resurrection life externally pertaining to the body. We'll be like Jesus Well how grand is this? I'm telling you, if I haven't told you already, God has done a great, great thing for us in Jesus When we're risen to the fullness of resurrection glory, we'll see Jesus fully and we'll be like Jesus fully And being like Jesus fully is not just about a resurrection body. It means we'll no longer have passions and desires that are tainted and corrupted by sin. will no longer have thoughts and ideas and patterns of thought that are corrupt by sin. Sin is Like this wicked power that lives within us and wants us to drag up drag us away from God and praise God for the Holy Spirit within us, dragging us the other way. We'll never say words anymore that are defiled when we're like Jesus. We'll never hold grudges again. When we are like Jesus. Because why? Because why? Because of his great power. There's a great perfection that is ours in Christ. He's a great, great priest, and he reigns with a great great power. Um the practical application of this can never be overstated. I I mean this is everything that Jesus lives with an indestructible power and he'll always serve as our priest. The practical application, aside from what I've already already said, he's always accessible. Uh for prayer, for praise, for salvation. But we have a trustworthy source of hope. We have a trustworthy source. We have a true and lasting hope. Uh uh There's all kinds of things in the world. Tell me if I'm making this up. There's all kinds of things in the world world to try to get us to believe that that's a source of hope And this is a source of meaning. Whether it's money or stuff or land or vehicles or fame or the approval of others, whatever it is. Fun, entertainment, whatever it is, all kinds of things in this world that really lobby for our hearts. There's a battle for our hearts to put our hope in things other than Jesus Christ. We but but they can never deliver on that hope. Never deliver on that hope. Well when we preach Jesus to each other and and sing songs of Jesus or singing About, amongst other things, that he's a trustworthy source of true and lasting hope. Not a fake hope, but a true hope. Not a temporary hope, but a lasting hope And he's always there. He's a trustworthy. It means sure. It means certain. It means steadfast. He ever lives. He welcomes sinners. Think about what that should mean for our attitude toward those who don't know Jesus. Jesus warmly welcomes and receives people who don't know him. People who lived for themselves instead of him. Jesus doesn't Kick them away like they can't come to him. He warmly receives and welcomes and globally invites any sinner anywhere to come to him and he for them, for them, he will be a trustworthy hope. And salvation. Aren't you happy about it? If that weren't true, we would not have great perfection. And he would not be a great priest. He wouldn't have a great power. Three very brief summary applications, just closing meditations, closing contemplations for your practical living. Number one, if all this is true, and it is true, that God has done this great thing for us, God is worthy to be praised. God is worthy to be praised. Sometimes we forget that. Sometimes we get caught into the rut of religion, and we end up coming simply because there's something in us we feel like we need to. We feel like we need to do this. It's our duty. We go and do this. And sometimes we forget. God actually is worthy. God deserves that human beings gather on earth and worship Him. Make a priority of worshiping the Lord. And let that be, let that be, a sufficient goal. Now there are other things that will come other good things that will come from that. Other good fruit that will grow from that. But simply worshiping the Lord is worth it. If the only thing that happens is that God is praised. That's a worthy end. Make it a priority. Make it a priority. God is worthy to be praised. Secondly, if this is true, that God has done this great, great thing for us in Jesus, God is worth seeking. God is worth seeking. You know, this message. That summarizes Christianity, I said earlier, is simple, and I stick to that. It's simple. Christianity is about the forgiveness of sins in Jesus. That doesn't mean it's easy. This is not a simply or merely a human decision or a human work that we can snap our fingers and our hearts have been changed. Now the Bible talks of seeking the Lord with all of our hearts. So seek the Lord. Go home. Read the Bible. Pray. Ask God to intervene in your life. Ask God to show you his love. Ask God to help you understand the gospel. Ask God to give you the strength to prioritize coming to worship him. God must be salt. God must be salt. And we know as we after we're saved, we're able to zoom out, we're able to learn more about it, and after we're saved, after we're saved, not before, we're able look back and we're able to s see it through a different grid. And we can say, oh, God was doing this. From the time we're thinking, I'm doing this, I'm seeking God. But once we're saved and once we're on the other side of it, we look back and say, wow, God did that. And God did that, and God intervened, and God showed me grace. But you won't get that interpretive lens first. First, seek God with all of your heart. Pray to him, cry out to him, worship him, read his word. God is worthy to be praised and he is worth seeking. If it's the greatest treasure ever, is it not worth seeking If it has a true and lasting value, not just value for the here and now, but for all eternity, and increasingly so when we're in the presence of God, is it not worth seeking? Third and final. If God has done this great, great thing for you in Jesus, then He has. He has. Not only is he worthy to be praised, and not only is he worth seeking, but obviously he's kind and gracious Does it go without saying that God is kind, God is gracious, He's given us so much? He's given us so much we could never stop thanking God for all that he's given us. I know there are difficult things in life. I know there's trials, and I know there's sorrows But in God's infinite wisdom, He'll use those to draw us closer to Him. Not to hate Him, but to rely on Him. In new ways and deeper ways, and it's for our good. Brothers and sisters, have you heard this before? That it's for our good that God disciplines us Through trials and hardships. You remember having young children when you were disciplining them with were they always loving it and smiling and happy? No, but it was for their good It was for their good to help them along. God's obviously kind and gracious. No, what's the message of the world around us? No, he's not. Right? This is the message of the world around us. No, he's not. This God can't be kind. This God can't be gracious. But he is gracious and he is kind. He is worth seeking and he's worthy to be praised. I'm very, very happy this morning about the death of Christ on the on the cross to cleanse me of my sins. And I'm very, very happy that He did that to cleanse you of your sins. And I'm just overwhelmed Is thinking about the fact that he rose again to newness of life to attain for us an eternal hope that can never be taken away. Praise God that He did not leave us destitute in the misery and judgment of our sin. Let's pray. Father, you've done a great, great thing for us. And I pray that for each one of us, wherever we are, we're all in different different places. But for each one of us, wherever we are, that we would see that you're worthy to be praised That we would see that it's worth seeking you out, seeking your will. I pray, God, that we would remember daily. That you are kind and that you are gracious, and that your kindness and grace has been expressed and freely given through Jesus Christ. Our great priest with a great power who provides a great perfection. It's in his name we gather and it's in his name we pray. Amen.