This morning, church I had the privilege of opening up God's word and preaching. from the word and this evening I get to do something that in some ways is a lot more awkward talking about myself. But as I uh seek in this body to pursue uh this ministry of a pastoral apprenticeship. It is important, church, that you hear from anyone who would desire and aspire to pastoral ministry to Understand how God has brought me to this point and what the Lord has done to shape my heart and my desires over the past several years. And so my goal this evening is just to share with you a little bit about my aspiration to pastoral ministry, to give some context and to hopefully uh just talk about what the Lord has done in my life and where I believe that He is leading me. We're gonna look at several passages of scripture as I do this, but I won't be preaching strictly speaking, so S set expectations clearly. As I just think about really the past several years One passage that is just deeply comforting to me is Ephesians chapter 2, verse 6. 10. Ephesians 2 verse 10. If you know what's going on in the beginning of the book of Ephesians, Paul is just laying out these glorious truths of the gospel. Of what we have in Christ, that we have been blessed with every spiritual blessing, that we have been delivered into the kingdom of Christ. That we have this glorious inheritance we receive in Christ. He begins chapter two by just expounding on just how desperate our needs are was because of the reality of sin and the reality of being dead in sin, and then the wonderful truth of the glorious gospel of salvation. Salvation by grace alone, through faith alone, in Christ alone. And then in chat or in verse ten of chapter two, he says that we Who have been cr who have been saved by grace through faith are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus for good works which God prepared beforehand. that we should walk in them. So not only is our salvation and our standing before God a work of God's grace that we have no ability to boast in. But even the good works of our life done in faith as followers of Jesus Christ, those too are prepared beforehand by God. Well for me that's just deeply comforting because when I think back on the past several years of my life And some of the things that God has brought me through and and some of the things that I believe have been good works, they have not always been things that felt like good works. And they have not always been things that I would have chosen to bring into my life. But I can look back with a joy and with a certainty That God has been faithful. And I can't really even look back and necessarily quantifiably state, oh, this is why God brought me through this. There are many things that I still look back on and I don't fully understand. But I know that God has been good. I know that God is sovereign, and I know that I don't have to fully comprehend all that He is doing in order to walk faithfully in the good works that He So, like I said, my goal for this evening is just to share with you a little bit about my aspiration to pastoral ministry. I can't possibly do that without kind of backing up and giving just some broader context. I want you to know, church, it's not lost on me that this is not necessarily necessarily the first time I've stood before you and talked about the pursuit of some ministry. So I want to give some important context and share with you a little bit about just where God has brought me and uh where I believe He is leading. And by God's grace, you church have been there as witnesses for much of the work that God has done in my life. And I'm I want you you to know I'm incredibly thankful for that. By God's grace, I came to faith at a very young age. Um I date myself Salvation to the age of five. That is only by God's grace. Um and I believe I was truly converted. At the age of five, I I knew what sin was. I knew what punishment was. My parents could tell you that I knew what punishment was. And I knew That I deserved God's punishment for my sin. And I knew that I needed to trust in Christ for the forgiveness of God. my sins. As much as a five-year-old can understand that, by God's grace and by God's Spirit, I believe that I was truly saved. I was baptized in this church at the age of eight And much of my growth in discipleship church has outwardly been very ordinary. It's followed some just very ordinary paths of maturing and developing and growing. It's been cultivated by my parents faithfully teaching me God's word. It's been cultivated by cultivated through Sunday school teachers, through pastors, through friends, through counselors. Really, I feel that so much of what God has done in my life is just a testimony to The ordinary means of grace and God working through the preaching of His Word, through faithful teaching, and through the body life of the church, and people who cared enough to come alongside and encourage Me and teach me God's word. Well around late high school Uh I had been in high school in just a period in some ways of spiritual apathy. And Just was was living in a way where what I believed was not aligned with what I was desiring, what I was wanting to Pursue and around late high school God began to really convict me of patterns of sin and selfishness in my life where I was just living for what I wanted and trying to build up my for myself the life that I thought was best with less than enough thought for what God wanted for me So through that process of God convicting me, again that was brought about, not really through anything, uh any substantial life event, but really just a conviction. It began as a conviction that I needed to be reading my Bible daily. The Lord brought that conviction into my heart. God gave me a desire to do that, and God worked through God worked through many uh conversations in Sunday school and in youth group. Um Um the Lord just just brought me into a season of kind of rapid growth and increasingly giving me newer and deeper desires to know the Lord and to serve him. Now a lot of this was some zeal without knowledge and I look back and sometimes wish I could you know sit sit down with with eighteen year old Jason and And slap him on the back of the head a little bit, but God is so faithful and God is so kind. It was during this time, around late high school, that I first began to sense a desire to pursue some kind of full time ministry, which was for me really a change in the trajectory uh from where I thought my life was going to go. I of course thought I was gonna play in the NFL and you can see my height and weight and you can see you could have you know anybody could Um but God began to just convict me and really reorient and change the desires of my heart and give me a desire to pursue some kind of full Ministry. Now I couldn't have really told you what exactly that was going to look like, but in God's kindness that brought me, um After graduating high school to Boyce College in Louisville, Kentucky in 2014 to pursue theological education. Now again I didn't know exactly what kind of ministry I wanted to pursue, but I knew my own need to grow and to be sharpened as a student of God's Word, and so uh God brought me to Louis Kentucky for four incredibly formative years. College was a difficult season, as it is for many people. But it was also a time of tremendous blessing, and it was incredibly formative for me in my growth and my discipleship. And one of the most impactful things for me being in Louisville and being uh in the context where I was was the church community that I was able to be a part of. Fellowship Church of Louisville, in Louisville, Kentucky, was just a wonderful, wonderful context for me and for Pat Patty Lynn to have an opportunity to be committed to a local church and just to have a developing and growing and sharpening understanding of the importance of and the centrality of the local church in the mission of God 's people. I began to just see more and more from Scripture how important the local church is for our growth. for our discipleship, for our call to live the Christian life. Well these were things in the these were seeds that were already planted by my time here at North Harford, but just in my own journey and my own growth and and I think For Patty Lynn as well, it was important for us to kind of be required to forge these relationships and to commit to fellow church members. In a context where we weren't related to people. Now I am so thankful for this church. I am so thankful to have been brought up in this church. I'm so thankful. to be in this church now. Um and I think that time away and that time of kind of forging these relationships on our own really has equipped us to better serve and better be members faithfully at North Arford. Well, continuing on in the life of Jason, uh in 2017, Patty Lynn and I were married. A lot of you were there, but maybe all of you who are in this room Except for a few. Two weeks later, uh, we received an email that would dramatically alter the short term course and trajectory of our lives. Uh, we received an email two weeks after we were married, while we were sitting at our kitchen table in our first apartment eating mac and cheese on a Sunday afternoon, asking us whether we would consider praying about opportunities to serve in the Middle East, which was not what we were expecting, but it prompted and began for us a season of prayer A season of seeking counsel, of talking with the uh pastors at our church in Louisville , of a lot of just discussions and time seeking the face of the Lord. And through that process, God just made it very clear that this was an opportunity that we should pursue. So from the summer of twenty eighteen to the summer of twenty nineteen, we had the wonderful opportunity. Who serve as missionaries in the Middle East in Flowertown? From this time in our lives, there's two themes that really uh developed and as I look back two themes that are important for me and how I dis have just discerned and prayed through my sense of aspiration now. One is an even greater and Deepening love for the local church. We had the wonderful opportunity to be part of a house church where we were serving in the Middle East. And uh when I say house church, I always feel like we have this tendency to think sub -church, you know, less than church in some way, because it's a It's a house church, or we sometimes do the same thing with the term church plants. But understand that when I say that, that really all I mean is that we were a church, a body of believers Committed to one another, committed to Christ together, with uh biblically qualified elders serving one another, sitting under God's word. We were seeking to To be all that a local church is called to be, just in a different context, where for reasons of security and other things we had to meet together We wanted to seek to embody the kind of biblical health that our team wanted to see planted amongst indigenous Muslim background believers. And followers of Jesus Christ. And this was just a wonderful season again where God was continuing to clarify my understanding of what a local church is and deepen my love for and my appreciation So this was just such a formative time for me in deepening my understanding of what it means to be a body of believers. Committed together to one another, committed to one another's growth, and serving together as we were seeking to pursue evangelism and have conversations with Muslims and share Christ. Another seas another theme that develops out of this season for my own heart and my own life is this was also for me a season of some really deep and intense sorrows. About two months in, I began to experience some pretty intense uh battles with sorrow and sadness, and I think the best way for me to describe what I was experiencing is to think about some of the language of the Psalms And the psalmist in Psalm 42 cries out, Why are you downcast, O my soul? Why so disturbed within me? I can I can think back to that time and I can identify with that reality of just being downcast. I think about Psalm 77 Beginning at verse four, the psalmist writes, You hold my eyelids open. I'm so troubled that I cannot speak. I consider the days of old, the years long ago. I said, Let me remember my song in the night. Let me mess Meditate in my heart, then my spirit made a diligent search. Will the Lord spurn forever and never again be favorable? at an end for all time? Has God forgotten to be gracious? Has he in anger shut up his compassion? Friends, I was there I experienced these realities in my heart, and it was a difficult season By God's grace, as I look back on that season, I am so utterly thankful for the team and the church that God put Around us. He sustained us graciously, and one of the chief ways he sustained us was through the community of our team and of our church. They walked with us so faithfully. They gave of themselves to love and to serve and to encourage And I am just so deeply, deeply encouraged, even as I look back and I don't understand all of why God brought that season about. I'm so thankful for the people God put in our lives right around us that was faithfully embodying what Christ calls his church to do and be to one another. So after a year serving the Middle East, we left the field and I was still dealing with some of these things and still processing, but still trusting and wanting to seek the Lord and pursue what He had for us. There was still just uncertainty about where a future path of ministry would be for Patty Lynn and I. Um we kind of went into our time in the Middle East, knowing or at least thinking that the Lord was probably not leading us overseas. long term, um but it was still just a tremendous season for us. So we entered into a season where I was taking seminary classes, still uh just growing in my love for the Lord and my love for His Word and my desire to teach His Word. And that season led us to led to me taking a job as a high school Bible teacher at Perry Hall Christian. Christian school, which is what brought us back to Maryland and in the Lord's kindness brought us back to uh being members and serving here at North Harford. Now through my year of teaching, which We can all just we we try to forget about twenty twenty sometimes and the way it was, but if we can think back to it, just remember all of that. Remember masks and uh roped off pews and And imagine trying to enforce all of those things on fifteen to seventeen year olds. As I look back on my my time as a as a teacher in That school. There are many things I look back on that I really enjoyed. I truly enjoyed and saw that it was a privilege to teach God's word for a living. I love the opportunities I had to build relationships with students, to encourage them in their faith, to pray for them and and for the students who did want to be there and did want to know God and study his word deeply, there there was tremendous joy. There were also many things though that I did not enjoy and that ended up being quite difficult uh for me personally. Uh for one thing, just practical things, the demands of uh a curriculum that would not have been how I would have chosen to teach God's Word. Uh dealing with students who were Quite surprisingly antagonistic to the truth of God. And ultimately just being in a setting that was not the local church and that was not God's ultimate and ordained community where his word is to be proclaimed and where his kingdom expands. Not that there is anything wrong with Christian schools, don't hear me wrongly, but what we see in Scripture is that the church is the means through which Christ fundamentally is building and is and expanding his kingdom through biblical local churches. At the same time, I was still dealing with some some sorrow, some sadness and some some even you know physical physical symptoms and difficulty sleeping and some other things. With all of these things kind of combined, uh we made the really tough decision, but I believe the right decision that I needed to step away. What that looked like for me was finishing out the year again by the kindness and mercy of God. And uh I took a blue-collar job making granola in Timonium What after just praying and talking together as a family, Patty Lynn and I and and seeking counsel was that we just kind of needed a season to rest. to pray, to be still, for me to focus on my family and just kind of step away from some of the circumstantial heat that we were experiencing Now now I want you to know that through this season I never lost my confidence in the gospel. I never uh for once lost my confidence in just the importance of the local church and the importance of Christ's body. But as we made this tough decision to step away and to take a season just to rest as a family, uh I want you to know that there was also just uncertainty Um at that point we had been married for three or four years and every single year was just kind of kind of its own whirlwind which when you have three or four whirlwinds they all seem to in your mind and when you look back just create this one massive whirlwind. So there was just a need for us to step away, to regroup, and to seek to just live faithfully as followers of Jesus before considering and pursuing any kind of vocational ministry. Took a season just to step back and to seek to faithfully serve the church as a member, to love my family well, and just to seek to grow as an ordinary follower of Jesus Christ at North Harford Baptist Church and pressed into the body life of the church. And friends, it was really through this season of quote-unquote ordinary growth and discipleship that the Lord really began to stir There in my heart a desire for pastoral ministry once again. And this wasn't something that I was necessarily expecting or seeking after. I knew we needed a time to step away. I needed a time just to to pray and to seek the Lord. I didn't know what the future held, but through this ordinary time of just seeking to serve my family, serve here at North Carford, be part of the body life of the church, God really cultivated This new and deepening desire to pursue pastoral ministry. And as I feel like it's so been so often the case in my story, this was cultivated really through very ordinary means. It was cultivated, I think, fundamentally just through sitting under faithful preaching and teaching of God's Word from both my dad and from Pastor Matt. It was cultivated through just my own desire to deepen my understanding of God's word, to faithfully live as a follower of Christ. It was cultivated through taking some teaching opportunities within my dad's Sunday school class. It was cultivated through the opportunities where I got to serve, through uh leading the musical aspects of our worship and wanting to Do that well and to guide us and lead us in singing and celebrating rich gospel truths together. And encouraging and admonishing one another through our singing. And really this pursuit of pastoral ministry, this This desire began very uh simply enough. It began just kind of as as thoughts. What might it look like for me What might it look like on a Sunday morning to in a biblical local church be a pastor and be proclaiming God's word to the people of God. This led to just a a season of of prayer, of seeking the Lord's wisdom, of seeking to faithfully serve where God had planned. Eventually this continued and and led to bringing in other trusted voices and and people who have had an impact in my life to just hear and to speak into the desires that I was uh experiencing Uh Proverbs chapter eleven verse fourteen tells us that in abundant in an abundance of counselors there is wisdom. And uh my dad just uh uh you know, uh one thing I didn't say about my college days is I did change my major You know, three times. And every time my dad told me, Proverbs eleven fourteen is really important, Jason, and abundance of counselors there is wisdom. And uh that has certainly been true in my life. So through this time the Lord just continued to cultivate in me a deepening love for the body, a deepening desire for the work of preaching and teaching And when we think biblically about the pursuit of pastoral ministry, that's one of the key uh markers that we see. 1 Timothy 3 verse 1 begins, Paul says, by saying, if anyone aspires to the office of overseer, he desires a noble task. So that internal sense of aspiration is not the only thing by any means, but it is one key biblical thing in discerning. a desire to pursue ministry. I I tend not to use the word calling, I tend to use the word aspiration because I think I think that's a more biblical word and and I want just to be clear, church, that that my desire to pursue ministry is not solely and fundamentally based on Me having some sort of subject subjective feeling of well I'm called and no one can say differently. I believe that God works and God affirms through the biblical authority structures He's set in place. those who serve as elders and pastors in the local church and the whole congregation which has a spiritual authority to affirm those who are to pursue pastoral ministry. Well this sense of aspiration was further clarified through the opportunities I continued to have to teach and to preach and to serve the body and and this all was happening over the course of a little over a year, I would say And again, I just saw continually through this slow process, and I'm thankful as I look back that it has been a slow process. Uh there were times when I didn't want it to be a slow process, but I'm thankful in looking back that God cultivated these things slowly. What I what I saw in my own heart was a Deepening desire and passion to serve the Lord and to serve his church. Well, this was also in God's kindness affirmed by my family. Um I remember being kind of nervous to share with Patty Lynn that this the Lord was laying this on my heart just because of of some of the difficulties of leaving uh Perry Hall specifically And I just remember we were we were driving home from church in the car and I told her about this and she said, Yeah, basically I've been praying about that already Which was kinda like, Oh well you could have told me that But God just graciously uh affirmed this desire that He was putting in my heart. It was also and I I've already shared that I believe this is absolutely It was affirmed externally, has been by biblical authority structures, as I've shared with Pastor Matt. Uh he has asked good questions and helped me in discerning my sense of aspiration and and he and and others that he has brought in to assist him have helped to affirm and to to sharpen that sense of aspiration. And and you, church , have affirmed me as a pastoral intern, and I've had the blessing of serving you all in that role. um since April. And I want you to understand that I see those kinds of things not merely as kind of hoops to jump through, but as submitting to a God given authority structure of the local church. I believe the local church is central in the expansion of Christ's kingdom and it's also central in affirming and uh nurturing and cultivating and building up and raising up those who would serve as ministers, pastors, elders in local churches. churches. I had the opportunity to per uh preach from first Timothy chapter four, thirteen through sixteen a couple weeks ago, and that's something we see so clearly that Timothy 's Pauling to preach and teach God's word was affirmed by the Council of Elders and by the whole congregation. So all this to say when I when I think about how I would want to pursue pastoral ministry in a local church. I know that it would not be as some sort of free agent, just going off and lazing my own trail, doing whatever I think is best. No, I believe that the local church is central. Which is why something like a pastoral apprenticeship, where I get to serve this body where I already am. And gain valuable experience, grow as I am poured into by uh our pastors It's why something like this is so appealing to me. Because it's a season for me to learn and to gain experience while serving the local body where I'm already committed Where my growth and discipleship is already invested. So as I just share with you my ministry ap aspirations Stated somewhat generally, but I hope biblically, it's this. My desire is to serve as a pastor in a biblical local church, laboring in the preaching and teaching of God's Word. Seeing the flock built up in Christ as the gospel goes forth in power. Just one text for us to look at as As we kind of as I kind of think about pursuing pastoral ministry is Ephesians chapter four verses eleven through sixteen. Ephesians four eleven through sixteen. And he gave the apostles, the prophets, the evangelists Evangelists, the shepherds, and teachers to equip the saints for the work of ministry, for building up the body of Christ, until we all attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God, to mature manhood, to the measure of the stature of the fullness of Christ, so that we may no longer be children, tossed to and fro by the waves and carried about by every wind of God. Christ, from whom the whole body, joined and held together by every joint with which it is equipped, when each part is working properly, makes the body good growth that it builds up itself in love. What I love about this section of scripture is it gives us just this vision of the body thriving Unified, serving one another, doing the work of ministry one to another, growing up into the measure of the stature of And those who are affirmed as pastors and teachers have the privilege of equipping the saints to carry out their ministry one to another and to the world. So my desire as I seek to pursue this opportunity is to learn to do just that, to encourage you all and help equip this body for the work of ministry, to attaining to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God. I I want this to, by God's grace, be the the heartbeat I cultivate in the ministries where I currently get to serve, as I serve with the young adults in And serve in uh the musical aspects of our worship and in preaching in all future ministries I get to be a part of. My desire, my goal is for us to see, savor, and exalt Jesus Christ together. My desire is to be faithful and to love and to serve this particular body as the Lord continues to to grow me and as I enter into this season of just intentionally learning and growing while serving My desire is to see this church built up more and more as a thriving body built up in love for one another. another as a as a beacon of gospel light to our community. My desire is to see us all uh it stirred with deeper desires to serve one another. And a a deeper understanding of just the meaning and the importance of our membership commitments that we have made to one another in this body as believers. So I think about just what I am passionate about, the centrality of God's word through expositional preaching and teaching, the centrality of the gospel, not just as our kind of point of entry into the Christian life, but also as the means by which we grow in grace. The central thing we confess not just to the world but to our own hearts and to one another. And then the the centrality of just meaningful membership in the local church. Pursuing discipleship and encouragement and worship, all of the the one another passages of Scripture just give us this rich image of followers of Jesus Christ living side by side together. in local bodies, cultivating community that that just flows out of our gospel identity. That's kind of the pattern we see in the New Testament letters, isn't it? Paul goes through or whichever author of whichever letter goes through and says, This is the gospel, and this is how the gospel calls you to live. This is your gospel identity. This is how you live that out, both in relation to the world, but also in relation to one another And so Church I'll just say finally that I have I've seen God's goodness , God's grace, and God's kindness to me in so many ways in in this season. season since April as I have gotten the opportunity to serve here. I've seen him work and grow our our young adult gathering. I have seen him work in me through what's been a busy season. Uh in a lot of ways this has introduced a lot of just extra busyness into our lives, which is good in some ways, but also Uh is trying and is taxing, but God has been so kind to us. So as I I think about just where God has brought me and where He will, regardless of of how things shake out here, where he will continue to bring me, I know that he has been gracious and kind to me. I know he has been faithful. And I know he will Let's pray together, Church. Well Father, I I I thank you for the work that you've done in my life. I thank you for your kindness and your goodness to me. And I thank you for your kindness and goodness to all of those who are here. God, thank you for Christ Jesus. Thank you for the gospel. I pray that you would deepen our identity in the gospel and in Christ. Oh Lord, help us to see your magnificent grace and love. Toward us. God, may we all desire to serve one another earnestly. May we all desire, God, to build one another up in love. And may you cultivate in all of us, God, a deeper desire to be about the work of your kingdom. In whatever form I thank you that you are building up your church. The gates of hell won't prevail against it. I pray that as we go out This week, Lord, we seek to honor and glorify you. That you, Lord, would give us confidence in the gospel. Give us a Joy and a peace that is real and that is abiding and that is God stronger than the The pull towards despair, the pull towards discouragement, the pull towards cynicism in our hearts. God, would you give us confidence in Christ? Help us to cultivate joy. We thank you, God, for all the ways that you are building this particular local body. We trust that you will continue that. All through your glory. In Jesus' name. Amen.