Well, good morning. Thank you for coming. I'm going to pray for us in just a few minutes Um give give a warm round of applause welcome to Anthony and Kenzie Wilson, our guests and candidates. This morning for this this hour that we're about to do, I really wanted to be a time of Anthony sharing in a very personable, straightforward way about his family, about their history, um, share his testimony and For the first half or so. And then he and I are going to take turns sharing some verses that have been really, really important to us in ministry and kind of shape our mindset, I guess, and shape our hearts regarding ministry. Um before I pray, I'll just say one more thing That this is all for the kingdom of God. You know, as we zoom out in our hearts and we realize that God is at work, that He's saving souls. For his own name and for his own glory according to his purpose. And hopefully that gives us a perspective for everything that we do in life, in church, this weekend. This perspective of what God is doing in Christ for His kingdom. Let's go ahead and pray and we'll start. Father, we thank you for your goodness. Your power is beyond comprehension that you made the world from nothing. Your mercy, your grace, your loving kindness as well is beyond our comprehension Though we've rebelled, you've loved us. Though we've ran away, you've reconciled us to yourself. You've done this for your own name and for your own glory. Father, we thank you for the Holy Spirit that you've poured into our hearts. That binds us together in faith and love and gratitude for Christ. Thank you for the blood of Christ that erases our sins, that blots out the record of our guilt before you. Father, we thank you for the righteousness of Christ, by which we can stand before your holy throne and be counted righteous. Father, we thank you for the Bible. Thank you for teaching us. Thank you for revealing yourself to us. Father, I thank you for this church and for all that you've done and will continue to do by your grace and through your providence. I thank you for Anthony and for Kenzie and for Dorothy who's downstairs. Thank you for bringing them here. Father, we have this whole day ahead of us to worship you, to fellowship with each other, to learn from your word, to be encouraged by your word and by your spirit. And it is in your hands. And we're trusting and fully expecting that you would do whatever you have purpose today. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Well, Anthony, you and I have had the opportunity to talk a lot. So I know about you a little bit and your family, but take some time and just Tell us about you and your family. Who are you? Where do you come from? Share with us. Uh introduce. Well uh like I said Anthony Wilson, I come from the far north of Lancaster County. County, uh so very far away from here. Um it's only about forty minutes from my parents' place. And uh as we've driven down here, uh it feels a lot like Lancaster, the beautiful rolling hill. And the greenery, so there's a sense of feeling at home in that. But grew up in Lancaster my whole life and I joined the Army right out of high school. was in the reserves, did college, realized college wasn't the right thing for me. And at that same time God redeemed me and regenerated me. So my whole life was was changing. rapidly. When active duty moved to Fort Polk, Louisiana. And if you're familiar with that area, no one ever is excited to move to Fort Polk. Four poke, Louisiana. Uh, but I met my wife, Kenzie, at the church there. So there's really good things that come out of Fortoke, Louisiana. So we met there, got married. September will be ten years for us. And we have our daughter Dorothy, who's 15 months old And she was born in Italy where we currently live. Now I want to talk about ministry. So Usually these discussions start with the call to ministry or the initial call, but I wanna do it the opposite. I wanna go backwards. I wanna tell us about where you're ministering right now. What and so the the Cadence thing but also the local church thing just just share with everyone um the ministry now and then we'll work backward from that. Is that cool? Yeah. Perfect. So as I said, we we live in Italy. Picenza Italy, it's the north near Venice. So if you can picture the map, we're at the very top of Italy. And our focus we're missionaries with Cadence International and our focus is to minister to the US military that's stationed there. So there's two army bases, uh community of about nine thousand people, service members plus family and we share our lives in the gospel right there. We open up our house, invite people in, and our focus is the singles slash young adults. Uh young adult has no age in our minds, so we just don't have childcare. So if you're able to show up without children, you're young at heart, you're welcome into our community, into our house. Uh and then along with that I'm also an elder at the local church. in that community and that partnership is God is just uh miraculous and and wonderful in how He orchestrated that. Uh typically Cadence missionaries don't partner with the local church church. But we had to to receive our visas into the country and God's blessing in that has given us a a family, a community, has given me the insight to the local church, has grown me in my love and appreciation for for the local church. Um so that has helped flourish to the point where we feel called into church ministry and to be a pastor. How long have you been with Cadence and what is it that that brought you there? What brought that about? So we've been part of Cadence since But we moved to Italy, February of twenty twenty. Um and we had no idea about cadence until we were in the army. We got stationed in Germany. So we were just one year married. We actually moved uh right on our one year anniversary. So I'm trying to be a good husband, lead my wife in the church. So I'm looking up churches in the area in Graffenbeer, Germany and nothing's popping up. So as I'm doing some more research we find out about this Cadence International. We don't even know what it is, but make contact with them, start talking. And that very first week we're there, they pick us up and we go to this house gathering. with a dinner and there's about fifty people gathering together uh for worship down in a basement, uh which is frightening at first, but that community was so vital to us in our three years in Germany. which was an extremely stressful time for me. Uh I was away uh over half of the time we were there. Um but to be loved on, to be discipled through that ministry So then as I'm feeling God's call to leave the army and to pursue ministry, I don't even know what that means. And uh at that time the the house director invited us to to think and pray about joining Cadence. And as Kenzie and I talked about it just became clear we love soldiers, we love sharing the gospel and discipling uh people uh and feel called to ministry. We love having people into our home, we love to live lives with people. And it really was a natural fit for us. Um so that was uh about a two year long process till we actually joined Cadence and got to Italy about three So two aspects to the to your ministry right now, the missionary work with Cadence International and then the body life of the local church. So just could you quickly summarize for the cadence work? What does that ministry actually look like week to week? And then what have you done? specifically in terms of fitting in with um the church as an elder. So there's so much overlap in that, but with the Cadence side, uh we do I I support the chapel community, so I'm working with the Army Chapel We have a midweek service on one of the bases right in the center of where all the single soldiers live. So there's a lot of outreach and and we have a block party just to invite these uh young men Men and women that A maybe aren't churched at all, have no desire to be, but they're lonely and looking for a community. B there's there's a group that are church, are Christians and don't even know how to find a Christian community Don't even know what that would look like because they are eighteen years old. They just left home for the first time. So connecting there and supporting the chaplains. on that. Then on Friday nights we have dinner and Bible study at our house, uh which is really involving bringing people in, biblical teaching, walking through scripture with them, and living life, allowing questions to be asked. wrestling with challenging things. And then throughout the week I'm meeting one on one, discipling a few young men, uh, struggling and fighting against sin in their lives. Uh what does learning what does it mean to be a Christian? What does it mean? mean to be a a Christian father and a Christian husband. Um so that's some of the things we're walking through. And now that overlays so well with the local church because As these young men and women are coming into our homes, they're saying, Okay, we know we're seeing in scripture, we're learning that we need to be in community. Well, what's that look like? Well I'm an elder at this church. I drive a van from your base to the church every morning on Sunday morning, so I'll pick you up. So it's just a natural um funneling and and bringing them into the local church community And then the same overlapping of discipleships happening out of that. And within the church I have opportunities, Wednesday nights I lead. We have a small group discussion, uh talking through the sermon and the uh uh the service on the Sunday prior. So I'm doing that within the church and then opportunities to preach and teach uh fairly regularly on Sunday mornings as well. So what are some of the things that have led you in this direction that's led you to look for to move away from the Cadence Ministry and look for full-time local church work? Over the last three years, God has grown uh both Kenzie and I's understanding, love, value for the local church. And honestly, I I think if we examine scripture, we don't see a parachurch organization. We don't see uh ministries and missions and uh Christian ministry happening outside of the local church So as our love and appreciation for the local church has grown, we've also come to the understanding of God's instrument of growing and building his kingdom here on earth is through Uh so there's this just the natural draw God has done uh to the local church, to church ministry, to pastoral ministry. I think this is where God is working and changing the world around us is through the the local church. And then there's also draw to be back in the States. We we do desire to be near family. We want to settle down and plant roots Uh now that we have a fifteen month old, we're seeing that the military community of every three years people are moving and almost every few months you have a new community coming Constantly starting over. Uh we wanna we wanna live long term lives with people. We wanna see God's work in people's lives from the cradle to the grave, and we wanna be a part of that, and we want people to be part of our lives in the same way. That's good theology, brother. I like that. Thanks. All theology is is to be lived out. It's to be experiential and And and we get the forms for that from the word. And I see that coming through and I'm I always get excited when uh I hear you talk about that and I've heard you summarize that in about four four or five different times. now it's exciting. Um because the church is God's idea. It's not his, it's not mine, it wasn't yours. The church is God's design. It's his what did you call it? Instrument? Vehicle? What did you say? Maybe both. Maybe both. For for organizing and for advancing his kingdom. So if we're going to be about God's kingdom, we have to be about the church. Uh all right. I know we're not to the scripture piece yet, but when we see Christ talk about the church, and especially when he's ooh, I mean, we many of us know uh the gates of hell will prevail. against the church. Well, we often I think the temptation is to go, we're gonna be a fortress and it doesn't matter what hell throws at us, it doesn't matter what the enemy throws at us, we're gonna stand strong. But that's not what gates are. Gates are not a an offensive weapon. Gates are a defensive weapon. So hell is the one that's trying to defend itself because the church is advancing the kingdom of God. into the world. The church is the one attacking the gates of hell, and we all know that the gates of hell will be destroyed because of Christ and his bride, how he uses his bride to do that. Amen. I like it. Amen, church. Um, take us back and talk to us about your conversion. Yeah. So grew up in a small United Methodist church in southern Lancaster County and from an early age, age six, I I remember hearing in Sunday school about hell and knowing that that's not worth where I wanted to be. Didn't know much more than that and I was told if you want to be saved, you say a prayer and I just followed the Sunday school teacher and that and from that moment I would have identified and said I was a Christian. And if someone would have asked me why are you a Christian, it was I said a prayer, I go to church, and for the most part I haven't broken any laws. This was all the way into high school. I never broke any laws. maybe some speeding tickets in high school. But that was really I it was a very moralistic and uh just location-based identity as a Christian. And so that was who I was and I was I was proud to be a Christian in name, but nothing in my life actually reflected that except for my attendance in church and my trying to be a moral person. Uh and it wasn't until college, my first semester of college, trying to find my identity and figure out who I was now that I wasn't in high school and And kinda had that identity. And I had some friends invite me into a small group, a men's group, and as I started going there and just reconnecting with them, we were working through the book of Ephesians. And here comes chapter 2 of Ephesians, and if you're familiar with it, just recognize that we see the deadness that we are outside of Christ, that we are dead in our sins. And I as we talked through that I started to recognize that I was still in that position. I was still the dead man, living in my sins, following after my own flesh, just saying I was a Christian, but no change had actually So it was during that time through that Bible study, God used Ephesians 2 to penetrate my heart with the gospel, to recognize Christ as Lord and Savior, to recognize myself as a sinner in need of a sinner. Savior and the Spirit regenerated me and and gave me faith in Christ. Um so that was it that that was the regeneration of moment in my life. And then from there shortly after that I went active duty army, went down to Fort Polk, Louisiana, and God plugged me right into the local church. There, a strong community that discipled me, uh raised me up, matured me in a lot of things, and God's blessing of physically plucking me out of my old life and putting me into a new life. life also represented the spiritual side of what happened. I was plucked out of the old deadness and given a new life. So just the opportunity God provided by m physically moving away from the small town I grew up in was a huge blessing and allowed me to give up old things and old ways of life, grow in the newness , and continue growing to today You keep using this word new and newness and change in heart, and I love it because this is what Christianity is, man. Thank you for sharing that, brother. It's very encouraging to hear about God's grace in your life. Um you've already told us some of the broad strokes of what led you to look for um ministry with the local church, but give us some Specifics like what were you and Kenzie looking for, praying for? What what are you passionate about that you're you're praying, okay God please provide this opportunity? Uh one of the first things is theology. That was uh it's essential in everything. It's who we are. Uh everyone has theology, so we wanted to make sure we were in alignment. Um biblical, Bible preaching, Bible believing people. That's who we want to live our lives with. Um we want people that believe and worship the sovereign God. and his sovereignty in all aspects of our lives. So that was very essential as we looked for a church and also a church that was a community. Well we aren't we didn't look for we aren't looking for a church that has all the programs and and everyone comes here because this church has the best name a program but doesn't even recognize the preaching that's happening because that isn't valuable. And this church as we've as we watched online, as we examined, really filled those things. We saw the preaching of God's word with passion, with power. Um and then the other key thing is we want a church that wants to live life together, wants to be Christians together. It's not just a Monday, Wednesday gathering and then move on, but no that it's all of life. That the church is the church all the time, not just when we're gathered, we love one another all the time. Um we struggle, we we wrestle through conflict with each other all the time at times. Um but ultimately the focus is on Christ. And this church really fit that. We also uh love uh not a big city area and this church fits that beautifully. Um yeah. You guys nailed it. And I grew up in that. I love that uh world. I love the small town aspect of a lot of things because you guys know one another. Um you know about one another. And why that comes with difficulties and struggles as you are all sh uh well aware of, it also comes with a beautiful family relationship that uh we get excited for um because we really want to live lives with people. We we don't just want to see you one time a week or twice a week, but we want to interact with you when we see you out and about. We want to be in your homes. We want you in our homes to see and live life with us. I can think back to when we were looking for an associate pastor job. Obviously it led us here, but I had a very short list as well. We were looking for a place that believed and actually preached and taught sound doctrine and then the spirit filled community, one that has a genuine love, a genuine servant heartedness to it. And then the other one, which you'll get to see later when Anthony preaches I was looking for an approach to preaching, uh an overarching method to The pulpit ministry, and you all have heard both me and Pastor John talk about this a lot of expository preaching. And when you come here, our goal is to be you with the word, not stories, not jokes. Of course we use illustrations and all that thing, uh all those things. Um so You know that I have lots of areas to grow in, and I know that you have lots of areas to grow in, and every church has shortcomings, and we're all still sinners Um but if those foundation pieces are there, we can have a true unity and do good kingdom work. Um Let's talk ministry. So I asked Anthony to pick out five verses or passages. that can really help get to the heart of what he's passionate about in ministry, things that have molded his heart. But not just the heart, actually shaped the approach to day to day, week in, week out practical ministry. So he has five and I have five, and we'll go back and forth, and uh hopefully there can be uh I think just some natural dialogue and talk about you know ministry from scripture. So brother, why don't you tell us where to go and get us started here? So the first section uh passage is Genesis three, and we'll start in verse one. As Pastor Matt and I talked this week, we we talked about Genesis and uh there was a temptation just to say right in Genesis for all five passages I picked I didn't do that but uh the reason I want to take us to Genesis three is because Genesis is the beginning of the known history of of creation. Uh and w if we would study and continually go back to Genesis We see an insight to God. We see an insight to his design for us. And that influences and affects so much of our theology, affects so much of who we are. So I I really value the book of Genesis, but in chapter three we see the fall of mankind. And one thing I want you to notice is how the serpent and how Adam and Eve handle and interact with God's word. So Genesis three starting in verse one. Now the serpent was more crafty than any other beast of the field that the Lord God had made. He said to the woman, Did God actually say, You shall not eat of any tree of the the garden. I'll stop there. Notice this is this is the key and this is what the world does. This is what we are tempted to do at times. Did scripture, did God really say, and then quote whatever scripture it is? And that's the constant challenge of the world, that's the constant challenge of our own pride. When we read something in scripture that rubs us the wrong way, what do we want to do? We want to twist it in some way to make ourselves feel good and yet not be in full disagreement with God. God. But we don't have that option as Christians. This is God's word. This is what He has given us. And the temptation to twist, uh the temptation to to misquote, to misrepresent God Is is what the world is doing all the time. Let's continue in verse two. And the woman said to the serpent, We may eat of the fruit of the trees in the garden, but God said, You shall not eat of the fruit of the tree that is in the midst of the garden. But the serpent said to the woman, You will not surely die, for God knows that when you eat of it your eyes will be open, and So when the woman saw that the tree was good for food, and that it was a delight to the eyes, and that the tree was to be desired to make one wise, she took of its fruit and and ate, and she also gave some to her husband, who was with her, and he ate. Then the eyes of both were open, and they knew that they were naked, and they sewed fig leaves together, and made them See also that the woman misrepresents God's words. She adds to God. They were told not to eat of the tree, and she says, We were told not to eat or shall we touch it. And this is the the the issue, and I think if we address any sin, if we uh address any cultural issue, this is really what we're doing. Are we twisting? Are we adding to, are we trying to take away from God's word? Or are we doubting that God's word is true? Will you really die? Is this do you really think that you're going to die? I mean, they may not even understand what the word die means at that point because nothing has ever died outside of before sin entered. So we see that there's this temptation. I think if we recognize that this was The original sin, this was the original attempt and attack of the enemy. We also must recognize that it's the current attack and attempt of the enemy to draw us away from the truth and beauty of God. Yeah, try to make God look like the bad guy. He's trying to keep you from something good. And um It allures us to reject God. Alright, my first one is Romans 1, 16 to 17. So turn, if you will, to Romans 1. I like this passage Uh because it gets to the heart of everything for Christianity, for ministry, for church. Genesis three shows us that problem, that uh corruption and that guilt that enters Because of sin, here's the remedy, here's the solution. Romans 1, 16 and 17. For I'm not ashamed of the gospel. Which means good news, right? That's the good news of Christ living, dying, rising for salvation. I'm not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation. To everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek, for in it the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith or from faith unto faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith All the rest of Romans just flushes that out and more and more what it means, more and more how it applies Uh for the Jew, for the Gentile, for the saved, for the lost, for the church, the gospel and its power to provide for us the righteousness that otherwise we could never attain. This is what we need, to stand before God and be accepted, to stand before God and be welcomed. into heaven to be welcomed into eternal glory in the presence of God. What we need is a righteousness. We need our sins blotted out, and then we need a positive righteousness and obedience to God's law. That's what righteousness means. means just conforms to God's law. And we know from scripture and also from our own hearts and from our own minds and from our own words and from our own lives that we could never ever attain a righteousness by ourselves. So it has to be a gift. It is a gift. You know, of all the things we learn, all the things we talk about, all the things we pray for, right at the center of everything is preaching the gospel, sharing the gospel is the as the remedy to the Genesis three problem. All right, what do you got next? Psalm nineteen Psalm nineteen and we're just gonna look at verse seven through eleven. Once again, this is going to focus on the value of God's Word for us, and that if we're not living, we're not people of the Word uh people of scripture, uh do we understand, do we actually know God and that? So Psalm nineteen, starting at The law of the Lord is perfect, reviving the soul. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. The heart, the commandment of the Lord is pure, enlightening the eyes. The fear of the Lord is clean, enduring forever. The rules of the Lord are true and righteous altogether. More to be desired are they than gold. Moreover, by them is your servant warned, and keeping them here is great. reward. Too often I think uh the world and and even we can be tempted to say, okay, Christianity is this set of rules, uh this God that we follow is oppressive, he doesn't want to He doesn't want us to have fun, he doesn't want us to live lives, and he just wants us to to follow a set of rules and and be humblum and oh the world is so terrible around us. Well that's never what we hear in scripture. What we hear in Scripture is that as believers, as followers of God, people of the Word, we have joy, we have sweetness of life, we have excitement, and and really this is a passion of mine. I like to have fun. And the only reason we can have fun is because we worship the Creator that created the universe for us to enjoy. Everything around us he created for us to enjoy. In right order and right purpose of how it's enjoyed and and the sin we see is the perversion of how we try to enjoy that. But if we follow and be obedient and find our righteousness, as we read in Romans, through faith in Christ alone, man, Christians can have a lot of fun in life. And we should. We should have a lot of fun. We should have joy. We should we should love and dwell and soak in the Word of God. It shouldn't be a task for us. It shouldn't be a burden. The gathering with one another should be a joy, the reading of his word should be a joy, the meditation of his word should be a joy, so that when the hard times in life come, when the challenges in life come They hurt. They're hard. We can be sad. We can feel the pain. But we have a hope and a joy and love and the sweetness of relationship and closeness and obedience to our Lord. Key word? Joy. I love it, man. I love it. Yeah. God has provided us with lots of good things, common graces. And in fact Christians are the only ones who Are supposed to be the only ones who see those gifts for what they really are, as gifts from God that increase our gratitude. Um all right, my next one is First Corinthians two. First Corinthians chapter two, verses one and two You'll see how this uh You when we read this, you'll see definitely how this should be something that points us in the in the direction. Okay, here's where we want to go, here's what we want to be about. And of course, being a preacher is just uh a lifelong journey of growing in that. You know, none of us are perfect in it, but here's what we want to be about Uh 1 Corinthians 2, beginning in verse 1. And I, when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. For I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ and Him crucified Now, first of all that tells us whatever else Paul is preaching, whatever else he's teaching, this is the center point. And anything else that he is talking about only makes sense when it's connected to this center point. Christ and Christ crucified. Apart from that, we have nothing. I mean, if we don't have fellowship, we don't have salvation based on Christ and his blood. Everything else we're doing is just fake man-made religion. So this is the center point. Now, for this to fully make sense for you, you've got to go home tonight and read chapter 1 of 2 Corinthians. Because he's contrasting the wisdom of God with the wisdom of the world. The wisdom of the world looks at Christ crucified and says it's foolishness. Says it's absurd, says this can't be the way of salvation, says I don't need this, I'm fine the way I am. And he also contrasts the power of God with the power of man. And it's Christ crucified. That's the power of God unto salvation. It's Christ crucified to save us from our sins. It's the wisdom of God. And um So he says, I didn't come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. He wasn't trying to impress anybody. He wasn't changing or trying to reshape the gospel. To be palatable, to be attractive to lost mankind. He was just preaching it for what it was. And um, of course we know it brought Paul um great suffering. And it'll bring us great suffering if we're to truly be this Christ-centered cross-preaching people. And and just so on evangelism and and living our lives, uh it can be intimidating proclaiming the gospel. It can be intimidating with your co-workers, with your family that reject Christ or or question things and you go, Well I don't have all the answers. I didn't I didn't study biology and can defend creation. Which is true. I didn't study and uh the the Greek language to defend how the words are in scripture and how the Bible was formed together. All of these things are good and helpful and beautiful tools, but all we need It's to proclaim the gospel. And we trust that that is what the Spirit uses to change hearts through faith. So it's not of our skill, it's not of our ability. We just preach the gospel of Christ in Christ crucified. You'll turn Matthew twenty eight, Matthew twenty-eight And verse 18 and 19. This is probably the most quoted section, most quoted scripture in all of my sermons. Because I think it's influential, it it uh is the umbrella of how and why we live. our lives. So Matthew twenty eight, verses eighteen through nineteen, this is known often as the Great Commission, but I think we we miss verse eighteen too much. And that's where And Jesus came and said to them, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. Therefore, go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and of the Holy Spirit. I'm going to do nineteen, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you, and behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Why do we receive the Great Commission? How do we have the authority to go into the world proclaiming the gospel? How do we have the authority to teach, to preach, to baptize? It's because of Christ It's not just because he told us, but it's because he now sits in heaven having all authority, not just in the spiritual things. He 's not just the commander of the heavenly armies. He's not just the governor and the president of heaven. No, no, no. He has all authority in heaven and Earth where we live, where we uh have families, where we go to work, he has authority even in that Uh not there is not a square inch, there's not a single piece of this creation, his creation, that he is not sovereign over. We must understand that. We must love that truth because that affects everything that we do. Are we proclaiming? Yesterday I was asked the question: what does it mean to be an ambassador of Christ? Well it means uh as ambassadors of Christ, it means we're proclaiming that he is king sitting on his throne who has authority, and we're just calling everyone to be uh come into faith and obedience to him. Because he's king. Your your denial of him as king doesn't change his kingship. Doesn't change his status as king. So we're just going into the world proclaiming the truth It wasn't actually until this this passage is so vital for for me and my in my preaching and how I live my life. It wasn't until I heard Pastor Matt talking through the kingdom of God that I said, okay, this is a place I want to be. This is a man I want to work with. with work under that we submitted the resume because he's in agreement, I think. I think I can say that. He understands and values the kingdom of God. Better than many men. So so take honor as brother. Rejoice in that as you guys are hearing the kingdom of God. And I'm excited, uh Lord willing, to to work with you. with that. Well and I had to scour your sermons online because when we received the applications um we received three sermons. And I was like, this is good. This is you know, th these are great. I love the preaching. Um I was like, but I I want to find him preaching on Christ's authority, on Christ's Lordship. 'Cause we 'cause we make Christ our Lord, Chr Jesus Christ is Lord. This is so important. But if we don't understand what his lordship actually is. So I mean I was looking up and down left and right and I finally found one where he's just talking Explicitly about the kingdom of God. And I was like, all right, please, please, yes, this is great. Um and for my Wednes who's my Wednesday night crew? Raise your hand here if you've been a part of my Wednesday night crew. You know, sometimes this um this doctrine of Christ is the ruling sovereign over all things. Sometimes that can sound strange or innovative, but what I say all the time on Wednesday is That's always been true about God. This is true throughout the whole Bible. God is king over everything. God is the sovereign king who rules over heaven and earth The only difference now, historically, is that his kingship or his sovereign rule is is um mediated through the incarnate and exalted Son. So Jesus came God as a man, but he now rules as a man with the authority of God. This is the wonder and the glory of proclaiming Christ as Savior and Lord. So it's uh it shouldn't be too shocking. Yeah, that's a that's a great passage you just took us to the Great Commission passage. Um something you said made me think of uh the fact that we can be bold. I forget what it I forget exactly what it was that you said about how this should shape our approach to evangelism, but one that Christ is Lord, one of the things is just boldness We know that he will he wants to save people. He will save people. That's not our job. That's not been delegated to us. Get inside the heart of a person and change its spiritual condition, but we can be ambassadors. We can preach. Um all right. My next one. Where is he going? Where is he going? Second Corinthians three eighteen. Second Corinthians three eighteen is one of my favorites Con true conversion is such an important doctrine. You know, how does someone get saved? But also a true understanding of sanctification is important. How do we grow into the likeness of Christ more and more? Was it my turn? Did I see Yes, it was. You just did Matthew. Okay. We start talking about the kingdom, I get all excited. We're done. Done. Mic drop. We're out. Second Corinthians three eighteen and we all with unveiled face Um if you remember I talked about that a few weeks ago. That in the context that's uh the veil over the face is a symbol. If you have that veil over your s face symbolically, you're not seeing Christ in the scripture, you're not seeing the glory of God in Christ. What the veil's removed when we do see the glory of God in Christ in the Word of God. So with unveiled faces just another way of saying as as people who are born again Beholding the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. This comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. So it gives us the source of the sanctification. It comes from Jesus by the power of his spirit. Gives us the nature of sanctification or this transformation. We're being transformed into the same image. From one degree of glory to another. So it's a gradual, it's an ever-increasing, it's a it's a gradual being conformed to the likeness of Christ. And we see the means of this change is by beholding the glory of the Lord in the context, by beholding the glory of the Lord in the gospel as he's revealed himself through Christ. By faith we behold the glory of God, that's what transforms us. And um that transforms us because It fills our hearts with love for God. It transforms us because it fills our hearts with gratitude for God, and that's where true obedience comes from. Obedience never starts with outward Of deeds, your outward conformity. It always starts in the heart, a heart of love, a heart of love, and then that's manifest outwardly in the fruit of obedience Some other verses just to share. You don't have to turn here, but they're complimentary verses or supplementary. Luke seven forty seven. Therefore I tell you, her sins which are many are forgiven, for she loved much, but he who is forgiven little loves little. This was the sinful woman who anointed Jesus. And she was criticized. He was criticized. A lot of criticism goes on in in the gospels and the earthly ministry of Jesus. But she was forgiven and she was grateful for that, and since she was grateful for being forgiven, she loved. And then another one, John fourteen, fifteen, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. So Whatever it is that creates love and gratitude in our hearts, that's the key of sanctification. And what that is, is the gospel. It's Christ and his Completed work for us. That's why seeing Christ in the gospel is the key to sanctification. Can't be just doing more things. Can't be just doing more things. Can't be just learning more things. And when you find yourself in and you're you're down on yourself, you're going and I just thought this Christian life had be here, I'd be farther or you f you fall in sin. We we continue we're saints that unfortunately continue sin while we're here on this uh broken world, we must not say, okay, well, I'm just not going to do X, Y, and Z, and that's what's going to make me better. No. Turn your eyes, turn your hearts back to Christ. I encourage you to come to the 1030 serv or 1045 service for the the faith that saves us is the faith that sanctifies us. Christ and so uh and then also reverse that. When when you're upset someone has offended you within the church, look at them and and recognize and and encourage them to go to faith And and confessing of their sin, go by faith and and growing, and recognize that we are all growing in the sanctification. We are all becoming more like Christ, not of our own works, but through the Spirit I think it's I think it's Second Corinthians five, seven, someone double check me. It's very simply what you're saying, uh we walk By faith, not by sight. Walk by faith, not by sight. We'll always keep our eyes on Christ. Alright. Your turn. Ephesians two. As I said, this is a uh monumental piece of scripture for me And it was the way that the Spirit brought the gospel into my heart. So starting in verse one. And you were dead in the trespasses and sins, in which you once walked, following the course of the world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience, among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind. Christians never think you did something wonderful and great. Recognize who you were outside of Christ. Recognize what you would be if it wasn't for the miraculous work of Christ. Verse 4. I think I can say this whenever you see but God in Scripture, you should get excited Right, because you're about to see a transformation happen. So we talked about being dead in our sins. We were children of disobedience. Verse 4 For but God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses, made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. That's the first And raised us up with him and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness towards us and Christ Jesus. For by grace you have been saved through faith. That was the second time he said it. And this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God, not a result of work, so that no one may boast, for we are his workmanship, created in Christ Jesus. Recognize the identity of the old man, the dead man, and outside of Christ, recognize the new man in Christ and recognize how you've received that newness. If at any point you think you did it, at any point you think it was anything outside of Christ or Christ plus something else. You're wrong. Paul tells you you're wrong. It was strictly by faith in Christ. And that faith was a gift from God given to you. And we should glorify in that because we would all fail. If it was up to us, it we would all fail to achieve this. We would all fail to be saved. It is by faith in Christ and it is his way. Wonderful gift to us. And God is pleased. God likes us. God loves us. He's actually happy with what he has done. So when he looks at us, it says that we are his workmanship. Don't ever think that God's disappointed. If you're a Christian, you are his child. Now there's disciplinary things that he disciplines us in our failing. But he's well pleased with you. You're his, and he's going to use you for his kingdom. If Paul's right about this These good works don't show up till verse ten. So what you're saying is I didn't do anything good, you didn't do anything good until after we were saved by grace. Yes, the only thing we bring to salvation is our sin. And then it is all Christ. Now, we'll s You're kinda jumping, huh? In James two jumper will be the next one. We see that faith so once we are saved, we do see good works. Once again, in Galatians, as I preach today, we'll see that I'm not saying there's no good works in the Christian life. I'm saying the good works are the result of the faith in God. In Christ. The good works are the result of the new spirit we have, and are then the fruit of the working. When we look at a tree and we see an apple That's that's a great , and that's what we we really enjoy, right? Everyone enjoys the apple of the tree. No one says, Oh, I love eating the root of the apple tree. Right? But that apple couldn't be there. We couldn't enjoy the fruit of that tree if it wasn't for that root, that seed being planted and rooted in the soil. Well likewise, we we all love the fruit of the spirit. We love when we're loving one another. We love when we're doing But that wouldn't happen if it wasn't for faith in Christ and the new spirit we have making us new. So the the works are just a result of And vice versa, if you don't have fruit but you're proclaiming to be a Christian saved by grace, you might want to examine your root 'cause it may be false. It may not it may actually be dead. James says. First of all, I'm totally stealing this preaching motion of holding out an apple. That's great, man. That's the Italian coming out. I recognize my hands are moving a lot more. Um I want to say if you just one more thing about this verse or this passage. There's some of the most beautiful phrases. In in human language here, verse four, rich in mercy, verse four, great love. Um verse 7. Immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness. How big is his grace? How big is his kindness? How fast is it? I don't know. I can't measure it. I know exactly where I was before God saved me. And so I see these phrases and it's just it's just I don't know what what the right verb is to describe what happens in my heart. It's Just fills me with gratitude and fills me with joy that God was rich in mercy and is rich in mercy and has a great love. And um shows and will continue to show the immeasurable riches of his of his grace and kindness. Um and of course that last phrase in verse seven, in Christ. It all comes how how does this come to us? In Christ. It comes in Christ Um how do I receive it? Faith in Christ. In Christ. Go to Christ. There's no no works to do to prepare yourself for this. Just uh empty your hands, fall down on your knees and Put your trust in Christ. Uh whose turn? Is my turn? It's yours. It's Second Timothy three, sixteen to seventeen. Now I've said before on Second Timothy 3, 16, and 17, or just on this doctrine in general. Um it's maybe not the center, it's not the central doctrine. Or the central topic of our preaching. That will always be God's work in Christ. But this is foundational because we wouldn't be able to figure out or know the central doctrine apart from this doctrine. This is where we get our information. Um second Timothy three sixteen and seventeen and you all know it very well. All scripture is Inspired of God or briefed out by God, and is profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. So that the man of God, which in this context is is the pastor, is the minister, that this would apply to all of us in one way or another. Of course it applies to all of us and in Christian living. But so that the man of God may be complete and equipped for every good work. How are we going to be mature? That's what complete means here. It means mature and um The work of God is is uh present in Timothy's life as a pastor, and how are we going to be equipped for every good work? God's work. God's word. So this isn't you know this pulpit we preach from is not the to be the place of innovation Or a place in one way or another to showcase uh our personalities or um or anything like that. Our wisdom. Everything we are to do is Based on the word. How are we going to be able to reproof reprove each other? How are we going to be able to correct each other and be corrected? How are we going to be able to train in righteousness or even know what righteousness is? The inspired word of God. That's it, man. That's the starting point. Any thoughts on that scripture in general, the the role of scripture in ministry? But the only way that Scripture is is able to do all these things is because Scripture applies and is for every aspect of our lives. Every aspect. I mean we could we could throw out ideas, well what about going here? What about grocery shopping? What about well in some aspects scripture is is Structuring our lives. Scru scripture should be structuring how we view the world, that that biblical world vent uh lens that we should be seeing through So the we must value scripture and we must recognize that it it's the answer to all things. Uh we and that is what should be being preached and taught uh from the pulpit and within Sunday school classes and a little bit of a uh if ever that's not the case then then what are we teaching? What what value you guys just you don't want to just come and and hang out with some people and And listen to a good talk. No, you want the word of God preached with power, with authority. You want sometimes to be hurt leaving the church because you realize not not that you're you're hurt because someone was mean, but you're hurt because you recognize your sin was revealed by the word You're hurt because you recognize that you actually didn't love and and follow after God, but at the same time scripture gives you the healing balm of the gospel that brings you back. into relationship with Christ. That that brings you the comfort and restores you, gives you the forgiveness when your sins are revealed. So may the word of God be sharp and may it be used in all aspects of our lives. And I would speak um before we go to your next one, just to you, Church, just a word of commendation and a word of appreciation to you on this point. Because this is another mark of a spirit-filled church. Um I spoke earlier about that that spirit of the love of Christ and having a servant heartedness. But another mark of a spirit-filled church is a desire for the word, is a hunger for the word. What a nightmare to be in a church where The people want something any anything else, anything else besides the war entertain us, make us feel good, tell us jokes, tell us heartwarming stories. But minimize the word. Just tack it on at the end and give us a superficial. But church, what you want, by God's grace and by the Spirit of God, is you come here for the Word of God Because you know, you know, I say this to your credit, but I say it to the glory of God, okay? You know that the way God ministers to us is through his word and by his spirit. So just a word of commendation and a word of of uh Appreciation and to say thank you church for that desire for God's word. Alright, what do you got for us next? James two. Pages back, James two, verse fourteen through nineteen. And we already started talking about this, but there's no need not to say it again. James two, fourteen thirteen through nineteen What good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works? Can that faith save him? If a brother or sister is poorly clothed and lacking in daily food, and one of you says to him, Go in peace, be weak. So also faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. But someone will say, You have faith and I have works, show me your faith apart from your works and I will show you my faith by my works. You believe that God is one, you do well. Even the demons believe and shudder. This is the totality of the Christian life that we we can't just say, oh, we believe in Christ and that makes us a Christian and it not change other aspects and every other piece of our life And this is that connection between works and faith. We're not saying works saves, we're not saying works earn faith We're not saying works does anything other than it gives glory to God and it is a result of our faith and our salvation in Christ. It's the new spirit in us that That's that's overflowing, it's giving us the ability, the desire and the will to do works, to do good deeds. Um and the I I love this language here of how insulting it would be for us just to say we're Christians. and and say, peace be with you, but act not actually physically love people, physically take care of people, physically listen to someone. We just go, uh , up Peace be with you. Remember, God is good. God is good. And God is sovereign, God's in control, but what about when the family member dies? When you lost a child? What about when you're losing and lost that job? God's good, but how can we, as people of the Word, people of faith, Christians, love and care and serve for that person? So it it takes both. It's not one or. It's faith results works. And without works, then you must question where is your faith. Thank you, brother, for sharing those verses. I'm gonna wrap us up. Um so you'll have opportunity after the worship service, we're gonna do one of those receiving line things with with Anthony and Kenzie up here so that anyone who chooses will be able to come up and meet them personally if there's anything you want to ask them. Um you'll be able to do that. But I'm gonna ask that for this time in between class and worship, I'm gonna take him back into my office so he can get his mind right for preaching, rest his voice a little bit. He had Super long interviews. He's talked basically all day yesterday. So he's gonna get prayed up for preaching and then I've gotta get this set up and but don't worry, afterward you'll have time. And then this evening service you'll have time as well if you want to uh to meet them person to person, shake their hands. Um thank you for coming. Thank you for being so attentive. Thank you, brother, for sharing your heart. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your goodness. Thank you for your power. Thank you for your purpose that gives us purpose to manifest your grace, to manifest your glory through your Son Jesus Christ. We love you, Lord. Thank you for this morning. Thank you for the opportunity to worship you. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.