Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. This is a series called Discipleship Basics. What are the basics of discipleship? For anyone, maybe they've never heard of church, never heard of the Bible, never heard of Jesus, has no idea what Christianity is. They want to learn about it. Discipleship basics. Disciple means follower of Jesus. Discipleship simply means the act of following Jesus. It means Loving Him in our hearts, it means serving Him in His church, and it means living for Him in all of life. He leads, we follow. He teaches, we learn. He calls and we answer. Discipleship means following Jesus. Matthew 16, 24 through 25. Then Jesus told his disciples. . If any one will come after me, let him deny himself, and take up his cross, and follow me. . For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it There's three things to remember about being a disciple for adults and for children, but I would highlight this and emphasize it to the young ones here today. To remember that discipleship is personal. It's sacrificial, but it's beneficial. It's personal in that you are a person, and being a Christian means loving and serving and following a person, Jesus. It's not just going to church. It's not just learning things about religion. It's a person, Jesus, who we love, serve, and follow. And that comes from verse 24 that we just read. Then Jesus told his disciples, if anyone will come after me. So if you have that verse in front of you and you want to circle the word, you can circle me. Christianity is about loving and following Jesus. It's personal, but it's also sacrificial. That means what? It means giving things up. Giving things up. They shouldn't be in our lives. That comes from verse 24 also. Jesus says, if anyone will come after me, let him deny himself and take up his cross and follow me. Discipleship is personal, but discipleship is sacrificial. And that simply means this. We come to this place in our hearts where we say, Jesus, I don't want to live for myself. I want to live for you. I don't want to do things my way. I want to do things your way. I don't want to be the king of the universe, but you are the king of the universe. It's personal, sacrificial, and beneficial. Verse 25. Whoever would Save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. The benefit of eternal life. The benefit of a relationship with God. The benefit of a the forgiveness of sins is is much greater than what we give up. Sinful things we give up, bad things we give up, but holy things we gain. Good things. we gain. So that's discipleship basics number one is being a follower of Jesus. We love him in the heart. in our hearts. We serve him in his church. We live for him in all of life, but it's personal, which means it's loving and serving a person Not just it's not just about religion. It's sacrificial, which means we sacrifice what we think is right to live based on what Jesus says is right. And it's beneficial. There's a reward in heaven The forgiveness of sins, the relationship with God, et the gift of eternal life, and we pray for us