One reason God commanded a weekly Sabbath rest was that the people of Israel would remember and celebrate God's goodness in providing for them. Remember they would gather the manna day by day. On the sixth day they were able to gather enough that they wouldn't have to go out and gather on the seventh. The weekliest the the week that weekly day was committed to the Lord. Time of respite Well, the weekly assembly of the early church moved to the Lord's Day, Sunday, the day of Jesus' resurrection, and we remember and we celebrate by gathering. God's goodness in providing salvation in Christ. So hopefully for you, it can be a day of rest and worship. I know people's schedules, people's work is different from home to home. We know there are different circumstances, but hopefully for you it can be a day of rest and worship, a sort of a reset. each week, realigning whatever needs to be realigned with the Lord's will Because of the world, the flesh, and the devil, we all need encouragement. And the teaching of Psalm 103 will, by God's grace, accomplish that encouragement. I trust this morning. It will also accomplish worship and realignment of your soul. Now I'm not suggesting that you leave things unaligned until Sunday. uh waiting for the day you can get realigned. No, it should happen every day as we come before the Lord in worship in the study of his word and prayer. But Sometimes you need, and we always need a day to make sure that we are walking with the Lord the way we ought to. So you have an opportunity this morning, already have in worship and continue to have now in listening to his word to leave here Trusting the Lord with all your heart, not leaning on your own understanding, acknowledging Him in all your ways with Him directing your path. Now you've often heard me read from Psalm one hundred and three in between testimony at our yearly Thanksgiving Eve service. So if it sounds familiar to your ears here at church, that would be the reason why. I love to read from this psalm. It is a psalm that catalogs God's blessing and expresses thanks. So when our Thanksgiving Eve service comes, I naturally Last week I said that it was good to look at the truths about God That are motivating the psalmist, prompting the directing of the praise of the psalm, the prayer, the exhortation, whatever is in the psalm. And and the truths about God in Psalm 103 make up the outline. So you can see them there. What I am seeing when I look at this is the Lord's Sufficiency, the Lord's mercy, the Lord's constancy, and the Lord's sovereignty. And there's some overlap, and there's other words that could have been chosen, but those are the ones that came to my heart. First of all, the Lord's sufficiency in verses one through five. Bless the Lord. Bless means speak well of. So words of thanks and honor. I think we can say when we're talking about God, it's words of praise. It's equivalent to praise. I can say that on the basis of Psalm forty thirty-four, verse one, where there's this parallel thought, I will bless the Lord at all times, his praise shall continually be in my mouth. see the parallel between bless and praise. So it's okay to think of blessing God as praising Him. There's not some special speech we need to learn in order to bless. It is words of praise. But notice where it must come from. Bless the Lord, oh my soul. The soul is the inner man. We see that specifically in the next phrase: all that is within me. Well, what is within you? We're talking about attitudes, motivations, your thought life, all that is within me. Bless his holy name. And his holy name is Lord. L-O-R-D, capital L-O-R-D, the name used in this psalm, the I am, the self-sufficient. Ever existent absolutely perfect creator and sustainer of all. Now notice that David begins preaching and ends, as we saw earlier, preaching to his own soul. And we need to join him. Bless the Lord. Oh my soul. He's calling on himself to do this. And we must join him because God is worthy of more than lip service. Jesus criticized Pharisees in his day or people in his day saying Matthew 15, 8. Quoting Isaiah, this people honors me with their lips, but their heart is far away from me. Oh, let that not be my testimony today. That God sees. Let that not be uh my superficial, superficial Christianity. No. Let it be from the soul. So bless the Lord, verse 2, O my soul, and forget none of his benefits. That's a challenging verse. It does honor God when you recognize and when you remember and recite the many things He has done and is doing that you benefit from. And we could say it the opposite way: it dishonors God when you don't recognize, when you forget them. We sing the song sometimes count your blessings, name them one by one. We sang a more current, another hymn, more current more currently written, 10,000 Reasons to The same thought to count, to praise God, to voice, to mention, to remember. Forget none of his benefits. So David stirs us up and stirs his own soul up by way of reminder, considering the Lord's sufficiency. Sufficiency for our sin, verse 3, who pardons all your iniquities. We have iniquities. We have sins that need to be pardoned. that need to be forgiven, and God is willing to do this. Sin is, all need to remember And learn if you don't know, sin is falling short of God's perfection. So any way that you are not like God is sin. It is falling short of his perfection, doing what is wrong in his eyes or failing to do what is right. So I think it helps us to bless the Lord, O my soul, when we consider what we learn of sin in the Scripture. And I'm going to read from several passages just what it mentions in Exodus chapter 20. Here are things that are sinful, having other gods, making idols , using God's name in vain Not remembering the Sabbath, for us today, the Lord's Day. Not honoring your father and mother Murder, or as Jesus taught the sixth commandment, hatred toward others, adultery, or as Jesus taught, lust. Stealing, lying about others, coveting. Another passage, 1 Corinthians 13. It teaches us what love is, and here's what love isn't, and this would be sinful: impatience, unkindness , jealousy , arrogance. Rejoicing in sinful things, giving up belief, giving up hope, quitting when you shouldn't. Galatians 5 is another place to go to learn of sin and righteousness. And there we find immorality, impurity , sensuality , idolatry, sorcery, enmity, strife Jealousy, outbursts of anger, disputes, dissensions, factions Envying, drunkenness, carousing, and then the absence of love Joy, the absence of peace, of patience, of kindness, of goodness, of faithfulness Of gentleness, of self-control. Well, the sobering truth is we stand guilty according to God's definition of sin And the sobering truth is from Romans 1:18: the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all ungodliness and unrighteousness of men. So, in other words, the wrath of God is revealed from heaven against all sin. And that is because God is holy. Defined by his nature that he must deal with sin, and he does. And here's the amazing truth in this psalm: God will pardon all your iniquities All your sins. That is, he will release you from the penalty of your sin, give you a pardon. The penalty for any and all sin against God, let me remind you, is death Physical death, yes, but separation from God for eternity in a place of torment called hell. How can holy God pardon sin? Listen, because I've I've read the other verse. How can he Pardon sin, which he says he does here, when his wrath must come upon all sin. How can he do that? We can do that in our court systems. We decide not to punish, but God must punish How can he do that? Because he poured out his wrath upon his son on the cross. That he could forgive sin. When you meditate upon this verse in Psalm 103 You say, bless the Lord, O my soul, do you not? The Lord's sufficiency for our sickness next, he heals all our diseases. Exodus 15, 26, might have been in the mind of David, where God said, If you will give earnest heed to the voice of the Lord your God and do what is right in his eyes, and give ear, to his commandments and give all and keep all his statutes, so a promise to his people Israel, I will put none of the diseases on you which I have put on the Egyptians For I, the Lord, am your healer. So there was that promise concerning physical disease to the Israelites We know sickness is in the world because of sin. So harmful bacteria, viruses, cancers, etc. exist, and we're not immune from them as believers. But they will not have the last word. Christians look forward to resurrected bodies. So when we have a funeral and we lay A body that has experienced death, maybe because of disease in the ground. We know that body is going to come to life again. There's going to be a reuniting of soul and body, and that body will be resurrected. 1 Corinthians 15 describes it as imperishable, as glorious, as powerful. So indeed, there is that truth that he will heal all your diseases. So if not now, in his gracious and merciful healing of physical disease, he will indeed heal all your diseases The Lord's sufficiency for our troubles, verse 4. Who redeems your life from the pit? Now the pit, literally the Hebrew word, was one used for trapping animals. So I would say probably it's picturing the messes that we get into. And can't get out of easily because of our sin and maybe the sin of others. Certainly Joseph's pit was the sin of his brothers. Sometimes we make our own messes The word is also, pit is also used referring to death and judgment. To redeem, which is. A glorious word in the scripture. To redeem is to pay the price for one's freedom. So it seems David is thinking of God's help when the pit is due to one's own sin. So if you're in a pit Get honest, get humble before God, He can redeem you. And remember, in Christ we are redeemed from the ultimate pit, the eternal torment and hell that I mentioned to my moment ago. Indeed, redeems your life from the pit, from our troubles, and from the greatest trouble, the judgment we deserve for our sin He is sufficient for our welfare, verse 4 celebrates, who crowns you with loving kindness and compassion. Not that we deserve that from holy God that we've sinned against, but he knows we're weak, he knows we're needy in the face of sin, sickness, and trouble, and He, David, writes, by God's inspiration, crowns you, bestows on you, gives you as a possession, is the idea of crowning you, so that we can count on his love and compassion. Many of you know Lamentations three, twenty-one, uh twenty-two and twenty-three, but think of that in reference to verse four here. Compassions, they never fail. They are new every morning. It crowns you with loving kindness and compassion. Great is your faithfulness. Verse 5, who satisfies your years with good things so that your youth is renewed like the eagle. The idea of the eagle is the wings never seem to tire, they just soar. Well throughout the years we live. Those who look to God recognize that He is a hands-on God who blesses us with good things. Recognizing These good things for most of you. You would count your wife in that category, your children , grandchildren. uh daily bread, provision in other words, uh income, health, etc. We recognize that these come from God. And when we do, it has a reviving effect on our lives on our spiritual life as well, especially. Since the Lord is sufficient, I must bless him from my soul, and I must daily trust him, not in myself or in others. Then we turn to the Lord's mercy in verses six through fourteen. Mercy. See, God is holy and it is consistent with his holiness to just let sin run its course, allowing the consequences of sin to come upon the world and to come upon people. But out of mercy he intervenes. Not because he has to, but because he wants to. For he so loved the world. Verse six, the Lord performs righteous deeds and judgments for all who are oppressed. We learn in Scripture God has special concern for the persecuted, for the mistreated, and likewise the church today is to have special concern. Such for the abused, especially the persecuted, mistreated, and abused who are looking to him. We we sing the song Though the wrong seems oft so strong. God is the ruler yet. In history, we can think of oppressive regimes that have been put down Nazi Germany and others we can think of slaves being emancipated in their lifetime or when Jesus returns The oppressed who look to the Lord will be rewarded for their faithfulness. Verse 7: He made known his ways to Moses His acts to the sons of Israel. Think of the deliverance of Israel from Egyptian slavery. The protection and provision in the wilderness as he brought them to the promised land. These are recorded for us. They encourage us as to the nature of our God, his patience. with their disobedience, but his goodness to provide for them day by day by day with sustenance and with his presence going through the wilderness. And he doesn't change. He is the same today. The presence is even more personal, the Holy Spirit indwelling us. As he revealed to Moses and demonstrated to Israel, verse 8, the Lord is compassionate. John Stott defined Jesus' compassion as what his eyes saw, his heart felt, and certainly true about God the Father. And he's gracious what his heart feels, his hand blesses. Slow to anger We deserve that. We spoke earlier about that. We deserve his wrath for our sins. And abounding in loving kindness, we sang this morning. Amazing love, how can it be? That thou, my God, shouldst die for me. Verse 9: He will not always strive with us, nor will he keep his anger forever Those who reject or ignore him will face his wrath. But he provides a way that his wrath can be satisfied. Those who repent of their sin against him and receive Jesus as Lord and Savior, what do they find? They find verse 10 That he's not dealt with us according to our sins, nor rewarded us according to our iniquities. What would it look like if he did, church? Death, separation immediately. John Calvin said, He wondrously blesses those he might rightly destroy Feel the weight of verse 10. He's not rewarded us according to our iniquities. He could have. His holiness demanded it, but he satisfied his holiness on the cross of Jesus Christ. Illustrations of his mercy come next. Verse 11, as high as the heavens are above the earth. Well, how high is that? I I started looking at what uh astronomers say just for curiosity reasons. Some think that we've seen a galaxy now 13. 5 billion light years away. That's beyond our comprehension really to say that And I don't know how accurate it is, but if you could travel at the speed of light, that's a light year is the distance light can go in a year. If you could travel at the speed of light, I I we do know that you could not even leave the Milky Way, our galaxy, and the universe is full of galaxies. We couldn't leave our galaxy in our lifetime. So h when you read as high as the heavens are above the earth, and you think of where space goes, it's higher than you can conceive with your mind. And I think that's the point. So great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him. Now we need to talk about fearing him. We're going to see that phrase three times. I'll probably give three different slants of definition on it, but it's those who take his word to heart and believe. And so you know what you deserve is not his loving kindness. And you don't want to be on the other side of his loving kindness. So great is his loving kindness toward those who fear him. I think the way to appreciate His loving kindness from verse 11 is not to study astronomy, but to study the holiness of God and the sinfulness of man. as we've as I've been alluding to in the message. That's the infinite gap. I think high as heavens are above the earth should make a thing. Well infinite. Well I can't conceive of That the infinite gap between the holiness of God as you study Him in Scripture and the sinfulness of man is those three passages brought out and many others do as well. That gap has been bridged by The loving kindness of God. And the result, verse 12, as far as the east is from the west, so far has He removed our transgression from us. It's no longer hanging over our heads condemning us. And so John Piper commenting on verse 12. encourages us to have a broken, contrite, and happy heart as we read that Just as the Father, verse 13, has compassion, we're still thinking of God's mercy, just as the Father has compassion on his children, so the Lord has compassion. on those who fear him. Another way to think of fearing him is believing him and never wanting not to believe in him. I must believe in him. He's the creator of All things. He's holy. So the Lord has compassion on those who fear him, on believers. Notice in this passage The illustration of fatherhood. God designed fatherhood in his own image. That is When we do fathering the right way, we image God. It is a witness of who He is. It is to be a reflection of His love. And notice his compassion doesn't stop at forgiving us, but surrounds us, for he is more than a Lord we have been forgiven by. He is our Heavenly Father, Jesus Christ. Taught us to think that way and to speak that way. He is our Heavenly Father who cares about the details of our lives. And he knows our weaknesses, verse 14. For he himself knows our frame. He's mindful that we are but dust. So God knows his children's weaknesses. Jesus, at the right hand of God, knows humanity and knows our weaknesses And the response at the throne of God, according to Hebrews 4, is compassion. God is ready to give mercy and grace to those who come Thirdly, we see the Lord's constancy in verses 15 through 18. As for man, his days are like grass. As the flower of the field, so he flourishes. When the wind has passed over it, it is no more, and its place acknowledges it no more. We cut the grass in our area of the world for a season, five to six months or so, but it stops. It's a reminder every year when it stops that We are temporary. And our influence on this world and those we love is very temporary. And then the contrast, verse 17. The loving kindness of the Lord is from everlasting to the everlasting on those who fear him. Fearing him, another slant of definition that we need to keep in mind. Yes, we we pour into his word and We believe, but we're also afraid of ever rejecting or ignoring him Because apart from him is eternal death. There is that warning throughout Scripture. Don't depart from him. And so we carry that warning in our hearts, not that I believe a truly saved person would, but we never would because we fear him And so I cannot and I will not reject or ignore him, because apart from him is eternal death. But notice, he has always had covenant love. Look at that. Notice the loving kindness of the Lord. When did it start? In eternity passed, from everlasting to everlasting. What a phrase. Such forgiving love, listen, was planned before the foundation of the world. As Paul writes in Ephesians chapter one , bless the Lord, O my soul. His constancy. Began before you were created. Before the world began, he knew you would be his in Christ. That he would shed his love upon you. Verse 17 continues, and his righteousness To children's children. What's your hope for your children, for your grandchildren? Well, first and foremost, it ought to be a right relationship with God. God, that they could be described by verse 18. To those who keep his covenant and those who receive his love, that's that's That's who we are. We receive Jesus as Savior and Lord, the new covenant, and we remember his precepts to do them, living lives of obedience to God who gives us life. Not perfectly, but fervently, we do that. Parents, this passage is teaching you that your influence is designed by God, but it is temporary. So pray, point, explain, demonstrate the everlasting love of God in Jesus Christ, that they might learn to depend upon Him day by day in their lives Fourthly, the Lord's sovereignty, verses nineteen through twenty-two. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens. We can't see it, but we believe it. And his sovereignty rules over all. All All people, all governments, all weather systems, all There's nothing outside of the sovereignty of his throne. Ecclesiastes 3. 14. I know that everything God does will remain forever. There's nothing to add to it, there's nothing to take from it. For God has so worked that men should fear him. And Jeremiah thirty-two, twenty-seven I am the Lord, the God of all flesh. Is anything too difficult for me? And it's a rhetorical question. The answer is no, there's nothing too difficult for him. Those who carry out God's sovereign will from his heavenly throne are then enjoined to thank and honor the Lord. So the sovereignty of God turns the psalmist David's heart to call on the angels. Bless the Lord, you his angels, mighty in strength, who perform his word, obeying the voice of his word, and they do. Bless The Lord. They do it perfectly. Bless the Lord, all you his hosts, verse 21, who serve Him, doing His will, and they do. They do it perfectly. Verse 22, bless the Lord all you works of His, in all places of His dominion. And they do. Now, the world and the works of God, yes, affected by sin, but still the trees we see, the grass we see are shouting glory to God because of the way He has made them and created them. And then we come to the last statement, the second bookend that began the psalm: Bless the Lord, O my Son. This is the right response from every creature. It's what the angels are doing. It's what the works of God are doing. May it be your response and mine. Well, implications just briefly. Let me ask you a question. What would you say is the greatest need of your life? In life, I should say it that way. Because you might think specifically right now. But no, let's a little more generally, what would you say is the greatest need in life? And I'm going to answer what came to my mind, simply a right relationship with God. Let me tell you, that's the answer of those who fear him. Those who don't fear him might have come up with a different answer to that. Psalm 103 celebrates God's provision. It's sufficient, it's merciful, it's constant His provision is sovereign. And if you've experienced his salvation and have a right response, right relationship with him Then your right response is to forget none of his benefits. Your right response is to bless the Lord, O my soul. I know we falter in it, but to keep coming back to it. And if it is the bookend of a Sunday where we gather to wish worship that brings your soul back to it, then so be it. But every day we should be blessing the Lord. Oh my God. soul. So what about your soul? If you have questions about a right relationship with God, I particularly want to to close by saying contact us. You have the the contact card in the in the seatback. Uh you have us, living pastors, Pastor Matt right over there, myself. We'll be we'll be here after the service if you'd like to ask any questions. You have others that you know, Sunday school teachers and others. Others. But let me encourage you if you have questions or if there's um a sense of need in your heart. To get right. To have somebody pray for you. Say yes to that. Give expression to that. Let us help with that. Let's pray. pray together. Father, we thank you that in Christ it is well with our soul as we will sing. We thank you that you reveal yourself As sufficient, merciful, constant, sovereign. And best we can With the imperfectness of our mind and heart, that one day will be gone, we do say, Bless the Lord, O my soul. In Jesus' name, Amen.