Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. Week eight is the Heart of Prayer, Matthew 6. 9 through 10, you can turn there, but the passage is found within the question and answers. We've been talking a lot about prayer. The past several weeks, uh in terms of what we do in prayer, what prayer is. This week we come to the very heart of prayer. Prayer, prayer. Simple qu question, right, kids? Right. What makes pizza pizza? Crust, cheese, and sauce, right? What makes prayer? Prayer. What makes prayer Prayer is that God in heaven hears it. Very, very simple. It would be like you go and ask your parent for something. What makes it asking your parent for something? The fact that you're able to go to them and ask. What makes prayer, prayer, is that God in heaven hears it. Jesus says, pray then like this: Our Father in heaven. Our Father in heaven It is God in heaven that hears our prayer. That's what makes it prayer. God is our Father who loves us. This is the second paragraph. Loves us, hears us, and answers us. According to his wisdom. And God will guide us, strengthen us, discipline us, protect us, and provide for us because he is our Father. Now there's a lot there. All the different aspects of the fact that God is our Father. We pray our Father, but we also pray our Father in heaven because God is also a great king. He made the world, he rules over the world. Great King who reigns in heaven. He created heaven, earth, and all that is in them. From us. Those things are not optional. Those are in fact the greatest desires of children of God to love Him, to serve Him, to honor Him. Prayer is prayer because it is received by God in heaven. It's not a casual thing of just outward religion that makes us feel good. It's a spiritual exchange between The person and God. And that's what makes prayer prayer is that God hears it. What are the three main motives of prayer? These are Are so very important. Three main motives of prayer. I guess you could say these are the three main motives of Christian living. The first motive is that God would be loved and worshipped as He deserves Hallowed be your name. That's from Matthew 6, 9, in the middle. To hallow means to set apart as holy. God God's name represents all that God is. So we hallow God's name by setting him apart as the most important thing in our lives. He's more important than money He's more important than things. He's more important than fun. He's more important than anything else than anybody else in all the world. We set God apart and say, God, you are first In our lives. You are first in our hearts. The second motive is that more and more people would submit to God's authority. Your kingdom. Kingdom come. Matthew six ten, the first part. We pray, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come. God's kingdom is there's a big word here But it's an easy it's an easy definition. Redemptive. That means that talks about people being saved, their sins being forgiven. That's more and more people being saved by the gospel. That's all that's talking about. God's kingdom. So we pray the kingdom come because we want more and more people to come to Jesus, more and more people to submit to God's authority. The third motive, this is the second to last paragraph, is That God's commands would be understood, cherished, which means loved and valued and obeyed. Your will be done. Matthew seven 610, right in the middle. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done. God's will is the way God requires us to live. It's very simple. It's if you do reading on this adults, you'll hear this called his revealed will or his preceptive will, the will of his commands, the will of what he requires from us. And it's based on his character. So your will be done. What does that mean? Well, we do God's will by Obeying God. We obey him by faith. We obey him under his grace and by his spirit. But that's what it means for God's will to be done. So we pray, Your kingdom come, your will be done. That means We desire God's commands to be understood, cherished, and obeyed. We have to pray for that. We have to pray for that. We can't obey God on our own power. Other people can't obey God on their own power. We have to pray for this. And finally, a concluding thought here, as these happen on earth, right as God's name is hallowed, as his kingdom comes And as his will as his will is done, it reflects the perfect scene of heavenly worship. And that's why it says, on earth as in heaven. On earth as it as it is in heaven is in heaven. Matthew six ten, right at the end. Things in heaven are as they should be. God is hallowed. He is most important to all the angels and all the saints. He's obeyed perfectly. Everybody in heaven submits completely to his authority, to his kingdom. So as these things happen more God deserves To be worshipped on earth as he is worshipped in heaven. it. People should submit to God's authority on earth as people and angels submit to God's authority in heaven, and God command God's commands should be loved You know, if you start out with these motives of prayer six weeks ago, they may get lost on us. May become too abstract. But we started with some of the practical things of just praying. But now we get to the heart of prayer. And we must strive For these motives to grow in our hearts. Like they're not naturally there. But we pray, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name, your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. Alright, let's pray.