Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. You have before you week two of our Savior and Lord. This first section are studies on discipleship and prayer. Week two is called Becoming His Disciples Next week will be a follow-up on the same passage. The main passage today is Matthew 16, 24 through 28. If you have a Bible, I'll give you a second to get there to Matthew 16. Becoming his disciples. Next week will be a follow-up. Some more things on the fundamentals of what it means to be a disciple. And then after that will be prayer. Matthew 16, 24 through 28. Then Jesus told his disciples, if anyone will come after me , Let him deny himself. Take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world but forfeits his soul Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? The idea is if you lose your soul, what could you trade in for it to get it back? And the answer is. Nothing. No amount of money, no amount of prestige, reputation, things, nothing can you trade in to get your soul back. That's what that question is meant to make us think about. What shall a man give in return for his soul? Verse 27, for the Son of Man, it's a way of referring to Jesus. is going to come with his angels in the glory of his father, and then he will repay each person according to what he has done. That's talking about the final judgment. Truly, I say to you, there are some standing here who will not taste death until they see the Son of Man coming in his kingdom. Now What we'll do is go through the questions of this week's study, which is week two, becoming his disciples. That was the main passage, but there are three questions before you. The first question is: what is a disciple? A disciple of Jesus is someone who dies to his old life And surrenders everything to live for him, to live for Jesus, his Savior and Lord. And that's the title of the Catechism, Our Savior and Lord. That's what a disciple is. He dies to his old life and says, I'm not going to be this person anymore. He surrenders everything to live for Jesus What is shameful to the world is now his supreme love and joy, Jesus Christ. Disciples are humble followers and wholehearted students of Jesus. How do we become disciples? That's very important. Three words. Someone want to read it out there in the peanut gallery? Jesus saves us. Having died and rose again to achieve salvation, he now gives salvation to sinners. through the gospel message by the power of the Holy Spirit. That's where forgiveness comes from. That's where salvation comes from. It doesn't come from us doing good things, being good people. going to church, doing religion, Jesus from heaven saves us. He gives us salvation. Through faith and repentance, we receive new hearts and eternal life through him. Discipleship follows salvation. Discipleship is the fruit that grows from the root of knowing Jesus Christ. And your final question here, how is this possible for proud and selfish sinners? Which is who I am, which is who we are. How are these things of discipleship possible? It is impossible without God. Discipleship is impossible. without God. Only God has the power to make us disciples. Only God has the power to keep us, to grow us, to utilize us. as disciples and God is faithful, he will surely do it. So becoming his disciples, becoming Jesus' disciples begins with Jesus saving us and then discipleship is really Jesus using us for his purposes and we live for him having surrendered all