Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. The name of this catechism is our Savior and Lord. During the winter, we'll be looking at discipleship and prayer. Gracie, what does discipleship mean? It means to be a student, to be a follower of Jesus. In the spring we'll be looking at obedience. Bella, what does obedience mean? Yeah, listening and following God's commands. Uh section three in the summer will be assurance. That means having a confidence that we are children of God through Christ. And in the fall, section four will be sanctification, which means God making us holy. That means God making us more and more like Him, instead of like our old selves that were Slaves to sin. That's the year. Today is section one begins This so this will be a brief introduction, which is meant to be the introduction for the whole year, and from Philippians 3. 20, and then we'll do week one, the master. So the introduction is called My Life and Destiny from Philippians 3. Philippians 320. But our citizenship is in heaven And from it we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a very short verse Lots of important words in that short verse. The two that I'm keying in on are Savior and Lord. And that's where I'm getting the title for this catechism. But our citizenship is in heaven, so that's who we are. Our citizenship is in heaven, and from it from heaven, we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. We live in the hope of his coming, in the assurance of his salvation, and everyday independence. of his grace and power. And here's what you have on the sheet in front of you. My life and destiny come down to one question. Do I belong to Jesus Christ? To be loved by him and to love him, to belong to him and to possess him, to be saved by him and serve him as Lord and Master. This is the highest and happiest life. To God be the glory. Your cross-references for your own devotional time will be 1 Corinthians 10 31, John 17, 1-5, and 1 Peter 1, 8-9.