Week twenty-three is the ninth commandment. What is the ninth commandment? Exodus twenty sixteen. You shall not Not bear false witness against your neighbor. The setting of that command wants you to picture a courtroom, a trial, where you're called as a witness for some Something that somebody was accused of, or something that was said to have happened, and you and it you are officially going to be called to give a testimony what happened, what did you see, what did you hear. Don't bear false witness. Tell the truth. What does the ninth commandment require of us? Well, let's get to the deeper spiritual meaning of that ninth commandment because it's not only a commandment just for the core Courtroom. It's a commandment for the way we live our lives. It requires loving the truth and standing for the truth in all things. You know, part of the heart of our discipleship, the heart of Christianity Is not just knowing the truth, but loving the truth. You think of the same way as our families, not just knowing things about each other, but loving each other. Or church family. Not just knowing Knowing each other, knowing things about each other, but loving each other. And our relationship with God is is the same way. And his relationship with His truth is the same way. Not just to know it, but to love it, to love the truth, stand for truth in all things. It requires speaking of others honestly and mercifully, judging as we would be Now honestly and mercifully, both of those things. It's sometimes easy to speak honestly of others, but not mercifully. And rationalize why that's okay. Because, well, we're telling the truth. We're just telling the truth. Yes, but you're being harsh and unmerciful. And yet God has been merciful to you. Sometimes if we try only to speak mercifully and not honestly, we'll sacrifice the truth and uh romanticize something and push the truth under the rug and not deal with the truth, not bring things to light, because we don't want to be seen as harsh. We don't want to be seen as judgmental. Well I'm not saying this is easy, but it's something to pray for For a pursuit, to speak honestly, to love the truth, to expose what is false, but also mercifully and graciously, judging others as we would be judged. Difficult stuff, right? Difficult stuff. What does the ninth commandment forbid? It forbids practicing or participating in deceit. So practicing or participating. So practicing is you're the one who's lying. Participating may be uh you know someone's lying, but you don't do anything about it. You go along with it, or you approve of it in some way, or you're part of a group lie. It forbids speaking of others falsely or without mercy, judging harshly in vengeance, and in anger. God has not called us to vengeance. What does the ninth commandment teach us about God? It teaches us that God loves what is true and hates what is false. Loves what is true and hates what is false. False. You know if that if we focus on that in our prayers, learning what is true and learning how God loves what is true and hates what is false, and just praying more and more And striving more and more by God's word and by God's Spirit that our heart would be formed in that image of what God loves. Then the Practical application will flow from there. But you should not bear false witness against your neighbor. We should see ourselves always as one who gives witness, not just in the courtroom Again, that's the one main example. But as we live lives on earth, we're constantly going to be witnesses to what's going on around us, you know, things that happened, the truth about Don't be ever be ashamed. Don't be ashamed. Don't be afraid to love what is true and to love the God of What does this mean for Christians? It means that Christians should be known for honesty and for speaking graciously about others. So easy at school, at work , just out in the world, even in church, even in church. It's so easy to get caught up in the gossip and the slander. And the negative talk and the biting talk and tearing others down. We should not be. It should not be like that. Krishna should be known for speaking Honestly, but speaking graciously about others. We should be most concerned with pursuing truth and exposing lies. Of all the people in the world, Christians should be most concerned with the truth And exposing that which is not true. Two passages, Ephesians 4, 25 through 27. Therefore, having put away all falsehood, let each one of you speak the The truth with his neighbor, for we are members of one another. Be angry and do not sin. Do not let the sun go down. on your anger and give no opportunity to the devil. Colossians three, nine, and ten, do not lie to one another, seeing that you have put off the old self With its practices, and one of those practices obviously was lying. And you put off the old self with its practices, and you put on the new self, which is being renewed in knowledge after the image. So the new us, the new you, the new me, the new self is being renewed in the knowledge, in knowledge after the image. of its creator in the image of God by his word by his spirit. And part of that is don't lie to one another. It's another passage that says we speak the truth, but we speak the truth in Love, speak the truth in love, and love one another according to the truth. So they go together. Let's pray together