Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Alright, this is week 13. The title is Obedience to God's Command. Last week we started talking about obedience in a general sense, just laying out some principles. This week we get into the specifics. What is it that God actually requires of us? So you can look at the first question in blue. What is God's command? Now that question should be interesting to you if you know anything about the Bible, because you know that there are many commands in the Bible Right? So why would I say, what is God's command? Well, because God does have one supreme command, and it's underneath that one command. that all of his other commands just fill in the detail. God's supreme command is, you shall be holy for I am holy. First Peter 1, 14 and 7 sixteen as obedient children, do not be conformed to the passions of your former ignorance. The children in here, what that means is Don't just live however you want to live. Don't just live however the rest of the world lives. Okay? Does that make more sense for you Verse 15, but but as he who called you is holy, that's referring to God, as he who called you is holy. You also be holy in all your conduct. Gracie, what's another word for conduct? Doing. Yeah, doing. Anyone else? I'm thinking of a word that starts with a B. Behavior. Yeah, behavior. In the way you behaved, in the way you're doing things, in the way you act. Here's what it says. Be holy. And why do we be holy in our conduct? Because God is holy. As he who called you is holy, you also be holy in all your conduct, since it is written You shall be holy, for I am holy. That is in the Old Testament and it's in the New Testament, which is the verse we're looking at in 1 Peter 1, 14 and 16. And you look at the last paragraph under this question. It's a very short paragraph. All of God's other commands show us what holiness is. They teach us what God is like, number one, and they teach us how to be like God, number two. In other words, they teach us how to live a holy life. Life. If you just want to put it in simple terms, God's command is to imitate him, is to be like him. And what does it mean that God is holy? This is the second question in blue. What does it mean that God is holy? It means that God is unique. What does that mean? Bella, what does unique mean? Uh yeah, it means different. He's different than anything else. What uh and that it and then it means that God is unique and then supreme. What does supreme mean? Becky? Higher than everything else. So he's different than everything else, he's higher than everything else, and he's glorious. Which is which means he's perfect in all of his ways. He's perfect in his thoughts He's perfect in his desires. He's perfect in what he says. It's different than you and I, right? He's perfect in what he says and in what he does. He's unique, he's supreme, he's glorious. In Isaiah 6, verse 3, mighty angels worship God, saying, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. Worshiping God, we have to understand that He's holy. And Exodus 15, verse 11, Moses along with Israel worshiped God, singing, Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? Who is like you, majestic in holiness, awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders? It's a rhetorical question. The obvious answer is what? None is like him. He's unique. He's different. He's higher than everything and everybody else who is like him. Quickly, I'm going to go through those three short paragraphs at the end, just zooming in on each of those points. God is unique because He is different from everything else. Who is like you, O Lord, among the gods? The answer is, nobody is like God Next, God is supreme because He's greater than everything else. Who is like you? Majestic in holiness. You can circle the word majestic, which is talking about God's majesty. His majesty means his highest authority, his highest dignity sets him apart. God is glorious. This is the last paragraph. God is glorious because he is perfect in every way. Who is like him? Awesome in glorious deeds, doing wonders. Again. Nobody. Everything about God deserves all. What is all? A -W -E. Someone call it out. To have to be in awe of something or somebody. You're totally amazed, yeah. You go to the Grand Canyon and look over. There's a measure of awe. You're totally amazed. You look up at a clear starry night, it's more beautiful than what we could imagine, to be totally amazed. We should be totally amazed at who God is. He deserves all. Flip over the page. Now remember how we began. We're thinking about obedience. We want to live lives obedient to God. Be holy as God is holy. So we see that He's holy. He's different, which means we should be different. He's supreme over all things, which means we submit to Him. That doesn't mean we try to be supreme over all things. And he's perfect in all of his ways. Now, what does it mean to live a holy life? It means devoting your life to loving God most and loving others as you So if the first important word of today's lesson is holy, H-O-L-Y, there's another four-letter word that is the second most important word. Any guesses? Any guesses? Adults, you can help. Love. Love. Holy God. Holy people. It begins with love. Devoting your life to loving God most because we can love other people We can love things in a certain way. We're to love God most and loving others as yourself. Here's the verse. Matthew 22, 36 through 40. Teacher, this is um someone talking to Jesus. Teacher, what is the great commandment in the law? And Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, and with all your mind But love God with everything that you are. Everything that you are. Your whole life is devoted to loving God. Love him most. Love him first. This is the first and greatest commandment. Verse 38. This is the first and This is the great and first commandment. Verse 39. And a second, a second is like it. You shall love your neighbor as yourself. On these two commandments depend all the law and the prophets. All of God's commandments are summarized in two great commandments Love God above everything else, and love others as ourselves. We don't bully others. We don't exclude others. We don't hate others. We don't put ourselves first, but rather we put God first. We love Him most. And then how do we relate to other people? How do we treat other people? Other people in school, other people at work, other people at the store, other people who you live with. We love them as we would want to be loved. We look out for their good. We want to help them. We want to serve them. So to be holy is God's supreme command. But if you want to be holy, you have to actually know what that means. What does that mean? Well, this is where we start. Two great commands. Love God above everything else, and love others as ourselves. That's where obedience begins. All right.