Good morning, everyone. It is the 17th Lord's Day. This is Catechism 2021. And we continue in our doctrine of Christ. And this week is the resurrection. I'll pray and we will get right into it. Father, we thank you for all that you are, for all that you've done for us, all that you've given to us by your grace, for your glory in Christ. We're so thankful. Bless us today. By your word and spirit, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. All right. The 17th Lord's Day, question 45. How does Christ's resurrection benefit us? What a great question. The practical question. What did he accomplish in his resurrection? It's not sufficient to just agree that it happened. We must know what it means. We must understand what Christ accomplished And how it benefits us, how does Christ's resurrection benefit us? First By his resurrection he has overcome death, so that he might make us share in the righteousness he won for us by his death. So that's first. Alright, it looks backwards. Looking back to the actual resurrection and what that moment signified, victory over death. He overcame death. Second, by his power we too are already now resurrected to a new life. So now this is present. And what I mean by present is in our life experience, if we've come to Christ by faith This is resurrection life within us. We've died to sin. We've died to the old self that was a slave to sin. We've been given new life in Christ. So first, past, historical, actual victory over death, overcoming death. the foundation uh that we might be able to share in righteousness that he that he attained that he won and second moving into present His power, we too already now are resurrected to new life. And third, Christ's resurrection is a guarantee of our glorious resurrection. So now if this first point was past, victory over death, in Christ's resurrection, and then if the second point was present, victory over death and victory over sin by resurrection life given to us. This third is a point about the future. The future, the guarantee that our bodies will be risen, like Christ's body was risen to eternal glory. So how does Christ's resurrection benefit us? Number one, the historical overcoming of death, Christ accomplishing the eternal purposes of God and attaining to resurrection glory through perfectly obeying God. Second, present life experience, the possession of resurrection power, Christ in us, new life in Christ And third, look into the future. It 's a guarantee of our glorious resurrection. We'll look at our cross-reference, our memory verse rather, 1 Corinthians 15, 45. And then I do want to look at a passage in Ephesians 2, and we will wrap up the morning after that. Commit to heart. 1 Corinthians 15, 45. Thus it is written, the first man, Adam. Became a living being. The last Adam became a life-giving spirit or a quickening spirit. This verse summarizes the entire biblical narrative from the first man Adam and all that would happen in the first creation and Then the lat on the other side of the book ends, the last Adam, who is Christ. First Adam was representative of one humanity, fell into sin. The last Adam Christ is representative of a new humanity being made holy in him in Christ. But I love the vivid picture here of Adam, the first man Adam, became a living being. That is, God breathing the breath of life into Adam to bring him to life Bringing him to his natural life and existence on earth, contrasted with the last Adam, who is Christ, specifically the exalted Christ, Reigning as king over a new creation, the last Adam, Christ, became a life-giving spirit. So the first Adam received the breath of God unto life. The first Adam, did I say that right? The first Adam received the breath of God unto life, but the last Adam, Christ, gives the The breath of life gives the Spirit of God. He gives life. He doesn't receive life. He gives life. And what exactly what that's talking about is very, very simple. He gives new life to sinners He saves sinners through the preaching of the gospel, through the gospel message of Christ and his life and death and resurrection. And the great salvation that is found in him, through the preaching and the sharing of that gospel, the risen Christ breathes new life into spiritually dead sinners. And he makes them alive and he saves us. from our sins and from judgment, reconciling us to God. So there you go. There's the gospel. But this picture here, the last Adam became a life-giving spirit. And that's who Jesus is. And that is what Jesus is doing. He's giving resurrection life to otherwise dead sinners. Passage from Ephesians 2, 1 through 10. Make sure I have the whole thing up here. Yep. Alright. Then I'll close this with a prayer. Actually, I'm going to try to see if I can zoom in a little bit, making sure you can see that on your screen. Yeah, that's a little better. Arguably. There you go. Shuffle me out of the way. Be patient. Alright. And we got it. Now we're set. And you two and you were dead in trespasses and sins. Spiritual death, right, in which you once walked, aka lived. Following the course of this world, following the prince of the power of the air, the spirit, the devil, the spirit that is now at work in the sons of disobedience among whom we all once lived in the passions of our flesh, carrying out the desires of the body and the mind, and were by nature children of wrath like the rest of mankind you know, summing that up in a in just very layman's terms, doing whatever we wanted to do, whatever whatever we felt like doing, we would do, chase this, pursue this, pleasure, whatever we want. Verse 4. But But God, being rich in mercy, because of the great love with which He loved us, even when we were dead in our trespasses made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. Obviously he's talking about being saved. Being saved by grace. By grace you've been saved. But you see the idea here, the picture of resurrection, dead in trespasses and sins, verse 2 And then again in verse 5, even when we were dead in trespasses, made us alive together. Resurrection. Resurrection. Verse 6, and raised us up with him, and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. That's talking about being spiritually united to Jesus Christ, even though he's in heaven and you're on earth and he's holy and you're a sinner, but that's what he does. He saves sinners, he brings sinners into a relationship with himself. Seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus, so that in the coming ages he might show the immeasurable riches of his grace. If you underline things in your Bible, that's a great one to underline. It gets to the God's ultimate purpose underneath all of this that He's doing. It's to show forth His grace. To show the immeasurable riches of his grace and kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. For by grace you've been saved through faith. And this is not your own doing. It's the gift of God. It's not a result of works, so that no one may boast. For we are his workmanship. That means he did the work. We're the recipients of a work, not the doers of this work. You cannot do the work of salvation. The work of salvation is done for you and in you and to you. It's applied to you. We are God's workmanship. Created, created, again, passive recipient in Christ Jesus for good works, for which God prepared beforehand that we should walk in them. Could go on a long time on some of these things, but uh I won't. I have to say something about this. So blatantly clear here that doing good works Is the result of having been saved by grace through faith. Doing good works does not contribute to being saved, it comes after were created for them. God prepared them beforehand. We should walk in them, yes, but they come after The salvation experience, the experience of being resurrected spiritually by Christ. Father, we thank you for Christ. We thank you for who he is, his dignity, his worth. His holiness and all that he's done and accomplished. We worship you, we give you thanks, we praise you in his name, we come and stand before you by his blood alone that cleanses us You have a guilty conscience, gives us peace, justifies us before your throne. We praise you in his name. Amen. God bless you. Join me tomorrow for a confession of faith. Week 17 and next Sunday we'll see you again on the 18th Lord's Day. God bless you