Hello church. Thank you for joining me again. Catechism 2021. This is the ninth Lord's Day. I pray for us and we'll begin. Father, we thank you, and we are thankful for your word. And your Holy Spirit, your calling upon our lives, the church, the purpose you've given us in your kingdom, bless us today by your word and spirit. We pray. Amen. All right, we go into the sectional God the Father today, which is two lessons this week and next week. And just one question today. Lord's Day number nine, question twenty-six. Let's get right into it. What do you believe when you say, I believe in God, the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth? Good question. Okay, and if you want the context for that, please go on last week's video, Lord's Day number eight for the basic Trinitarian structure of the rest of the the rest of this section of the Catechism, this major section, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. Okay? Father, Son, Holy Spirit. God's work of redemption for his people. What do you believe when you say, I believe in God, the Father Almighty, creator of heaven and earth? that the eternal Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who out of nothing created heaven and earth and everything in them, who still upholds and rules them by his eternal counsel and providence is my God and Father because of Christ his Son. I trust him so much that I do not doubt he will provide whatever I need for body and soul. He will turn to my good, whatever adversity he sends me in this sad world. He is able to do this because he is Almighty God. He desires to do this because he is a faithful father. Wow. If you are using these catechism devotions for your personal Bible study or personal prayer time, which I've been suggesting every week, these are supposed to be a springboard. for discipleship or if you're using them for your family or if you're using it for a small group study, this one is ripe for fruitful discussion and building up into faith. Every phrase you can expand on the glory of God the Father here To be encouraged and to be transformed by the truth of God. The eternal Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who out of nothing created heaven and earth and everything in them. So we're looking at the creative power of God to create the universe out of nothing. We don't have the power to create even a single grain of sand out of nothing. He created everything out of nothing by his power. What power is that? You can think about the sun, which is relatively a small star, and it's very, very far away from us. But we cannot even look at it without damaging our eyes. Because of the power and the radiance. But this is the being that brought the sun into existence and all the stars. The creative power of God should humble us. and bring us to a sense of awe and wonder and worship before our Creator. And then it says this, who still upholds and rules them by his eternal counsel and providence So God did not create and then remove himself from the picture. God forbid. But he's active and he's working out his purpose in the world And then it says, is my God and Father because of his because of Christ his Son. So as sinners, we're alienated from God, but through faith in Christ. And through repentance toward God, through faith in Christ, we are reconciled to Him. And we enter into that relationship with God that will never end, which is one of my summary ways To uh encapsulate and crystallize what salvation is. Salvation is being saved from sin, it's being spared from judgment But the way God does that is he brings us into a relationship with him that will never end, and he does that through Jesus Christ, through the coming of Jesus Christ, through the righteous life of Jesus Christ. through the sacrificial death of Jesus Christ, through the glorious resurrection of Jesus Christ, his heavenly enthronement, and then from that place enthroned in heaven as Lord and Savior, Jesus giving us his Holy Spirit. through the gospel, as we turn to him and look to him in faith for salvation. A glory, I mean it's just one phrase, is my God and Father, because of Christ his Son. But that phrase, that one clause is pregnant with glorious meaning. Again, bringing us to worship God, God our Father, whose Reconciled us to himself through Jesus. What better what better thing is there in the world than this I trust him so much that I do not doubt he will provide whatever I need for body and soul. And you can notice this Not whatever I want, not whatever I desire, but whatever I need, body and soul. So this is the care of God, the care of God. That he will turn my good, ultimately turn to my good, whatever adversity he sends me in this sad world And uh this is not saying at all that our lives will be free of sadness, free of trials, free of suffering. It's not saying that. It's saying in the midst of those things, God is ever-present and he does care and that ultimately he will provide what we need and the end will be for our good. The only way you can believe that and walk that is by faith, not by sight. By knowledge of the truth, not by irrational emotions as we all get stirred up in different ways. But we must have a grounding and a footing on God's truth and a faith in God. To walk this walk, to walk by faith, not by sight. He is able to do this because he is Almighty God. He desires to do this because he is a faithful Father. And I love that those two things go together, and they do go together. It's not just that God has the power to care for us and look out for us. But that he's not looking out for us begrudgingly. He desires to do this because he is a faithful father. Let's pray and the lesson, the devotion will be yours. Father, we thank you and we worship you for all that you've done, all that you are doing, all that you promised to yet do. We confess faith in Jesus Christ. We profess a need for your Holy Spirit. We thank you. We love you, Father, and we worship you from the heart. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Okay, check out Confession of Faith week nine. Tomorrow I'll post it probably late in the day. And then next week we'll see you on the Lord's Day number 10. God bless you.