Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. And this week is week seven, learning to pray. It's from Matthew 6, 5 through 8. You can turn there. But you will see those passages woven into the catechism, which is instruction in the question and answer format. The first question this week is, where can I learn To pray? Interesting question, right? Because you might think, well, I could pray anywhere. But there's a specific teaching that Jesus gives. You can learn to pray by secret prayer in a private place. First, secret prayer guards you from praying so that others think highly of you. That is a constant temptation. And when you're trying just trying to get started and growing in prayer, That's a difficult temptation to overcome. Jesus said, and when you pray, you must not be like the hypocrites, for they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly, truly, or truly I say to you, they have received their reward from Matthew 6. 5. What was their reward? Well their reward was being seen by others. A hypocrite is an actor, a faker. He wins the praise of men by his public prayers. And you will learn to seek the praise of God in secret prayer in a private place. Jesus said about hypocrites, for they loved the glory that comes from man more than the glory that comes from God. That's in John 12, 43. Also see John 5, 44. Secondly, secret prayer helps you focus on God and trust in Him for prayer's reward. Jesus said, But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret will reward you. Matthew 6, 6 True prayer comes from a heart that loves God, needs God, and trusts God to hear and answer according to his will. Seek God when you are alone. You will gradually learn this blessed key to your relationship with God. Jesus said, blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Now, how will I learn to pray? In addition to learning to pray in a private prayer in a secret place, how will I learn to pray? First, you will learn to pray by praying short and simple prayers. Jesus said When you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do, for they think that they will be heard for their many words. Matthew 6, 7 Many words do not make mighty words. And when a child is thirsty, the best thing is to simply ask, Mom, may I have a drink, please? I am thirsty. When a friend needs help, the thing is to simply ask, Can you help me with this? I really need some help. Be simple and straightforward in your prayers. And second, you will learn to pray by realizing that God already knows what you need. Jesus said, Do not be like them, talking about those hypocrites. Do not be like them. For your Father knows what you need before you ask him. Matthew 6, 8. Therefore, be straightforward with God. Talk to him. Do not heap up but trim down. Do not pray empty phrases, but heartfelt and thoughtful phrases. Yeah, this is not easy because it requires two things at once. And these two things are seemingly contradictory, but they're not. It requires getting straight to the point. But it also requires slowing down to think about your words. You'll be thoughtful and you'll be mindful in your prayers. But with God's help, you can learn how to pray short and simple prayers that do not ramble on aimlessly to God. If fake public prayer makes us look spiritual, then fake private prayer make us feel spiritual. Want to strive to avoid both. And God can do it. And it looks like I was not able to scroll. There you go. There's that last paragraph. Strive to avoid rambling on. Strive to avoid praying based on what other people think about you. Secret prayer in a private place. And short, simple prayers to get right to the point with God.