Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Week six is the last week on Psalm 23. So continuing on, the Lord is my shepherd, but a focus on prayer. There's only one question this week. Someone want to read that question out for us? How should we thank God in prayer? How should we thank God in prayer? Expressing thanks is always important in every relationship. We should say thank you to our parents. We should say thank you to each other, to our friends. And of course saying thank you to God is so important How should we thank God in prayer? We should thank God daily in many ways. 1 Thessalonians 5, 16-18. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Give thanks in all circumstances means all the time. No matter what's going on, we should be able to give thanks. First, we should thank God for providing for us, even as we live amidst temptation, sin, death, and evil. Psalm 23, 5, at the very beginning, you prepare a table before me. Which is a good thing, right? And so even though we live in the midst of temptation that you face and sin that you still have and suffering, And evil and difficult things, God has still provided for us. Every day God has provided for us. There's always something to say thank you for. As the Father told the son, rule in the midst of your enemies, Psalm 110, he tells us to serve in the midst of those enemies. That's a maybe a deeper kingdom point. The adults should really grasp on to that or grab onto that. The Christ now is ruling in the midst of his enemies. We are servants in the midst of our enemies as well. Temptation, sin, death, and evil. He prepares a table before us in the presence of our enemies. Second, we should thank God for the anointing of the Holy Spirit. He says in Psalm 23, the second part of verse 5, you anoint my head with oil My cup overflows. That's symbolic of God's blessing, which is fulfilled in Jesus giving us the Holy Spirit. He anoints us with the Holy Spirit. Thank God that our hearts, through faith in Christ, overflow with love, joy, and peace of the Holy Spirit. Because if Jesus does not give us the Holy Spirit, We will never get the Holy Spirit. And if the Holy Spirit does not produce within us godliness, holiness, love, joy, peace, we will not have it. From Galatians 5, 22 and 23. But the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness. Faithfulness, gentleness, self-control, against such things there is no law. Those are the things that the Spirit gives us. We should thank God every day that He has anointed us with the Holy Spirit. The only way we could ever be pleasing in his sight. So first we thank God for providing for us. Second, we thank God for anointing us with the Holy Spirit. Third, we should thank God that He is always good and always merciful toward us. Psalm 23, 6, the first part, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life. Because we are children of God. He has made us his children, and he pledges to every one of his children to be good to them and to be merciful to them. That doesn't mean that only good things happen in your life. That doesn't mean that only good things happen to you. And life is always peaches, rainbows, and butterflies. But it means that no matter what's happening to you, no matter what's going on in your heart and in your mind, God always has goodness toward you and God always has mercy toward you. That's his pledge to his children. By the name of his son. We should thank God for that. Oh, give thanks to the Lord for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. Psalm 107 1. Looking again at that Psalm 23 Verse 6, surely goodness and mercy shall follow me. Here's such a great phrase to circle all the days of my life There's not going to be a a year coming up in your life, or even a week coming up in your life, where God will not have goodness and mercy for you. He always is good and always merciful toward us. Fourth, we should always, above everything else, thank God that we are his children and that we will live with him forever. I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever. Psalm 23, 6, the second part. And then from Revelation 21, 3 to 4. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold, the dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. You see the f key word here is with. Alright? With. The dwelling place of God is with man. He will dwell with them. They will be his people. And God himself will be with them as their God. He will wipe every tear aw from uh away, wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor any pain, for the former things have passed away. So We have a certain hope for the future of being with God forever. And in that day, there will be no more enemies. We'll no longer live in the midst of spiritual enemies. Amen? We'll no longer have temptation. We'll no longer have sin. We'll no longer be surrounded by suffering, surrounded by evil. But we'll be without those things. We'll be with the Lord and the fullness of his blessing. This is just four summary points of why every day we should express thanks to the Lord. I'm not just saying be thankful. That's where it starts in our hearts being thankful. But I'm saying taking the time to express thanks to God. And if we just do that, that's prayer. In fact, that you'll have the centerpiece of prayer. in in place, if every day you thank God in prayer for his providing for us, for his anointing us with the Spirit. For always being good and merciful toward us, and for making us his children in the hope that we'll live with him forever