Good morning, everyone. Welcome to Catechism. 47th Lord's Day. And as I'm starting, I already see that I did not update this title strip. So let me go ahead and do that. And we'll get uh we'll get this will be very quickly. We are on the 47th Lord's Day, and we continue with the Lord's Prayer. This week. There we go. Easy as pie. I'll pray and we'll get right into it. Father, we thank you. Thank you. For revealing yourself to us. Thank you for erasing the guilt of our sin through Christ and through his life and through his death. We thank you for the hope of eternal life that you've given us the power. over sin that you've given us because of Christ and in Christ and by the Spirit, not by our own power, strength, or wisdom or anything like that. But only through the gospel. You've delivered us from sin and we thank you. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. All right. Here we go. Lord's Day 47. Question 140. Kind of hard to believe. We only have five of these left. But this is a great, great section, no less important than the earlier ones, on the Lord's Prayer as a guide for our prayer life. Why did Christ command us to call God our Father? At the very beginning of our prayer, Christ wants to kindle in us what is basic to our prayer. So foundational ground level a must have this foundational to our prayer basic to our prayer the childlike all and trust that God through Christ has become our father. What a great statement there, summarizing, really summarizing the heart of Christianity, the heart of the gospel, that God through Christ has made us his children, and you can say it the other way around, which is exactly what it's doing here. God through Christ has become our Father. And that brings a childlike awe and trust. In God. Our father, our fathers do not refuse us the things of this life. Good fathers, right? Negligent fathers do, but our fathers, if they do their job, fulfill their duty before the Lord. Do not refuse us the things of this life. God our Father will even less refuse to give us what we ask in faith. And God is a caring Father, a loving Father, a watchful Father. All of that is through Christ, and all of that is to be lived out and experienced in the Spirit. And what does that look like in our prayers? Well, it's very simple. We cry out, our Father. We see God as our Father, a childlike, all in trust. Question 141. Why the words in heaven? Our Father in heaven. You see what it's doing. It's just going through the different phrases in the Lord's Prayer. These words teach us not to think of God's heavenly majesty as something earthly and to expect everything for body and soul from his almighty power. So two things in view. Number one, heaven. Number two, God's power. So God is our Father, but he's our heavenly father. He's our Father in heaven He is the creator. He has infinite power, infinite wisdom, and We should not think of him or anything from him or of him as an earthly thing. I mean the only way this will make sense to us and the only way we'll be able to live this out in our prayer lives and then extending on from there. to everything about us is if we stop thinking in terms of outward religion. We have to think in terms of the heart. We have to think in terms of the invisible, the true spiritual essence, the true spiritual realities. God is real, but God is in heaven, and he is our Father, but he is the creator, and he has infinite powers. This is the God who loves us. This is the God who cares for us. This is the God who hears our prayers and answers our prayers. God in heaven, his majesty is far above us. So far above us, we cannot comprehend the distance between God and us. But yet he's brought us into a relationship with him so that we can call him our Father, but we always, always, always call him our Father in heaven. And commit to heart, Genesis 1, 1 and 2. In the beginning God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without without form and was void, means you could not live there. It was a desolate wasteland. And darkness was over the face of the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the waters. I thought that was a good memory verse. for reminding us of the power of God seen first in creation to make this whole world, this universe out of nothing. Just by the word of his power, according to his wisdom and his purpose, nothing outside of him guiding him, and nothing outside of him constraining him. God in himself and of himself by his power alone brought this world into existence. That is the God that we can call Father. What an amazing, amazing blessing. Father, we do thank you. You are in heaven. You're far above us, and yet you've made yourself known to us through Christ in mercy through his work on the cross, taking our sin away, giving us your spirit, making us your children. What a blessing. And we cherish this, and we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Thank you for joining, and we'll see you tomorrow or Tuesday for Confession of Faith. It'll be week 47 and Lord willing, I'll see you next Sunday for the 48th Lord's Day. God bless you, see you soon