Alright, welcome to Catechism 2021. It is the fifth Lord's Day, and it is a grand Week in our catechism. We transition from the section on sin to the section on deliverance in Christ. Just a reminder. If you want to request a free hard copy book of the Catechism, just go to our website and go to online discipleship tools or just go to the catechism page and you can request a copy. We'll get it to you. I will pray for us and then we'll look at uh lesson number five for the fifth Lord's Day. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your word. Today, especially, we thank you for deliverance in Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Okay, part two begins this week, deliverance in Christ, and it goes from um lesson five. To lessons A. Initially, there's different sections of it. Um, but it's a major portion. So just to remind you, the Catechism has three sections. Sin and misery is the first one, and then deliverance in Christ is the second one, and then gratitude is the last one. The section on gratitude is Christian living. We'll get there when we get there. Lord's Day number five, question twelve. According to God's righteous judgment , We deserve punishment both in this world and forever after. How then can we escape this punishment and return to God's favor? This is the central question of Scripture. How can we be saved? How can we be made right in God's eyes? Here's the answer. God requires that his justice be satisfied. Therefore, the claims of his justice must be paid in full, either by ourselves. or another. This is so very important. Especially when we come to the cross of Christ, we need to understand that justice is satisfied. And because justice is satisfied, we can be delivered from our sin. But God's grace toward us is not that He ignores our sin and pretends like it doesn't exist. It is not that he magically forgets about the judgment that we deserve. So if you circle that word, punishment in the question, that is what falls upon Christ on the cross. And through faith in him, we are saved and spared of that punishment. But that God requires justice to be satisfied does not change. Here are some cross-references for you to study. Question 13, can we pay this debt ourselves? Certainly not. Actually, we increase our guilt Every day. Every day we sin more and we sin more and we sin more. Most of the time, not even batting an eye. We sin in heart Mind, word, deed, and most of the time If not all of the time, totally unaware of our greatest sin, the sin of sins, the transgression of all transgressions. What is the worst thing that you ever did? Think about it. Most of us don't even think about or know that the worst thing we've ever done is not love God with the love that He deserves. That's the sin of sins in the heart. And out of that sin flows every other sin and breaking of the law. So we even as Christians, I mean we can be a Christian for decades. Learning the Word of God, growing in the faith, being sanctified, and still unaware that this is the greatest sin because it's a violation of the greatest commandment. So the point is each day we incur more guilt because we commit more sins. Can another creature, any at all, pay this debt for us? Creature, key word there. No, to begin with, God will not punish another creature for what a human is guilty of. Besides, no mere creature can bear the weight of God's eternal anger against sin. and release others from it. So we are in quite a bind here, needing justice to be served. We cannot do it. Another creature cannot do it. Question 15. really begins to hone in on Christ and how he is able to save us. Question 15. What kind of mediator, which means go-between, right? A bridge figure. Mediator is one who bridges the gap between two parties that are in conflict. truly represents this party, truly represents that party, and can bring the two together. What kind of mediator and deliverer Should we look for, then, one who is truly human and truly righteous, yet more powerful than all other creatures, one who is also true God So we need a mediator, a deliverer who is a human, so that they can properly represent us but also who is God, who is able to save, one who is truly righteous and fulfills the demands of the law that must be met. But has a power to be able to withstand receiving the penalty for lawbreaking and survive, and to be able to overcome. And so here you have A doctrine of Christ is where this is leading us. That there is only one who can bridge the gap between holy God and sinful creatures. Only one who can do this work of deliverance. Jesus Christ. What kind of mediator and deliverer should we look for then? One who is man, one who is God. Only one person fits the bill. Host of cross-references here. Memory verse for this week, John 1, 1 and 2. In the beginning was the Word, and the Word was with God, and the Word was God. He was in the beginning with God. Word is one of the titles or one of the names for the eternal son who then becomes flesh in the person of Jesus Christ. In the beginning is shorthand for in the beginning. So the word existed before creation, was not a part of creation, or did not come into existence, but has always existed In the beginning was the Word. The Word was with God, so there's some kind of distinction there. And the Word was God, so there's some kind of identity there. We're getting into God as Trinity, one essence and three persons. We don't have time right now to expand on that, but that but we're getting in here into the person of Christ, one person who has two natures, right? A divine nature and a human nature. In the beginning was the word, and the word was with God, distinction The word was God, identity, then the first word of the second verse is so important, he You can circle that. He was in the beginning with God. The word is personal. The word is a personal being. The word is the person of God the Son, who then becomes a man and in the in Jesus Christ and functions as our mediator and deliverer before God. Father, we thank you. Thank you for the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray for your blessings and intervention in our lives wherever we need it. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Okay. We'll catch you tomorrow for Confession of Faith week five, and we'll see you next day for the Lord's Day number six. God bless you.