Week twenty-nine. Remember I said we need to catch up, so we're doing two today. Week twenty-nine. Patience. The fruit of the spirit. What are the first three, Gracie? Love, joy, peace, and then patience. Again, it's not optional. It's a command. Walk in the Spirit, Galatians 5. 16. It has all the commands of God. Please, whatever you do, do not attempt to obey this command apart from faith in Christ. Don't attempt to obey this command. On your own power, but seek Christ, and in seeking Christ by faith, he'll transform us to be more and more patient. And isn't it true that each one of us needs to grow in patience? Amen. Amen. Yes. Amen. We do need to grow in patience. We live in a culture of immediacy. We've just been conditioned, not only because of the culture, but because of our own selfish hearts. We've been conditioned to Expect and feel entitled to get what we want, when we want it, how we want it, when we say so, give it to me now. And so when things don't work out, we get very impatient and very frustrated. So we need to pray for patience and strive for patience. What is patience? It's the ability to wait in faith, to wait in faith for things promised by God. Even as we presently endure hardships. Patience is the ability to wait in faith. To wait and not Be angry, to wait and not be discontented, to wait and not get mad at God, to wait and not blame God, to wait in faith. to wait in faith for what God has promised, even as we endure hardships. Hebrews 10, 36, for you have need of endurance. So that when you have done the will of God you may receive what is promised. But you must endure. You must await. You must push through the difficulties. Then we'll receive what's promised. Romans 12, 12, rejoice in hope, be patient in tribulation, and be constant in prayer. Such a short verse. But there's three things there, and they are all connected. Rejoicing in hope, maintaining our hope, what God has promised, being patient in tribulation. So you're experiencing tribulation. These are intense sufferings. You must be patient. Wait. And then it says be constant in prayer. That's the only way we'll get through, is to be constant in prayer. Three encouragements toward patience. Three encouragements toward patience. Ms. Iris, are you paying attention? Okay, good. Number one, patience enables us to endure temporary hardships of this life. Technically speaking, the thing that will get us through is patience, which I defined as waiting in faith. It's the thing that will help us get through difficult things in life. Romans 8 23 through 25 Not only the creation, but we ourselves, who have the first fruits of the Spirit, that means you're filled with the Holy Spirit. We groan inwardly. You see, there's an inner struggle. There's an inner suffering. We groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons The redemption of our bodies. I'll let you read those last few verses on your own, but you see, that's our ultimate hope. The redemption of our bodies, which is talking about the resurrection. That's the inheritance That's the full reward, that's the crown of glory, that's the goal, but we have to wait. Patience is what will enable us to endure hardships, and so when we are experiencing hardships. We must pray. We must pray for patience so that the hardship doesn't lead us to fall away. So that the hardship doesn't lead us into temptation and sin. When we're going through trials, we are weaker. spiritually and part of that is God maturing us, teaching us to lean on Him more and more and lean on ourselves less and less. We're all weaker in the midst of trials and hardships. Number two, patience enables us to love others and walk in unity. You can't really have a you can't have a good relationship, a growing relationship without patience. Because we all sin. We all disappoint each other. We all fall short. We all make mistakes. We all say things we shouldn't say. We say them when we shouldn't say them in ways we shouldn't say them. We hurt people often unintentionally. We've got to have patience with each other. Patience is one form of love, to have patience toward each other. And not be snappy and angry and always pronouncing judgment against one another. And and this is true at home. This is true in church. This is true in the workplace. This is true at school, with your friends, wherever. We have to, the Christians have to be the people on earth who are most patient To endure others' shortcomings. It enables us to walk in love and pursue unity, Ephesians 4, 2 and 3, with all humility and gentleness, with patience, with patience. Bear with one another in love. Bear with one another in love with patience. And verse 3: being eager to maintain the unity of the Spirit in the bond of peace. Number three, final encouragement this morning, at least, not the final encouragement, absolutely, but today the final encouragement. Toward peace. Just encouragement, a reminder that we should be praying and striving toward peace. God uses hardships to develop our character and draw closer to Him. So when you're in a hardship, we should always be thinking, what is God doing? What is he trying to teach me? What fruit of the Spirit is He trying to cultivate up like in a garden? What does God is he trying to show me that I'm too impatient and I need to learn patience? Is he trying to show me that I'm too selfish and need to learn generosity? Is he trying to teach me that I'm too angry and need to learn joy? God uses hardships to develop our character. So we have to be thinking about that and praying about that and to draw us closer to him James 1, 2 through 4, count in all joy, my brothers, when you meet trials of various kinds, because you know that the testing of your faith produces steadfastness, which is another word for faithfulness or endurance. Sticking with it and not giving up. That's what steadfastness is. The testing of your faith produces steadfastness, and let steadfastness have its full effect, that you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing. The fruit of the Spirit, which comes from the Holy Spirit, not from us, but it comes from the Holy Spirit who's living in us. Love, joy, peace, patience. And there's more to come. Let's pray.