Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. In week one, the master, the passage is Matthew 16, 21 through 23, if you'd turn there. Matthew 16, 21 through 23 This is Jesus teaching his disciples about what he's going to do to save them. How he establishes his kingdom, how he manifests the love of God. Matthew 16, 21 through 23. From that time Jesus began to show his disciples that he must go to Jerusalem and suffer many things from the elders and chief priests and scribes and be killed and on the third day be raised And Peter took him aside and began to rebuke him, saying, Far be it from you, Lord, this shall never happen to you. But he turned and said to Peter, Get behind me, Satan. You are a hindrance to me. You're not setting your mind on the things of God, but on the things of man. If you look again quickly at verse 21, Jesus is showing his disciples. He's teaching his disciples. He's explaining to his disciples he must go to Jerusalem and then what's going to happen when they get to Jerusalem. He's going to suffer many things. From the leaders. And he's going to be killed, then he's going to be raised. This is how Jesus Saves us by going to Jerusalem and doing these things. This is how he establishes this kingdom. This is how he manifests the love of God. And if you look at the sheet in front of you, the catechism, which is really just a summary of these points And their application. Jesus, our Savior and Master, accomplished salvation and established his kingdom through suffering, death, and resurrection. Coming to an understanding and a belief in that is the beginning of the Christian life. He lived a righteous life, died a sacrificial death, rose to imperishable life, and ascended to heaven as, quote, both Lord and Christ. Acts 2. 36. Jesus now reigns with all authority in heaven and on earth. Matthew 28, 18. He alone is worthy to be our Master, and that's the title of this week one study, The Master Only Jesus Christ qualifies. Only he is worthy. Only he should be our master. Continuing on Remember, therefore, that his is not an earthly kingdom that operates on worldly principles, but a spiritual kingdom that operates on heavenly principles. So more cross references for that point will be John 6. 15 and John 18. 36. Strong encouragement to look those up and Look at those this week. And the final paragraph, Christ's kingdom is characterized by God's gracious redemption, the forgiveness of sins, from Colossians 1, 13 and 14. And his servants are consumed with righteousness and peace and joy in the Holy Spirit. That comes from Romans 14, 17. Sinners saved by Jesus, which is what we want to be. We're sinners whether we like it or not. We want to be sinners Saved by Jesus. Sinners saved by Jesus have become disciples of Jesus. He is our master, and we are his possession. Galatians 3:13, Revelation 5. 9. And First Corinthians six, nineteen through twenty would be your cross references on that point