Good morning everyone. Matt here from North Harford Baptist Church and this is This is Catechism 2021, the 11th Lord's Day. We transitioned today from God the Father to God the Son. You can see that lessons 11 through 19 will be on God the Son. I'll get us set up here and we will Begin with a prayer. Lord Heavenly Father, we thank you. We worship you. You are holy and righteous and just and good and you always do what is right. Your judgments are always true. Yet you are merciful and gracious and compassionate. Slow to anger, always forgiving. For those who come to you in faith, Father, we ask that you bless us today as we meditate on your Son Jesus Christ. It's in his name we ask. Amen. Alright, the Lord's day number 11. Question 29. Why is the Son of God called Jesus? Meaning Savior, because He saves us from our sins. Salvation cannot be found in anyone else. including ourselves. It is futile to look for salvation, for any salvation, elsewhere. And I'll scroll down, getting ahead of ourselves for the memory verse because it was just Alluded to there, Matthew 121. This is the angel speaking to Joseph. She will bear a son, and you shall call his name Jesus, for he will save his people. from their sins. J the name Jesus means the Lord saves. Or you could translate it, the Lord is salvation. Some people say God saves. That's fine. The idea is the same. The Lord saves. And Jesus gets that name because he is the Lord and He saves. He is the Lord who has come to save his people. All who will call on him in faith and turn to him in repentance will be saved. He will not go back on that word. He will save a hundred percent those who come to him in faith. He is Jesus. He is Savior. He is the Lord who saves. Because he saves us from our sins, salvation cannot be found in anyone else. It is futile to look for any salvation elsewhere. And here what's being emphasized is Christ is the exclusive source of salvation. And I would also highlight that he's the source of salvation exclusively, meaning this. He is not the primary source of salvation that needs to be supplemented by other things. For instance, he needs to be supplemented by our good works by our religious activity, by our morals, by our sincerity, um, by anything else. The saving work of Christ does not need to be supplemented by anything else within us or outside of us. from the church. It is strictly, exclusively, 100% from Jesus. He is the Savior And he is sufficient to save, mighty to save. Question 30. Do those who look for salvation and security in saints in themselves or elsewhere, really believe in the only Savior, Jesus. Now think about what this is asking and think about what this is saying before we look to the answer. If I truly in my heart believe in and am trusting in other things instead of Jesus or in addition to Jesus as the source of my salvation. I really believe that. I really truly mean it and believe it that I am believing and trusting in these other things to either save me or to help Jesus save me. Am I really looking to Christ for salvation? No, the answer is no. I'm admitting that. Why would I If I'm that person, I'm admitting that, why would I disagree with that? No. Although they boast of being his by their deeds they deny the only Savior and deliverer, Jesus. So this has in view those who say that they are saved But by their lives and by their beliefs and their actions, they deny that he actually is their savior. They um they expose the fact that they've not received him exclusively for salvation Either Jesus is not a perfect Savior, or those who in true faith accept this Savior have in him all they need for their salvation All they need. We have in him all that we need for salvation. We have in Jesus all that we need for salvation. He does not need supplemental He does not need help from the outside to complete his work of saving sinners. I want to close us today by reading a Well, I'll do more than read it. I'll comment on it. A passage from Matthew 7. Toward the end of the Sermon on the Mount. I think it shows up there. I'll try to make it a little bit bigger for you. There we go. Matthew seven, beginning in verse twenty-one. This is Jesus talking. Not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, now that's important. They're making a profession with their mouths of Jesus as Lord. But not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. Now that's interesting because haven't we don't we say all the time, and haven't I said, especially on these catechism studies and the confession of faith studies and almost everything we do that Receiving Jesus Christ as Lord and confessing Christ as Lord is how you enter the kingdom of heaven. But not everyone who says to me, Lord, Lord, will enter the kingdom of heaven. But the one who does The will of my Father who is in heaven. Now just stop right there and let your eyes camp out on the words in that verse for just a few moments. It's possible to say Jesus is Lord, but not do the will of the Father. Clear implication here. It's possible to confess Jesus is Lord and believe that your confession is sincere, but not do the will. of God. So this is talking about deception, delusion, spiritual deception. It's not saying that It's not saying that people who have a true profession can know that their profession is true and they can have assurance and confidence that they are safe. That's not what this verse is about. This verse is about something different. That it is possible to say, Lord, Lord, and not enter the kingdom of heaven because you've not done the will of the Father who is in heaven. Verse 22 on that day The day of judgment. Many will say to me, Lord, Lord, didn't we prophesy in your name and cast out demons in your name? And do many mighty works in your name. So there they respond to him, Lord, Lord, again making their profession, and now rattling off The list of religious works they did supposedly in Jesus' name and for the glory of God. They prophesied, preaching, teaching. It may be to some degree some sort of prophetic thing going on there. Cast out demons in your name And do many mighty works in your name. And then I declare to them, I never knew you. Depart from me, you workers of lawlessness And so not only is it possible to, with your mouth, say that Jesus is Lord and not be saved, it's also possible to be very active in religion. And here it looks like even in a leadership capacity, a very public, uh blatant involvement in religious works. Saying that Jesus is Lord, prophesying in his name, casting out demons, and doing many mighty works, supposedly in his name from their perspective. But what's the critical Reality. The critical reality is, have they been united to Christ by faith, or have they not been united to Christ by faith? And here's what Jesus says, then I will declare to you, I never knew you. See, that's the problem. That's what they lack. They are not known by Christ. Therefore, they do not know Christ. They did not receive him by faith. They did not turn to him in repentance. There was not a heart change. They were not born again. There's so many different ways you could say it. But Jesus did not know them. And that is not a statement about the intellectual knowledge of Jesus. It's talking about spiritual relationship or covenantal relationship. They were never reconciled to him by faith They never came to him. And so depart from me, you workers of lawlessness. We'll go back to the catechism. Question 29, such an important question. Why is the Son of God called Jesus, meaning Savior? Because he saves us from our sins. Salvation cannot be found. in anyone else, it is futile to look for salvation elsewhere. Let's pray. Father, thank you. Thank you for making a way, making a way of salvation, making a way to know you. Even though we've run from you, making a way to be right with you, even though we've violated your law and your commandments, frontwards, backwards, inside and out. Father, we thank you. Thank you for Jesus. It's in his name we pray. Amen All right, well, God bless you, and I will see you tomorrow. Confession of Faith, week 11, and then next week for the 12th Lord's Day. God bless.