Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. All right. Week nine, making requests. To God, this is from Matthew 6, verses eleven through 13. What should we ask for in prayer? We should ask God for daily provision, forgiveness. Forgiveness and protection. So three things right there. Provision. That means something that God will provide for us. Forgiveness and protection. Jesus says to pray Like this, Matthew 6, 11 through 13. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not into temptation. But deliver us from evil. Daily provision, forgiveness, and protection. So daily provision is what we need to live through the day. sense. Just that's just praying for God to give us everything that we need to get through the day. Give us this day our daily bread. Of course, we're not to pray for more than just bread. Bread there is a s kind of a symbol, a representative, because that's the seen as the most basic thing that you need in terms of food. We pray for God's daily provision, number one, because we trust in Him. Not only does life come from God, but the things that we need in life also come from. So we go to Him. Asking for provision shows God that we depend on Him rather than depending on ourselves and rather than depending on the world around us. So We ask God to give us everything we need for the day, trusting in Him. Also, that will help us to be content with what we have. Girls, what does it mean to be content? Right. Not to always be wanting more things. Very good, Jordan. So going to God and praying For him for daily provision will help us to be content with what he's given us rather than bitter at things he hasn't given us. So daily provision we ask for in prayer. Daily Daily forgiveness is when God cleanses our conscience from the guilt of daily sin. Even though our sins are forgiven and we are Christians We still sin daily, and we go to God to cleanse our conscience so that we're not always carrying around guilt because that will discourage us and And um lead us lead us into places we don't want to go, that guilt can really h be harmful to us. And he says, and forgive us our debts. for forgive us our sins or our transgressions. We daily commit sins of omission, that means not doing what we're supposed to do. And commission. Which is doing things we're not supposed to do. Uh, with our thoughts, desires, words, and deeds. Therefore, we daily ask God to give us grace in our hearts and our conscience. And we need that every day. We need God God's grace every day. We don't receive God's grace once when we become Christians and then don't think about it again. No, every day we come to God for His grace and He'll give He'll give us grace Grace in our minds, in our hearts, and in our conscience. That's how we can live in peace. That's how we can have peace and joy. God giving us grace. But he says something else in verse twelve. Forgive us our debts as we also have forgiven our debtors. So as we seek God daily for grace, every day we're reminded that we need to be showing others grace. Christians should be the pe people who are known for showing grace to others, who are known for forgiving, who are known for not holding a grudge, who are known For being gracious. So daily provision, daily forgiveness, and daily protection. Because he says, verse 13, lead us not into temptation, but deliver us. us from evil. That's protection. That's asking God to give us victory over sin and victory over temptation. As long as we live on this earth every single day will be a battle against sin and against temptation, things that want us to not live for God. We we must pray for this. I there's no other way to get spiritual victory than God's power. We must pray. God can help us avoid temptation. He can help us overcome temptation, but we must pray. The lies that the world is telling us. He'll help us to reject those lies, but we must pray. He'll help us. Now this comes from James 4 7. James 4 7. He'll help us Resist the devil who then will flee from us. James 4 7 says, resist the devil, resist his traps, resist his tricks, resist his lies. Then he will flee. God will protect us from persecution also, according to his wisdom. And the devil has many traps and tricks that can turn us away from God. And so that's one enemy that we need to pray for victory over. Our own sinful desires, which the Bible calls the flesh, can also drag us away from God. So that's two enemies. Right, the devil outside of us and and the invisible and outside of us, our sinful flesh, visible and inside of us, and then things that are Visible and things that are outside of us, the opinions, treasures, and pleasures of the world. Just the world around us. Just things, stuff, activities, all kinds of things. It could be good things or bad things. But there's so many things in the world that can distract us from living for God when they take control of our hearts. You guys uh know that I have hobbies and you have hobbies. And I'm sure you have hobbies, but those things can't take control of our hearts and be Lord over us. And God can give us victory over all of these things. All of these enemies. The devil, our own sinful flesh, and distractions in the world. If you flip that sheet over, you'll see additional helps Additional helps in terms of praying for spiritual victory and gaining spiritual victory over temptation and sin. Through these quickly, but this would be, I think, something really good to fold up and keep in your Bible or keep as an aid to your own prayers and devotions. One help and This is to pray for help focusing on doing God's will. Ultimately, that's how we gain victory over sin, is by focusing on doing God's will and focusing on growing in Verse there is first John two fifteen and seventeen. I'll leave That to you to read on your own time. Number two, pray sp so these are specific prayers now. So pray for help focusing on doing God's will. Pray that your sinful desires will not rule over you. We've got to pray for that. That won't happen on accident. Left alone and left without the power of God, our sinful desires will rule over us. And there's a verse there for that And number three, pray that you will not give up fighting those desires. And there's a verse there for that. And exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. So the sinful passions of our flesh will not quit waging war against our soul. Therefore we cannot Quit fighting against them. The Christian walk takes work, it takes time, it takes sacrifice. Jesus gives the image of taking up a cross daily and following him It takes sel self denial and denying of our natural sinful inclinations. We can grow weary, but don't give up. Don't give up the fight. Whatever you do, no matter how hard it gets, don't give up the fight. And finally, pray that God will show you the way out of specific temptations and give you the wisdom to take that way out And there's a verse there for you to read on that. There is a way out of temptations, there is a way to avoid the temptations, but often it takes action. Right? It's not something that will just happen in the mind. It's something we We have to follow through on it. Something we have to do. And the power to be able to do that and the wisdom to be able to do that doesn't come naturally to us. We've got to go to God in prayer. some specific ways that you can pray and that I can pray that I tried to pray as we're going to God and asking for victory over sin and temptation, which was only that final Prayer point. These are some specific ways we can do that. But we're also praying for provision. Give us this day our daily bread. We're also praying for God to cleanse our conscience. From daily sin. Forgive us our debts, which helps us helps us to remember that we need to be the most gracious people on earth because we've received the greatest grace on earth. As we as we also have forgiven our debtors. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Father, we thank you that you are a help in times of trouble. Thank you that in a world of um things that It will not last forever. You give us a hope that will last forever. I pray that we would live for you and not for ourselves. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen. All right. Thank you, everyone. For your attention and for coming.