Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. You have in front of you week four of our catechism. Again, the name of the catechism is Our Savior and Lord. This is a focus on discipleship. Week 4 is The Lord is my shepherd. It's from Psalm 23, 1 through 3. I'll give you a second to get to Psalm 23, 1 through 3, but it is on your sheet. It's just broken up. Throughout the questions. I'll pray for us and we'll go through these questions. And you can see this week as an introduction to a whole section on Prayer. Lord Father, we thank you for the gift of prayer. We ask that you would help us to grow in our prayer lives. I pray that we would see our helplessness and our weakness, that we would see our need to come to you and cry out to you. And Father, I pray that you would give us hearts of faith. To rely upon you, to trust in you and your goodness and your provision. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Week four, the Lord is my shepherd. The first question is why do we pray? And you can see the answer there. We pray because God cares for us and watches over us like a shepherd watches over his sheep. Psalm 23, 1. The Lord is my shepherd. I shall not want. Since we belong to God and can trust Him with all our needs, we acknowledge our needs and we call upon Him in faith. This is prayer. Jordan, you remember the other night you heard your little brother crying out in the night for mommy and daddy, right? He was calling out for help. He was crying out for help. That is a really good illustration of prayer. That's what we are like in prayer. Crying out to God for help, calling upon Him to come and help us in our time of need. Second question is how do we pray? First of all, there's a lifetime of learning that. Alright? There's a lifetime of learning how to pray just like there's a lifetime of learning the Bible and what it teaches and Learning how to live for God. But there's two things that we must always remember. How do we pray? We pray in Jesus' name. And in reliance upon the Holy Spirit. Reliance means we depend on Him and not ourselves. John fourteen, thirteen and fourteen, Jesus says, Whatever you ask in my name This I will do, that the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it And we pray in Jesus' name because Jesus represents us before God. Guys, that is right at the heart of Christianity that when you put your faith in Jesus and you are saved by him, he represents you before God. So that's why we pray in his name because he Represents us. He lays our prayers before the throne of God. And from Romans 8:26, likewise the Spirit Helps us in our weakness. For we do not know what to pray as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep For words. Again, that's Romans 8, 26. As Jesus brings our prayer up to God, the Holy Spirit, the Holy Spirit brings God down into our hearts. And you can think of an arrow going up and an arrow coming down. An arrow going up from your heart to God and an arrow coming down from God to your heart. Jesus is the one who brings your prayer on that up arrow to God. The Holy Spirit is the one who brings the presence and the power and the blessing of God down from heaven into your heart. This is the key to prayer, or the keys to prayer, maybe the two hinges of prayer that will help it turn, like two hinges on the door, that we pray in Jesus' name And we pray depending on the Holy Spirit. The third question is, what do we pray for? Again, there's a lot That will come on this, but that's why this is the first week of a whole section of studies on prayer. What do we pray for? We pray for God to lead us in life Psalm 23, 2. He makes me lie down in green pastures. He leads me. You can circle that word. He leads me beside still waters. So we can pour out our hearts to God and we can cry out to God for wisdom and for guidance. Oh God, will you lead me in life? This way we're not led by our own opinions. by our own sinful desires. We're not led by the opinions of others, by what's going on in the world around us. We want God to be our shepherd who leads us. We can pray for God to lead us in life Next, we pray for spiritual strength and nourishment. Psalm 23, 3. He restores my soul. You can circle the word soul. He leads me in paths of righteousness. You could circle the word righteousness. We're talking about spirituality We should continually plead with God, and we should continually say, thank you, God, for your spiritual care toward us in Christ. But we pray for God to lead us and we pray for spiritual strength and nourishment. Your body cannot have strength and nourishment unless you eat and drink and sleep and breathe. And your soul cannot have spiritual nourishment unless you pray. And the final paragraph on your sheet. We pray for God to be known and loved. His care for us is, from Psalm 23, 3, the very last phrase, his care for us is For His name's sake, our hearts and our prayers should be overflowing with praise and adoration toward God. You can think of a fountain spring that is always flowing with fresh water, so our hearts should be springing up praise and love toward God That's at the center and source of a uh a true Godward prayer life That's week four, the Lord is my shepherd. Psalm 23, 1 through 3. Next week we'll continue in Psalm 23, verse 4.