Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. Week 10 Praying for the world. Let me go ahead and start us with prayer, and then we'll look at this, and then we'll do week eleven, praying for the church. Father, we thank you for your goodness. Thank you that you saved us by your grace. We thank you for Jesus and his love and compassion toward us, for his daily help, for his daily intercession on our behalf. Father, we thank you for the Holy Spirit and for the Bible and for the Church and for the fellowship that you've given us. I pray that today you would encourage us, that you would teach us, and that you would help us where we need it most. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Week ten, praying for the world. How can I pray for God's kingdom? And if you remember that from the Lord's the Lord's Prayer, we pray, Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. So the advancing of God's salvation on earth would be to pray for his kingdom to come. By praying, here's the answer, by praying for gospel workers And by praying for the world. I really tried to summarize this in two helpful, um, memorable categories We can pray for God to raise up gospel workers and we can pray for the world. First, pray for God to raise up servants who will give their lives to the work of the gospel in the world. This comes from Matthew 9. 35 through 38. And Jesus went throughout all the cities and villages, teaching in their synagogues and proclaiming the gospel of the kingdom, and healing every disease and every affliction. So he's preaching, he's ministering. Verse thirty six when he saw the crowds. He had compassion for them Because they were harassed and helpless like sheep without a shepherd. So he sees the great need of the people. Verse 37. Then he said to his disciples, The harvest is plentiful, but the laborers are few. Therefore, pray earnestly to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest. So we're praying earnestly to God because it's his harvest, it's his kingdom, it's his gospel, it's his Holy Spirit that will change hearts. Pray to the Lord of the harvest to send out laborers into his harvest, servants, workers, to go out into the harvest. That's one way we can pray for God's kingdom. Praying for God. He's the one. I love the structure of that prayer request. You're asking God to send out laborers. He's the one who sends out workers. He's the one who raises up servants. And in one degree or another, we should all see ourselves as sent out as workers for the Lord You know, we don't need to be paid staff at a church or foreign on the foreign mission field to see ourselves as a gospel servant. We're all servants of the gospel in one way or another, wherever we are in this world, whatever our workplace, whatever our ministry. But still we pray. We pray that God would raise up. And then secondly, pray for all people. That's in quotation marks because it comes from the passage. Pray for all people, those you know and those you do not know. Pray for your family, friends, town, nation, world. I told you these were broad. But this is something we can pray for. This comes from 1 Timothy 2, 1 through 4. First of all, then I urge that supplications, prayers, intercessions, and thanksgivings be made for all people, for kings and for all who are in high positions, that we may lead a peaceful and quiet life, godly and dignified in every way. This is good. And it is pleasing in the sight of God our Savior who desires all people to be saved and to come to knowledge of the truth. You're praying for all people. He highlights leaders here in verse 2, but the end of verse 1, all people, all people. Supplications, prayers, intercessions, thanksgiving. So all kinds of prayers for all kinds of people. For all people. And praying for their salvation, praying for God to intervene in their lives. Uh two, I think easy easy to remember reminders about our prayer life. You know, as we're praying, hopefully we remember here and there to pray for God to raise up servants and to raise us up as his servants. I think that's part of that prayer. God use me, God use us, send me out. Let me be a worker and we should be we should always remember to pray for the world.