Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Week nineteen is the fifth commandment. What is the fifth commandment? See it right there on your page? Exodus twenty, verse twelve. Honor your father and your mother, that your days may be long and In the land that the Lord your God is giving you. Honor your father and your mother. A lot of the commands give the negative thing, give the thing that you're not supposed to do right you shall not murder you shall not steal um you shall not take the name of the Lord in vain. Here is the positive. Here's the requirement. But remember every command has both of those. Something that it it's something that it requires and something that it forbids. Here is honor your father and mother. Now what does the fifth commandment require of us. It requires children to honor the authority of their parents, which means to not rebel against them, not act like You're in charge, not ignore them, not do whatever you want to do and live however you want to live, but honor the authority of your parents. But in principle, it requires each of us to honor the various God-given authorities in the world. Remember the law of God is spiritual. It gets to the spiritual principle. It gets to the the heart issue underneath. The issue here is proper submission to the authorities God has put in place. What's Does the fifth commandment forbid? No , forbids a spirit of prideful rebellion that would lead to lawlessness and strife. What strife is just trouble. Trouble. in fighting. That's what it forbids. Proud, arrogant rebellion, where I'm just gonna do whatever I want to do. What does the fifth commandment Teaches us about God. It teaches us that God is the one who has organized life on earth. The different structures of authority. The government is one, the church is another. The family is another. It's God who organizes life on earth. He's put different authorities in place to keep order. And you could even go And within the church, what's our uh ultimate authority? The Bible, right? Within the home, the authority of the parents, the in the in a A nation or a kingdom or a state, the authority, the civil authorities, the government. And God is the one who made the earth. He's the one who made Human life, human existence, and he orders life in a certain way. And we submit to the proper authorities. And what does it mean for Christians? Remember back when we did the third commandment, don't take the name of the Lord your God in vain and it had to do with speaking. And when we got to this question, what does that mean for Christians? The the answer was really simple. It means Christians should be the most careful and the most disciplined people with the way that we speak. Here it's very similar. What does the fifth commandment uh mean for Christians For Christians, it means that Christians should set the best and highest example of humble submission, humble submission to the God-given authorities in our lives So you obey your teachers, you obey your coach, you obey your boss. It means that we should set the example of not being troublemakers, not being rebels But being humble and submissive and obedient to the God given authorities in our lives. Here's one passage, okay? Look down at it as I read it. Romans 13, 1 through 5. Let every person be subject, uh that means submissive, let every person be subject to the governing authorities. That means government. For there is no authority except from God, and those that exist have been put in place by God. Therefore, whoever resists the authorities resists what God has appointed. And those who resist will incur judgment. That's right. Great. Verse three, for rulers are not a terror to good conduct, but to bad. The God 's uh design for government is supposed to not be a a threat to those who do good, but to those who do bad Would you have no fear of the one who is in authority? Then do what is good, and you will receive his approval. For he is God's servant for your good. Oh, this the governing authorities are God's servants that God has put in place for our good, to keep order and law in society. But if you do wrong, be afraid, for he does not bear the sword in vain. He is the servant of God. An avenger who carries out God's wrath on the wrongdoer. Therefore, one must be in subjection. One must be submissive, not only to avoid God's wrath, but also for the sake of conscience. So, honor your father and your mother, but also honor every God-given authority in the world. All right. Honor, don't be a rebel. Don't be a troublemaker. Don't think that you should be in charge of every single thing. I guess this is one of those commandments that gets right to the heart of of this point that I'm not the Center of the universe, and so I shouldn't act like it. And you're not the center of the universe, so you shouldn't act like it. God is, and so we submit to the authorities that He's put in place. Let's pray.