You have an outline in the bulletin which will also show up on the screen, but you might have trouble reading it there. It pretty much is a list of what's in the passage. uh because we want to deal with everything that is in this passage that when we uh consider those to serve as deacons, this is what we go to. This is the primary place that we would say someone is qualified to be a deacon. There are some church qualifications as well. Commitment to the ministries of the church. And such, but but here's where we would first go. And it's because of First Timothy three that we recognize two ordained offices. In the local church, that of overseer, pastor, and that of deacon. 1 Timothy 3:8, we see the phrase or the word likewise, deacons likewise. And that's That clues us in that this is a second of two offices that Paul is Telling the church, telling Timothy at Ephesus that they are to have in a healthy way. In Philippians 1 1 Paul writes, Paul and Timothy bondservants of Christ Jesus to all the saints in Christ Jesus who are in Philippi, including the overseers and deacons. It seems that he is mentioning those two offices of the church in his greeting to the church at Philippi. Well, we looked at God's qualification for pastors last week. And this week we see his qualifications for deacons. Now the word deacon means servant, and it's used in general ways in the New Testament. But I think this passage tells us that each local church was to have a group of men who were chosen to especially care for the welfare of the local church body. And the first example of this in the life of the church comes in Acts chapter 6, verses 1 through 6. And I want to read that passage to you. I think it's important to see what most consider. the first deacons. Now at this time, while the disciples were increasing in number, a complaint arose on the part of the Hellenistic Jews against the native Hebrews. Because their widows were being overlooked in the daily serving of food. So the twelve summoned the congregation of the disciples and said , It is not desirable for us to neglect the Word of God in order to save serve tables. Therefore, brethren Select from among you seven men of good reputation, full of the spirit and of wisdom, whom we may put in charge of this task. But we will devote ourselves to prayer and to the ministry of the Word. The statement found approval with the whole congregation, and they chose Stephen, a man full of faith and of the Holy Spirit. And Philip of Prochorus, McCannor, Timon, Parmenus, and Nicholas, a proselyte from Antioch. And these they brought before the apostles, and after praying, they laid their hands on them. So we see this special setting apart of these seven. uh because a need had arisen and there needed to be another uh ministry uh people to do ministry in this early church and it was to serve in a very special way for a special need. Now notice how these seven men were chosen if you were listening or if you have them in front of you. It seems that they stood out in the minds of the disciples. They stood out from others in their spiritual life. That's specifically spoken of. In the qualifications, good reputation full of the spirit of wisdom. But then when we hear of Stephen, he's a man full of faith and of the heart. Holy Spirit. So they stood out from others. And that's what we find in 1 Timothy 3. It's not a list of ministry skills or people skills. It is a list that focuses on character and areas of faithful living. So of all the men of the church, we would think deacons are men that stand out in God's eyes in the ways that we see here in 1 Timothy. It's not that others don't have these qualities, and we should all be looking to add these qualities and improve in them in our lives because this is godliness again, just as the pastoral qualities were. But these stand out in their life before God, their life before the public, and their life at home. And as I said, these are qualities that every Christian must aspire to, but deacons are men who are known for these, known for going in this direction. Not perfect, but going in these directions. So let's look at Deacons likewise must be men of dignity, not double-tongued or addicted to much wine or fond of sordid game. But holding to the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. These men must also first be tested, then let them serve as deacons if they are beyond reproach. Women must likewise be dignified, not malicious gossips, but temperate, faithful in all things. Deacons must be husbands of only one wife and good managers of their children and their own households. For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves A high standing and great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. So number one, deacons must be men of dignity Men who are worthy of respect, exemplary, because they reverence God and live holy lives to please Him. These are men whose Christian life is respected. And when you think of that, whose Christian life is respected among the men, they come to mind just as they did in the Jerusalem church. Secondly, a deacon must not be double-toned. That is, he must be a man of his word. He must be truthful, sincere. He doesn't say one thing and mean something else. He doesn't talk one way with some people. and another way with other people. And he has the courage to be sincere in his words to others. not double-tongued. Thirdly, a deacon must not be addicted to much wine. So there's no need in a deacon's life or alcohol or any other addictive mind-altering drug. To need these things in order to exist day by day shows weakness of character and dependence on something something other than God. For living. And a deacon here in our church, if he is honoring the church covenant, will never have to face addiction to alcohol. Number four. Seems like we're going fast, but there's lots of these. So yes, we're going to go right through them. A deacon must not be fond of sordid game. literally not greedy, a shameful prophet. An example of this in scripture is Judas, one of the twelve In John chapter 12, beginning in verse 3, it is said that Mary took a pound of very costly perfume of pure nard and anointed the feet of Jesus. And wiped his feet with her hair, and the house was filled with the fragrance of the perfume, an act of worship that Jesus Accepted and uh said was good. But Judas Iscariot, one of his disciples, who was intending to betray him, said Why was this perfume not sold for 300 denarii? Now that's 300 days' wages, so you see the value of it, not sold for 300 denarii and given to poor people? But listen to his heart. He said this not because he was concerned about the poor, but because he was a thief, and as he had the money box, he used to pilfer what was put into it. Not fond of sordid gain. Those fond of sordid gain are those who compromise God's commands, willing to. uh his commands and principles for the sake of money. You and I shouldn't want anything that is not rightly our own and honestly our own. So you know if a cashier, not that you use cash too much anymore, but if if you do and a cashier makes an error in your favor, you should point that out And you should not, if you're in business, overcharge a customer. If you ever do by mistake, you correct it. Sordid gain is prevalent in every culture, and thus the warning of Scripture in this book, 1 Timothy, we'll get to it in chapter Chapter 6. 2 I'm going to read it to you now, verses 9 and 10. Those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires, which plunge men into ruin and destruction. For the love of money is a root of all sorts of evil, and some by longing for it Bond of sordid gain would be among those. Some by longing for it have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs. So a deacon, let me just remind you, one who is growing in godliness will not compromise scriptural values to benefit him or herself materially. Number five, a deacon must be holding to the mystery of the faith. Paul means there the revealed truths of the gospel. A deacon must be holding to the mystery of the faith. With a clear conscience. And he uses the phrase the faith with a definite article referring to the body of truth that God has revealed in Scripture. And we can see that summarized in this chapter. Look down to verse 16, at least with reference to Christ. Paul gives here, by common confession, great is the mystery of Goblin. The same word mystery is used here. And he says, he who was revealed in the flesh Speaking of Jesus incarnation was vindicated in the Spirit, I think speaking of his resurrection, seen by angels proclaimed among the nations, speaking of the Great Commission and the universe the universal need of forgiveness in Christ, believed on in the world, taken up in glory. Exaltation. So a deacon is to be doctrinally solid , understanding, and committed to the teachings of the Bible. He does not need to be able to teach. That's something that is a qualification of the pastor, the elder. But a deacon needs to be committed to the doctrine. He may be able to teach many of our deacons. have taught well in the past and currently. But I would say he needs to be under he needs to be a a person, a man of understanding when it comes to doctrine. Doctrine, particularly the doctrines of grace through Jesus Christ. So a deacon understands the depravity of man and his own depravity, his own need for God's grace and mercy. A deacon understands the grace of God in Christ, that God so loved the world, he sent his only begotten son to the cross to die for our sin. By the way, if you have questions about that, always. That's what we want to talk to you about. If you come here and you haven't received Christ, we want to speak to you about that. What God has done in Christ. A deacon understands that, the grace of God in Christ. A deacon understands the life and the death and the resurrection of Christ and the significance of them to their own salvation. A deacon will be committed to the Bible as the only source of truth, believing in the inherency and the infallibility of Scripture. A deacon will be a student of Scripture, continually learning more. And notice, holding to the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience. What does that mean? It means a deacon's life Must not betray the doctrines that he holds to. That's all of us. We need to act upon, live in consistency with what we believe. But particularly for the deacon, they're leading in that, that their behavior is consistent with their belief. Someone has said you've you've heard it from different sources, but one of the greatest distances is the distance from the head to the heart. That is, what we know are we acting upon in life on the inside and outside. Well, holding to the mystery of the faith means getting it right in my head. But it also means the faith transforms my life, my motivations, my attitudes, and my actions. And that's what we look for in a deacon. Number six, deacons must be tested. Verse 10, these men must also first be tested. This word is a word that was used, it's often used. it it was used for the genuineness of metals and coins, so rooting out impurities from metals in the refining process. These men must first be tested means that we examine. The church must examine those who would serve. As deacons. What do they believe? How do they live? How have they done in uh times of of difficulty, times of trial, in the furnace of life? So just as metals are tested, how have they done when the heat is on in their life? Do trials make them bitter or better men? difficult situations bring out Christ-likeness or sinfulness in their life. One aspect of the testing goes on all the time. It is that they should stand out as a man who should be considered because uh they are living uh what they believe. But at this church there's also there's that examination before any man can be nominated as a deacon uh the current deacons and pastors consider the men of the church and who is living a life that appears this way. And then there's an examination of them in in a meeting, questions asked and so forth about different aspects. of their life, their devotional life, their family life, things that we can't see, we ask them about. But then they also must serve at least a year and be examined again before being ordained to the office of deacon. So there is that year of examination, at least a year of examination And then one is ordained because they've proven that yes, not only did we think they were going in this direction and are uh Qualified, but they've shown it in the role of a deacon. Number seven, deacons must be beyond reproach. Then let them serve as deacons if they are beyond reproach. Well, it doesn't mean perfect. But it does mean that there is nothing that is going to come back and hurt the reputation of of the church. Th this is a major focus of testing whenever uh deacons are being considered. Will this man In the office of deacon, bring reproach upon the name of Jesus and his church. That is, uh, could there be something in his life that would bring accusation And beyond reproach would mean that one does not have any current credible thing that could be uh uh an accusation against their character or behavior. The idea is not to be perfect, but to be blameless if you can understand the difference. In other words, people are not looking at this person's life and thinking of that big thing that everyone else uh should know about, he's not going to bring that kind of reproach So he's not perfect, none of us are, but he's with regard to Christ in the church, he is found to be beyond reproach. Nothing that people would bring blame on that he has been chosen to be a deacon. Nothing obvious and nothing hidden in his life that if brought to light would bring shame and disgrace upon him. And that question is asked of men who would serve, is there anything in your life that if we were to find it out, we would regret uh nominating you and the church would regret having you So it is to be a man who has nothing to hide. Again, it doesn't mean perfection, but it means men who, when scrutinized by others, are found to honor Christ. That's their reputation. Part of being beyond reproach is the life of the deacon's wife, and that's what we turn to in verse eleven. Deacons' wives must be dignified. Now you may have the translation I have. Women must be dignified. The word track translated women is the same that is used for wives. The Greek language doesn't have a separate word for wife. The same word is obviously wife in verse 12 It's wife in verse 2. I believe Paul is continuing to establish qualifications for deacons, saying that their wives must be women of character. You can see how that would be important to their ministry. And he probably mentions it because they'll be involved in some way in the ministry along with their husbands. In our church, wives are involved with their husbands in the work. They would certainly would help with them. baptism with a woman or a young lady being baptized, but there would be also other opportunities of ministry to women where it would be more appropriate for the wife to lead and give help. Now, some do translate this as women in verse 11. New American Standard does. When I see it, I think of deacons' wives. Some think of it as women in general. and then conclude that women can be deacons. So just know that there are biblical churches who interpret that way. In the following verse, Paul writes, deacons must be husbands of only one wife. I think the context leads us To say Paul is looking for men to be deacons in the church. I think that's obvious in the context. What's not obvious is that he is saying in verse 11, women may be deacons. But I will say some choose to believe that. Possibly in verse 11, he is speaking of women in the church who would help deacons in ministry for the same reasons I said wives would. uh i especially in in ministry to other women and perhaps to children. But in Acts 6, go back to that, what I believe are the first deacons. The servants were chosen, men were chosen specifically. The disciples asked for men to be put in charge of a task. They were recognized with some authority then to minister to the church body. Authority is reserved for men, according to 1 Timothy 2. 12. So I think that That comes into play here as well. Because the office of deacon does carry some ministry authority, servant leadership, I think it should be held by men, and that's been the practice at North. Hartford Baptist Church. So we see them as here at this church as servant leaders put in charge of certain aspects of the welfare of the membership. of the church. Now some churches see deacons as carrying out the authority of the pastors and thus are comfortable with men and women in what they view as a servant role. In that case they are helping and supporting, but they are not leading. So just understand that in our Southern Baptist Convention there are churches that have women deacons, and there are probably many more. I think it's a pretty large majority, but it's just At verse 11, the giving I bo I believe is the giving of qualifications for the wives. And so we consider that when we consider men. Who are their wives? What are their wives like? We think that's important. Uh possibly it could be women that the deacons would lean on to serve. They need to to um be qualified in this way as well. Women must likewise be dignified. So women or wives who are worthy of respect, exemplary, because they reverence God, they live holy lives to please Him. These are wives, these are women. whose Christian life is respected. Number nine, deacons' wives must not be malicious gossips. Slanders is the word that is translated, and it's usually translated devil in the scriptures. So they should not be using words falsely in order to hurt another, which is a ploy of Satan. This would not please God, it would please Satan. They should be thus slow to speak about others. Others, careful in what they say about others, not malicious gossips. And number ten deacons' wives must be temperate, not controlled by desires or impulses But known for their obedience to God. Number 11, Deacons' wives must be faithful. all things, trustworthy, reliable, believing and committed. They should be good examples of Christianity. So when we consider deacons, we consider their wives. And when their wives are called to serve alongside them or to serve uh in an assignment, do they fit these qualifications? Number twelve, deacons must be husbands of one wife. The word only is supplied as well, husbands of only one wife. Adultery was not polygamy, but adultery was prevalent as a problem in the culture and against the kind of conditions that I spoke about last week with the pastoral qualifications. Paul is calling for pastors then and here calls for deacons who have proven faithfulness in the marriage relationship. A deacon is to be just like a pastor-teacher, a one-woman man from marriage till his death or the death of his spouse. So faithful to the wife of his children. The church needs that example. That is the will of Christ, according to Mark chapter 10 and Luke as well. The world needs this example of the permanence of marriage. This qualification and the next one guides us here to seek men who have not been divorced. So understand that that's where we are in our calling of men to serve as deacons. The next one is the deacon must be good managers of their children and their around households. Good managers is the idea of standing over. So as a father, a deacon must not provoke his children to anger, Ephesians 6. 4, but bring them up in the discipline and the instruction of the Lord. And he must be a good husband, according to Ephesians chapter 5, with servant leadership in the home. So as a husband, a deacon must provide for his own, chapter 5, verse 8 of 1 Timothy. He must lead the household in honor. Bringing them to church. It's one of the things that we certainly would look for. Is this man not only committed himself, but committed to his family? And is he one of the leaders in bringing his family and involving them in the life, in the discipleship of the church? And we would say making biblically wise decisions that affect his family, good managers of their children and their own households. Number fourteen, a deacon must serve well. And again, don't just think of deacons, think of myself. Am I serving well as we look at this together? For those who have served well as deacons obtain for themselves a high standing and great confidence in the faith. that is in Christ Jesus. Now notice it is served well and not ruled well as it is for the elder pastors in chapter 5 verse 17. The nature of the deacon's ministry, as we understand it here and from Scripture, is a ministry of service for the welfare of the fellowship. They are not to be and are not here a board of men who run the church. I've been in churches like that. I don't think it's a healthy situation. I don't think it's what God calls for it. But they are qualified men who make sure the ministry resources of the church help the welfare of all the members, help them physically, emotionally, and spiritually. I I like to use the idea it helps me to think of a restaurant, okay, and the deacons are tired of hearing this because I tell them all the the time. You are the waiters. You are taking the resources of that restaurant, that the church, and making sure that the family at the table knows about them and receives what is needed for their family. You you're the you're making sure that that link is taking place. So it's not all they do, but it is an important aspect of what they do. Do. So qualified men who make sure the ministry resources of the church help the welfare of all members physically, emotionally. And spiritually. If they do this well, notice they obtain. They obtain. It's something that benefits them. Two things: a high good standing. This word is used only here. It's a word that means step, of literally taking a step up. An increment of measure would be another way it would be used outside of Scripture, but Jesus is saying Um God is saying to us that this is important in their life and this is significant in their life. It is a a high standing. Remember, Jesus said, I am among you as one who Serves, Luke 22, 27, to follow in his steps and faithfully serve in the office of servanthood. Helping the welfare of the body is to gain a good standing in Jesus' eyes. He makes this clear in Matthew 25. When he says, I was hungry and you gave me something to eat. I was thirsty and you gave me something to drink. I was a stranger and you invited me in naked and you clothed me. I was sick and you visited me. I was And you came to me, the king will answer and say, Truly I say to you, to what extent? This is down a little further in the power. To the extent that you did it to one of these brothers of mine, even the least of them, you did it to me. And in Matthew twenty-five, twenty-one, the master said to him, Well done, good and faithful slave. A couple of Jesus' parables here. You were faithful in a few things, I will put you in charge of many Enter into the joy of your master. So a high standing is gained by those who serve well in As deacons, and great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. Faithful service as a deacon Makes that individual less fearful and I'll say more confident, bold perhaps, in living and expressing the doctrine that he believes out of it. Jesus, in other words, is more openly and naturally expressed as his Lord. He has a greater sense of his purpose in the body of Christ. So one who serves well gains for themselves, obtains for themselves a high standing. Because Jesus has elevated servanthood and great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. A couple of implications, three of them. The qualifications that we've looked at are not skills, they are aspects of godliness. And faithfulness that we should all be pursuing. Let me read them again and think of your life. Dignity Not double-tongued, not addicted to much wine, not fond of sordid game, holding to the mystery of the faith with a clear conscience Beyond reproach, having wives that are so women considered dignified, not malicious gossips, temperate. Faithful in all things, husbands of only one wife, committed to permanence of marriage, good managers of their children and their household This honors God. This is godliness. This is what every Christian disciple, most of these things, are what we should be growing in. They're not skills, they're aspects. Following Christ. Number two, Jesus exalts the position of servant. By establishing these qualifications in the Word of God. And by the statement in verse 13, those who serve well as deacon obtain for themselves a high standing and great confidence in the faith that is in Christ Jesus. Remember what Jesus said in Mark chapter 10, verse 43. Whoever wishes to become great among you shall be your Your servant. In Jesus' eyes, the office of deacon, an office of servanthood, is a high office Thirdly, implications. Pray that God will continue to give us men who meet these qualifications. And who have a heart for the welfare of the body, who are committed to the assembly of the body, and are willing and able to serve the body An essential of a healthy church is godly deacons. Let's pray to God. Father, we thank you for that. Thank you that I've known that in my years here. Thank you for how you've used them in my life, in the life of this church. Because of their care, because of their insights into the welfare of the church, because of Father, their willingness To touch families, to minister in difficult ways. Thank you. Thank you. And continue to raise up, I pray. Young men, boys, to grow and to serve as deacons. We pray for this, for this Office as a church, and for this office that you have said is important and is to be We thank you. We thank you for the men we have. Continue to use them in our midst. I pray that our church would recognize them as servant leaders and would open their Lives and their families' lives to the service of those who are now serving. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.