Turn to second 2 Timothy chapter 1. 2 Timothy chapter 1, looking at verses 8 through 14 this morning. I'm continuing in the series. Pastor John has been preaching through called church. Health, essentials, and today is confidence in the gospel. It is not enough just to Know what the gospel is. And it is not enough just to be able to talk about what the gospel is. We must know what the gospel is, and we must be able to talk about what the gospel is. But beloved, we must have confidence in the power of the gospel. We must have confidence that the gospel is the power of God to We must have confidence that the gospel is the power of God to advance the kingdom of God in a world of darkness. And if for our our own lives we must have confidence That the gospel is the power of God to continue to conform us into the likeness of Jesus Christ, which is the purpose of life for the child of God. Essentials of a Healthy Church. I've enjoyed this series. Brothers and sisters, if we don't go to Scripture to find out what makes a healthy church, where in the world would we go? Church, health, essentials, our confidence in the gospel. From 2 Timothy chapter 1. Let's read verses 8 through 14. Therefore, do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord, nor of me his prisoner. But share in suffering for the gospel by the power of God, who saved us and called us to a holy calling. Not because of our works. But because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. and which has now been manifested through the appearing of our Savior, Christ Jesus. Who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel, for which I was appointed a preacher and apostle and teacher Which is why I suffer as I do. But I am not ashamed, for I know whom I have, believe it. And I am convinced that He is able to guard until that day what has been entrusted to me. Follow the pattern of the sound words that you heard from me in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. And by the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit entrusted to you. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, by your grace, you've made us a new people. By grace, you've given us hope. You blotted out our sins by the blood of Christ. Father, we thank you. And as we come to your word, I pray that you would teach us And humble us and encourage us, save the lost, strengthen us in our faith. Father, we pray. We gladly and publicly come under the authority of your word. We seek your favor. We seek your blessing. We seek your mercy. Holy Spirit, come. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Hopefully you've caught on by now that the central encouragement this morning is do not be ashamed of the gospel, but rather be confident in the gospel. Do not be ashamed of the testimony about your Lord, which is the gospel, but rather be confident in the gospel. Look again at verse 8. Paul writes to Timothy, therefore do not be ashamed of the testimony about our Lord. What is the testimony about our Lord? It's the testimony of his righteous life. Of his sacrificial death, of his glorious resurrection, and the gift of salvation that comes through faith in him. The testimony of our Lord is just another way of saying the gospel of Jesus Christ. And Paul begins this section with this exhortation, do not be ashamed. of the testimony about our Lord. And then look at the end, toward the end of verse 10. Into verse 12. The end of verse 10, you see the phrase, the gospel, the gospel, and then he continues in verse 11, for which I was appointed a preacher. And apostle and teacher, which is why I suffer as I do, but I am not ashamed. Twice in here First the exhortation, do not be ashamed about the gospel, and then Paul's personal testimony, Paul's personal conviction. Even in the midst of suffering, even in the midst of being rejected, he is not ashamed of the gospel. Brothers and sisters, do not be ashamed of the gospel, but be confident in the gospel. Be confident that it's the power to save the lost. Be confident that it's the power to advance God's kingdom even in the midst of this dark and depraved world and be confident in your own Monday, Tuesday, Wednesday and on and on, m uh morning, noon and night, be confident that the gospel is God's power in your life to sanctify you and to strengthen you and to And to conform you gradually into the likeness of Christ. We can be confident in the gospel that it is true It is good, and it's a source of blessing, and it's a source of life. Now the culture around us will not say that about the gospel. That's why there's always a tendency and a temptation to be ashamed of it. Because the lost culture around us will say that it's not true. And the lost culture around us will say that it's not good. It's not a source of blessing. It's not a source of life. And the devil can sneak his way into our hearts so that we will be ashamed. But do not be ashamed of that which is good. And that which is true, and that which is holy, and that which is a source of life and blessing. Do not be ashamed of the gospel. You should feel shame, as I should feel shame, as anyone should feel shame, when we think, do, or say things that are shameful. But with the gospel, we know it is not shameful. Shame means to be embarrassed. It means to be, it means to feel guilty or to feel bad about something. It means you it could mean you have a feeling of reluctance. You don't want to be humiliated about someone seeing something about you or finding out something about you because of that fear of embarrassment. to be ashamed. A child should feel shameful, should feel ashamed if they lie to their parents Parents should be ashamed if they're lying to their children. There's lots of things in our past that we should be ashamed of. And thank God for his forgiveness. And thank God for the cleansing power of the blood of Christ to get us out of those things and into his life. Thank God that he has the power to cleanse us, forgive us. There's such a thing as shameful things. But I commend you, church, for not being ashamed of the testimony I commend you, church. I applaud you, church, for not being ashamed of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the power of God. It is true, it is good, it is a source of life, it is It is a source of blessing, and no matter what the world says, that will never change. That will never ever change Five reasons we must be confident in the gospel of Jesus Christ. Five reasons we must be confident in our hearts. in the gospel of Jesus Christ. First of all, we must be confident in the gospel of Christ because we belong to Him. We belong to Jesus Christ, and therefore we must be confident in the gospel about him, verse 9. If you look at the end of verse 8, you see this word, God. You also see this phrase I've used several times already this morning, power of God. So we're all in the power of God, verse 9, who saved us. And called us to a holy calling, not because of our works, but because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. Several wonderful phrases in this verse. First of all, saved us. Saved us. Remember, God saved us. What does that mean? It means He saved us from sin And from the consequences of sin. God saved us. God saved us through the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. He saved us. What are some of the blessings of being saved by God? Number one, the forgiveness of sins. God saved us He forgave our sins. All the guilt of all of our sins erased by the blood of Christ. Brothers and sisters, never ever forget God saved us. That's how this whole thing got started of church. Right. God saves sinners through the gospel of Jesus Christ. He's forgiven our sins. Jesus has forgiven us our sins. He's reconciled us to God. That means he's brought us into a relationship with God. God saved us. He forgave our sins. He brought us out of darkness into the wonderful light of knowing Him forever. He's forgiven our sins. He's reconciled us to himself. And he's given us the gift of eternal life And so the blessings of salvation are not limited to this age. The blessings and benefits of salvation are not limited to this life But there's an eternity of glory stored up for us, kept by Christ, the inheritance of eternal life in heavenly glory with Christ. Now what's better than that? Material things are not better than that. A whole world's worth of material things are not better than that Popularity in this world is not better than that. Applause in this world is not better than that. God saved us. Everything in Christianity and everything in church Begins and ends with this that God has saved us through his grace expressed through Jesus Christ our Lord. God saved us, therefore we must have confidence in the gospel If the gospel had the power to save us, shouldn't we be confident that it has the power to save others? Unless we're somehow inherently better than other people, to whereas we're closer to being saved? No, no, no. The gospel is the power of God unto salvation, and we must be confident. And then there's another phrase in verse 9: Called us. Called us to a holy calling. Called us to a holy calling. God has called us to live for Him. And there's always two aspects of that. There's always two aspects to the holy calling with which God has called us. First of all, just the calling of Living for Christ in all areas of life. Just the calling of Christian living. The calling of holy living. The calling of of being a representative of God and of Jesus Christ in all spheres of life. Home, school, work. Politics, whatever we represent Christ and we live for Christ in all areas of life, that's a holy calling from God But the other layer or the other aspect of the of our calling with which we've been called is the calling of ministry of faithful involvement in a biblical local church and ministering to others in the name of Christ. Paul says in here that he's an apostle. I'm not an apostle. You're not an apostle. But for Paul, his ministry calling was apostle. And there are pastors and there are deacons, but every child of God has this calling of being a servant ministering to others in the name of Christ. He saved us He's called us, and then there's another phrase. You know he's not going chronologically once you see what he says in this phrase. Gives you the reason. The end of verse 9 gives us the reason the the uh the alpha point The seed origin of why we were saved and of why we were called says this not because of our works. Well, if we think about our lives, brothers and sisters, we know it's not because of our works, but because of his own Purpose and grace. And if you have a highlighter, get it out. And highlight those three words. Purpose and grace. Because God had a purpose. It's a purpose of grace because of his own purpose and grace, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. Before we were able to think a thought, this happened. Before we were even in the thought of our parents, this happened. In a wonderful, mysterious, glorious truth that's supposed to bring us to our knees in gratitude and worship, an utter, utter expression of joy and thanksgiving. gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. What did he give us? The G word. Grace. It's the word right before the comma His purpose and grace, comma, which he gave us in Christ Jesus before the ages began. So that Once the ages begin, and then during the actual ages, and then during your lifetime when you exist during the ages You would be saved and you would be called with a holy calling so that you could be a child of God and live for God and serve God and not yourself. Brothers and sisters, we've been saved. And we've been called because before the ages began God gave us grace because of his own purpose and because of his own grace. Now if that doesn't give us Confidence in the gospel. I have nothing else. I was going to even go to point two. God saved us through his power and grace and purpose. And he called us, and he's given us grace. I hope you know that what God has given you in Jesus, none can take away. None can take away. We could lose everything that we have from an earthly standpoint tomorrow. And God's Mysterious providence, we don't know what's going to happen next week or even this afternoon or even in the next thirty seconds. And our homes could be taken away. But our freedom can be taken away. Our things can be taken away. Identity theft. Your financial security can be taken away Our health can be taken away. We don't know how we're going to feel tomorrow when we wake up. And we don't know what diagnosis we're going to receive when we go to the doctors. We don't know. But what God has given us in Christ, none can take away. Nothing can reverse the forgiveness of sins that's found through faith in Christ. Nothing, once we've been reconciled to God, nothing can separate us from His love. Nothing can take away what we have in Christ. And I hope that comforts your heart. Ephesians 1, verses 7 and 8. In him, speaking about Jesus, in him, we have redemption through his blood. The forgiveness of our trespasses, which is according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight. What a wonderful God we serve. A Savior, a wise and gracious Savior. Do not, brethren, be ashamed of this gospel. Do not be ashamed of the gospel, the testimony about your Lord, but rather be confident, be confident that it is true, that it is good, and it has the power to give life and blessing to the lost sinner. Be confident in the gospel because we belong to Christ. And secondly, be confident in the gospel because Christ is the hope of the world. Christ is the hope of the world. This comes from verse 10. But you have eyes out in the world. You see what's going on in the world. You see where the world is headed. Christ is the only hope. Christ is the hope of the world. Verse 10. And which has now been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. How'd you like that to be on your resume? Christ is the hope of the world. Be confident of that. Don't be ashamed of that. First thing to look at is the link from verse 9 into this verse, verse 10, because it continues the sentence. You see, uh verse ten begins with, and which has now been manifested. And then after that he's going to say how exactly it's been manifested. But the first thing is what's being manifested? And Which has now been manifested. So look backwards. It's not hard. Just look backwards what came just before it. And think and ask yourself, what has now been manifested? It's very, very simple. I told you to highlight it earlier: God's purpose and grace God 's purpose and grace. Or you got the ball rolling in eternity. God's gracious purpose in Christ, or God's purpose in Christ, has now been manifested. So get that link in your brains from verse 9 to verse 10. This is what Paul is reminding Timothy of. That God's eternal purpose of grace has been manifest in world history to be known and to be made known And actually become the centerpiece of how we gather around God and worship Him through faith, even though we cannot see Him with our eyes. His manifest purpose of grace. And then, of course, he tells us exactly how it has been manifested, and it's simply just the gospel. And there's many ways you can summarize the gospel, and here's how he says it here. Has now been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus. That's talking about his first appearing, his first coming. has now been manifested through the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to life through the gospel, through the good news of his righteous life, fulfilling the law and all of its demands, and his sacrificial death, which was a death of Substitution. On the cross, Jesus died as a substitute for sinners, bearing the wrath of God that we deserve Bearing up upon his own shoulders, metaphorically speaking, our sin and our transgression and our guilt as a sacrifice of atonement so that we could be forgiven of our sins against God. He abolished death by rising, by being risen from the grave, and not just being resuscitated to live once again. Immortal body like what we have, but given a new body, a glorious heavenly resurrection body that lives even now at the right hand of God Resurrection, power, resurrection, life, the forgiveness of sins. Christ Jesus abolished death. He brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. That's good news for the world. That's not bad news for the world. Brothers and sisters, this is the world's only hope. It's my only hope. I have nothing else apart from this. The forgiveness of God through Jesus Christ and the hope of eternal life. That's it. You take that away from me, you've taken away everything, and nothing else matters. This is the hope of the world. And so we must be confident. We must be confident. Confidence does not mean arrogant. Confidence doesn't mean we're harsh. We're to be gentle and kind and loving, but we're to be a people with conviction. Who but who know what we believe and have conviction about what we believe, that just means having a strong confidence in what we believe That's part of how we witness to God's grace and to God's power. Thank God for medical advancements. Amen? But medical advancements are not the hope of the world. Say amen again. Thank God for conservative leaders in the nation. Amen? But conservative leaders are not the hope of the world. And thank God for friends. And thank God for family. And thank God for our freedom And thank God for fun. We should have fun. We should have hobbies. And as we're as we're having fun and we're doing our hobbies and and interacting with people in the world, we're ambassadors of Christ, representing Christ because of the holy calling with which we've been called. But friends, family, freedom, and fun are not the hope of the world, and they are not the purpose of life. The testimony about our Lord, the gospel of Jesus Christ, to abolish death. It's brought immortality to light through his life, death, and resurrection. This is the hope of the world. It's a constant question that should challenge each and every one of our hearts. The question is why do we cling so closely to material things? Why do we treat material things as ultimate things? Why do we care? So deeply about the opinions of others. Brothers and sisters, why do we do it? 1 Timothy 6, beginning in verse 6. But godliness with contentment is great gain. Because we brought nothing into the world, and we can take nothing, we can take any we cannot take anything out of the world, but if we have food and clothing, with these we will be content. And living where we do, and when we do, and how we do. We always have food and we always have clothing. Let me ask you this: do we always have contentment? Godliness with contentment is a great gain. And as that's what we strive for and pray for and want for ourselves. For our children, we also want that for others. We also want that for family, for friends, for the world. The hope that is found in Jesus Christ, that's the only true and effective source. Of peace and contentment within the heart. We must have confidence in the gospel. Number one, first of all, before anything else, we belong to Christ We're his. We belong to him. We must have confidence in the testimony about him. Number two, he's the hope of the world. And number three, we must have confidence in the gospel. Of Christ, because that confidence will keep us focused in ministry. That confidence will keep us focused in ministry. We do not spend hours serving in church and ministering in church and worshiping together just doing whatever. There's an actual purpose, there's an actual focus here. To what we are about and what we need to be doing. And it all centers on the proclamation of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Everything else flows from that. Everything else flows from that. That's the fountain stream. This comes from verse 11, this point about being focused in ministry. Paul is still on the same topic because it's not a new sentence. He says, For which I was appointed a preacher. An apostle and teacher. So look at the very end of verse 10. You'll see this word or this phrase. The gospel. And it's the gospel is his focus. The gospel is the centerpiece to the foundation. For which he was appointed a preacher and an apostle and a teacher. Say whatever you want about Paul. He was not in concealer. He was not confused at all about why he was alive on earth. And he could say in a general sense the same thing we should be able to say and the same thing we should not be confused about. We're here to serve the Lord. We're here to serve the Lord. He saved us, He's called us, we're here to represent Him and serve Him and love Him and know Him and grow into the likeness of Christ, but in a specific sense. Paul's ministry calling, he he testifies to that he's first and foremost a preacher. I think it's interesting that that comes before his office of apostle. And that is the heart of the office of apostle as it is the heart of the office of pastor. to proclaim the glories of God in Christ. That's the heartbeat of being a pastor. That's the heartbeat of being an apostle. This should be the heartbeat generally of the whole church to proclaim the wonders and the glories and the mercies of God, the goodness of God, of free salvation that's come to us through Christ. This is what we're about. This is the center The proclamation of the gospel is the heart of church life. He was appointed a preacher. That kept him focused. And his specific office is apostle, which is a word that referred to an official representative of someone else. And that representative is sent by that someone else from this place to that place. You go represent this person in that place. You're officially sent, stamped with his authority, you're an apostle. Paul was an apostle. And even though we are not apostles in this uh this sense of office in the ancient church, we could still have that same paradigm for why we are here. Christ is in heaven, but we are here and we are to represent Him and His kingdom and His Word and His love to each other and to the world. Representatives, official representatives, who minister not by our own authority. Pastor John and I didn't make this stuff up. We minister by the authority of the ascended Christ who reigns in heaven, which is the highest authority in the whole universe. Christ, the Lord of all. This will keep you focused in ministry. This will this will either get us To the point where we're coming to church, focused first and foremost on Jesus Christ, not on my personal preferences and desires. This will either get us to that place or keep us to this place where our hearts and minds are fixed on Christ, not well, what am I going to do? What do I get to do? Is it going to be something this way that I like and that fits my preferences? If not, I'm going somewhere else. We come with our hearts and we come with our mind. Our whole will should be absorbed into this this thing of We're coming for Jesus Christ because he deserves it and we because we need him. Jesus doesn't need us. Jesus doesn't need me. He doesn't need me. He doesn't need us. He uses us because he's gracious. And because he's all wise , in a way that boggles our minds, that he could use weak and pathetic sinners like me and like us to advance his kingdom by the power of his spirit. But this will keep us focused or through repentance get us focused on Christ, not on ourselves. We must be confident in the gospel. First of all, we must be confident in the gospel because we belong to Jesus Christ. We must be confident in the gospel because Christ is the hope of the world. We must be confident in the gospel because because that confidence will keep us focused in ministry. And number four, we must be confident in the gospel. Because that confidence will also keep us faithful in ministry. Now this comes from verses thirteen and fourteen, and it is connected to being focused in ministry, verse eleven. But I want to highlight marks of a faithful ministry. Confidence in the gospel will keep us faithful in ministry. Verses 13 through 14 Follow the pattern of the sound words, that just means biblical teaching. That means sound doctrine. Follow the pattern of sound words that you've heard from me in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. By the Holy Spirit who dwells within us, guard the good deposit entrusted to you. And the good deposit also refers to that pattern of sound words. Just means gospel truth. That's all that means. It's a way of summarizing gospel truth, the pattern of sound words, uh, the good deposit biblical doctrine. Apostolic gospel truth. is what that refers to. Confidence in the gospel, along with knowledge of the gospel, will keep a space faithful in ministry. Before I go through the actually I have five of these from these two verses I have five marks of a faithful ministry. From these verses. But first of all, I want us to make sure we see the logic of why confidence in the gospel will keep us faithful in ministry If we lose confidence that the gospel has the power to change lives and bring people into the church If we lose that confidence, make sure you're tracking with me. If we lose the confidence that the gospel has the power to save lives and bring them into the church, what then will we do? We'll turn to something else to try to bring people into the church. Try to be more friendly. And if we can be really, really friendly, maybe people will come. We'll try to make our music more entertaining. And if we can entertain people in a better way, maybe more people will come. We could really just make church about an enjoyable social gathering. Everybody loves an enjoyable social gathering Well most people love an enjoyable social gathering. We like to know different we have different flavors and different styles. What's enjoyable for me may not be enjoyable for you What's enjoyable for you? I may not want to be a thousand miles anywhere near that. All right? But everybody so if we can make the church about enjoyable Social gatherings. Find out what people want out in the world. We'll provide that. That happens as a result of first losing confidence in the gospel as the power of God. to save souls, give a new heart, give new desires, and bring people into the church to be joyful servants of God for the rest of their lives. We must have confidence in the gospel and keep gospel as the thing the church is about. Or we will become unfaithful in ministry in one way or another, and to one degree or another We must maintain our confidence in the gospel. Now, from verses thirteen and fourteen, marks, these are not all the marks of a faithful ministry. But first of all, marks of uh number one mark of a faithful ministry is that it must be based on sound doctrine The beginning of verse 13a, follow the pattern of sound words. Well now if Timothy doesn't do that, Timothy's in trouble. He's now in rebellion against God. He says, you know, some of those some of those things you taught Paul, I'm on board with But some of them are causing friction. Can I water those down? Can I leave those off? No, because a faithful ministry must be based on sound doctrine. Not a few points of sound doctrine just tacked on to make us feel spiritual. And then the end also of verse 14, guard the good deposit. That takes work. That takes prayer. That takes study. That takes teaching. There's spiritual battles that must be fought to guard what is true. Because brothers and sisters, if you lose the truth, Of God, if you lose the truth of the gospel, if you lose the truth that salvation is by faith, not by works, if you lose any gospel truth, you lose the power of salvation. Because the gospel is the power of salvation. And the gospel 's true. So if we change it, we lose The very power by which we're to function. A faithful ministry is based on sound doctrine. Secondly, it must be carried out in genuine faith. And thirdly, it must be carried out in genuine love. Genuine faith. And genuine love, not just going through the motions. Carried out in genuine faith and carried out in genuine love. Verse 13, follow the pattern of sound words that you've heard from me in the faith and love that are in Christ Jesus. And that's the fourth one. Faithful ministry is not only based on sound doctrine, it must be, and it's not only carried out in genuine faith. And carried out in genuine love. Number four, faithful ministry as Christ-centered from first to last. Ministry is about either introducing people to a person, Jesus, or uh serving others For the honor and glory of a person, Jesus, or encouraging each other to continue walking in fellowship with a person, Jesus. For to help us, to help each other grow in our faith and be conformed to the image and likeness of a person. God has revealed Himself and to salvation through a person named Jesus. Ministry is about a person. Not just going through the motions and the logistics and the mechanics of outward religion, but it's about a person we gather Here now, to worship God through a person, through faith, the ascended Christ. True ministry, faithful ministry is Christ centered from first to last. as the application was I gave earlier, that it are coming, are getting up in the morning, getting ready, getting dressed, driving over to church, coming to church. That whole process should be Christ-centered. Everything about ministry and church and Christian living should be Christ -centered. And the fifth mark of a faithful ministry is that a faithful ministry must be carried out in the power of the Holy Spirit. Faithful ministry can be carried out in the power of the Holy Spirit. Must be carried out in the power of the Holy Spirit. Verse 14: by the Holy Spirit who dwells within us. Guard the good deposit and trust it to you. Now why does he say that do this by the power of the Holy Spirit? Because that's the only way it will get done. People love religion. Religion has always existed. It's not a new fad. It's not a new thing. It's not a fad. It's not a passing trend. People love religion. We're beings who, by our very nature, want to worship. Well and want to have fellowship with something that transcends human experience here. But apart from the truth of God and apart from the saving grace of God, what do we do? Well, it's very simple. It's not a trick question. You know the answer. We just invent our own religion. True Biblical Christ-centered ministry can only be carried out in the power of the Holy Spirit of God who dwells within us, who binds us together, who can keep us focused. He alone can keep us Us focused, and He alone can keep us faithful, and He alone can keep us fruitful in our efforts. focused. We do not minister on our own strengths. Child of God, we do not minister on our own strength or our own wisdom. So, are you crying out for the Holy Spirit? Are you praying for God to fill this church ever more with the Holy Spirit? Are you praying for the Holy Spirit to intervene in the life of your friend? Are you daily asking for the Spirit's help in their specifics of life. Specific sins that need to be repented of. Holy Spirit, help me. Holy Spirit, change my heart. Holy Spirit, purify my mind. Holy Spirit, purify my eyes And purify my words My lips, my whole life, are you crying out for the Holy Spirit? And are we collectively crying out for the Holy Spirit? Apart from the Holy Spirit, brothers and sisters, we can do nothing of true and lasting value. And I mean that literally. We can do things that can give us the impression and the inner sensation and feeling of being Spiritual and being religious on it feels so good. If it's not done in the power of the Holy Spirit, it's nothing. It's man-made religion. True worshipers worship the Father in two things. Say it. Spirit and truth. And that will never ever ever change. I don't know what this motion is. I've never done that in preaching. That will never, ever, ever change. Is it a wand? God help me. We need the Holy Spirit. It's not a philosophy. It's not an idea. Only the Holy Spirit can give us the humility that we need to be able to coexist and collaborate for the kingdom in a way that's categorically different than what the world sees Where we come we honor each other, we esteem each other as greater than ourselves, we humble ourselves to be co -servants. Well I've got to move on. I want to stay on that Holy Spirit thing, but I will just We've got to eat lunch at some point. Number five, we must have confidence in the gospel because God is able. The end of verse 12. Let's just look at all of verse 12, which is why I suffer as I do, but I'm not ashamed. For I know whom I have believed, and I am convinced that he is able to guard until that day what has been entrusted to me. Paul's not trusting in himself to maintain a faithful ministry. Paul's not trusting in himself to maintain gospel integrity in his teaching preaching. Paul's trusting in God. He says, I know whom I believed, he's referring to God. I'm convinced that He is able. God. God is able. Our com ultimately our confidence in the gospel. is just one example of our confidence in God. Do we believe God is able? Do we believe God is able to use us, to use this church to have a kingdom impact in Jarrett's in our communities. Do we believe that God is able? J just think of the people in your life, we all we all form these arbitrary um opinions about other people who we think can get saved and who we think can't get saved, who we think is a little bit close, who we think is so far off that they're never going to come to God. That's unbiblical. Do we believe the gospel Is able to change hearts. Do we believe God is able to completely destroy the old heart of a sinner and give him a completely new heart? that loves new things and wants new things and thinks in a new way and does new things and prioritizes in a new way and does his financials in a new way. Do we believe that God is able? If we don't believe the gospel is able, then we don't believe that God is able. God alone is able to sustain us in ministry. God alone is able to preserve His church. God alone is able to advance us in sanctification. God was able to create the world from nothing. And God was able to create man and woman in his likeness, unique amidst all creation. God is able to preserve mankind despite our pervasive violence and self-destruction. because of his mercy and his sovereign rule over all things, God is able to preserve the humanity and the world which he created. Because of his power, brothers and sisters, God is able. Because of his wisdom, God is able. Because of his relentless grace, working out the purpose of his grace, God is able. Because of his grace, God is able to forgive all of your sins. God is able to forgive all of your sins and give you a new life God is able through Jesus Christ to forgive all of your sins, give you a new life, and Jesus is able to present you before God to be judged innocent and righteous instead of guilty and wicked. Can you imagine? Such a thing. Brothers and sisters, God is able. Friends who haven't come to Christ yet, God is able to erase your sins, give you a new life, give you a new heart, give you the gift of eternal life. God is able. God is able to cleanse our conscience from shameful things. God is able to offer Himself in friendship to sinners. It's the heart of the gospel, isn't it? Though he is holy, though we are sinners, God comes down to our level and offers himself in friendship to us. A free offer of friendship with God, a relationship with God that can never end. God is able. And for anyone who believes in Jesus Christ for forgiveness, they are saved. And they are a friend of God And they have the gift of eternal life. Because of his grace, God freely gives the gift , salvation to all who believe And to wrap this up, I want to zoom in on those two words in verse 9. Saved us. Verse 9. Two. And then this. Saved us. Brothers and sisters, God saved us. We owe him everything And if you do not know the Lord today, God can save you. Only God can save you. Through Jesus, based on his righteous life, based on his sacrificial death as a substitute for sinners, and based on the glory and power of his resurrection The one who abolished death can forgive your sins, can reconcile you to God, and give you the gift of eternal life. Won't you come to him? Won't you come to him come and receive these gifts. See this is why we're not ashamed of the gospel, because those are all good things, not bad things. Those are true things, not false things. Those are things that are a source of blessing and life, not a source of cursing, not a source of death, but a source of life. This is nothing to be ashamed of. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for your grace. We thank you for the power of your gospel It's through that power and through that gospel that you saved us, through that gospel that you called us to a holy calling, through that gospel that you enable us in ministry and equip us in ministry. and keep us encouraged and focused and faithful and fruitful in ministry. It all goes back to the gospel of Jesus Christ. We thank you for him. It's in his name we pray. Amen.