It's noteworthy that when God gives qualifications in 1 Timothy 3 for the office of overseer, pastor , Only one special ability is mentioned, teaching, and no personality traits are mentioned. So this church, thankfully, in my time, has never sent out a survey among the memberships saying, what kind of pastor do we want? And you fill in, you know, uh not that you would, but storyteller, someone with a good sense of humor, someone who preaches uh this long or that long. You know, we we've never done that. Because God doesn't do that. And thankfully, we've always looked to this passage of scripture and the one in Titus to look for the type of men Who can give leadership to the role of pastor-teacher? God focuses on character. God focuses on proven faithfulness. In a word, godliness. And we see in this passage what godly godliness looks like In real life. And pastors are not perfect, but they must be going in this direction. But listen carefully. Every Christian is called in this direction As well. These are statements of what it means to be godly in Christ Jesus. Listen to them. It is a trustworthy statement, 1 Timothy 3:1. A trustworthy statement is a statement with which we must all agree. If any man aspires to the office of overseer, it is a fine work he desires to do. An overseer, then, must be Above reproach, the husband of one wife, temperate, prudent, respectable, hospitable, able to teach Not addicted to wine or pugnacious, but gentle, peaceable, free from the love of money He must be one who manages his own household well, keeping his children under control with all dignity. But if a man does not know how to manage his own household, how will he take care of the Church of God? And not a new convert, so that he will not become conceited and fall into the condemnation incurred by the devil. And he must have a good reputation with those outside the church, so that he will not fall into reproach and the snare of the devil. Well, let me note first of all some points in Paul's introduction to this topic The pastor must be a man, if any man aspires to the office of overseer. And last week in 1 Timothy 2 12, I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise. authority over a man but to remain quiet. So obviously men are in view for this role of pastor teacher. Number two, notice the man must want to be a pastor. If any man aspires. Uh the word means yearns for. It's the same word in chapter six, verse ten uh of longing for money. That in a sinful way, but here in a in an obedient way, aspires, yearns for or yearns to the office of overseer. It is a fine work he desires. There's the word again. desires to do. So I I don't believe anyone should seek to be a pastor if he's not sure he wants to be a pastor. Ephesians 4 indicates that pastors are given to the church by Jesus, who is the Lord of the church. who is building his church. And I believe those whom he chooses for this work will have a desire for the world. You might have heard of someone's testimony of them fighting the call of God, and there might be some of that. But there is a desire Or or God builds uh that desire in that individual. Because anyone who's called to it, I believe is going to fit verse one here. That they aspire to it. They desire desire to do it. Thirdly, I would notice that the pastor the pastorate the pastorate is a work of oversight. If any man aspires to the office of overseer Now the words pastor, elder, and overseer are all used in the New Testament and they refer to the same position in the church. In a parallel passage in Titus 1, the elders appointed in every city are called overseers. In 1 Peter chapter 5, 1, the elders are exhorted to shepherd or pasture the flock, exercising oversight. Same word. So an oversight uh I'm sorry, an overseer is one who inspects just in general, one who inspects and superintends or watches over whatever they are responsible for in a church setting, that would be a group of Christians and the ministry. That's the object of the pastor's over. So the pastor must be a man, must want to be a pastor. It is a work of oversight. And fourthly, notice the pastorate is a good work. If any man aspires to the office of overseer, it is a fine work he desires to do. Now, this is the same word used when the Bible speaks of good works. So never denigrate the pastorate by thinking of it in lesser terms, not that anyone here would. But it is a good work. But never exalt it too highly. It is a good work that individuals are called to, but there are many other good works for believers. So if you are one who gives care in a merciful way, that is a good work, indispensable in the life of the church. If you are are one who is a great encourager to others who notice when people need that and come alongside them. that is irreplaceable in the life of the church. They are both good works. Uh gifted people are called to the pastorate, but remember that all believers are gifted by the Holy Spirit for many. Ministry. Pastorate is a good work. And now we come to the non-negotiables for pastors, but most of them Except for one, are non-negotiables for godliness in your life, whether you are a man or a woman. All of these things apply to Christians, most of all of them. First of all, in verse 2, the pastor must be above reproach. That is, my understanding, my definition, he must have nothing obvious Or hidden in his life that would bring shame and disgrace upon Christ and His church. So the idea of nothing to hide, it's not the idea of perfection. You you know that I'm not perfect. Pastor Matt is not perfect. No pastor we've ever had has been perfect. But nothing hidden that would bring bring disgrace upon the church, above reproach. Well you need to be like that too. Secondly, the pastor must be the husband of one wife. Now certainly this prohibits Polygamy , having more than one wife, but polygamy was not widely practiced at the time of Paul writing Timothy Adultery, however, was a prevalent problem. We see that in many ways. Jesus taught concerning adultery in the Sermon on the Mount. The woman at the well, remember, in John 4, had five husbands and was currently living with another man. The scribes and Pharisees brought to Jesus, John 8, a woman caught in adultery. There was immorality in the Corinthian church that Paul deals with in his letter to the Corinthians. Someone had his father's wife. People were being saved out of immoral lifestyles according to 1 Corinthians 6, including fornication, adultery, and homosexuality. The deeds of the flesh were evident, Paul writes in Galatians 5, and the first three he names were immorality, impurity. And sensuality. And in 1 Thessalonians 4, a clear command needed to be given to abstain from sexual immorality. for the church at Thessalonica. Against these kinds of conditions, sexual immorality, adultery being a prolific, prevalent problem. Paul is calling for pastors who have proven faithfulness in the marriage relationship The faithfulness Jesus defined. That's what I go to in my thoughts when I think of what does it mean to be the husband of one wife? Well, here's what Jesus said. The two shall become one flesh, John ten, verse eight and nine, so that they are no longer two, but one flesh. What therefore God has joined together, let no man separate So pastors are to be one woman men from marriage till his death or the death of his spouse. The church needs that example. They need examples of what Jesus taught marriage was to be. Thirdly , The pastor must be temperate. Has nothing to do with the thermostat. Although I do check it in the morning. Uh but don't blame me. If you're too too cold, uh bring your sweater. If you're too warm, uh lots of times I I'm not gonna be able to help with that But temperate here has nothing to do with that. It it's to not be controlled by desires or impulses. So such a person, you need to think of yourself. Remember? Godliness. Not just for the pastor, but for you. Such a poor person avoids sins of excess, whether with food or other pleasures. Pleasures of self-indulgence cost four far more than the temporary pleasure they indul that they offer to one. So to be temperate temperate, not controlled by impulses for pleasure. And the pastor must be, verse 2, again, prudent Prudent means of sound mind, good common sense. He's a stable thinker, not swayed by sudden impulses Thinks through things. He's able to foresee and weigh the results of decisions. He's teachable, but not pliable. All of this is the idea of being prudent, careful in his thoughts. Not accepting of something new without examination. He's not easily deceived. An example of this is 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 1, where I read. We request you, brethren, with regard to the coming of our Lord Jesus Christ and our gathering together to him. So there's the subject. That you not be quickly shaken from your composure, or be disturbed either by a spirit or a message or a letter, as if from us to the effect that the day of the Lord has come. Let no one in any way deceive you, for it will not come unless the apostasy comes first and the man of lawlessness is revealed. the son of destruction. In my time here as a pastor, though it hasn't happened here, it did happen in our association. There was a book that was sent out, I've forgotten by who, it doesn't matter. 88 Reasons Why Jesus Will Return in 1988. And I don't even remember the pastor I was speaking to, but he was he had been reading that verse, one uh that book, wondered if I had read it. I said I had received it. I had looked through it, laid it aside as an example of something not to believe, and he was convinced that it was going to happen. So that's an example of not being prudent in our thinking. Uh everything must be brought back to Scripture and weighed carefully. Jesus did not come in 1988. I think we know that. So people with this quality of prudence are found to have a distinctively strong motivation in their lives to be true to the word of God. And you want that in a passage. But you want that in your life. To look at things from God's point of view. Samuel is an example. When Saul had been instructed to utterly destroy Everything of the Amalekites. You remember, he kept the best of the livestock. He said, Saul said, to sacrifice to the Lord. It seemed like a good reason, as you read the scripture, perhaps. But it was not a prudent decision. Listen to what Samuel said. Has the Lord as much delight in burnt offerings and sacrifices? As in obeying the voice of the Lord, behold, to obey is better than sacrifice, and to heed than the fat of rams. In that case, Saul was not prudent, Samuel was Number five, a pastor must be respectable. It means orderly, honorable, virtuous, modest. But let's sum it up by saying safe to imitate. Safe to imitate. If your son took on the traits of your pastor, it would be good in your eyes. But you need to think about that person. If someone took up my traits, would that be good in God's eyes? This is the same word that describes the way women are to dress in chapter two, verse nine. Uh the pastor's life then is dressed in a way that gives the right impression of Christianity. In his appearance, uh the way he carries himself, I'm thinking more than you know you know, what kind of suit he wears. But his appearance, his speech, his interests, just what is known about him by looking at him that he is and when you get to know him that he is someone Who is respectable. Number six, a pastor must be hospitable. Literally, the word means loving strangers or guests uh has the idea of extending kindness, whether it be shelter or food or whatever is needed to the stranger and the guest. In those days, remember there was no mail service, there was no telephone. How did this letter reach Well it would be carried. So news between churches, there would be a messenger. And Uh that messenger would need hospitality. Persecution would arise. And uproot believers, they would need hospitality. And the pastor should be an example in offering to meet the needs of traveling or uprooted believers and others with genuine need. Now I admit we don't have the same kind of need, but still there needs to be an openness among pastors to open their home or to open their wallet. or or whatever is needed. Thankfully we have a benevolent program and those who have worked with that faithfully over the years. But when they're not available, your pastors deal with it and we are glad to do so. To do so without resenting the time, the expense, the disruption of normal routine, that's what it means to be hospitable. Today it might be instead of you know a messenger or a persecuted person fleeing for safety, it would be maybe a missionary, an evangelist that we would open up. our homes too. Seven, a pastor must be able to teach, literally skilled in teaching. The word is used of one who is characterized by teaching. That is, he is known for his teaching. Paul repeats this thought in 2 Timothy 2. 24. The Lord's bondservant must not be quarrelsome, he's giving this personal word to Timothy, but be kind to all, able to teach. Patient when wrong. Certainly teaching is the focal point of the pastor. A lot of what pastors do, others in the church also do. But the pulpit ministry, the calling to proclaim the Word of God in a systematic, week-by-week way, is the calling. of the pastors. And in Ephesians 4, Paul states that Jesus gives to the church pastor teachers. That's how it's put there. Pastor, pastors, teachers. And the pastor must be good then in explaining the meaning and the implications of Scripture. I'm always encouraged by 2 Timothy 2. 15. Be diligent to present yourself approved to God as a workman who does not need to be approved. ashamed accurately handling the word of truth. So uh I certainly I I want you to notice work that's gone into a message, but not for me. Uh to to praise God for it because Uh that's who I answered to. Notice the verse again, approved to God as a workman who does not need to be ashamed. First Timothy chapter 5, 17 highlights the pastor who works hard at preaching. and teaching. Church needs pastors who want to do that and who carve out time to do it. And this includes, of course, knowing how to refute false teaching, as we saw in chapter one. Timothy was to instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines. And Paul gives a good summary of able to teach in the book of Titus, Titus 1, verse 9. And you have these verses in in the outline, holding fast the faithful word, which is in accordance with the teaching, so that he will be able both to exhort in sound doctrine and to refute those who contradict. So, today the pastor must believe that the Bible is the inspired, inerrant Word of God and is our only standard for faith and practice. He should preach truth, he should not preach opinion, he should be able to make the Bible understandable and applicable. Number eight, Pastor not must not be addicted to one Every year I have that yearly physical, you're always asked the question. Uh I've been able to answer no throughout my life. I don't drink alcohol, don't smoke cigarettes. But that's not the point here. The point is not addicted to wine. That is, it ha there's no no pressing need for it in the life of the pastor. Alcohol nor any addictive drug does not have a hold on, that's the idea of addiction, does not have a hold on his life, does not dull his senses, does not dull his ability to be vigilant and effective in ministry. Number nine, the pastor must not be pugnacious. When I think of that word, I just think of a little stubborn dog, don't you? Pugnacious Uh the word means given to blows. Um I you know, I've not had that experience here at the church, I'm glad. But it it's talking about a contentious person. A person who's ready for a fight, n not necessarily a physical fight. You understand? I mean, you know, you you could come up to me and say I didn't like that sermon and I could say you will you want to take it outside? You know, but I wouldn't do that. That would be That would be pugnacious. The pastor must not be eager to start a fight or a quarrel in any way. He's to be a peacemaker in attitude, in word, in action. 10. The pastor must be gentle. This word has its root in a word that means to yield. So it's the opposite of pugnatius. Pugnatius, I'm not going to yield. I'm going to press my point and get upset about it. Gentle, no, that's not. what I do. It's a toleration toward others and toward circumstances in spite of strong temptation to be intolerant. Okay I mean there there's a part of all of us that wants things to work perfectly every day, right? And there's a challenge to respond in a gentle spirit when things don't work perfectly. So, this characteristic is present in the man who depends on, trusts God in every area of life, yielding personal feelings to keep peace. So it's a person who It it could be with a person who disagrees with teaching, person who doesn't fulfill a ministry assignment, and that hurts Of the life of the church, a person who wants to do it his way. I don't have names in my thoughts next to any of these. I'm just using them as examples. Um so don't come to me and say, You were talking about me. No, I no I wasn't. I really just just gentleness is required though because We understand church ministry is people ministry. We understand who we are, what Paul admitted he was, someone who still struggled with sin, Romans 7. We all do, it can manifest. But thankfully that's I don't have examples to think about Nor that nor would I uh speak of them publicly anyway. But when it's not a matter of scriptural compromise, the pastor should not fight and argue together He should be gentle. And where this word is used in Titus, it is followed by the phrase gentle, showing every consideration for all men. So the idea is that every person is due the same gentle spirit, regardless of what spirit they are showing. Pastor Must be gentle. Godly men and women must be gentle. Number 11, the pastor must be peaceable. This is the opposite of quarrelsome. It is to be uncontentious. The pastor, though standing for truth, must be one who desires peace with his enemies, not a fight. People can be exasperating at times, but the character of people should not dictate the character of a response. Response of anger in words or actions James 1 does not achieve the righteousness of God. Pastor must be peaceable. The pastor number 12 must be free from the love of money, that is, content with the meeting of his needs. We'll get to this in chapter six, but chapter six, verse six, godliness actually is a means of great gain when accompanied by contentment. So we see how important this is in everyone's life, but here the life of the pastor in chapter three. We brought nothing into the world. Paul writes there in chapter six, we cannot take anything out of it either. If we have food and covering with these, we shall be content. But those who want to get rich fall into temptation and a snare and many foolish and harmful desires which plunge men into ruin and destruction, for the love of money is a root of all sorts of evil. Some by longing for it have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with misery So pastors should not be overly concerned with possessions, but content with having our basic needs met. And this church has been a real blessing. Yes, I wondered about braces when all of my kids started to have crooked teeth. Thank you. Jason. Jason did not. Okay. And then there was the college educations. How's this going to happen? And thankfully some scholarships and other things took place. Uh Jordan, I always blame him for draining the college fund, but uh but anyway, big because he went to John it was accepted to Johns Hopkins. It's it's a joke I always have with him. But over the years God has been faithful through you to meet our needs. His his design has been wonderful. And and and yes, uh I can say just personally um retirement accounts don't look good right now, Dave. The last last several years things are dwindling right. So so we we embark on a new adventure with with having planned and having you all supported that planning in the way that you've given toward toward this time in our lives and and it will go fine. I have no doubt about that. I I thank the Lord for his grace to be free from the love of God. money. You want pastors that don't have that that controlling them. Okay? And I thank the Lord for his grace in that. The pastor must be thirteen and verse four. One who manages his own household well, the idea of managing is to stand over it. keeping his children under control, that is, willfully submissive and obedient. Titus 1 verse 6 says the other place where Um these very similar qualifications are given. Having children who believe not accused of dissipation or rebellion. So the children have to have a decent reputation. The children and they they must in due time uh share the pastor's faith, not recklessly pursue pleasure, not show uh outright disregard for authority. You that have been here long enough, you know my commitment to this passage. The children be under control with all dignity that is worthy of respect. So as a father, the pastor must, Ephesians 6:4, not provoke his children to anger, but bring them up in the discipline and instruction of the Lord. Verse 5, if a man does not know how to manage his own household, how will he take care of the church of God? The home for all of us, for pastors, the home is the crucible of our true faith and practice, and pastors must be examples of faithfulness and fruitfulness in their hearts. home. And so yes, that is something that churches should look at in prospective pastors. Number fourteen. The pastor must not be a new convert, literally newly planted, so that he will not become conceited and fall into the condemnation. So let's deal with that first, the condemnation incurred by the devil. I I believe it's speaking of the pride of Satan that is described in a passage in the book of Isaiah, chapter 14, where Uh Satan is given these words, from him, I will ascend above the heights of the clouds, I will make myself like the most high. Satan aspiring to be as God the Father who created him. I think Paul's point here is that power goes to people's heads, and God is saying new believers should not be put in that position. They are young plants whose roots need to be established in sound doctrine and humble Christ-like attitudes in service. By the way, the ministry is not about the pastor and what he can become. It's about Jesus. So his popularity, his success is not what a pastor should be. be thinking about. If they are, I think they're violating verse six here. Number fifteen, the pastor must, verse seven, have a good reputation, testimony with those outside the church. So that he will not fall into reproach, disgrace, and the snare of the devil. One of the schemes of Satan, is to tempt Christian leaders to obvious sin, to discredit them, their ministry, and the Lord Jesus, the church of the Lord Jesus in the eyes of those outside the church. And sadly, he is successful in that. As we all have known, leaders who have fallen and have become disgraced in the community. Well, those in the community should see the marks of godliness listed in this passage in the lives of pastors So if I were to be known, on the other hand, by unfaithfulness to Jody, if I were to be known or found out to be known for pornography. Or for stealing from the offering, or from refusing to resolve some dispute peacefully in the neighborhood, I would not fulfill this qualification. And the church should step up and take action. So listen again, the pastor must be above reproach The husband of one wife, temperate, prudent, respectable, hospitable, able to teach, not addicted to wine. pugnacious, gentle, peaceable, free from the love of money, one who manages his own household well, keeping his children under control with all dignity, not a new convert. A good reputation with those outside the church. Such are necessary in pastors for the health of the church. So church health essentials, godly pastors. Here's your definition. And these properly ordain, I'm sorry, properly adorn the gospel in the community. The implications of this? Listen, skills, certain personality traits might be important in certain pastoral positions, but with the exception of two traits able to teach and not a new convert, God focuses on characters. Traits, godly character. And these godly characters, characteristics, are ones that we all must grow in. That we all must desire if we all want to be honoring God. We all must be growing in them, and you must be praying that your pastors continue to grow in them And pastors need to be examples of these, not perfect, but going in the direction of all of them. So pray that God will guard the pastors from straying from such character. Here is a prayer list. For your pastors, but also a prayer list for you for the most part. Pray that God would help us all to be faithful in these ways And pray, if you would, when you come to passages like this, that God would continue to call pastor teachers from this church. That is a great work and a needed work in our land and around the world. Now I didn't know Pastor Sutton. He was before my time, of course. I didn't know Pastor Emmert or Pastor Hewitt, and some of you knew all of them. But I knew Pastor Beck, and I knew Pastor Robert, I knew Pastor Hugh, I knew Pastor Rob, and I knew Pastor Matt. And I'm thankful, we are thankful, for Jesus' provision of pastors to this church. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you that this passage helps us to stay on course. We pray for the current search committee looking for that Next person to fulfill that next role here. May this passage be essential in their search. Thank you that it has been in the life of this church. Thank you for the men who have served. Continue to call out pastor teachers and others into full-time service. Who have seen these qualifications not only in the pastors, but in the members, and have grown through the ministry of this church. In these ways. We pray for that. And we pray, Father, that this type of godly life would be used by you now, Holy Spirit, to show us sin in our life. And for some, sin that needs to be forgiven by coming to Christ. We pray for that. And especially as we come to the table to celebrate The gospel, the death, and resurrection of Jesus, I pray that you would remind us all that we have fallen in so many ways It is only Jesus. It is only his blood, his life given, taking our sin, dying, paying the penalty for it. Remind us that it is that. It gives us hope. It gives us a relationship. It gives us fellowship. It gives us the assurance of heaven to come. Thank you, thank you for the gospel. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.