Come to First Corinthians first Timothy chapter one. These pastoral epistles have meant much to me. as you can imagine as a pastor. But I read them often, yearly at least, and just to go over them and Sometimes I've used the week of spiritual renewal to go through them. But this time going through them in a sermon series, second time I've been through First Timothy. But another generation of people are here and we need to hear these truths again. And it's giving me an opportunity to to dive deeper into what this book means not only for a pastor, but what it means for The church. Paul was God's chosen person to take the gospel to the Gentiles and As churches were formed , pastors were chosen to lead these churches. Timothy had traveled with Paul during his second and third missionary journeys and became Paul's representative to the churches of Thessalonica, Corinth, Philippi, and Ephesus Due to false teachers in Ephesus, Paul leaves Timothy in Ephesus to deal with the problem as he continues the missionary journey. And 1 Timothy is a letter of encouragement to Timothy in that assignment. For us It's a letter that shows God's will for the church and its leaders. I've entitled this series of messages through 1 Timothy and It'll include a few from 2 Timothy and Titus as well. Church Health Essentials. as you can see on the screen. When pastors are asked, how's your church doing? it it it's common I you know that question you know it's going to come as a pastor. So I thought about how how do I answer it. Uh and because many simply focus on Numbers and statistics and so forth, and that's fine. But I've usually wanted to answer by focusing on elements of church health Um biblical preaching and teaching is going on. Worshiping in spirit and truth. We're growing in that. Love for one another. Or grassroots ministry. I'll give an example of that. And and to me a a a better answer than just simply, yeah, we had a great amount of people in Sunday school. I'm thankful for that too. Thank you for being here today in Sunday school. First Timothy will will lead us to examine our church, but it will also cause each of us to Examine our lives because a healthy church is made up of and maintained by healthy Christians. church members. And you might be thinking Paul is writing to Timothy. I can understand Pastor John if you look if you like this book, but Timothy's a pastor. That's not me. Okay, but the maturity that God calls for in pastors, and even the ministries that they are to lead, is something uh that you should know about and in large part what God defines uh uh what what God calls Timothy to in this book through Paul is what God defines as godliness And godliness is something that we are all called to be in character, in perspective, and in influence. And all of us care about church health, all that are members of his church. So this is a book that should excite you to know what, how should I answer that question? How is the church? do. Well this morning we deal with an essential aspect of church health, sound teaching. Now when you hear that phrase You should think biblical teaching. That certainly would be the foundation. Teaching that uses Scripture. Scripture is absolutely essential to sound teaching, but in Paul's day, as in our day, there were people using Scripture but teaching strange doctrines. So sound teaching is more than simply using scripture because others were using the scripture, but leading the people we'll see in fruitless discussions. If you move to a new community, if you had to look for a church home, you should look for what Paul insists upon in this passage and you should pray that God would guard us in it. Let's continue reading the passage from verse 3. As I urged you upon my departure from Macedonia, remain on at Ephesus, so you may instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines nor to pay attention to myths and endless genealogies which give rise to mere speculation Rather than furthering the administration of God, which is by faith. But the goal of our instruction is love from a pure heart and a good conscience. And a sincere faith. For some men straying from these things have turned aside to fruitless discussion, wanting to be teachers of the law, even though they do not understand either what they are saying or the matters about which they make confident assertions But we know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully, realizing the fact that law is not made for it a righteous person, but for those who are lawless and rebellious, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane. For those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers and immoral men and homosexuals. And kidnappers, and liars, and perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound teaching According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. Sound teaching is number one, teaching that honors the Lord. So I'm going back to his greeting and just seeing Paul's. uh putting himself under the lordship of Christ and then calling for sound teaching to make this point. It's teaching that honors the Lord Verse 1, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, according to the commandment of God our Savior, and of Christ Jesus, who is our hope. So even though this was a personal letter Paul wanted Timothy to know and those in Ephesus to know, in the church at Ephesus to know, that he wrote with authority as an apostle. Paul, an apostle of Christ. Jesus. It was God and Jesus' will that he be an apostle. An apostle was an authoritative leader of the early church, especially He was especially tasked with preaching and m reaching uh Gentile regions and and uh When Jesus spoke to him from heaven on the Damascus Road, his life and calling changed. He thought he was doing right, persecuting. People who believed in Jesus, but God changed his life. Jesus spoke to him from heaven, commanded of him that he go and teach. The Gentiles. And he did. And he did so faithfully. So Timothy, in verse 1, what I have to say in this letter comes from the Lord who called me on that Damascus road. As an apostle, I am his representative. I represent his interests. Paul and his words about God and Jesus show us that sound teaching will involve A message of salvation and hope for God is our Savior, sending Jesus to the cross. And note here, Jesus is our hope. Why would he say that? Why would he be inspired to say that? Because Jesus came, lived the perfect life, died for sin, rose again defeating death. mediates for us at the right hand of God, is building his church, and is coming again to establish his earthly kingdom. He is our hope. To Timothy verse 2, my true child in the faith. Paul had nurtured him as a Christian. Timothy may have been converted. When Paul visited Lystra in Acts 14. We're introduced to Timothy on Paul's second journey Acts 16, 1 through 3, Paul came to Derby and to Lystra, and a disciple was there named Timothy, the son of a Jewish woman who was a believer. But his father was a Greek. And he, Timothy, was well spoken of by the brethren who were in Lystra and Niconium. Paul wanted this man. to go with him. And from that point, Timothy joined Paul and became a trusted fellow worker. To Timothy, my true child in the faith, grace, mercy. And peace from God the Father and Christ Jesus our Lord. So note that this common greeting given to churches, Paul would write Is given to Timothy. Just as Paul prayed this for the churches, he prays it for Timothy Just as churches were reminded of their spiritual resources and encouraged to rely on them, so Timothy is encouraged and reminded. to depend upon his spiritual resources in Christ. Timothy had, you and I have as believers, grace, mercy, and peace directly from God and Jesus. for the carrying out, in his case, of his ministry, in our case, for our ministry And it follows that sound teaching in the church will lead Christians to understand the Lord's Grace, mercy, and peace. And let's notice and state the obvious. I alluded to it earlier. Paul and Timothy serve Christ. He is Lord of the Church, as this The beginning of the letter states, so sound teaching honors the Lord. Point one. Point two, sound teaching is teaching that produces faith. Not speculation. Faith. There were men in Ephesus who were teaching things that were not consistent with the goal of producing faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Verse 3, as I urged you upon my departure from Macedonia, remain on at Ephesus, so that, here's the purpose, you may instruct certain men not to teach Strange doctrines. What we have as two words, strange doctrines is a compound word used only in 1 Timothy. And strange does mean heretical, a departure from what God has revealed to us. In Paul's day, what would that have meant? Well, the Old Testament, Jesus' teaching, the teaching and writing of the apostles. Because they understood their authority in the early church. And Paul is more specific in chapter 6, verse 3. So just um scroll or thumb to chapter 6 verse 3. If anyone advocates a different doctrine and does not agree with sound words , those of our Lord Jesus Christ, and with the doctrine confirming to godliness. So Paul uh refers to Jesus as being part of that, those sound words, but also uh the doctrine that is being Taught in the early church through the leadership of the apostles. So strange doctrines were teachings that did not conform to Jesus' teaching and Did not lead people to live in a godly way. Verse 4: Nor pay attention to myths. Perhaps these were stories about Old Testament characters that went beyond God 's revelation. There are examples of those in the Apocrypha. extra books of the Bible that were not a part of the canon that the church uh recognized And, nor pay attention to myths, and endless genealogies. Well, this was probably proving of ethnic purity by teachers. to say that they were something special, to give them a greater platform in their mind, or to say that such proof was necessary for leadership in the church And notice these gave rise, or which give rise to mere speculation rather than furthering the administration of God. has to do with a stewardship he's given to the church through his revelation, the administration of God, which is by faith. So Paul is saying in verse 4, Timothy, we are stewards of God's truth. And the proclaiming of it calls for faith. Trust in God's revealed truth. We're not trying to achieve agreement with our speculation. No, trust God's revelation. Proclaim it so that others will believe. Paying attention to myths and genealogies and proclaiming these will mire and was miring the church in speculation. Present-day examples of this could be, sometimes people are all too eager to see prophetic fulfillment in current events And this leads to fruitless speculation. And then it's forgotten once history turns the page. But it's damaging. It's not the way to understand how we come to truth. Some were trying to tie aspects of the coronavirus pandemic to prophecies and adamantly telling others what they should and shouldn't do. And some of you heard from even family members who were doing so. Listen, it didn't lead to faith, it led to divisive speculation. Some are obsessed by similar speculation in the political arena. And again, it is speculation and it does not result in faith in the Lord Jesus. Jesus Christ. So we must be committed to the administration of God, the teaching of truth and growth of Christians, which is by faith. Thirdly, sound teaching is teaching that builds love. We could say not selfish goals like popularity. It builds love. The goal, verse five, the end result that we desire, the good that is aimed at through the preaching of the Word of God. The goal of our instruction, our instruction as pastors, teachers of the church, but you can relate it if you teach in this church to you. The goal of our instruction is love. From a pure heart and a good conscience and a sincere faith. So the goal for teacher and those taught Is growth in love, love for Christ, love for his church, love for God, love for neighbor. The great commandment to love God with all our heart, soul, mind, and strength. In our neighbor, as ourselves. Teaching should produce that. Love from a pure heart, a good conscience, and a sincere faith. So, no wrong motives, such as teachers wanting to be popular, no wrong intent, such as trying to show how much we know, no desire to be. Elevated as better than others. No, a desire to be right with God, a desire to trust and obey God And when the teacher has that, it communicates that to those listening to the teaching. A desire to lead others to grow and personally growing themselves in Christ. Now, this exhortation, verse 5, is especially consistent with the plan of church growth laid out in Paul's letter to the Ephesians If I'm ever asked what do you think, how does a church grow, this is the passage I go to. So I'd like you to turn to it. Ephesians chapter 4, verse 11. And it should be a familiar passage to you. If it's not, Pastor Matt and I have not done a good enough job in making it familiar to you. So mark it today if you haven't before. Ephesians 4. Verse eleven, verses eleven through sixteen. Because I want you to see that this is What Paul elaborates on in a greater way in this letter, he gave some as apostles and some as prophets and some as evangelists and some as pastors and teachers. Timothy would have fallen into that category of pastor-teachers. For the equipping of the saints, for the work of service, for the building up of the body of Christ. Until we all attain to the unity of the faith, faith is mentioned, as it is in this passage, to the knowledge of the Son of God, to a mature man, to the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ. And as a result, we are no longer to be children tossed here and there by waves and carried about by every wind of doctrine. Remember the word speculation. Yeah, we're not going there by the trickery of men, by craftiness and deceitful scheming. But speaking the truth of love, that's how we care for the administration. of God, which is by faith. Speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up in all aspects into Him who is the head. in Christ, from whom the whole body being fitted and held together by what every joint supplies, according to the proper working Of each individual part causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love. Now, much more is said in Ephesians 4 11. But I wanted you to see how it relates to what Paul is telling Timothy concerning faith, concerning love, concerning the administration of God's truth. Back to First Timothy one, verse six. Paul elaborates on the problem. For some men, straying from these things, from the goal of love from a pure heart and a good conscience From a sincere faith. Some men straying from these things, putting maybe popularity above those things, have turned aside To fruitless discussion. Discussion that does not achieve salvation of souls or Christlikeness. Fruitless. So, if Christ honoring love is not the goal, because the heart, the conscience, the faith of the teacher are not healthy Teachers will engage in fruitless discussion, discussion that does not cause people to come to Christ, nor become Christ-like. Some men. Wanting, verse seven, to be teachers of the law Wanting probably the thought here is to be like the Jewish rabbis, wanting the reputation, popularity, notoriety Wanting to be teachers of the law, even though they do not understand either what they are saying or the matters about which they make competent assertions. Paul is just putting it out there bluntly. to Timothy that they don't know what they're talking about. They've not practiced sound study of Scripture They've not used that what they have done is used Scripture selectively to support their own assertions And then speak those assertions confidently in order, it seems, to gain the agreement of others. But when you start with that self-centered motive, you are going to be harmful to the church, and your teaching is going to be harmful. So understanding, notice in verse 7, understanding, they didn't understand, understanding needs to come, and conviction along with that. So that we can confidently assert the truth. Let me say that again. Understanding and conviction must come to teachers so that they can confidently assert the truth and that comes through study which is why church you need to insist that your pastors have time you need to guard their time for study You do want them to do other things, of course. But thankfully, this was a church where I was schooled that way, and when I came, you wanted that. And so for me, my my time is the morning. That's where I'm when I'm most alert and uh uh can study the best. And so I best I could uh cordoned off the morning hours. Of course that gets interrupted. Still does, but the morning hours are the hours that I come to study the Word of God. Um getting to the church around seven o'clock or s or a little bit after in the morning. morning. And and uh thankfully, uh thankfully uh I've not stood and not understood what I was talking about and making confident assertions as if I did. Not saying I've never been wrong, but because of study I was confident. And you need to insist on that in your pastors. Wanting to be teachers of the law. Well, we need teaching that builds love, not popular. Fourthly, sound teaching is teaching that expounds scripture in light of the gospel. Scripture in light of the gospel. I think that I've grown in this over the years. I could look back to some passages in the Old Testament that I preached and did not do it well enough. I think Pastor Matt does this exceptionally well, and I've been encouraged by that. Teaching that expounds Scripture. in light of the gospel. So Paul is saying in this passage, teach scripture and teach it In light of the gospel, two things. Teach the scripture, but always teach it from the New Testament point of view, because that's Timothy. where we are. Verse 8. But we know that the law, first five books of the Bible, that's what he's referring to. The law is good, and particularly the commands. If one uses it , Lawfully. The false teachers were using the law, God's commands to his people Israel, to support their myths or to go off on genealogies rather than using it to point to Christ. We know that the law is good if one uses it lawfully. Verse 9, realizing the fact that law is not made for a righteous person. Let me explain what I think that means. The law cannot make a person righteous before God. The law cannot give someone trying to please God assurance of salvation. Now, I I agree obedience is what God calls for, and that's going to involve obeying uh commandments of God. But that's not the ground of my assurance. Never could it be. I'm not going to stand before Christ and say, well, look at my life since I have known Christ. I've sought to obey you most of the time. That's not going to cut it. No, my assurance will always be You died for my sin. So the law cannot give someone trying to please God assurance of salvation. The Judaizers of Paul's day. Believed that for one to be right with God, he or she must become a Jew. So for the men, circumcision was emphasized, dietary restrictions were emphasized. Paul understood that the proper use of the law was not to make one righteous, but to point out one's unrighteousness, his sin, and his need of forgiveness. Law is not made for a righteous person, but, verse 9, for those who are lawless and rebellious. for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who kill their fathers or mothers, for murderers. So far, we can say our culture still agrees with those being sins, but not in verse 10. So we need to understand that these are sins for and immoral men and homosexuals. Then we'd be back with what a culture would agree with. Kidnappers and liars and perjurers and whatever else is contrary. To sound teaching. Sound here in verse 10 is a medical term which means healthy, which is why I used That in the title of the series, Church Help. Verse eleven. We teach God's commands to point out sin and righteousness. But notice verse 11, according to the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I am Have been entrusted. The right way to use the law, the commands of God is to respect it as God's revelation and show through it God's righteousness. That he does speak to right and wrong, and that does not change, to show through it man's sin, to show through it man's need of forgiveness, which Is offered through the gospel, the good news of Jesus' death for sin and his resurrection. According to the glorious gospel of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. Paul had been entrusted with this glorious gospel of the Blessed God, and he was not willing that the teachers in the church in Ephesus drift from the main thing to meaningless things. Not for his own satisfaction, but for the Lord whom he served. Back to verses one and two. So, as an example of this, sound teaching is teaching that expounds scripture in light of the gospel. I believe we should teach the Ten Commandments. I've done a series on the Ten Commandments. To show God's holiness, to define obedience, to define man's sinfulness, and to show man's need of forgiveness Lest he be judged for his sin. And that naturally leads to the glorious gospel of the blessed God. Because the Ten Commandments show our need for the saving work of Jesus Christ. So sound teaching honors the Lord, produces faith, builds love, expounds scripture in light of the gospel. Let me just give you some brief implications. There are more. And whatever you've thought of as an application, that's What God wants you to jot down in your heart. Number one, I would say we are committed to Jesus first and foremost and not to an earthly pastor or teacher. Verse 1 and 2. Paul was committed to the Lord Jesus Christ, not to any earthly authority. Not that there are earthly authorities that God recognizes. I understand that. We have leadership in the church and so forth. But we are committed to Jesus first and foremost. Especially pastors need to understand that. But then the congregation understands that. And so if you ever have a pastor or teacher that is going astray, well you you follow the Lord and you Correct that. Number two, we are committed to the this wasn't in the text, but I'm going to say it because I think it it respects the text. We're committed to the verse-by-verse teaching of Scripture. Verse by verse was not a part of the text, but Scripture was. Verse by verse teaching of Scripture as this is God's design to produce and strengthen faith. And I believe it gives God's balance. to what he wants us to know. So that's why I like to go most most all of the time verse by verse through passages of scripture, through chapters, through books of the Bible, when it all Possible, haven't always done that, but most of the time that's what you've known. Thirdly, the pastor's teaching should result in his own heart and in the heart of the people. In love for Christ and for one another. If that's not happening, then something's wrong. I'm askew. Pastor Matt's askew. Or your rescue that's not happening in your life. Number four, the pastor's teaching should always point to the gospel. Always. So how's the church doing? I think we do seek to honor the Lord. I think we are growing in faith and love. I think scripture is preached, and I believe the gospel is emphasized. But the concern continues. You don't just answer that question and say, okay. Look at chapter twenty of the book of Acts, if you would. Acts twenty verse twenty-eight. Just want to turn to a couple of passages to close. This is where Paul, in a missionary journey, gathers to him the elders of the church at Ephesus. In verse 20 , the same church that Timothy had been told to stay at and to correct these things. He says in verse 28, be on guard for yourselves and for all the flock. among which the Holy Spirit has made you overseers, to shepherd the church of God which He purchased with His own blood. Look at what he says. I know that after my departure, savage wolves Will come in among you, not sparing the floffer. The concern would not be over. And from among your own selves, men will arise. Note that from among your own sons, speaking perverse things to draw away the disciples after them. And so saying that these things are a part of a healthy church means we're committed to these things day by day, week by week, year by year, as more talking about it Look at Revelation chapter 2. This is a section of Revelation where we have the letters from Jesus to the churches. And one of those is to Ephesus. I want you to see what he says to this church that Timothy remained at in order to correct. Teaching that was askewed. Revelation 2, and I'm just going to read 2 through 4. I know your deeds and your toil and perseverance. And that you cannot tolerate evil men, and you put to test those who call themselves apostles, and they are not. And you found them to be false. And you have perseverance and have endured for my name's sake, and have not grown weary. But I have this against you that you have left your first love. So something was missing in their commitment and it had to do with their first love and love is mentioned in The text that we read as being one of the outcomes, and of course, that love has an object, the Lord Jesus Christ and And wanting to image him in our love. So exactly what first love here we could talk about that if I was preaching through, but I just wanted you to see that the concern For good teaching, the concern for good results from teaching continued. Paul was concerned about them years after, or sometime after he wrote to Timothy or in whatever when he met with the elders. I'm not exactly sure the timing there. But Jesus was concerned about it as well as he inspired John to write the book of Revelation. Let's pray together. Well, Father, I pray that we would be committed to the health of this church for your glory, and so that you would use it. To further the administration of God, which is by faith. Thank you for that phrase. Help us to keep that in mind. Our stewardship of the truth. And the proclamation of it as the way to grow, as the way to accomplish salvation of souls. So Father, we thank you for that opportunity week by week here. Help us to continue to grow in binding those opportunities out and around our community and to continue supporting those that are doing it on mission field. We thank you, Father, for leading us to grow in faith and in love and convince Commitment to your word this morning. And we thank you for the legacy of good teachers who have stood in this pulpit. I I thank you for that Those who came before. And we pray, Father, that in if you if Jesus does not return, we pray that in Another 70 years. About the time this church started, 70 years. We pray that in another 70 That if Jesus is not returned, these things would still be precious. They would still be preached. And believers would continue to grow in healthy ways of faith and love for one another We pray that you use this church in mighty ways in our community and as a church-supporting missions around this world. In Jesus' Jesus' name we pray. name. Amen.