Take your copy of God's word and turn, if you would, to 1 Timothy chapter 2. Verse 1, where we find ourselves in this series of church health essentials. First Timothy chapter 2 and verse 1. Last week we saw at the end of chapter one that an essential of church health is dedication. Paul exhorts Timothy to fight a good fight, to be dedicated to the assignment given to him. which was to remain on at Ephesus, so that he may instruct certain men not to teach strange doctrines. Uh and not only to be dedicated to the assignment, but fighting the good fight means being dedicated to Christ, keeping faith and a good conscience. So as we turn to chapter two, I really think what's going on here in The in the Spirit's inspiration of Paul is how does this dedication manifest itself? There are many scriptural answers to that, but we're going to focus on Paul's in 1 Timothy chapter 2. two this morning. Let me say that chapter divisions are are very helpful to us in turning to passages of the Bible. And most often they make sense, and it's not that they don't make sense here, but sometimes they can diminish. the importance of the context of previous verses. And so we're going to begin reading through this passage by beginning in last week's passage, chapter 1 verse 18. Let me pray and then we'll read this together. Father, thank you. Thank you for these who have come to hear. We pray we would honor you in the attention we would We give to your word, and I pray for your Holy Spirit to work as your word is proclaimed. In Jesus' name. Amen. So beginning in 1 Timothy 1, verse 18, this command I entrust to you, Timothy, my son, in accordance with the prophecies previously made concerning you. That by them you fight the good fight, keeping faith and a good conscience which some have rejected and suffered shipwreck in regard to their faith. Among these are Hymenaeus and Alexander, whom I handed over to Satan, so that they would be taught not to blaspheme. First of all, then, that is, in light of fighting the good fight. First of all, then I urge that entreaties and prayers, petitions and thanksgivings be made on behalf of all men, for kings and all who are in authority, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior, who desires all men to be saved and to come to the knowledge of the truth. For there is one God and one mediator also between God and men, the man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all, the testimony given at the proper time. So To interrupt the reading of the passage just for a moment. Praying for all men will keep the church focused on its mission. Paul often takes a tangent, a spirit-inspired tangent. tangent. And usually he's speaking of the gospel in in some way of praise or explanation. And that's what happens here. He's praying for kings and all in all in authority. This is good and acceptable of God, our Savior, and that just leads him to talk about God's desire and God's gospel, salvation in Christ, which is what verse 5 and 6 six are about and we'll get to that. So praying for all men will keep the church focused on its mission, the Great Commission. To proclaim that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. Chapter 1, verse 15, we saw that great phrase. Making disciples of all the nations. Praying for all men will keep us also fervent in godliness, in faith, and a good conscience as we demonstrate the gospel through peaceful lives. Verse 2 and three. And then verse seven. For this I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I am telling the truth. I am not lying. As a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. Therefore, I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands without wrath and to sin. First of all, okay? Understand the importance of that phrase in verse 1. First of all, and the first of all is prayer Prayer for all men. Prayer for freedom to live the Christian life. If I would summarize that part of the passage. Prayer for the salvation. of souls. There's an outline by the way in the bulletin. I forgot to say that. I usually do. If you want to look at it there, it's also up on the screen. First of all, prayer for all men, verses one and two. First of all, then, and just to remind you what we've said, the words, first of all, alert us that what follows is to be priority in Timothy's ministry and ours. This is a letter to Timothy But God put it in the canon of Scripture. So it is a letter for the church to learn from as well. So, first of all, this is a priority for the church. Timothy, Paul is saying, deal with the men teaching strange doctrines, fight the good fight, and here's what you do first. I urge that entreaties and prayers, petitions and thanksgivings. be made on behalf of all men. And then Paul mentions some specific men for kings and all who are in authority. So what you do first is pray. The first action is God word Not man word. That's interesting. So if Timothy is is is thinking of a false teacher that he has to go and correct The first action is Godward, not manward. First of all, then prayer. And Paul emphasizes the priority of prayer with four words describing such prayer entreaties, prayers, petitions, and thanksgivings. What's the difference between these? Well, this is uh uh uh some commentators best guess. Entreaties, probably requests in light of specific circumstances, so the false teachers would be, are the the the those that need to be corrected in their teaching Teaching to re-be requesting or those situations in society because of rulers. Prayers, more general, requests in light of general needs. For instance, the things that Jesus taught us to pray about in the Lord's Prayer. Petitions, pleading with God on behalf of others is likely where that is. Pointing, and then thanksgivings, magnifying God for his blessings. You pray for, notice, all men. And the meaning in context is all groups of men. Now I'm not objecting to praying for each and every Amen. But the the way that this word is used here in the context, it's to pray for Gentiles, verse 7. It's to pray for those teaching falsely, chapter one, we saw that context. It is to pray for kings and all authorities, verse two, who have the power to persecute The church. So Timothy, in his context, pray for Emperor Nero and pray for Asiarchs, who were officials over provinces. And pray for pro-councils, officials of the courts, and pray for town clerks, officials in cities, and pray for the people of the town And we, of course, would think of our own context and our own governing officials that have impact on the life of the church Paul knew firsthand the trouble that persecution could cause. Persecution, while good and used by God for purging the church. And for spreading the gospel to other lands, persecution also did negative things. It closed doors to the open proclamation of the gospel. And to the freedom of a church, and in Paul's day, newly uh newly built churches to assemble, to hear the teaching of God's revealed truth. It put Paul in prison in many times many times. had to rooted him out of cities where he was ministering, so he knew the trouble that persecution could cause We think today of the suppression, the suppression of spiritual truth in communist countries and Muslim countries Now in Paul's day, there was the persecution by the Jews, remember, and he was a part of that before his conversion. In Ephesus, Demetrius, a silversmith, who profited by making shrines of Artemis, a goddess of Asia and the world. rallied the city into a riot against Paul and his companions. We see that in the book of Acts, and that's where Timothy is in Ephesus. So Timothy had seen the persecution that could take place there. In that case, because somebody's economy was being hurt by Christianity and by people turning from idols to the living God and to the Lord Jesus Christ. And then of course, beginning with Nero in 64 A. D. Christians faced uh persecution from Rome and different places for Jesus. different reasons. So Paul teaches that the church must pray to preserve the freedom to proclaim and demonstrate the gospel. That's a summary of what we see in this passage. Especially in verse 2, and we'll get there in a moment. But since governmental authorities are the ones who make key decisions concerning that freedom, Paul urges special prayer for them. Now in our country, the United States, we have freedom of religion and freedom of speech. But because of a loosening of morality in our culture, it has become increasingly difficult for Christian businessmen and women, for example, to practice According to Christian morality in the marketplace, without attack, without threat of litigation. Any who preached the whole counsel of God's Word in love Such as we did in 1 Timothy chapter 1, 9 and 10, passage that mentions homosexuality as a sin alongside murderers and kidnappers, we realized that we could be accused of hate speech, that someone could claim that And that is happening, thankfully not to a large extent, but it is happening in our larger culture So we realize that we have freedom of speech and freedom of religion, but a loosening of morals in our society makes those more fragile than they have been in the past. the past. So pray for all men. Secondly, pray for freedom to live the Christian life Verse 2. So that, here's what we pray for, and the first thing on Paul's list, so that we may lead a tranquil and quiet life. In all godliness and dignity. And I don't know if that's what you would have expected Paul to say there, but that is what he says, so let's deal with it. The aim of the prayer, seems to me, is to maintain freedom to assemble as a church, to proclaim the truth, and as Christians. freedom to live according to the church, which he is describing as a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness. So let's look at those four words which are used to describe a Christian's life. Living in a godly and dignified, dignified as worthy of respect way, we are to exemplify a tranquil, quiet, or peaceful life. We find this all over Scripture. We do. 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, 11 and 12. I'm going to read these passages to you. You have them on the outline. Make it your ambition to lead a quiet life and attend to your own business and work with your hands just as we commanded you, so that you will behave properly toward outsiders. Not saved outside the church and not be in any need. The Christian life is peaceful, not rebellious. It is quiet, not loud. Titus 3, verse 2. To malign no one To be peaceable, gentle, showing mercy, showing every consideration for all men. I believe here in 1 Timothy, God is saying through Paul to Timothy and to the church today that this is the life that adorns the gospel. This is the life of loving God with all your heart and of loving your neighbor as yourself. Indeed, it is the life that is taught to us in 1 Corinthians. Corinthians 13, 4, and following. Love is patient, love is kind. Love is not jealous. Love does not brag and is not arrogant. Love does not act unbecomingly Does not seek its own, is not provoked, does not take into account a wrong suffered, does not rejoice in unrighteousness. but rejoices with the truth, bears all things, believes all things, hopes all things, endures all things, love, never fails A Christ-like love, in other words, leads to a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. This godly life is, I would say, also a spirit-filled life. For Galatians chapter 5, 22 teach us that the fruit of the Spirit, that is the Holy Spirit, Is producing this as you grow in Christ and in Christ-likeness the fruit of the Spirit is joy, love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness. Faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. So the indwelling spirit is leading us to live a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. I believe such a life is used by God often to convince unbelievers that Christianity is worthy of their attention. Please hear this. This kind of life does not mean we do not speak the truth concerning issues of the day. We do. And we must, in conversation with others, at the workplace, in the neighborhood, certainly from the pulpit of a church. But we speak the truth in love concerning abortion, or if it's public school curriculum that's being talked about, whatever it is. And we can explain our positions on issues by expressing our faith in our Creator, the Lord God, our belief that He has revealed how we should live and our conviction that his will is best for society. That is a a way of showing I am not saying this in hate. I am saying this because I think this is best. for the world around us. So in my love for my neighborhood, I would speak truth to you, my neighbor. I believe we can be, with a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity, we continue to be the moral conscience of the society that we live in. But let us do it in word and indeed with love and With prayer, so that we indeed are living a tranquil and quiet life in all godliness and dignity. That's a life that is fitting. Of the gospel. Thirdly, we pray for the salvation of souls. This is good and acceptable in the sight of God our Savior. What is the tranquil and quiet life. God is pleased with prayer. God is pleased with the peaceful, quiet, godly lives of believers and uses these to draw men to Christ. And God our Savior means. . . Praise God. He has purposed to save souls. He has made saving souls possible. And he is pleased to save souls. And so Paul refers to the Lord God. As God our Savior. And then he elaborates, inspired by the Spirit, who desires all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth. Now when it says in verse 4 that he desires all men to be saved and come to the knowledge of the truth, it it doesn't mean, and hear me carefully, and I don't want you to misunderstand what I'm saying. It doesn't mean he sovereignly wills that every human being be saved. We know that many are on the path to destruction, few on the path to life accordingly. We know that God says in Romans 9, He has mercy on whom He desires and hardens whom He desires. So it doesn't mean that every human being will be saved because that's God's expressed will here. That's not what it means that he desires all men, each and debris. And it doesn't mean he would like to save every human being, but can't Get that out of your head. God is a sovereign God who comes upon us according to Ephesians 2 in a way that wakes us up from the dead. And brings us to repentance and faith. I believe what's going on here is the same that I mentioned earlier, the context, it means God's desire and plan that salvation not be limited to any one group of men. I want you to realize how important that thought is. We take it for granted because We are a part of the uttermost part of the world, as Jason reminded us in Sunday school. We're Gentiles who have been saved. But remember , the Great Commission to Jewish disciples make disciples of all the nations. That was challenging to them. And then remember what Jesus said in his resurrection appearance, Judea or Jerusalem, Judea, Samaria, and the uttermost parts. of the world. And that didn't come easy for them. Remember the tension in the book of Acts. Peter testified of God granting salvation to a Gentile, Cornelius, but Peter had to be convinced to go to him. by the vision of unclean foods and God saying, take and eat. They're no longer unclean. You can go to the Gentiles, in other words. And Cornelius and his household were saved, and Peter testifies of that. And there were those who were questioning Peter, going to uncircumcised men. But when they heard Peter's testimony in Acts 11, 18. They said, well then, God has granted to the Gentiles also the repentance that leads to life. It is the desire, the intention of God, that all without distinction of rank, race, or nationality Be saved. Jews can be saved. Gentiles can be saved. Rulers can be saved. Common people can be saved. And God's desire should be our desire, reflected in our prayers for and our attitude to toward all men. Paul illustrates this, this desire, when he appeared before officials to defend himself in the book of Acts. And I'd like you to turn to this passage, Acts chapter Acts 26 verse 19. It's a little lengthier, so I think we'll pay attention better if we're looking at it. Acts 26, verse 19. Paul appears before officials here, he's defending himself. But I want you to see that he doesn't focus on unfair treatment. His focus is the gospel. Because that's God's focus. He is saving souls. He is God our Savior. Acts 26, 19. So King Agrippa, I did not prove disobedient to the heavenly vision when God, when Jesus appeared to him from heaven on the divine Damascus road, the blinding light, the call to go to the Gentiles with the gospel. I didn't prove disobedient, but kept declaring both to those of Damascus first and also at Jerusalem. and then throughout all the region of Judea, and even to the Gentiles, that they should repent and turn to God, performing deeds appropriate to repentance. For this reason, some Jews seized me in the temple and tried to put me to death. So having obtained help from God, I stand to this day testifying Both to small and great, stating nothing but what the prophets and Moses said was going to take place. That the Christ was to suffer, and that by reason of his resurrection from the dead, he would be the first to proclaim light both to the Jewish people and to the Gentiles. King Agrippa, do you are down in verse 27? I'm sorry. You just thought I had a different version of Scripture. Down to verse 27. King Agrippa, do you believe the prophets? I know that you do. Agrippa replied to Paul, In a short time you will persuade me to become a Christian. And Paul said, I want you to hear his heart. I would wish to God that whether in a short or long time, not only you But also all who hear me this day might become such as I am, except for these chains. So in verse three of our text, First Timothy. Paul referred to God as God our Savior. In verse 4, he says God's intention is to save all types of men. No one is excluded. And he now explains this salvation, verse 5. For there is one God, not many, one. And one mediator also between God and men. Let me stop and say to you. Take these verses personally right now. If you've heard them before, let them minister to your heart. If you've obeyed the gospel, if you've received Jesus, would you just be thankful for it right now? And if you have not, or if you have questions, I read this with an appeal to you that you come to us with your questions. We want to help you to understand. These this passage and others like it. There is one God and one mediator also between God and men. In other words, one who can bring holy God and sinful man together, mediator. One hope of salvation. Not many hopes. One mediator also between God and them, the man, Christ Jesus. Christ Jesus is the one who John's gospel said was with God and was God, who became flesh, the second person of the Trinity. God the Son. His full humanity is essential to our salvation. He lived a perfect life as a man. Paul uses that word, the man, Christ Jesus. He uses it intentionally. Because that righteous perfect life was essential. And in salvation, that perfect life, that righteousness, is credited to the sinner and his sin. put upon Christ on the cross. And this man, his name is Jesus, refers to his birth, his human birth to the Virgin Mary. And he is, notice, the promised Christ, the man, Christ Jesus, the promised Christ who would be Savior, the one the angels spoke to the shepherds about. Today in the city of David there has been born for you a Savior who is Christ the Lord, the one promised. Prophesied to come has come. Verse 6. For there's one, maybe back up, there's one God and one mediator also between God and men The man Christ Jesus, who gave himself as a ransom for all. Jesus gave himself And this death was, as it is put here, a ransom A ransom is a payment that is paid in order to gain freedom. This was a payment that was paid to God. Because we were in debt to him, our sin debt, a payment that was paid to God to free us from the punishment due us for our sins against God. Jesus paid the ransom for all, meaning all men are saved because of Jesus sacrificial death. And by I mean that in the same way the context means it here. The authorities are saved that way, the common man is saved that way. The Jew is saved that way. The Gentile is saved that way. No one is saved any other way than Jesus' death. His death was necessary. For all also reminds us that Jesus' death was sufficient for all who would call upon on the Lord for all who would come in repentance and faith. And if you're taking this personally and you don't know whether this You have a Savior coming to Jesus, coming to the Lord, coming to God in repentance and faith is what we would want to do. Talk to you about acknowledging sin, acknowledging the consequences of sin , seeing that God made a way for you to be forgiven through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ, who gave himself a ransom for all, the testimony given at the proper time. The testimony of God's saving grace, his son on the cross. That's the testimony. testimony was accomplished according to God's plan, which is proceeding like clockwork. So the testimony given at the proper time reminds me of Galatians chapter 4, in the fullness of time. Christ came, Christ died upon the cross. Verse seven. For this, the truths of verses three three through six That's keep the context in mind. For this, Paul says, I was appointed a preacher and an apostle, a herald and An apostle. Apostle was one chosen by authority to be sent and accomplish a mission An apostle represents the one who sends him and has his authority. Paul was chosen the day that he was converted, the day Christ appeared to him from heaven, he was chosen as an apostle potential particularly as he's going to say here to the Gentiles. I was appointed for this. I was appointed a preacher and an apostle. I am telling the truth. I am not lying. Paul knew this letter would be read by others. I don't think he's necessarily convincing Timothy, but the false teachers had likely questioned Paul's authority. And so Paul is encouraging Timothy, reminding him who he is. And if anybody needs to know who I am, I am an apostle called by the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ as a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth. Faith and truth We could practically think of that as heart and mind, uh, because the heart is involved in the mind. We we we think the true thoughts and we believe them. We commit to them in our inner man. So as a teacher of the Gentiles in faith and truth, taking the gospel to the Gentiles was particularly Paul's assignment. When he did so faithfully. So as the gospel is proclaimed, first of all, pray Pray for the salvation of souls. Pray for all men. Pray for the freedom to live the Christian life because that adorns the gospel. It shows the gospel. Pray for the salvation of souls. So let's turn to the implications. And we begin with verse 8. I believe that's what Paul is doing here. Therefore, I want. And he can say I want. He's an apostle. This is an apostolic exhortation, a command, which he under Christ gives to Timothy and the church. Therefore I want the men. Now women are to pray also, but Paul here emphasizes the men, who by God's design are leaders. In the home and in the church. Men are to lead in prayer. Men, are you listening? Men are to lead in prayer. I want the men in every place, everywhere the church is gathered, to pray. Don't just talk about praying. Pray. Don't just talk about praying for all men. Pray for all men. I want the men in every place to pray, lifting up holy hands. Don't just agree that the Christian life should be godly and dignified. Come to God with such a life, a holy life. Paul is not teaching that we have to pray with raised hands. Certainly you may. He is referring to a posture, he is referring to when he says lifting up holy hands, he is referring to a posture of prayer that was practiced by Jews and many early Christians. And it's mentioned in Psalm 134, verse 2, Lift up your hands to the sanctuary and bless the Lord. Or Psalm 141, verse 2, May my prayer be counted as incense before you, the lifting up of my hands. as the evening offering. Other postures of prayer are mentioned in Scripture. And just to show I'm just reading these to let you know I don't think this is Paul's main point. That the hands are the lifting up of hands are the issue. I believe the holiness is the issue. But other postures of prayer. Ezra was praying, Ezra 10 :1 Weeping and prostrating himself, so lying down before the Lord. Isaiah 58 verse 5 Uh is it, Pa God speaking, is it a fast like this, which I choose a day for man to humble himself? Is it for bowing one's head like a reed and for spreading out sackcloth? As ashes of the bed. So the bowing of one's head mentioned there. Luke 22, 41. Jesus withdrew about a stone's throw, and he knelt down. and began to pray. So kneeling, Ephesians 3. 14, for this reason I bow my knees before the Father, bowing Paul's primary emphasis in the phrase lifting up holy hands was the moral life of the one praying. Holiness. He should be seeking holiness in his life. Holy means unpolluted. Holy means unstained by evil. Now none of us are there. And that's why Jesus taught us to confess our But holy means unpolluted, unstained. The hands represent the activities of life. The holy hands means a holy life. Present that before God. James 5. 16 tells us the effective prayer of a, you know the word. Righteous man can accomplish much. Same thought there. Come to God, understanding your need for forgiveness, your need for holiness in Christ. Come in Christ as one who can come to the throne and pray. So we're not bringing to him a perfect holy life We are concerned about sin in our life. We do realize it separates us from God in in our in our fellowship from God. There's distance between us when we Are in sin. But we understand that the only way to lift up holy hands is to have a Savior because we don't even recognize all the ways that we are unholy in words. Word and deed, thought, attitude, and so forth. Lifting up holy hands without wrath and dissension. You know, I I think it's important to just say that a lot of things, you know, I mentioned our our society, our culture, the lessening of morality in it. It c it can make you angry and sometimes that can be a righteous anger that we deal with in proper ways, but when Paul says without wrath and dissension, I I think he is talking about our personal attitudes in prayer, but that we don't we don't come to pray angrily. The anger of man does not achieve the righteousness of God. Instead, be a man who comes in humility in holiness and back to verse uh two and three in that in that uh that that quietness that um that That tranquil, quiet, godly, dignified spirit to the Lord. So the implication from verse 8 And in general, pray for all men, indiscriminately, so that we as believers can live, can freely live out our lives and witness of our Christian faith Let me read that again. Sometimes I write out sentences that I think are helpful to me. I pray so to you. Pray for all men indiscriminately. So that we as believers can freely live out and witness of our Christian faith, and so that God would draw more to salvation. Listen, I know we have concerns about our culture, about our candidates in an election year, about our world, and about our families. But let me say this. First of all, prayer. First of all, prayer. This is an essential of a healthy child. Church, and it is an essential of a healthy believer. Let's go to the Lord. Father, keep this lesson upon our hearts In very practical ways, that the first thing we would seek to do When we feel the urge to serve or speak or witness or correct Help us to remember that first of all we should come to you and pray. Even when time is short, we can do that in attitude. But help us Help us to depend upon you. Help us to honor you. Help us to obey this command. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.