And I'd like you to turn to First Timothy chapter. Two, and we'll begin in just a moment in verse 9, 1 Timothy chapter 2 and verse 9, church, health, essentials, godly women. I believe that God has created life, that's why I read those verses, and knows best how we should live life for his glory. And thou art God. And thou art good. I hope you believe that about God. He created your life. He knows best. How you should live your life for his glory and for your good. And so, listen, my ear is not and has not been for many, many years. To the ground of the changing norms of our culture, but to the revelation of God which He gave through prophets and apostles and preserved Through the church, such that we have the Bible today. So when Paul has instructions for Timothy serving at the church in Ephesus, Concerning what is fitting for women in the church, we should listen and we should trust and we should obey because it is for God's glory. For our good. There are two vocabulary words that you should know, not because they're in our text, but because you might come across them. They're commonly used by people who speak and write about the role of men and women in the church. The two words are egalitarianism and complementarianism. Some of you have heard of those and read those in different works that you've come across. Complementarianism, our view here and the view of our Baptist faith and message, although I don't think the word shows up there. It expresses this view, holds that God created man and women equal in value and personhood, as we read in the book of Genesis. But has designed and equal in bearing his image, but has designed masculinity and femininity And distinct complementary roles for men and women in marriage and in the church. Egalitarianism Argues for equality of value, personhood, and roles. That's the difference, the roles. Churches that have adopted egalitarianism and all over beyond Churches that have adopted egalitarian thinking have ordained women for public ministry, including the role of pastor-teacher. We understand that. We know that that's a part of our culture at large. But if one is to confess the Bible as the inspired word of God, one must admit the relevance of what Paul says to the church. today. And so that's what we're going to put our ear to and listen to this morning. 1 Timothy 2, beginning with verse 9. Likewise. I want women to adorn themselves with proper clothing, modestly and discreetly, not with braided hair. or gold or pearls or costly garments, but rather by means of good works, as is proper for women making a claim to godliness. A woman must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. But I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. For it was Adam who was first created and then Eve. So notice as we read through this the first time, his argument goes to creation. And it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman being deceived fell into transgression. But women will be preserved through the bearing of children if they continue in faith and love and sanctity. With self-restraint. I remind you that the primary issue in Paul's mind is he writes a letter to Timothy, who is at Ephesus, pastoring that church. Is having a healthy church for the propagation of the gospel. And chapter two deals with the order of the church that will best propagate the gospel. And basically he he focuses on two themes. The church must be praying for others. That they exist and be able to live godly lives in a society. And he does bring in men must especially be praying in verse Verse eight and that they be men of godliness, lifting up holy hands. That has to do with their Christ-like character. So men must be Godly man of prayer. But in addition to prayer, here's another emphasis. Women must assume their proper role. And that's what he deals with here. In this passage, Paul addresses problems that had evidently surfaced concerning women of the church. Apparently, we don't know the specifics, we can't know, but apparently some were wearing fashions that depicted a less than moral, or at least a questionable in some way, lifestyle. And obviously there were questions concerning the woman's role in the public assembly, such as we are in right now. Perhaps some wom women had become outspoken during the public teaching. Don't do that today. Of course you wouldn't. And you never have. I I speak to a friendly audience. I realize that Because we've accepted this passage of Scripture and practiced it. But we still need to understand it. Because generations come and they need to understand it. Whatever the exact circumstances, Paul sets guidelines for the woman's role in church. He speaks of her purpose in life and encourages the importance of her outer and inner character. Why does he do that? Because God's design of and will for woman is important to the property. Of the gospel. And it's important to God's glory and our good. So we're going to look at the proper profession of women, the proper place of women, the proper purpose of women. First of all, the proper profession of women, verses nine and ten. Notice verse nine begins with, likewise, so the focus is still on what it was, which is on the church, and as Paul is setting forth instruction now concerning women. So likewise, just as men are to be praying, church is to be praying for all men. Here's some instruction that goes along with that. Paul was wanting the women of every church to be properly adorned in two ways. So likewise, proper appearance. First, I want women to adorn themselves with proper clothing, modestly and discreetly, not with braided hair and gold or pearls or costly garments The point, dress in a way that will not attract attention in the wrong way and thus distract the worship of the church. What was going on? Women of that day, of that area, would weave gold, silver, or pearls into their hair? causing it to flash brilliantly in the light. It was a fashion of some sort, but it wasn't fitting in a place where the focus was to be on Jesus. I think that's what Paul is pointing out. And it was also not fitting for the witness of one who should be helping others to focus on Jesus, godly women. So thus Paul encourages Good works as the proper aim of a woman seeking to be godly. So the proper profession of women, proper appearance, and we'll come back to that. But proper action, rather by means of good works, as is proper for women making a claim to godliness. Good works, unlike elaborate fashion styles, draws attention to God. Now, listen, Paul is not saying wear unattractive clothing. Or and Paul is not saying that it's wrong to notice and compliment a woman on her clothing, but he is saying that it should be modest and decent. For sure he is saying that. It should not be distracting. It should not be revealing in any way or suggestive of a less moral lifestyle. Ladies and young ladies, you have to know, you do know, that you cannot always wear the latest fashions and obey verse 9 of 1 Timothy chapter 2. And lest anyone not know, I realize I'm a man speaking to women, but I can do that. Clothing and maybe even on this subject More forcefully, clothing is immodest if it invites men and young men to think about your body. It might invite such thoughts because it doesn't cover enough. It might invite such thoughts because of the way that it covers. And such hinders both, Paul is saying, such hinders both the worship and the witness of the church. Let me quickly say, men, we are responsible for our thoughts and for our eyes, okay? But God is saying to the women, you are responsible to dress modestly. I didn't hear amen to that. I know it's in your heart. I know it is in your heart. Secondly, the proper place of women. Verse eleven through fourteen. That is women in the church. Paul shifts to the singular rather than the plural in addressing women here, and it shows emphasis on these commands. So, first of all, the proper place of a woman during teaching in the assembly is listening, not talking. Certainly not leading. A woman must quietly receive instruction with entire submissiveness. From a similar instruction in 1 Corinthians 14, 34 and 35, if you want that reference, 14, 34, and 35 of 1 Corinthians. Corinthians. We can determine that Paul very likely is commanding here the same thing that women are not to speak out during times of teaching. Perhaps women were interrupting, such as seems to be the case in 1 Corinthians, interrupting times of teaching, maybe with questions concerning what was taught, we really don't know But the point was it was not proper. So a woman must quietly receive instruction with entire heart. Submissiveness. Submissiveness means recognizing and yielding to authority in a general way. And in this case, authority ordained by God from the beginning of the world scripture teaches. That the man is the head of a woman, and bringing that into the church, the men would be teaching 1 Corinthians eleven and verse 3. So it is logical, according to God's order in creation, again, that's why we read those verses, that man is given the teaching role in the church. And Paul is saying, women must recognize this. So proper place, listening, not talking Secondly, learning, not teaching. Verse 12. I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. Now the gospel equally saves men and women, but the gospel does not remove the original position of subordination. Ordained by God, which was there before the fall of man. Teaching is mainly used by Paul for instruction in the Christian truth. In Old Testament times, teaching of the law or other truth was always carried out by one in a position of recognized authority. And it was always a man, like a rabbi. Women were encouraged to teach their daughters. Not that they didn't teach, but their role and their audience was different. To be teaching publicly was to be exercising having authority, and thus a woman could never teach in such a position. But again, not to say that women should not teach. They may teach other women or children, but not one whom God has recognized. As their authority. To do so would be to wrongfully assume authority, and Paul commanded that women were never to do this. I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. Thirdly, proper place, following, not leading. And here emphasizing the exercise of authority in verse I do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man, but to remain quiet. Now, man in verse 12 could be understood by Paul with his Jewish background as any male 13 years of age or older, because at thirteen there was a ceremony called bar mitzvah in which a Jewish boy would assume adult religious duties Paul, born and raised a Jew, uh, may have had this conve conception of manhood in mind. We I don't think we can be certain of that We sort of practice that in that we lead our youth group with in the teaching times with men. Certainly women are involved in our youth group, but our Sunday school classes and such tend to follow that when at all possible they have. Another way to look at this, Numbers 40, 14 and verse 29, seems to define men as 20 years old and upward. In this sense, those were the Israelites who were held accountable for the decision not to enter the Promised Land. And that would fit more our cultural common understanding of man today. But again, that's not how we're going to settle this, but our understanding would be in our culture 18 and up. And certainly I think that would be a a minimum way of understanding this passage. Now, many, of course, disagree that this verse has application to the church today. Okay? They just don't, they think Paul was dealing with a circumstance of his day. We don't have to apply it today. And the basic logic of those who differ is that Paul was Again, dealing with something going on at the church at Ephesus, and his prohibition then is applicable only to his day. Here's an example of that thinking. Today a woman's, and I quote, culture, grace, scholarship, ability, religious devotion, and spiritual endowment Make it evident that she is often as truly called of God to public address and instruction as man. So that is a mindset that exists in various denominations. churches. Make two observations. First of all, the tense of the verb, grammar, the tense of the verb to teach is a present tense which indicates ongoing action. So the translation to teach could be rendered to be a teacher. And I think that's the way we should understand it. This is a role, an ongoing role in the church, and refers to an ongoing position in the church. And Paul is not just dealing with a one-time event. or something that was a specific problem, but he's giving a principle for those who give teaching to the church Secondly, the verses that follow that you heard earlier, and the reason we read verses from Genesis, Show Paul's reasoning behind the commands. What does he draw on? He draws on timeless truths from the book of Genesis, not on local circumstances to support his position. That's the reasoning of an apostle inspired by the Holy Spirit setting forth a timeless principle, not local instructions. Look at verse 13. 4. That means he's going to give now the reason for the command. I do not allow, verse 12, 4. It was Adam who was first created and then Eve. Now let me stop and say the appeal to creation is significant in Scripture. Jesus appealed to the creation account when he preached on divorce. Paul, speaking on foos, appealed to the creation account in 1 Corinthians 10. Speaking on marriage, he appealed to creation in Ephesians 5. He addressed homosexuality by referring to creation in Romans chapter 1. So this is a significant argument used in Scripture. We need to recognize that. And so what do we see in Genesis? We see Eve was formed later to be man's helpmate. Adam, man, was to lead. And the violation of this principle is what led to the fall. Eve took a place of leadership That's why Paul says in verse 14, it was not Adam who was deceived, but the woman being deceived, fell into transgression. So in that event with Satan tempting her, she led when she should have followed and was deceived, and the church should not repeat the violation of God's repeated order. That's the meaning of verse 14. So Paul's command and the reasons for it are clear. Do not allow a woman to teach or exercise authority over a man. Helping, yes, supporting, yes, contributing to the work of the church, teaching in other ways, other audiences, of course. And finally, Paul concludes with a declaration of women's, a woman proper role in the church. I don't think he's exhaustive here, but I think this is significant and we need to embrace it. So the proper purpose of a woman, two things are mentioned here: the bearing of children and the bearing of Christ-like character. Verse 15. But women Will be preserved, and it's the same word as saved, interesting here, so interpretation is important, but women will be preserved through the bearing of children. We don't believe it means that women will be saved from sin when they bear children. Sin is not canceled by bearing children. I think we all would agree and understand that's not the gospel. But saved from having no vital unique purpose in the church and in God's kingdom and in his plan of the ages, I think yes. They are preserved. They are saved for something very significant. A woman is valuable to God and to the church by recognizing and accepting a primary role that God has given only to her, that of motherhood. And the greatest example of this in the life of God's plan and kingdom is that Jesus came into the world through a woman. Mary being his earthly mother. And by the way, that promise is given to Eve in Genesis chapter 3:15. But her seed would defeat Satan. Now that's not to say that childbearing is all women are valuable for. Don't hear me say that. But it is a valuable thing. It's a unique value of women. But the value of this role is conditioned on her character in verse 15 continues, and so there is a proper purpose of the bearing of Christ-like character. The woman will be preserved through the bearing of children if they continue in faith and love and sanct and sanctity. with self-restraint. Paul is making the positive statement that if women continue in Christ-like character and accept their proper role in the church. They will be useful to the church and to the spreading of the gospel. In character, they will show Christ. In motherhood, they show respect for God's established order. And along with the other things he has mentioned, modesty and a quiet, gentle spirit that is spoken of specifically in the book of Titus. Some implications. Well, a real practical one. Women are to dress modestly and decently. uh seek to be known for godly character and and service. That's precious in the sight of God. And in my years here at North Hartford , by far, by far, that's the example, the women of this church. has said. I mean, you can think with me. I I don't remember any ongoing issues with Moscow and the way women want to appear. Now what I have seen is many examples of godly men. I'm very thankful for that Secondly, I would say from this passage that a woman's role in the church is a supporting, helping role. She is not to speak up during public teaching, she's not to be a public teacher. in the assembly is not to challenge or disagree with the teacher. She is not to teach any man, any men, even in a mixed group. And we practice that. Here, as I said earlier, from youth on up. She is not to be in authority over a man in any work of the church And we practice that here even in committees when there is m when there are males and females on the committee, one of those males steps up to become The chairman. Not that he's always best suited, but we follow this principle because we believe it is pleasing to God, because it is laid out for us in the Word of God. Thirdly , A woman should find great fulfillment in the role of motherhood if God so blesses. This with Christ-like character make her an essential member of the church body, an essential part of God's body. God's plan. If God doesn't bless you with children, listen, your faith and love and sanctity with self-restraint, as is spoken of here, will be used by him in other ways. So it's not that you have to have children to have a purpose. I don't mean it that way, but I do mean that is a great purpose that God has given to women. Listen, what I'm saying is not socially or politically correct or acceptable, but it is biblically correct. Amen. And that means it pleases God. And that means it's what He blesses. And that means this is what will give you and I true joy and purpose. And that means this is healthy for the truth. Now we can't mention the fall of man into sin without emphasizing that it has affected us all. So number four of implications. has to do with reminding you of the gospel. All is sinned and fallen short of the glory of God. The wages of sin is death, but the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Praise His name. And God demonstrates His own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, enemies of God , Jesus took upon himself sin of those God would save and died for us. And whoever will call on the name of the Lord, whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. If you've done that every time you hear these verses, which were from the book of Romans, you celebrate in your heart. They make you glad. They make you think of others to pray. They make you long. For others to be saved. If you haven't called upon the Lord, I pray they would convict your heart. I realize that lost people respond sometimes with ignorance of what is being said or uncaring of what is being said, but I pray that God's Spirit would convict your heart that you have sinned and fallen short of the glory. Of God. And that the wage of sin is death. Your sin is death, eternal death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus. Jesus our Lord. And I pray that God would show you that He demonstrated His love for you and that while you were a sinner, Christ died for you. And I pray that you would call on the name of the Lord. to be saved. I'd love to help you with that. Pastor Matt would love to help you with that. Others in this room would be glad to linger with you and help you with that. And if that is you that you have not yet called upon the name of the Lord in repentance and faith to receive his salvation, that's the most important thing you could do today. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your clear instruction. We thank you for the opportunity to preach your word. I thank you for this church and uh the the years of of them wanting to hear your word that predate me. But thank you for the chance to continue. Help us to grow in health as we see that the way to do that is to obey your word. Thank you for the opportunity to proclaim it today. Make it clear to our hearts and help us to obey in the different ways, trusting what you say, but also the godly character that is called for here, and will be called for next week in the passages. well. Help us to continue to grow and draw souls to Christ, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.