In First Timothy chapter one, the second message in In a series going through 1 Timothy with some messages from 2 Timothy and Titus and just holding that out there as a probable. But last week we looked at, anybody remember? I don't expect you to, but you should. Sound sound teaching, I will remind you, and this week, the fact that a church is healthy when it is gospel. centered. So 1 Timothy chapter 1, the outline is in the bulletin. It's also up on the screen. It'll help you as we go through. If I took a poll this morning, not about remembering the sermon title, but if I took a poll asking you if you've ever felt guilt about the past. I would guess that the majority of us have. Things we wish we hadn't done. Things we left undone, things we wish we hadn't said Things we left unsaid. We all have regrets. We should make our apologies. We should make our restitution. We should correct things where we can We should learn lessons and we should move on in doing what is right. Sometimes, though, the past makes people feel such guilt. That they don't believe God could ever forgive them. I've had people tell me, honestly, you don't know what I've done I've had people tell me, maybe you too, I y you don't know what kind of person I've been. Some of you may have talked to people like that, some of you May have been or may be people like that. Perhaps you don't believe or can't be sure that God could forgive you God's message in our passage this morning will show you that His mercy, His grace, is greater than your sin. A healthy church is a gospel-centered church and is always extending The message of God's mercy to sinners, and always displaying the transformation that the gospel has and is making in their individual and corporate life. Number one, being gospel-centered, we believe in gospel transformation, verses twelve through fourteen. This is the power of the gospel. Verse 12. I thank, and the language there, I am thanking, is literal. I am thanking Christ Jesus our Lord. who has strengthened me because he considered me faithful, putting me into service. This is how Paul is describing his calling to Timothy. And the verbs in this verse referring or referring to actions that happened by the Lord in the past at a point in time. They point back to Paul's conversion. So I want us to take time to read that. conversion I referred to it a little bit last week, but let's turn to Acts chapter 9, verse 1. Acts chapter 9, verse 1. You know if I could make all of your cell phones have the sound of pages Turning when you scroll. I would do that because you you kind of miss that in today's world. Acts chapter 9, verse 1. Now Saul still breeding threats. We're going to read who he was, still breathing threats and murder against the disciples of the Lord, went to the high priest and asked for letters from him. To the synagogues at Damascus, so that if he found any belonging to the way, both men and women, he might bring them bound to Jerusalem Just think about what he's doing, uprooting them, taking them from their homes, bringing them back under arrest to Jerusalem. As he was traveling, it happened that he was approaching Damascus, and suddenly a light from heaven flashed around him. And he fell to the ground and heard a voice saying to him, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? And he said, Who are you, Lord? And he said, I am Jesus, whom you are persecuting. But get up and enter the city, and it will be told you what you must do. The men who traveled with him stood speechless, hearing the voice, but seeing no one. Saul got up from the ground, and though his eyes were open, he could see nothing. And leading him by the hand they brought him into Damascus. He was going to lead others bound from Damascus. He is is led into Damascus helpless. And he was three days without sight, and neither ate nor drank. Paul testifies to Timothy in verse twelve that Jesus strengthened me for service. Taking him from that place of helplessness and enabling him to do what he was asking Saul Paul to do. After his conversion, later in chapter 9, Luke records, Acts 9. 22, Saul kept increasing in strength. And confounding the Jews who lived at Damascus by proving that this Jesus is the Christ. Paul credits Jesus and thanks him because, as Paul put it in verse 12, he considered me faithful. I think that means that Jesus considered by his grace I could be usable, me of all people, and put me into service. Entrusted me with, and we know the service, taking the gospel to the Gentiles. And that's in chapter 9 of Acts as well. The Lord said to Ananias, He is a chosen instrument of mine to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings of the city. sons and the sons of Israel. Now, verse 12, it wasn't that God saw that Paul was faithful. And because of this, chose him. He was anything but faithful to God. As Paul admits, verse 13: even though I was formerly a blasphemer. As a Pharisee, he wouldn't have blasphemed Yahweh, but he's thinking of what he said about Christ. He had denied Christ by word and deed and attempted to force others to do the same. In one of his testimonies later in the book of Acts, Paul said, So then I thought to myself, Acts 26, verse 9, I thought to myself that I had to do many things hostile to the name of Jesus of Nazareth. And this is just what I did in Jerusalem. Not only did I lock up many of the saints in prisons Having received authority from the chief priest, but also, when they were being put to death, I cast my vote against them And as I punished them often in all the synagogues, I tried to force them to blaspheme, and being furiously enraged at them, I kept pursuing them even to far. Farring cities. Verse thirteen, even though I was formerly a persecutor. A blasphemer, a persecutor. Paul hunted down Christians like wild animals. Acts 22, verse 4. I persecuted This way to the death, binding and putting both men and women into prisons. Verse 13: Even though I was formerly a blasphemer, persecutor, and a Violent aggressor. perse Very strong term. Acts eight, three, Saul is said to be ra begin ravaging the church, entering house after house, and dragging off Men and women, he would put them into prison. Paul was humbly acknowledging that he was no better and in fact worse. Than the false teachers that we saw last week in verses six and seven, and worse than the sinners of verses nine and ten. In 1 Timothy 1. And only one thing separated him, and that was the Lord's gracious mercy. Verse 13, yet I was shown mercy. God didn't give me what I deserved. I was shown mercy because I acted ignorantly in unbelief. Paul thought he was pleasing God. by persecuting Christians. He was ignorant of the true nature of Jesus Christ. He sincerely didn't believe Jesus was from God What I mean by that is i is he thought he was pleasing God by not believing in Jesus. It wasn't a I don't want Jesus to be more popular than me type of thing. It wasn't out of jealousy, it was out of sincerity He sincerely believed that the way, what Christianity was called at the time, was false. He's not trying to decrease his guilt with these words in verse 13. That he acted in ignorantly. But he's trying to put his sin, I think, into the category of a sin of ignorance, rather than presumptuous or defiant or willful sin, the kind mentioned in Hebrews 10, 26, if we go on sinning willfully, after receiving the knowledge of the truth, there remains, there no longer remains a sacrifice. For sins. Paul's unbelief was out of ignorance, the same ignorance that put Jesus on the cross. Remember Acts 3. Verse 17, Peter's sermon, I know that you acted in ignorance, as he's speaking to Jews who were in favor of putting Jesus on the cross. I know that you acted in ignorance, just as your rulers did also. Remember Jesus' prayer from the cross, Luke 23, 34, Jesus was saying, Father, forgive them For they do not know what they are doing. I think that's what Paul means when he says, I acted ignorantly. In unbelief, that he truly thought he was pleasing God, and he found out in a flash of light, in a voice of Christ from heaven, that he was not. Verse fourteen. And the grace of our Lord was more than abundant. Paul has a way of not making up words, but using special words. This word means it's only used here. means it's superabounded. The grace of the Lord was superabounding, it was more than abundant, with faith and love which are found in Christ Jesus. With the faith and love which are found in Christ So what is he saying? The Lord's ability, the Lord's willingness to give me what I did not deserve, grace. Was more than able to overcome my ignorance and my sinful behavior. And Paul was transformed from a man of ignorance. and hatred into a man of faith and love because of the reality of Jesus Christ. Now for him in a very dramatic Way of course, the Damascus Road. But that same thing, that same transformation happens when God turns on the light of salvation. salvation in a person's heart and convinces them of the reality of Jesus Christ. And a healthy church believes that transformation is the expected work of God. God's act of grace and mercy. Secondly, being gospel centered, we are committed to gospel proclamation Verse 15. It is a trustworthy statement. What follows was likely a known doctrinal statement of the early church. And Paul says, deserving full acceptance. Here is full acceptance. Just note the word full. Here is truth you need to believe. We can differ on non-essentials. But not on this. This deserves full acceptance that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. As a Pharisee, Paul would not touch sinners, as he understood the term. Now he understood God's desire to save sinners So let's understand this doctrinal statement. I think we would all say, yes, I agree with that, but let's think about it a little bit. Jesus is the Christ. The promised Savior, the one the Spirit of the Lord came upon, anointing him to proclaim good tidings, good news. Christ, the divine one that the prophets foretold, who is called mighty God by Isaiah. The Christ is Jesus. The one born in Bethlehem to Mary, because he came from heaven through the incarnation. Christ. He came into the world through incarnation, taking on humanity, and he was given the name Jesus. Which means the Lord saves. The fact that he came into the world means he was existing before he came. His existence did not begin in Mary's womb. He has existed eternally as God the Son, the second person of the Trinity And through God 's power was conceived in Mary's womb. So we read in John 1:1: In the beginning Was the word, and the word was with God, and the word was God. We read in Galatians 4:4. When the fullness of time came, God sent forth his son. Born of a woman. And we read in John 1:14, the word became flesh, dwelt among us, and we saw his glory, glory as of the only Gotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. So this is a statement we must be in full agreement with. Christ came Came into the world. And he came to save sinners. Alexander McLaren writes Since that is true, then there is a disease for saving is healing. And there is a danger for saving is making Secure. What he means by that, the disease, man's sinful, fallen state. And because of that, our resulting thoughts. And actions, and the fact that we are all sinners before a holy God. And the danger is God must punish all sin. The wrath of God against sin. The saving of a sinner required that someone pay the penalty of the sin. Jesus came and endured the wrath of God against sin on the cross, and through the resurrection showed that his saving work was finished. And that it satisfied the wrath of God. Christ came into the world to save sinners And he accomplished what he came for. The resurrection shows us that. So here's the question: Who are we? Or ask yourself, who am I to ever say what he suffered wasn't good enough for God to forgive me Christ came into the world to save sinners. We're going to hear from Paul again about that, that he was chief of all. But who are we to say that he that what he suffered Wasn't good enough for God to forgive us. Verse 15. Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners, and Paul says, Among whom I am foremost of all. Paul truly believed that. Because of his life before coming to know Christ. 1 Corinthians 15, 9, he says, I am the least of the apostles, not fit to be called an apostle, because I persecuted the Church of God. Ephesians 3:8, to me the very least of all saints. This grace was given to preach to the Gentiles the unfathomable riches of Christ. Paul was made an apostle and was a great missionary, but he never forgot where he came from. It kept him grounded. He was a sinner saved by grace And when you read in verse 15, among whom I am foremost of all, it's important to realize That the I am is not just looking back. It's in the present tense. He is still saying that about himself. I am the man who has this past. And Jesus saved me. And I am the man who continues to struggle with my sin nature. We're not going there in the message, but Romans 7:24, wretched man that I am. He's saying about himself because he still deals with the sin nature and still gives in to the sin nature. But Paul particularly Particularly he mentions coveting as a problem. Listen, a healthy church consistently And fervently proclaims that Christ Jesus came into the world to save sinners. And we mean it. And we believe it. And we believe that any who repent and believe in him can be saved. We hold that out to all. Thirdly, being gospel-centered, we expect gospel demonstration. Verse 16, yet for this reason I found mercy. So then in me as the foremost, the foremost sinner. He means, Jesus Christ might demonstrate or display his perfect patience. uh holding back over due judgment is what Paul has in mind. Which for Paul would have been killing him on the Damascus Road. Okay? Immediate death and separation. But his perfect patience was to offer forgiveness instead. Me as the foremost, Jesus Christ, might demonstrate his perfect patience as an example for those who would believe in him for eternal life. Eternal life is life as a child of God now, life forever with God in heaven. God wanted to make a public display of his mercy to a notable sinner such as Paul, so that other despairing sinners might also find Mercy. That's a good quote. I didn't write down who said it. But God wanted to make a public display of His mercy to a notable sinner such as Paul so that other despairing sinners might also find mercy. Paul, in the name of God, persecuted God's people, the church Jesus was building, but God forgave Paul. God put Paul's sins upon Jesus. And then used Paul, Jesus used Paul in wonderful ways as an apostle, a missionary. And God wants you or those you talk with to get the point that God can forgive your sinful past and use you in a certain way. Service. A healthy church in a community is a demonstration of God's grace and mercy to forgive and give eternal life and eternal life. Eternal purpose to souls, to people. Implications. Let's go to verse seventeen. The first one is exactly Exaltation. God should be praised. Now to the King eternal, immortal, invisible, the only God, the honor and glory forever and ever. Amen. Now let's focus on some of the words. To the King eternal. That means no beginning or end to God. No beginning or end to God's rule. Immortal, immune from decay or corruption. He's invisible, cannot be seen by man, although God incarnate Jesus was visible The only God there is no other. And to this one be honored, faith, and reverence adue him And glory, acknowledgement of his majesty and power. We see it in creation. We see it in the incarnation in Christ. We see it in his salvation. We see it in his church. We see it in the judgment to come. The honor and glory forever and ever. God should ever be praised in one of the Psalms recently. That means every day. So there's a tangible aspect to saying forever and ever. Amen. So let it be. Beautiful doxology, and let me just say you and I ought to carry a doxology in our heart. If we've been saved, we should. A healthy church, a healthy Christian, ever praises God. God for this mercy in Christ. Because you and I don't forget where we were. Not for me, I'm a ten year old. I didn't you know, I don't remember. I I'm sure I could write pages and pages if I were back then, but I don't remember any big glaring sins. But as I read scripture, it fills in the details of those pages that because of my memory might be empty. I see what I was. I know what sin was in my life and where it would have led me. And so all of us can have, maybe not Paul's testimony, but the same power. that arrested him and saved him had to work on our heart as well. And so I say personally, now to the King Eternal and more Mortal, invisible, the only God, the honor and glory forever and ever for saving me at the age of ten. It was different for you, okay? But take it personally, and then as a church, that's why we sing. That's why we sing. That's why we learn new songs to sing. Because we want to sing and keep singing exaltation to God. Secondly, implications Imitation. God's mercy should be imitated. Consider the character of God who would forgive and transform the life of the foremost of all sinners What kind of love is that? Well, it's a love that offers the greatest of enemies, the greatest of blessings. And a healthy church, a healthy criminal. A Christian images God by offering such mercy without discrimination in our community. In your workplace, in your neighborhood, in your home, to your extended family, around the world. As we support the work of our Convention and Missions. Third implication exaltation, imitation. Invitation. Sinners should be encouraged to repent and believe. Acts twenty twenty-one, Paul Meeting with the Ephesian elders, the church where Timothy is, as he'll be writing to him. In Acts 20, he's meeting with the elders and he solemnly testifies He's testifying that I solemnly testify to both Jews and Greeks on my journeys of repentance toward God and faith. Our Lord Jesus Christ. But notice, it's he doesn't discriminate, both Jews and Greeks. Same invitation. Repentance toward God. Faith, believe in the Lord Jesus Christ. So sinners should believe and receive God's merciful salvation. 1 Corinthians chapter 15, 3 and 4. Christ died for our sins according to the scriptures, and that he was buried, and that he was raised on the third day according to the scriptures. scriptures, the gospel should be proclaimed. Acts 16, 31. They should be given such an invitation. Believe in the Lord Jesus and you will be And verse 14 of our passage should rid anyone of the thought that maybe God's offer of salvation won't work for me. That maybe somehow I won't do it right, or maybe it won't stick. Verse 14 the grace of our Lord was more than abundant with the faith and love. God's grace and the love and faith in Christ indeed are able to save and transform the heart and life I would encourage you, just as a practical study To mark this passage in your Bible, to remember and note this as a place where if you are talking to that person, or if you are that person who is not sure God could Accept you. But you would get that out of your mind and understand that's his mercy, that's his decision. And Paul is saying that to us. If he'll take The worst, and I am the worst, Paul is saying, as a demonstration of his willingness to forgive and save. So mark this passage, believe this passage, because a healthy church proclaims, demonstrates, and praises God for such a gospel. Let's pray together. Well, Father, we come before you and we thank you for your inclusion of Paul's thoughts about His conversion. And we thank you that it is meant to encourage us. And I pray, Father, if there are any here. Who who have the thought in their mind that I'm not good enough or God could never or whatever it would be. I pray that your spirit, through the scriptures, already melted that thought away. But if not, Lord, I pray that you would. And I pray that such would rejoice in their salvation or if need be come to Christ, repenting of sin and believing. That indeed you can save. Indeed, you do save. Indeed, they then become a demonstration of your grace and mercy. We pray that you would do that. In Jesus' name. Amen.