Church health essentials and this week the pursuit of godliness. Which is one of the themes in the book of First Timothy, godly pastors, godly deacons, we saw those two passages. Another theme in First Timothy is is false teaching. And Pastor Matt dealt with that last Sunday morning. He called it an icky part of the passage. Didn't you? Where are you, Pastor? Yes, yes, you did. You did, yes, I understand. But it is uh something that is a part of the the letters of of Paul to point out. False teaching has come into the church throughout the history of the church. It is one of Satan's schemes to have that happen, to make that happen. Uh that's why we have the phrase doctrine of demons in in the Word of God. For example, I'm going to give you some examples of things that have come in in my lifetime, before my lifetime, into the church, and none of the following statements are true. So do not take me out of context. The Bible is not infallible because man is not infallible. There are other works of equal importance to the Bible. Those were things going on when I was going through my college young adult years and I had other conclusions and stuff With them. Jesus is not equal with God. God is not all-powerful. God cannot know some things about the future. There's something called process theology that would assert that. There are other ways of salvation. If that were true, uh we wouldn't send missionaries To those places. People are essentially good. Well, that is a theme of our culture, and it comes through in so many ways. I I hope you that know the Bible understand that when you hear it and and understand that that no, that's that's That's a big problem with criminal behavior and solutions to cultural problems is that people assume that others Are essentially good. Some races are superior to others. Sadly, that came into the church. Some churches perhaps still is. A woman has a right to choose abortion because it's her body. I remember a college classmate uh making that point at the Baptist Student Union. But unfortunately, we were compromised as a convention on that issue back in the 70s Thankfully, no more. Or how about this one? All are eventually saved. That's a nice thing to think, but that is not true. We'll see. see that in the scripture today. Or another one, there is not a literal hell. How could there be if God is a loving God? You've heard that before. None of these statements are true, yet they have infiltrated the church. And what these statements have in common, besides being false Is that they are affirmed in our culture and tragically still are from pulpits of some churches. Now what should be the strategy of a church that wants to be true to Scripture, true to the Lord, and that's how we are true to Him, by being true. True to his word. What should be the s strategy of a church in a world filled with false teaching? Well, Paul is telling us expose the errors through proclamation. And in this passage What we do is know and practice the truth. We pursue godliness. Verse 6 looks back to last week. to that Icky passage in pointing out these things and he's probably also pointing out of course the things that are true that God has created things to be gratefully shared in by those who believe and know the truth. truth verse three everything created by God is good and nothing is to be rejected if it is received with gratif gratitude for it is sanctified So in pointing out these things to the brethren, you will be a good servant. That is actually the word that is translated deacon. in chapter three. You will be a good servant, but here used in a general way, of course, for Timothy, who is serving as a pastor. You'll be a good servant of Christ Jesus, constantly nourished. And that word means brought up, trained. It's a parenting word. Nourished on the words of the faith and of the sound doctrine which you have been following. I like the word following We must learn truth, but we must do more than learn truth, that is, have a head knowledge of it. We must live the truth, right? We must follow the truth. And this is the pursuit of godliness. Let me ask you a question, a personal question. You don't have to answer out loud. can if you want. Are you there yet? Are you perfected in godliness? We could all answer out loud. Can't we? No, we're not. We're not we're not there yet. And then my conclusion is we must be pursuing it, okay? Because if you're not there yet and you're not pursuing it, something's wrong. If you claim to be a Christian. We could also ask, are we as a church fellowship there yet? No, no, we need to persist. What is godliness? Godliness is thought and behavior that is based on God's will. So I'm going to say God's will and replace that with Scripture because I think I think that makes it a very practical definition. Thought and behavior that is based on Scripture So if you know the Bible simply like a school textbook and could spew out answers, but don't embrace it as a life manual to live by, you're not truly committed to the truth. And you will not have strong convictions upon which to base your life. That kind of life, Jesus said , is very vulnerable. Listen to his words at the conclusion of the sermon. on the Mount when he gives what we know of as three chapters, five, six, and seven of Matthew, uh describing godliness. What does it mean to do God's will? He answers that in those chapters. And says, therefore everyone who hears these words of mine and acts upon them more than head knowledge. May be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And the rain fell, and the floods came, and the wind blew, and slammed against that house, and yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock. Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act upon them will be like a foolish man who built his house on the rock on the sand, and the rain came, and the floods came, and the winds blew and slammed against that house, and it fell, and great was its Fall. One heard, the other heard and acted. We must be pursuing godliness. Number one, godliness is pursued through discipline That is a word that should be welcomed by you as a believer. Discipline. I know you may think of it in a negative sense if you've ever had to discipline yourself to maybe redo something after an injury or such. But for the believer, this is a glorious word, discipline. And part of that discipline is to reject false teaching. Verse 7, have nothing to do with worldly fables. So excuse yourself from these falsehoods. Refuse to be involved in such discussion. Look at how Paul describes them. Worldly fables fit only for old women. Now Paul said it, I didn't. I think it was a common saying in Paul's day, probably denoting something that those who lacked education might believe. Now that's not a knock on women. It's just in his day women were not as educated as men. That's not necessarily necessarily the case today, but i I think that's the point of the saying, according to commentators, that it's pointing to those who did not have education, that they might believe. Now notice three truths about this false teaching. Notice the source, the world, not God. Worldly fables. Notice the nature. They are fables. They are false stories. We saw in First Timothy 1 4 not to pay attention to myths. Probably stories about Old Testament characters that went beyond God's revelation. Don't go there. Don't go to things that are not according to Scripture 2 Peter 1. 16. Peter says, we did not follow cleverly devised tales when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ, but we were eyewitnesses of His majesty. So the source, the world, the nature of these Untruths, fables, false stories, the value, the type of st they were the type of stories s told by people who like to swap exaggerated tales, not by ministers in the Lord's church, so they're of no value. On the other hand, verse seven discipline The word means exercise. The word means train. It is a continual self-sacrificing training and practice that an athlete would go through. That's what the word in the culture of the day meant and how it was used, often for athletes. On the other hand, discipline yourself, that kind of commitment, for the purpose of God's Godliness, literally to godliness, that is, to thought and behavior based on God's revelation. Now let me suggest three comparisons and applications based on God 's revelation Just as an athlete exerts himself to the utmost, so you too, by God's grace and power, must spare no effort. To attain your goal. There's a sense in which this word is chosen because God wants us to act like athletes, those who become the very best they can be in that aspect of life performing with their body some function. If you've watched uh any of the the World Cup, you've seen that on the I'm gonna say it wrong. I was gonna say soccer field. What is it? A pitch? Pitch, thank you, Richard is is uh but if you if you tune in to any sporting event you see the the grade I love to play basketball, but when I watch college or pro basketball, I'm I'm looking at people who are faster, quicker, more agile. than uh than I I I've I haven't even had a dream like that ever, that I could move in that way. So just as an athlete exerts himself and has trained to do so God wants us to spare nothing in our effort to attain the goal of godliness. And so, for example , You will insist in your life, in your schedule, that you will have a time Of reading God's Word. Because that's a discipline that is taught in Scripture. And so you'll insist on some silence and solitude somewhere so that you can read and meditate on it. on the word of God. I believe that's an example of the discipline called for here. Just as an athlete discards every handicap, here's the second Example. Just as an athlete discards handicaps and burdens in order that he may train more freely, so you too should rid yourself of everything you can that could hinder your progress. And so you recognize in our culture today when your phone is becoming a hint a hindrance to your prayer life, to praying without ceasing. Just an example. Okay? Not picking on you, but I'm just saying we have to recognize those things because we have them all around us. The modern life holds many distinctions Thirdly, just as an athlete has his eye on the goal, becoming faster, stronger, more skilled, so you should become constantly aiming at your spiritual objective, namely that of complete self-dedication to God in Christ, or we could say Christ-like. And so you purpose, you discipline yourself not only to come to church, But to listen in order to grow, to listen as a disciple, to listen to the sermons and the teachings with a heart to grow to Christ like this. Not not that you do this, but not simply checking off church. Done that today. Godliness is pursued. Secondly, the pursuit of godliness is profitable. Verse eight. Paul and Timothy's pursuit and your pursuit of spiritual disciplines is more important than physical training, more important than a stronger, better looking body. That is a quest of much of our culture. But Paul says for bodily discipline is only of little profit. It is profitable, but only a little bit. Being in shape physically, I believe, is good stewardship. I try to do that. But it's not the focus of my life. It's not the focus of a believer's life. It's only one aspect of life. So when I say focus, I mean the main thing. And by the way, it's only for a limited time. I do believe in stewardship. I do believe we should be the best we can be and have as much energy as we can. But again, it's not Not the main thing. Bodily discipline is only of a little profit, but godliness is profitable, beneficial for all things There's no limit to its benefit. It touches all aspects of life, and it is for all time. Why so profitable? The verse keeps going. Since it holds promise Promise here would be certain blessing. It holds certain blessing for the present life and also for the life to come. So the benefit of godly behavior is evident now. And let me give you three of the ways that it's evident now. There is the joy of Christ-like behavior, the joy of obedience. Obedience brings joy, according to John chapter 3. 15 in other places. So joy. There is, secondly, the encouraging example of Christ-like behavior to others. That is profitable. In the body of Christ, in your family. in the world. And there is thirdly greater glory to God from your life. Whether anybody sees it or not, God does. He notices your godly behavior and is pleased. buy it. That is profit. That's a value. But also, Paul says it's promised for the life to come. What could that mean? The benefit of godly behavior is for eternity. Let me tell you two of the ways There is reward for faithfulness. Reward is one of the motives in our Christian life that we would seek to be all we can be in Christ. Uh because there are rewards to come. We understand that. But I want to say the other one that impacts me a little more, not that it needs to impact you more, but there's quite possibly eternal impact on others around you because you are pursuing godliness in your life. So think of your children if you have children. Think of your Your grandchildren. Think of those that know you. Think of friends. Think of associations that you have. Your circle of influence. There's quite possibly eternal impact on others. So godliness is profitable for all things since it holds promise for the present life and also for the life to come. Now if you're dealing with bodily discipline and are under a doctor's regimen to try to get yourself in better shape, Pastor John did not say to throw that away. I said that is of profit. That is good stewardship, but this is the main thing. Okay? This is the thing that should capture your heart when you wake up in the morning. How can I live to the glory of God? Well, part of that is what I do for my body so I can be strong for others. That's a part of it. But it is Christ-likeness in every area of life. The pursuit of godliness is profitable. Thirdly, the pursuit of godliness is evidence of salvation. I mean if you're sitting here and thinking, okay, so what? There's a spiritual problem. I know you're not. Verse 9. It is a trustworthy statement deserving full acceptance, and we'll get to it in a minute. But Paul says a little bit more, I think, before he gets to that trustworthy statement. For it is for this, that goes back to godliness in the present life with eternal life in view. What he's just talked about. It is for this we labor, work hard, uh, become fatigued, become weary. That's the kind of labor it is. It is for this we labor and Strive. The word there is agon uh agonism. Doesn't that sound like agonized, right? Agonize, that's where it comes, that's where our word comes from. We labor and strive. We contend, going back to the athlete, as in a contest. I I could summarize verse ten by saying there's no quit. No quit when it comes to To pursuing godliness. Why? Verse 10 continues. Because we have fixed our hope. We are confidently expecting something We have fixed our hope on the living God. So we pursue godliness, looking beyond this life and the number of days we have that God knows. Looking beyond that to eternal life. We know that we're going to be with Him. And if we have eternal life, if we are saved , Paul is saying we pursue godliness. Because we know life ends in his presence. Paul gives the trustworthy saying now: the living God who is the Savior. of all men, the Redeemer, the Deliverer, the Preserver of all men, Savior, of course, from our sins Against God, not from our problems in life. We're not immune from them, but from our sin, our Relationship of enmity between us and God. Separation between us and God. In Christ, we are forgiven. In Christ, we have relationship. And fellowship and love and joy and peace through the Holy Spirit, who is our Savi, who is the Savior of all men. Talk more about that in a moment. But Paul is not teaching universalism when he says who is the savior of all men. That is, he's not teaching that God will save each and every person from the pen. We know that's not going to happen. God is not going to do that. Do I think God could do that if that were his will? I think that he could. But there's a passage that, several passages, but we're going to turn to one. Revelation chapter 20, verse 11. So let me hear pages turning, let me hear your finger on your screen, whatever it is, and turn to Revelation chapter 20, verse 11. Because I want you to understand that when it says He's the Savior of all men, it doesn't mean all men are going to be saved. Here's one passage that teaches us. That. I saw a great white throne in him who sat upon it, from whose presence earth and heaven fled away, and no place was found for them. Just meditate on the awesomeness of verse eleven for a moment. And I saw the dead and the great and the small standing before the throne, and the books were opened, and another book was opened. Which is the book of life. You want your name in that book. And the dead were judged from the things which were written in the books of According to their deeds, and the sea gave up the dead which were in it, and death and Hades gave up the dead which were in them, and they were judged every one of them according to to their deeds and death and Hades were thrown into the lake of fire. This is the second death, the lake of fire. Remember the things that were untrue? No literal Hell, yes, there is. And if anyone's name was not found in the book of life, he was thrown into the lake of fire. Paul is not teaching universalism. He is teaching the universality of God's plan of salvation. salvation in Jesus, that his salvation is for all people, not just the Jews. Savior of all mean of all men means the general call to repentance and faith is extended to all people because there's only one way that people can be saved, Jesus. And Jesus is the only hope for any man anywhere, any person anywhere. in the world. This is the heartbeat of missions. This is why we pay a lot of money to send 300 3,500 missionaries and their families to be a gospel presence. in places that really don't want them there most of them. Because Jesus is the only hope. They could be saved by their own religion. We could make a case that we were wasting money, but they can't be. Because the living God is the Savior of all men in Christ Jesus. He is our Savior. And then the phrase, especially of believers, that is, the ones believing. And this points us to the great truth that salvation is God's greatest gift. It's not automatic. Salvation is God's gracious gift, in particular, to those who trust his provision in Christ. And all of us dead in sin would never trust except his gracious Grace and mercy come upon us. Thank God for that. But let me ask you, have you trusted? Have you trusted God's provision? Because we're seeing it here. It's the only way. And he is the savior of all men. You're a person. You're here. Have you trusted God's provision? In the death of his son for the forgiveness of your sin against God. Have you come to the place in your heart of repentance toward God, understanding I've sinned against him? I'm guilty. I need to be forgiven by him. You come in repentance and come knowing your need of forgiveness and come in faith, understanding that Jesus went to the cross. Have you come in that sorrow that's turned to joy when you understand Christ? Has that happened in your life? If not, that's we we would want to talk to you about it. If not, believe on Jesus Christ and publicly profess him. That is pleasing to God. That is a part of pursuing godliness in your life, to do that which is pleasing. pleasing to him. We come to some implications. I'll begin with a short story. I don't tell many. I was at a professional golf tournament. I've only gone to one. It was a wonderful experience. Uh you know, uh uh on TV you see the the shouts and the scream screams for the good shots, but if you're out on a golf course watching professionals, it it's pretty dead quiet. You know, it's Bill, have you been to one before? Yeah, okay. It's just it's quiet. I mean you need to be respectful and all. I was there and as I was leaving the golf tournament I walked past the practice tee and it was quiet too, but I noticed golfers who had finished their rounds and they're out there hitting ball after ball. In other words, they didn't go home, whatever home was for them in this area, they didn't go home to rest. They went to the practice tee to practice, probably practicing shots they had missed that day or ones they knew would be important the next day. Because it is true, the more you practice a shot in golf, the more most people will hit it the same way every time. And I know that's true. In my life, when I used to play more with my father, uh yeah, most of the shots well uh more often they were hit the same way. I don't want to embellish my golf history by any means. But anyway, you practice helps. They, these players, were committed to doing the things that would make them better golfers. After walking a hilly course that day. Just a picture. God wants us to be committed to doing the things that will make us better creatures. Christians, back to verse 7. Discipline yourself for the purpose of godliness. I'm asking you to take that to heart. morning. But don't think for a minute that we become godly merely through human effort. So so no, it's not just simply, oh, where can I find that spot of silence and solitude? It it's more than that, because godliness is by grace through faith. It is a work of the Holy Spirit. And so discipline for your yourself for the purpose of godliness, any any action there begins with prayer to God God help me in this. And by grace through faith, He will help you. He has designed godliness to be pursued And I think he has designed it that way. Listen carefully. I think he has designed godliness not to come automatically, but to be pursued, and that we grow in it and we take steps forward and sometimes times uh tragically steps backwards but I think he's designed it that way because it becomes an expression of our love and worship of him. It's real. We're not robots growing into Christ-like us. We are people in relationship with Him. And our pursuit of godliness is worship. Our pursuit of godliness is an expression of love. to the God who has saved us in Christ. Godliness is pursued through discipline. Let there be an examination of your life this morning. What disciplines do you see? Do you see Bible reading? Do you see meditation and study of Scripture? Do you see prayer? Do you see Fellowship, you see worship, so forth. The pursuit of godliness is profitable. Let there be motivation to press on. The joy of obedience that honors God. I mean, think of it this way, what will be important to you when you stand before the Lord? What will be important to you? I just think we should want to honor him in every way we can now. We we'll be that will be exciting to us. I I know that we fall short. I understand that. But that will be important to us. And then the pursuit of godliness is evidence of salvation, transformation of our lives. If you're not becoming more like Jesus, You're not pursuing godliness, and if not, why not? Let's have a conversation if that's where you are. The church must expect this of its pastors. Who is Paul writing to? To Timothy. And as Paul was writing this to Timothy as an encouragement for him to be a faithful pastor and a faithful example, To the church, we realize that the character and the commitment that God insists on for a pastor like Timothy is what he calls us all to godliness. And so a church health essential. Is the pursuit of godliness by all its members. And our covenant calls us to this. Let's pray together. Father, we do come before you thanking you. Help us to see areas of our life where we can put into practice this principle. Of pursuing godliness. So we thank you for this encouragement to Timothy, that is an encouragement to all believers. And I pray, Father, that there would be examination, motivation, and transformation in our lives because of this message. In Jesus' name, we pray. Amen