Be turning, if you would, to Matthew chapter seven. As we complete the study of the Sermon on the Mount Next week we will go to Genesis chapter 11. It's been some years, but um we had been in Genesis 1 through 11 as a series a while back and uh We're going to go to Genesis chapter 11, verse 10, and be looking at the God of Abraham and all that is done. As God brings salvation uh to the earth and it it r in a very special way begins there. And so we look forward to Seeing that together, that'll carry us probably till about Easter. So we'll be in the book of Genesis, chapter 11 through 25 or 26, something like that. This passage that I read a few moments ago is Jesus' conclusion to the Sermon on the Mount. A sermon in which he has described and called for a righteousness that surpassed that of the Pharisees and scribes. Behavior that rose above that of the Gentiles, those who don't know God. And the multitudes who listened that day were, verse 28, amazed at his teaching. Now it's a very strong word. Amazed. They were used to the teaching of the scribes who would appeal to traditional interpretation and quote from their predecessors to give their point, what they wanted to teach, some weight. Jesus simply spoke as one having authority in himself. That was different. He said what he said And expected you to believe it because of the source. He didn't appeal to other interpretations. Notice his invitation is to act on these words of mine. The people were stunned, recognized the authority, recognizing the authority that he was claiming, but Jesus sought more than that emotional response to what he taught. And his manner of teaching, he sought commitment. That's what this passage is about. Commitment to him, commitment to his word. Commitment born in faith, in the heart. And borne out not merely by amazement, but by action. Living in a way that pleases God, as he's described. Now, the timing of this preaching series, my preaching it to you , the Sermon on the Mount, True Righteousness, it brings us to this passage at the beginning of a new year. And on one hand, that seems very appropriate to commit the new year to Christ and his word. And I certainly encourage that. But on the other hand, I want you to realize I mean there was some design in that, but I didn't know if it would happen. I'm glad it did. But I I I think that's somewhat lacking if that's what we think of with regard to this passage, that it's A great New Year's resolution. Jesus wasn't teaching it as a New Year's resolution. He is calling you and I to believe in him and obey him right now. This minute, December the 27th, today. That is the right day, isn't it? Yeah, okay. And every day So yes, it comes at a kind of a neat time for a preaching series, but that wasn't Jesus' intention. He is calling for you and I. He's calling you and I to a lifestyle of faith. Believing in him and following him, being committed to his word. And there are two primary truths to see in this passage. The commitment that he calls for, and the security of such commitment. And that will encourage you in it. First of all, the commitment that Jesus calls for. People have different ideas about what commitment to Christ means and you know have conversations with people you find this out. For some it is simply mental ascent to, yeah, I believe that Jesus was a historical figure. Maybe mental assent to the importance of, yeah, he died on the cross for sin. I understand that. For others it it might include church attendance, and for some committed uh more committed, let's say, would would include giving of their income. For some, active service is a part of commitment. But Jesus makes commitment very clear in verse 24. Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and acts on them. So here is Jesus' two-part definition of commitment. Hearing his word and doing his word. The immediate context of this definition of commitment is the words of the sermon. Jesus has defined true righteousness, and so he is calling those twelve around him, other followers around them. And he's certainly preaching to the crowd as well that I invite you to understand right and wrong from God's perspective, true righteousness. That is In the heart, a heart of faith, believing these words, and then lived out in your life. But listen, it's not just the Sermon on the Mount. That we should think of. As we know, Jesus is God the Son. And so the broad context of commitment is not simply the words of Matthew 5, 6, and 7, but the Word of God in Scripture. And so if we are to be committed to Jesus, we must be hearing the word of God. And Jesus means hearing with the ears. The mind understanding what our ears are picking up, and the heart receiving it by faith Now, one way that you position yourself to hear God's word is when you come to church on Sunday morning or listen in, as some of you are doing, right now, or listen in later. Can be a way. Certainly coming to church, being a part of the assembly is to be preferred. It's what's commanded of us. And some of you come on Sunday night Which we haven't had often at all, but we'll begin to have. And some of you come on Wednesday night to Midweek Chapel. And each time you assemble a church, there is almost every time, in some way, shape, or form, and many times in similar way to today, an opportunity to hear the word explained. To understand it, to receive it by faith, and to live according to it. And if you're able, I will say to you, as your pastor, we don't do things just to do them. You ought to assemble for the services of the church And God commands you to assemble when the church comes together. We should not forsake that. And we mean everything we do, whether it's Sunday morning. Sunday school, Sunday night, Wednesday night, we mean it all to be edifying and glorifying to the Lord. So if you have your ears and your heart open, Indeed, if you come when we assemble, you will be hearing the word of God. But that's not enough. That's not enough. Is that all we need? Let's say you're able to come Sunday morning, Sunday night, Wednesday night. Two of seven days in the week, you hear God's word. And that's tremendous. If you make that commitment, I think it will bless you. But I'm going to step out on a biblical limb. And that's the kind where the Bible supports the weight of the statement. I truly believe that God wants to be heard seven days a week. Do you believe that? I don't mean necessarily we need to have church seven days a week. I mean that you and I need to be conscious of what he has said to us and be pouring our lives into what he has said to us seven days a week. David, a man after God's own heart, prayed this way in Psalm 143, verse 8, Let me hear your loving kindness in the morning, for I trust in you Teach me the way in which I should walk. For to you I lift up my soul. If that prayer is going to mean anything to us, we're not expecting an audible voice. Let me hear your loving kindness. So certainly the Holy Spirit could remind us of truth and we could hear in that way. But no, we come to the Word of God and we read Psalm 143 and it reminds us of God's loving kindness to us or another passage of Scripture. And we trust and we pray, teach us how to walk. We lift up our lives, our soul to you. So I think the question to ask as we come to Jesus' definition of commitment is does Jesus see such commitment in your heart and life in a day-by-day way? Many of you are parents or have been active parents, maybe you're to the grandparenting stage, whatever, but how would you feel? As a parent, if your children came up to you and said, Mom, Dad, I'm going to listen to your voice two days a week, Sunday and Wednesday. If you have something to say to me, say it on those two days. You can imagine the confusion. The disharmony in such a household, I can imagine that I would have nipped that in the bud, as Barney Fife would say. Well, likewise, similarly, members of God's household, the church, will live in confusion and disharmony if we fail to have an open ear and heart to his will each day. In other words, Do not compartmentalize God 's word to your sitting at church. Cherish that. Your pastors cherish that opportunity. We're called to teach you the Word of God. But that's not the only time to be thinking. and receiving and understanding and committing to it day by day is the discipleship I believe Jesus is asking for. You've got a tool You can take it home today, the 2021 Devotional Calendar. And it's meant as a tool of daily encouragement in the Scripture, and I encourage you to use it. How many of you, this is not to embarrass anyone, but how many of you have used in an ongoing way, maybe not every day, but in an ongoing way, you've used the 2020 Faith Challenge? Okay, lift them up high so I can see them. Don't be embarrassed that you used it. Okay. Now I know others of you have other plans. I hope that you'll give this a look. Every every family, every individual. There's enough there for you to take. We can always print more. But I hope that you'll give it a look. It may not be what is best for your personal discipleship, but I know it's designed to be helpful to everyone's personal discipleship. Is that a good way to say it? Where's Pastor Matt? Where is it? Oh yeah, there you are. I'm sorry. I was looking for a suit. You got the sweater going today. That's that's great. The Christmas sweater. Okay, good. Good. Listen, hearing God's word, as we would do if we were to use this, is not all there is to commitment. The second part of Jesus' definition is to be doing his word. And Jesus here is contrasting the wise and the foolish man. Notice. Both men hear the words of Jesus But the mark of the wise man is that he acts upon the words of Jesus. And if the words of Jesus tell him to do something, that is sufficient motivation to do it. If the words of Jesus tell him not to do something, that is sufficient motivation not to do it. In other words, from the heart he obeys. Doing or not doing what Jesus has said. If the words of Jesus warn him, such will heed the warning. If they hold a promise. He will trust in, be comforted by the promise. The teaching of God's word becomes the heart lifestyle and the active lifestyle of one who is committed to Christ. That 's important to point out that the verbs in this verse, translated hear and act, indicate continuous action. That is important. Everyone who hears and keeps on hearing. these words of mine. And Jesus didn't sit on that mountainside and preach forever. No. He stopped. But everyone who hears and keeps on hearing, keeps on remembering, keeps listening to other things that I would teach if you're in my midst. And keeps acting on them. Acts and keeps acting. Same same verb tense there. May be compared to a wise man who built his house upon the rock. So Jesus is calling for a lifestyle. of hearing and obeying. So it's not enough that you or I heeded his voice last week. Or last year, or earlier in life. His word is our necessary and sufficient rule today, tomorrow, every day. Think upon the implications of Jesus' definition for a moment. Church attendance, the implications for us today, church attendance is an essential part, but not the whole. of commitment. It is essential. I mean we spent a whole uh quarter looking at the church and its importance in Sunday school. It is vital, but it's not all there is. There is personal discipline in the Word of God. A daily time of devotional Bible reading. I don't want to get legalistic on daily time. Please understand. An ongoing Daily time of devotional reading, I believe, is an essential part. But it's not the whole of commitment either. Hearing by itself, even for the joy of hearing, does not Indicate commitment in and of itself. The goal of hearing is obedience. See that in what Jesus is saying. There must be an acting upon. Other scripture, of course, teaches us in that acting to depend on God's strength and assures us of the Holy Spirit's help in obedience. Jesus here wants us to know that hearing without acting does not amount to commitment. That's clear. If you know, from this from the Sermon on the Mount, if you know to love your enemy, but are holding grudges, or if you know to not commit adultery, but Are lusting after others? Or if you know of God's care and promise to take care of you, but are full of anxiety about that? You are, as James was inspired to write, a hearer and not a doer of the word. Jesus is calling for obedience. And then let us see the security of such commitment. Verses 24 and 25. Therefore, everyone who hears these words of mine and acts on them. May be compared to a wise man who built his house on the rock. And notice the security. Slammed against that house, and yet it did not fall, for it had been founded on the rock. Such people can stand the storms of life The rain of financial pressure will fall. Maybe you've experienced that. The flood of temptation might come. The wind of criticism and hurtful words will blow. Disease and death will come, and these will burst, beat against your life. Notice Christians are not without problems, one of the applications here. But they will not destroy such lives, for these people have a strong foundation. upon which they have built their lives. These people, you and I, I pray and hope, instead of going into debt, would do something else. We would cut spending. Or take another job. Why? Because God's Word says we should be content with just food and shelter and so we can do with less. These people who act flee temptation. Why? Because God's word has taught them that they will reap what they sow in their lives and in the lives of their family. And they don't want to go down that road. And they believe the warnings of God and stay away. And because God's word has taught us that we reap what I sow in our lives and in our families, we'll be cautious as to what comes into our family's life and our home. And such people who act do not return hateful words, seeking revenge, but rather pray for their enemies. Because that's what Jesus teaches us here. And we will trust our welfare to the hands of God as we do so. Why? Because that's what Jesus teaches, what God teaches us in all of Scripture. And such people who are standing on the rock will face death with hope. Why? Because God's Word teaches eternal life in Christ. The house of the wise is secure because the wise have believed in Christ's word to build their lives. The rock here represents the promises, the truth of Scripture that cannot be broken. Promises of mercy and grace to help for help at the throne of God. Promises of being with Christ when we die And with Christ in his eternal kingdom to come. Promises that the sufferings of this present time are not worthy to be compared to the glory to be revealed to us. In verse 26, Jesus speaks of the foolish man. His house is built upon disobedience. Look at it. Everyone who hears these words of mine and does not act on them. Will be like a foolish man who built his house on the sand. So such have heard the words of Jesus, but have disregarded them because Jesus has been disregarded. They've not thought about the source of these words. They just don't want to do them. The Lord of their heart is themselves. Jesus' word falls upon deaf ears, callous hearts. And they will be on their own when the storms of life come. Financial pressures, temptations, criticism, hurtful words have destroyed lives and will continue to destroy lives. when God's word is not that life's foundation. They've destroyed families, they've broken families, they've destroyed children. We see the evidence of it all across the world Ultimately, the fall of the house represents the judgment of God. Verse 27, the rain fell, the floods came, the winds blew, and slammed against that house, and it fell and great. Was its fall. Great was its fall. That word great indicates the severity of the consequences. The consequences of not hearing and acting upon the words of Jesus. And one place we can read those consequences is 2 Thessalonians 1, verse 9. It indicates that these are those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus. that they will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. Turning to implications from this conclusion to the Sermon on the Mount, well, number one would be Be a wise man. Be a wise woman. Paul writes in Ephesians 5, verse 15, Therefore be careful how you walk. Not as the unwise men, but as wise, making the most of your time, because the days are evil. So then do not be foolish, but understand what the will of the Lord is. through hearing, understand, and then be doing. Same point that Jesus makes The wise believe that Jesus is the Son of God. And so when they read the phrase, these words of mine, they know Jesus is speaking as the Son of God. And coming to that faith, they come to salvation, because God so loved the world and gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him shall not perish but have eternal life. And so such receive Jesus as Savior. And As Lord, hearing and doing his word in Scripture, trusting Him in the storms of life, knowing eternity is secure. So be a wise man or woman. Number two, turning toward things important to pastors and churches Christ's word is necessary for church growth in a healthy way. Christ's word is necessary. for church growth. What is he saying? If you want to build a church with a strong foundation, build it upon the word. And that's how Paul exhorts Timothy. In 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, all scripture is inspired by God and profitable for teaching, for correction. I'm sorry, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, so that the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work Let me say to you that your pastors are committed to this. Your Sunday school teachers are committed to this. There's no better way to shepherd the church than the ministry of Scripture. And our faith, Pastor Matt and myself, our faith in Jesus means that we believe that. There's no, we don't have better ideas. that somehow need to come alongside the scripture. No, it is the scripture explained and applied that will build the ministry that that are the right way to minister to the people of the church. There's no better way to shepherd the church than the ministry of Scripture. We echo the apostles' words in Acts chapter six, verse two , when they say it is not desirable for us to neglect the Word of God. It is not, and we will not. Christ's word is necessary and sufficient for church growth. Thirdly, I would say, from this text It calls us to this truth that preaching is still the way to reach contemporary culture. Preaching, proclaiming. Not just your pastor going out into the public, but preaching, declaring, proclaiming is still the way to reach contemporary culture. I I the calls are are there in pragmatic ways and well-meaning ways. We need to be more culturally acceptable, okay? Uh so the answers might be more music or drama. It's certain you know, I've lived long enough to see the different uh emphasis come and go, more video, you know, that at at one point it was that. And all of that, I think, can have its place, but not the place that God gives preaching. Okay? And if you don't want to hear that, have a business meeting after the service and do something about it. But but I'm going to stay here, and Pastor Matt's going to stay here, and we're going to preach. Because that's what God calls for. Listen to Paul speak to Timothy. 2 Timothy 4 and verse 1, I solemnly charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearance in his kingdom, preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. That's an agricultural reference, example. When things are producing fruit and when they're not. You continue to preach the word In season and out of season, reprove, rebuke, exhort with great patience and instruction. For the time will come when they will not endure sound doctrine. But wanting to have their ears tickled, they will accumulate for themselves teachers in accordance. to their own desires, and will turn away their ears from the truth, and will turn aside to myths. And what Paul is not saying, Timothy, is chase them down with something more interesting to them. No. Continue to preach the word. First Corinthians chapter one, verse twenty-one. God was well pleased. Well, let me start the verse. Since in the wisdom of God, the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased through The foolishness of the message preached. It's talking about the method there, the preaching. Foolishness of preaching to save those who believe. Certainly people did think the message was foolish as well, and Paul might be referring to that as well in that verse. But we see the message preached was God's plan. And was Paul's practice and it is ours as well. Fourthly, just another side note to this that I think is important because I think this comes Not only as something we do as a church, but it's also something that you have a responsibility for individually when you're looking at life and life's challenges. And particularly parents, when you look at the challenges in your children's lives, biblical counseling, biblical counsel is necessary and it is sufficient. Biblical counsel. When problems come, where do you look? How could there be any better counsel for the angry, the fearful, the depressed, the bitter? Marital difficulties, you fill in the blank, then that's that which comes from the pages of Scripture. And the one who invented life, created life, knows life better than anyone else, has spoken about life in the Scriptures. And yet, time and again, Christians look for answers in the world's wisdom A secular, when I say that I mean apart from God's wisdom, secular psychology and psychiatry. Not saying there can't be band-aids that we need at time, but it's not the solution. It might only be for safety. I know sometimes things are out of our hands if someone has an episode and they they get violent, they're taken to a hospital and they're going to get the best that a hospital can provide. But from the church and from you as an individual, how will you deal with problems in life? Do you believe that Christ's word is necessary and sufficient for the problems that you would have emotionally? And in your thinking, and depression, and fear. Well, yes, you should believe that. Hear and obey what the Bible has to say. About anger, about fear, about depression, about forgiveness, about marriage. That puts you on the solid rock and not the sinking sand. And expect your pastors to counsel you by showing you how God's word applies to your life. If we're not doing that, have a meeting Okay? So may the Lord help us as his church to hear and to act, to keep hearing, to keep acting. May the Lord guide you individually and your family to hear and And to act, I encourage you to use this parents in some way as a family throughout the year. And may all notice that our lives are committed in this way. May all look at us and see there's something different about them. They are hearing and they are obeying Jesus. And you become a light to the world. You become the salt of the earth when that is noticed. Let's pray together. Well Father, we thank you for this passage, this part of Scripture that we call the Sermon on the Mount. And we thank you for our study of it over the weeks. We thank you for Jesus' conclusion. And I pray that we would respond in a way that is pleasing to you. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.