It's great to be with you tonight. Tonight's topic is a serious topic. It's a serious spiritual topic that goes right for our hearts. It's a sobering topic for God to confront us with our sin. And confront us in ways we deal with our sin that's other than God's will. And so let's turn to Psalm 32. Psalm 32, the whole Psalm is our passage this evening. And the topic is forgiveness and confession. Alright, forgiveness and confession. And we should see the connection between those two things. When we go to God for forgiveness, that's going to include going to God to confess our sins before Him. Alright, so we go to God for forgiveness, and part of that is confessing our sins. And like you know, you know that connection just from real life. You can think of Being a parent. You think of when a child messes up and they they may try to weasel their way out of it. They may act like they didn't do anything wrong. What are you talking about? It wasn't me. But hopefully they come to their senses and you and the goal is that they would it's how great of a moment is this if your child comes to you and And they're just honest. And they confess what they did. And there's tears, and they're asking for forgiveness, saying that they're sorry. But you have the confession, the acknowledgement of what they did wrong is part of um looking for that forgiveness. And it makes the experience of forgiveness that much sweeter when you go through that sorrow and the brokenness of having to humble yourself and acknowledge what you did wrong. That's the kind of stuff we're talking about today. It's just not a child to a parent, it's us Children of God before God our Father. Psalm 32, forgiveness and confession. Let's pray and then read it. Father, we we pray that you open our hearts. To this passage and to your message for us. Help us to have ears to hear, eyes to see, hearts that would understand. Hearts that would be convicted of our sin and see our need for Christ, and then hearts that find rest and refuge in Christ, and his perfect love, and his perfect forgiveness, grace. And mercy. Help us to see him and love him, to believe in him in such a way that changes us and comforts our hearts every day. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Psalm 32, beginning in verse 1. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. For when I kept silent, my bones wasted away, through my groaning all day long. For day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. Therefore, let everyone who is godly offer a prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters, they shall not reach him. You are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. Be not like a horse or a mule without understanding Which must be curved with bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you. Many are the sorrows of the wicked, but steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in In the Lord. Be glad in the Lord, and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy, all you upright in heart. It's talking to children of God. When it exhorts us to be glad. In verse 11, be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous. That is referring to those who are righteous in God's eyes through faith. That's the way that we're righteous in the eyes of God, as we believe in the promise of a Savior. We believe in Christ And he says, be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous, and shall for joy all you upright in heart. That again is the children of God of God, those who are right with God through faith, have the Spirit in our hearts, and have our hearts, by God's grace, we have our hearts oriented to obey God rather than rebel against God. against him. A lot going on in this psalm, a lot a lot that gets to um some difficult things. Some of the harder things of walking with Christ. That's uh being convicted of our sin and making sure we're not concealing Our sin. Make sure we're confessing our sin before God. This Psalm shows us how confession Brings us out of the misery of concealed sin. And it brings us into the freedom of forgiveness. I'll say that again. That's Our summary statement of what we'll see in this psalm. It's how confession, confession of our sin before a holy God Brings us out of the misery, brings us out of the mire of concealed sin, that sin that we're concealing. That's sin that we're not acknowledging. That's sin that we're not going to God with and striving to repent of. Sin that we're not going to God with and asking for forgiveness. the misery of concealed sin. It's confession that will bring us out of the misery of concealed sin and into the freedom of forgiveness. the restoration of forgiveness. When you're walking in fellowship with God and regularly confessing, regularly asking for forgiveness, regularly crying out for mercy, there's a joy that fills the heart. There's a comfort that fills the heart. There's a peace that fills the heart. There's a spiritual strength about us. There's a spiritual fortitude that the Spirit gives us. When we're confessing, when we're going to God for forgiveness, when we're acknowledging our sin, when we're walking humbly before God, sensitive to our sin, but when we are not, when we are concealing that sin. And not sensitive to it and not caring about it and not confessing and not asking for mercy and not asking for forgiveness In discipline, God will begin to remove the joy. And in discipline, begin to remove the comfort and begin to remove that peace, begin to remove that strength. And now all of a sudden we're in the misery. Of concealed sin. And the Word of God needs to get through to our hearts. And the Word of God needs to convict us And remind us that it should not be a strange thing for children of God to go to Him and ask for forgiveness. Are we not sinning? It should be like you eat every day, you drink every day, you breathe every day, you sleep at night, you go to God for forgiveness, you admit that you were wrong, you ask for mercy You ask for joy. You ask to be forgiven. You ask for repentance. This is normal for children of God. Confession will bring us out of the misery of concealed sin into the freedom of forgiveness. Now, the idea of confession is most obvious in verse 5. I acknowledged my sin to you. And I did not cover my iniquity I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. I acknowledged my sin. To you. What is he saying? He went to God in prayer and he acknowledged his sin. That's not rocket science. That's basic exegesis But it's one of the hardest things we'll ever do. Without the Holy Spirit, we would never do this. We put on the religious show. I acknowledged my sin to you. I did not cover my iniquity. I didn't turn a blind eye to my sin anymore. I didn't try to conceal it. We can't conceal sin from God. We can conceal it from other people. And we can deceive ourselves. And try to act like it's not there. But we can't conceal it from God. We can't acknowledge it. We can't hide it from God. But we can act like, we can live like. God 's not seeing it. What a foolish thing that is to do. God sees everything. God doesn't just see our actions. God sees our hearts. God knows our thoughts. He knows every desire, every motive , every aspect of every motive, God knows. I acknowledge my sin to you. I did not cover it. I said, I'll confess my transgressions to the Lord. What's a transgression? Violation of God's holy law. I'm going to God. And here's my order of business. Here's my agenda. I'll confess the ways that I have violated your holy commandments. I will not cover them. I will acknowledge them. So that's the confession. Verse five. It's clear in verse five, right? Amen? It's clear. Now, how do we know that's coming out of the misery of concealed sin? The idea of the concealed sin, an unconfessed sin, really concealed, unconfessed, It's saying the same thing. It's verse three. When I kept silent. When I kept silent My bones wasted away. We'll talk more about that later. But just first, there's he's looking back, there's this period of silence, of not confessing to sin. Of not acknowledging the sin. Of not going to God in prayer for forgiveness of sin. I was keeping silent. And in that period of silence, of concealed sin, of unconfessed sin, he outlined some of the misery of being under God's discipline. And why did God have David under discipline for unconfessed sin or for concealed sin? Because he hated David? Because he loved David. And he wanted to wake him up. He wanted to convict his heart so that David could be restored and renewed in his grace and mercy. I'm not crying, something just went in my eye. Some kind of flake, some kind of fleck flake, I don't know. I don't know where it came from. Alright. So looking at how confession brings out of the misery of concealed sin into the freedom of forgiveness, we see verse 5 is the confession. Verse 3 was that concealment. It's fine to put concealer over a blemish on your face. That's no big deal. It's fine to put a patch, to conceal a crack in the wall, but to try to conceal our sin before a holy God is not fine. It's not okay We have to go to God with it. Confession This this confession of sin, this acknowledging of guilt and transgression, is is really is just seeing the truth. It's just seeing the truth about ourselves And then bringing bringing that to God, trusting God's mercy. Well, there's um four things I want to work through. The first is the blessing of forgiveness. Alright, let's just get a foundation of the blessing of forgiveness. That's the first part of the Psalm. That's verses one and two. And David starts with that because that's where he is now. As he looks back on how he got here, he's in the joy of forgiveness. And so he starts with the blessing of forgiveness. Verses 1 and 2 Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven, whose sin is covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity, and in whose spirit there is no deceit. First of all, you can check this out on your own, but uh Paul quotes this in Romans 4 as he's teaching justification by faith apart from works of the law, he uses Abraham as an example, and then he uses David as an example, and he uses this passage. As is his proof text in Romans 4, for justification by grace through faith, apart from works of the law. The sinner goes to God, and the sinner knows that he's wicked, knows that he's guilty, is trusting 100% in God's grace. in Christ for forgiveness and enjoys, experiences the blessing of forgiveness. There's four statements here number about the one who is has this blessing. Blessed is the one, number one. whose transgression is forgiven. Again, what's transgression? Breaking the law. Law breaking. A violation of God's holy commandments. That accrues guilt on a record before God, but here's a picture of the transgression being forgiven. It's the guilt being erased, being expunged, being blotted out in the language of Scripture. Transgressors forgiven, also whose sin is covered. Whose sin is covered. The illustration or picture of covering of sin in Scripture has the meaning of sin being dealt with. It's not like you cover it up and you act like it's not there. That's the way covered is um used later. So like when we Cover our sin. Verse 5. I did not cover my iniquity. So he's not concealing it, not acting like it's not there anymore. The idea of a covering for sin is dealing with sin almost like a debt. You have a debt? I say listen I've got you covered. That means I'm dealing with the debt for you. Or if I'm going away. Jeremiah, can you cover me for Wednesday night? Can you deal with it? Can you take care of it? That's the idea of sin being covered. The problem of sin, the guilt of sin being covered by God, means God takes care of it for us. That which we could never take care of on our own, God takes care of it. It's the wonder of the gospel. Transgression, forgiven, sin covered. Blessed is the man. That's two times. Blessed is the. Blessed is the. It's talking about you're enjoying the blessing of God, the favor of God. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. That's glorious. If you're in Christ, God will not count your iniquity against you. And you are blessed because of that. And that doesn't mean he he turns a blind eye and completely ignores our sin and acts like it doesn't exist. That's not what he does. No, Jesus is the sin bearer. He took our iniquity on his body on the tree. He bore our sins in our place. Our sin was dealt with. God was holy and just and righteous In relationship to our sin, in relation to our sin, sin is just in Jesus our substitute, not upon us. So our iniquity will not be counted against us. Isn't that a wonderful thing? By the way, when we forgive people in our lives, that's what it looks like. You forgive the transgression. So you can move on. And you see that sin as covered, as dealt with, and you don't count their iniquity against them. That's what it means to have grace to others. And mercy to others and forgiveness to others. You don't hold that up in a record book and then use it against them as ammunition in the relationship or in a discussion later on. You forgive it, listen, if you forgive it, it's gone. And move on. For heaven's sake, move on. Move on. Could you imagine what our lives would be if we never forgave each other? Could you have a relationship with anybody? There'd be fist fights every Sunday as soon as we walked in, there'd be fistfights all over the property Why are we always constantly forgiving each other? Constantly overlooking offenses and moving on for the glory of God. We should see ourselves as dispensers of grace, dispensers of mercy, dispensers of forgiveness. Transgression forgiven, sin covered, our iniquities not being counted against us, and in whose spirit there's no Deceit, in whose spirit there's no deceit. That means they're not walking as a hypocrite. They're walking faithfully in communion with God And actually, this is what's said in John 147. Jesus Says this about Nathanael. Jesus saw Nathanael coming toward him and said of him, Behold, an Israelite indeed, in whom there is no deceit Just means he's a true believer who's walking in right fellowship with God. He's walking in communion with God. He's not concealing his sin. He's acknowledging his sin. He's walking faithfully in fellowship with God. Indeed, there's no deceit. And it's the same language here, in whose spirit there's no deceit. We're not living as a hypocrite. Not acting like we don't have any sin. This is the blessing of forgiveness. Transgression forgiven, sin covered, God not counting our iniquity against us. This is all what we have by virtue of the blood of Christ. And in whose spirit there's no deceit. And again, see the connection between walking in the freedom of forgiveness and not being a hypocrite. Right? Because if there was deceit in the spirit, that means there's some kind of concealed sin, some kind of blind eye to the transgression. And not going to God for forgiveness, not acknowledging the wrongdoing. And then you would not be able to say in whose spirit there's no deceit, and then you would not be able to say that they're walking in the blessedness of forgiveness. So that the two go together. You have the blessing of forgiveness, such a key blessing, a central blessing of the gospel, that God forgives our sin through the blood of Christ so that we could have a relationship with God. So that we could be with him forever. That's the blessing of forgiveness. And then the next section, David talks about the discipline of the Lord. Again, he's looking back now. The discipline of the Lord, verses 3 to 4. When I kept silent, my bones wasted away. Through my groaning all day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me. Whose hand was heavy upon him? God's hand was heavy upon him. My strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. That's a vivid illustration, isn't it? Think of those hot summers, those brutal summers, you just you don't have any, it saps your energy. As soon as you go outside, the humidity, it's like it just sucks all the energy out of you. Just is this picture of the dry, dead heat of summer. And he says, my strength was dried up like that, his spiritual strength. He says, When I kept silent, he was concealing this sin, not acknowledging, not going to God in prayer, not confessing. His bones wasted away through my groaning all day long. Now, is does anybody want that in their lives? Do you ever want to be in the situation where you Tell me what's going on. How are you doing? My bones are wasting away. All day I'm groaning. He's just in misery. He was in misery. Now we don't know exactly the details of what that looked like or exactly what that was, but we know what it felt like, and we know generally speaking what it was It was misery. Misery under the discipline of the Lord. Because he gives the reason. Verse 4 begins. 4. 4. Day and night your hand was heavy upon me. So here's the hand of a heavenly father who loves David. And he's not going to allow David just to go on and on and on with an ever-growing snowball of concealed sin and unconfessed sin. Would that be good for David? But is it would it be good for a parent to see their child going astray and not say anything? Well, they're fine. And they're going deeper into sin, deeper into rebellion, deeper into wickedness, and it's getting worse and worse. And the parent ignores it. That's not love. Or we see each other as brothers and sisters in Christ. You see a pattern of sin start to develop. You see, and it starts to get stronger in your life, and you pull away from the things of the Lord a little bit more. And then you get more into the sin. And then you start to pull away from the things of God even more. We start to notice more changes. Is it loving to ignore it? Is it loving to not say something about it? So God, because he loves David, put his heavy hand of discipline upon David So that he would be groaning all day long, his bones wasting away. Why? Because David was silent. That's what he says. When he was silent. You know what that's picturing? That's picturing an ongoing season of prayerlessness. That's what that's picturing An ongoing season of prayerlessness. Silence. The one word David chooses. When I was silent. And I know that's what he's talking about because later on in the passage when he starts, I mean he actually puts, he quotes himself. He quotes himself, and it's his prayer that broke the silence. And the prayer that broke the silence of confession is the thing that brought him out of the misery of his Unconfessed sin, his silence. God wanted David to wake up He wanted to convict his heart. He wanted to expose his folly. Ultimately, he wanted to do all these things through his discipline. He's disciplining David because ultimately he wanted David to look. To him afresh for mercy and forgiveness. That's the purpose of God's discipline To wake us up, to convict us, to expose our folly, not so that we would run off and try to fix ourselves, not so we'd just fill our lives up with external religion and good deeds, but so that we would go to Him as a mighty and merciful Savior. And pour our hearts out before his throne for forgiveness There could be scandalous habits that we conceal and go let go on for seasons. And don't confess. A habit of addiction, a habit of adultery, a habit of pornography. A habit of wastefulness, a habit of poor stewardship. There could be all kinds of scandalous, sinful habits that go unconfessed. There could also be scandalous attitudes, not necessarily actions, although the attitudes will always shape our actions. But what I'm saying is it's not just outward sins, but it's inward sins. There can be an ongoing habit of an unforgiving spirit Holding a grudge, not forgiving. There can be a habit, a scandalous attitude of bitterness in the heart. A root of bitterness that has been allowed to grow up, so that this is always the sharp edge of bitterness in the way we think about others or treat others. There can be a scandalous attitude of envy. Covetousness, the tenth commandment that pierces right into our hearts, tells us that God forbids coveting anything And it can go on as if it's okay. And it can Be uh concealed. Try to conceal it, not confess it. There can be an ongoing scandalous attitude of discontentment. I think this is a big one. Just a discontented spirit, a miserable spirit Spirit when a heart should be filled with gratitude. It can be scandalous habits, scandalous attitudes It also could be scandalous words, an ongoing habit of scandalous words that we're not confessing, we're not acknowledging, we're not going to God for forgiveness, we're treating it like it's not sin. We treat these things like they're not sins. Or we treat or we treat God like He doesn't care about these things. Scandalous words. Slander, gossip, grumbling and complaining Scandalous habits, scandalous attitudes, scandalous words, those are the sins of commission. Really, you haven't even, we don't have time to get into the scandalous sins of omission. There could be ongoing, ongoing, scandalous habit of laziness, scandalous habit of negligence. I'll just do the bare minimum. I'll do the bare minimum to get by Here, I'll do the bare minimum for my wife and serving her, do the bare minimum for my kids and serving them, do the bare minimum at church. Just do the bare minimum for the Lord, ongoing, low bar negligence in what God has called us to do. Everything God has called us to do. Is a gift from God to us. It's a gift. Not a treacherous burden, but a gift. Ongoing scandalous sins of omission fit in here too. So In in this psalm, we don't know exactly what David was concealing or not confessing. You don't know what those things are or have been or will be in my life, but I don't know what they are, have been, or will be in your life. But can we search our hearts? Don't come to me and talk about it. I don't need to hear about it. The point of this psalm is to get us to go to God. To get us to go before God's throne. Go home in your room, shut the door before you go to sleep. Go to sleep. To God. Go to God. Confessing and acknowledging, asking for grace, asking for mercy should be regular for us if our hearts are growing and being sensitive. to sin. Is the discipline of God upon you? It can be subtle ways. It can be subtle ways so such that Such that it can go on for so long, we can let these things go for so long that we've just grown accustomed to low-grade discipline So maybe God's taking your joy away or taking the peace and rest that you should have in your heart. Maybe God's taking that away in um Indiscipline for something, but you've just learned to live with it. And you're okay with it. You're okay being miserable You're okay always being grumpy. You're okay always complaining. You're okay always being bitter. Maybe you're just you're okay with it So God is doing this work in our lives of discipline. But you know children can tune out the discipline of their parents And you know students can completely ignore the discipline of the teachers and administration. You know there's uh players who completely ignore the coach. We can do that with God. We can do that with God and just escape by. But that's no way to live. We'll never grow that way. Not only will we not grow, but that and that hinders our fruitfulness and spiritual things. It weakens the church. It weakens the fellowship of the church. That we need to be growing. When God disciplines us, disciplines us, and He disciplines those whom He loves. He disciplines His children for our good. Though in the moment, in the short term, It's not pleasant, but it grows us and it strengthens us. It has a purpose in our lives. So, brothers and sisters, can we just commit in our hearts to discern God 's discipline in our lives? And to respond to God's discipline in a biblical way, going to Him, acknowledge your Sin, acknowledge your corruption, whether it's a scandalous habit or scandalous attitude or scandalous words or scandalous sins of omission and not doing what God has called us to do Can we do that? Can we purpose in our hearts to discern God's discipline? If you're with me on that, would you say amen? And respond in a biblical way, going to God. The blessing of forgiveness, the discipline of the Lord, number three, the confessing of concealed sin. This is uh verse five. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin And he took him out of that misery, took him out of that bones wasting away, took him out of that groaning all day long, took him up out of that heavy hand of the Lord upon me, took him out of that strength was dried up like the dead heat of summer. He took him out of that. He forgave them and brought him into the blessedness of verse 1. Blessed is the one who transgression is forgiven. And the blessedness of verse 2, blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. I acknowledged my sin to you, and I did not cover my iniquity. So it lets you know he's coming out of the season of he was not acknowledging it Then he acknowledged it. It lets you know he was making a 180. He was repenting. He was covering it up. Now he's not covering it up. It lets you know these, again, he's made a U-turn. He's done a 180 when he says, I'll confess my transgressions, which lets you know he was not confessing his transgressions And he was not walking in the freedom and blessedness of forgiveness. Verse 5: the confessing Or the confession of concealed sin. I do want to talk about what this looks like, some of the aspects of what this looks like, what this feels like. To confess concealed sin, you have a humbled, a humbled and broken heart. You have a contrite heart, what the scripture says. A humble spirit, a lowly spirit, a broken heart. God is near to the broken heart. He dwells with, he dwells in those who are crushed in spirit, lowly in spirit, in their contriteness and brokenness. It's we need to be humbled. We need to be brokenhearted. We need to be grieving our sin. He says, I acknowledged my sin to you. Dealing with our sin. is always, always primarily going to be, first and foremost, between us and God. And yes, there's things we need to do in relation to each other when it comes to comes to our sin. Absolutely always. But first and foremost, it always has to do with God. Me and God. Because ultimately who's to sin against? Sin against God. The reason it's wrong to mistreat others is because that's a sin against God. If there were no God, there would be no moral law, there would be no ethical law. standard and it wouldn't be if and then if there's no God we can't be made in the image of God and if we're not made in the image of God it doesn't matter how we treat each other. The reason mistreating each other is wrong is because it's a sin against God. It violates his commandments. It's a breaking, it's a defaming of God's character in the world. I acknowledge my sin to you. That takes a humble heart, doesn't it? It's easy to ignore our sin. But if God humbles us and breaks our heart, we'll go to Him. Also, confessing of concealed sin, not only does it take a humbled and broken heart, but it takes trusting in God's grace. and mercy. Trusting in God's grace and mercy. If we don't believe in God's grace, if we don't believe in His mercy, how in the world are we going to go to God and ask for grace and mercy? And the enjoyment of the blessings of forgiveness come to us through what? Through faith. Through faith. If I don't believe that God would forgive me, how am I going to fall down on my face and weep and beg God for forgiveness? You have to have faith. The enjoyment of walking in communion with God does not come by works of the law. It comes by faith. Every step of our walk is a step of faith. Faith. So we have to trust God's grace and mercy. He says, I did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgressions to the Lord. The reason you would do that is because you know that the Lord will forgive your transgressions. He will forgive your transgressions. He is gracious like that. He's more merciful than you can comprehend. Hand. His love is infinite. His love is eternal. Do you know that God gets enjoyment from forgiving our grotesque transgressions? You know that he brings glory to his name by showing grace and forgiveness to wayward sinners? But we have to believe that, or we will not experience the blessedness of it. So confessing concealed sin, remember that it takes a humbled and broken heart. The arrogant heart, the proud heart will never get there. It also takes trusting God's grace and mercy. So also the heart that's just focused on works is never going to get there either. You've got to be humbled, you've got to be broken, you've got to be trusting God's grace and his mercy. And it leads to the experience, the confessing of concealed sin leads to the enjoyment of forgiveness. The experience of forgiveness, the the end of verse five. I confess my transgressions to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my And that joy that God had taken away in discipline, God restored. And that comfort and rest of soul that God had taken away in discipline, God restored. And I know Pastor Anthony's going to make fun of me for these. I'm going from one here on the right for you all, and then one here on the left for you all, and then for you guys in the middle. The peace that God had taken away in discipline. God restored the strength that God had taken away in discipline. God restored. The strength is a big one. Verse 4. He says specifically in verse 4. In the season of unconfessed sin, he says his strength was dried up. And you know that you need strength. You need spiritual strength to endure the trials of this life. To endure the sufferings, to make good decisions in life. We need strength that God supplies. And all of these things That God had removed in discipline, God restores in forgiveness. That's a real thing. That's a real thing. And the restoration, first and foremost, the restoration and the forgiveness means removing the discipline It also means, and we saw this in the Psalm 51, you can go back and read Psalm 51 that we did for the readings. It also means the cleansing of a guilty heart or the cleansing of the conscience. That's a big deal, the Holy Spirit, to cleanse our heart, to cleanse our conscience of guilt. So we're not walking constantly burdened under the weight of guilt. So the removal of discipline, the cleansing of a guilty heart, the cleansing of a guilty conscience. Third This restoration entails the restoration of the joy, again, those things, the joy, the comfort, the peace. The rest, the spiritual strength, all of those positive blessings of forgiveness. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. God restores these blessings of walking in communion with him. The blessing of forgiveness, the discipline of the Lord, the confessing of concealed sin. I have one more section, but can we pause again just to meditate on those? All right, and see the connection? If you're under the discipline of the Lord , what needs to happen is first discern that you are under the discipline of the Lord. It doesn't have to be as strong, as powerful as David's, but there can be Some discipline of the Lord, his hand heavy upon you for unconfessed or concealed sin. Discern that discipline. Go to God, acknowledge your sin. Acknowledge your sin, confess your transgression, cry out to him for grace, cry out to him for forgiveness, plead with God. On your face, plead with God for restoration and forgiveness. And then he'll restore the blessedness of walking in right fellowship with him, enjoying the blessings of forgiveness. The last section. The last section is the restored heart. We saw the blessing of forgiveness. We saw the discipline of the Lord. We see the confessing of concealed sin. Now verses 6 to 11, you have a window into the restored heart. Now remember, he's looking back on this. He's looking back, he's walking us through his experience. And now in verse 6 the language changes a little bit. It's more of a call to the congregation, a call to the assembly. Therefore let everyone who is godly, dot dot dot So he turns to a teaching, he turns to a preaching. Often that's the pattern in the Psalms, praying for restoration that I might declare your mighty deeds. A prayer for restoration, a prayer for healing, that I may declare your glorious might. Here you have this backstory of the restoration, and but you see in this call You see in this teaching, this exhortation to the assembly, you see the things that are going on in the heart of a restored David. And these are the things we want going on in our hearts. The first thing you see is a restored heart for prayer. Remember, you had a season of silence. Your prayer life may be in a season of silence. If you're in a season of ongoing prayerlessness, That is a lit that's a marker of in some way, in some way, shape, or form, there is going to be some kind of concealed or unconfessed sin, and there is going to be some measure of God's discipline upon you. If you're in a season, ongoing season of prayerlessness of silence, but when you're restored, there'll be a restored heart for prayer. A restored longing for prayer, a zeal for prayer. And with the restored heart, we're not playing all these little mind games, hoop jumps. Nonsense. It's very simple. I get up in the morning and it's cry out to God in prayer. Driving down the road to think about something I need God for. I just cry out to God in prayer. I'm home in the evening, getting ready for bed, and thinking about the day, thinking of everything God has done for me. You just cry out to God in prayer. Doesn't need to be formal, doesn't need to be public, but it needs to be genuine, the restored heart, verse 6 and 7. Therefore, let everyone who is godly offer a prayer to you at a time when you may be found. Surely in the rush of great waters they shall not reach him. That's an imagery for when it's too late. Yeah, and when there's trouble And it's too late, and the danger's right upon you. Lots of people will cry out to God for help. That happened in Israel. That happened in Jerusalem with the Babylonian siege, but it wasn't genuine. And God told Jeremiah, I will not save them. God told Jeremiah, do not intercede for them, do not pray for them. They've sinned away their day of grace. And it was too late. And Babylon was coming, and it was fixed. And so before it's too late, don't wait till you hit rock bottom, brother. Don't wait till it's too late, dear sister. Don't wait for the rushing of great waters when prayers will not reach him. That's what it says. They shall not reach him. He says, verse 7, you are a hiding place for me. You preserve me from trouble. You surround me with shouts of deliverance. He's a hiding place. He's a place we go to be safe. That's what that is. You go hide. You be safe. God is our hiding place. And we access that hiding place primarily through prayer. A restored heart for prayer. Let everyone who is godly offer prayer to you. Offer your prayers to God And unless you're sinless, unless you're sinless, part of your prayer will be a steady diet of acknowledging your sin. Confessing your transgression and asking for forgiveness. If you're sinless, that doesn't apply to you. You can just turn me off. Don't worry about it. The restored heart will not only have a heart for prayer, but a heart for practical wisdom. Verses 8 and 9. I will instruct you and teach you. Now this isn't the voice of God. Speaking to David, but also then David the preacher, David the prophet, relaying those words to the assembly, to the congregation. But you see that it'll be about practical instruction. I will instruct you and teach you in the way you should go. I will counsel you with my eye upon you. Be not like a horse or a mule without understanding. Which must be curved with bit and bridle, or it will not stay near you. Don't be like a horse or a mule that doesn't have understanding. Rather have understanding Listen to God's instruction. Listen to God's teachings in the way we should go. Verse 8. Listen to God's counsel. Receive God's counsel under his watchful eye. He says verse 8, I'll counsel you with my eye upon you Understand that we live under the watchful eye of God. Understand that he's given us his counsel. He's given us his wisdom. He's given us his instruction that we might walk in it. So a restored heart will have a restored devotion to prayer, a desperation for prayer You won't need to be reminded to pray when you have a restored heart that is seeing your sin and sensitive to your sin and desperate for God's grace. No one's going to need to remind you to pray then. A heart for wisdom to receive God's instruction and the restored heart also will just be a heart of faith and worship. Just the foundation stones, the basics. The basics. It's like the layup line in basketball. If you sign up for basketball in first grade, you always start warm-ups with what? Layups. Right-handed layups and left-handed layups. And if you're a professional basketball player, or if you go to a professional basketball game, guess how they warm up? Layups. Layups on the right, layups on the left. Now they're at a much higher level, but what I'm saying is that basic structure never changes. The basics, the foundations never change That's what we're saying in being a children of God. Having a heart of work of faith and worship. Faith and worship, that's that's where we start. And that's always the center. As we grow and mature, we'll grow in faith, we'll grow in our worship. But chapter or verses 10 and 11, many are the sorrows of the wicked. But steadfast love surrounds the one who trusts in the Lord. Trust in the Lord. And you be surrounded By his steadfast love. There's nothing greater than that. Picture of walking down the street being surrounded by an entourage of people Well the picture here is you're walking through life and you're surrounded by an entourage of God's steadfast love that's always with you. You're always surrounded by God's steadfast love when you trust in Him. So no matter where you find yourself, you're always strengthened and upheld by God's steadfast love. And then he says verse 11, be glad in the Lord and rejoice, O righteous, and shout for joy all you upright in heart. Yes, I agree. Do that. Worship him. Gather with the saints of God and worship. Trust Him and worship Him. Trust Him and worship Him. And you know what? If we are faithful in those things, The ministry of God's Word will always be working in our hearts and lives. And the ministry of God's Word That's working in our hearts and lives will help us to discern God's discipline in our lives. And will help us to discern concealed sin and unconfessed sin in our lives. lives. And the Word of God will enable us. The Word of God will stir us up to go to God and confess to go to God and acknowledge, to go to God and ask for forgiveness and to be forgiven. And when God forgives us. He takes us out of the misery of the concealed sin into the freedom and the blessedness and the wonder of forgiveness. And that's what God wants for each and every every one of us to walk in the freedom of forgiveness in Christ. one of us. Apart from the blood of Christ, all this would just be ideas, spiritual theory. But Christ shed his blood for our behalf in our place so that this blessing from heaven, this blessing of forgiveness, can come into our lives, can come into our lives, and can change our lives. If you have unconfessed sin in your life, if you have concealed sin in your life, do not wait Go to God tonight. Go to God now in your heart. Go home and fall down and wrestle with God in prayer. Until you experience the freedom of genuine forgiveness