Good afternoon, everyone. This is Confession of Faith. Week 26, I'm a couple days late on this, so please show me grace on that. Today is Baptist Faith and Message Article 6, looking at the church. We are going to do two weeks on Article 6. I'll pray, we'll get right into it. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your truth. Thank you for bringing us together based on your truth. Pray that you would strengthen us. I pray that you would encourage us. I pray that you would fix our hearts. on you, who you are, what you've purposed, and what you're doing. Father, help us to be good, faithful servants. Through faith in Christ we pray. Amen. Okay. Here we go We are scrolling down to Article 6. Again, I do this on purpose, just so you can see how easy this website is to use, bfm. sbc. net. And we're going down to Article VI. The church, it takes you right down there. And today, actually, we are not going to do The first paragraph, because the first paragraph is very long, you see it there, and then the second one is very short. What I want to do today is The first sentence, which comes to there. Okay Get it, let's see if I can get it right perfect on your screen. It's sensitive. Almost. Alright. Can't be perfect. But that'll do. New Testament Church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's stop right there. Okay, the word church comes from the Greek word ekklesia, which is an assembly. But the definition and background of that word is more specifically a called out assembly. Not a random or arbitrary assembly of people. It's a people who've been called out and assembled for a specific purpose. So a church of the Lord Jesus Christ is a group of people who've been saved by Jesus, and he has called us out of the world, spiritually speaking, and has brought us together to worship him and to serve him, that's what a church is. Church is not an event. Uh church is not a social institution, a local church, a New Testament church of the Lord Jesus Christ is a called out assembly of believers in Jesus. The church is the people. It's an autonomous Local congregation of baptized believers. Congregation means assembly. So there you have it. Congregation, gathering, assembly. It's a uh an autonomous, we'll get back to that word. Local congregation. It means a local means in a particular place. Local congregation of baptized believers. associated by covenant in the faith and fellowship of the gospel, observing the two ordinances of Christ This uh flows well with where we've been on our Sunday ministry, Catechism 2021. We've uh We're looking at baptism and the Lord's Supper, the two ordinances. That's what that's referring to. Observing the two ordinances of Christ, baptism and the Lord's Supper, governed by his laws. Exercising the gifts, rights, and privileges invested in them by his word And seeking to extend the gospel to the ends of the earth. Long sentence. That's why I'm devoting this first week to this one sentence and the different clauses and phrases. In it. Alright, we've already talked about this in general terms. The New Testament Church of the Lord Jesus Christ, a called-out assembly of believers, autonomous This means that the uh this is referring to the authority structure. The g the government of a local church. A local church is self-governing under the Lordship of Christ, under the authority of Scripture, but there's no overarching um denomination that rules the local church and governs the local church. No, the local church is self governing Based on Scripture, under the authority of Christ, it does not mean autonomous does not mean it can do whatever it wants. And it is its own authority. No, the authority is Christ, the authority is Scripture, but in terms of uh earthly speaking and church government speaking, there's no institution above the church. As a top-down controlling organization denomination. Autonomous. Local, that means in a particular place. We're here at North Harford Baptist Church. North Harford. That's our locality. We're a local congregation. It's an assembly of baptized believers. The church is made up of saved people. It's made up of baptized believers. And anyone who would hear the gospel, turn from sin, and believe in Jesus Christ, anyone can join the church, can be a part of Christ's church. It's a spiritual entity Associated by covenant in the faith, associated by covenant in the faith. That's a mutual commitment by those believers. Committing one to another and a solemn vow. To serve Christ together, to worship Christ together, that associated by, related by is what that means. Related by a spiritual commitment, a covenant into faith. And fellowship of the gospel, the spiritual fellowship that we have one to another by virtue of the gospel. It's the gospel that binds us together. It's the Holy Spirit that binds us together. observing, and that's man, all that's before one semicolon. But there's a lot there. Again, I've said this before. The uh Confession of faith is not meant to be a heart stirring devotional document. It's a document that's supposed to be a concise treatment, a summary of the pertinent beliefs, the core beliefs of Christianity. And so it gets into the detail, and that's why you have Sometimes long clauses like that. But they're important. Alright, observing the two ordinances of Christ, right? So to be a faithful New Testament church, you faithfully observe the Lord's Supper and baptism. governed by his laws. And this all has to do with uh being governed by his word and scripture In other words, we don't make up, you know, how the church is to function or what the church is to do or what's right and wrong, but we're based on based in Scripture, exercising the gifts, spiritual gifts uh the rights and privileges invested in them. In other words, the right to something very fundamental and central to the church Preach the word publicly as the word of God. Share in the Lord's Supper together. These are rights and privileges that have been given to us. These are gifts to us to help us to grow and to help us to be God's people in the world by his word, right? Gifts, all right. Laws Gifts, rights, privileges invested in them by his word. It's by virtue of the word of God And finally, last clause of this sentence, seeking to extend the gospel to the ends of the earth. That's what we're commanded to do. That's one of the things we're commanded to do. Not the only thing, but a foundational thing, a fundamental thing. We are as a church, not each individual is supposed to leave their life and go off to the ends of the earth, but as a whole, the church seeks to extend the gospel outward to the ends of the earth for the glory of God, for the salvation of souls, to uh achieve the purpose that God has laid out for his church. And of course it's God achieving that purpose through us. Seeking to extend the gospel to the ends of the earth is the mission of the church. Alright, there you go. First sentence next week. We'll finish this up doing this last boy that's a long bit there and then here But we can do it. Alright, let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you for calling us together, bringing us together to be your people. Help us to serve you well. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Alright, well, God bless you. We'll see you on Sunday for Catechism, the 27th Lord's Day, and I'll see you next week. Confession of Faith, week 27. God bless you. I'll see you soon