Good afternoon, everyone. Welcome to Confession of Faith. This is week 40. Baptist Faith and Message, Article 14 on cooperation. That's talking there about cooperation between like-minded churches for the sake of missions. um in the nation and globally. I'll pray and we'll look at this article. Father, we thank you for the opportunity, the grace, the privilege The blessing to be in your kingdom. Citizens of heaven, Father, we thank you for the hope that we have in Christ. We thank you for his righteous life. We thank you for his sacrificial death, his glorious resurrection and ascension into heaven. the gift, this uh incomparable gift of eternal life he's given us. Father, we thank you for Jesus and uh I pray for your gospel word to go forth in power through us and through your churches all over the world to save sinners for your glory. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Okay, cooperation, Article 14. Christ's people should, as occasion requires, organize such associations and conventions. as may best secure cooperation for the great objectives of the kingdom of God. So just very simply thinking here on the on uh cooperation and fellowship and missions at this at a scale Outside of and above the local churches. God is organized in His kingdom, His people in local churches based on truth based on fellowship in the Holy Spirit, spread all over the world. And there can be cooperation. There should be cooperation of biblical churches. For the kingdom of God, the great objects of the kingdom of God, the great goals, the great ends of the kingdom of God. Such organizations have no authority over one another or over the churches. They're voluntary and advisory bodies, designed to elicit, combine, and direct the energies of our people in the most effective matter. So they are a pragmatic thing. They're not commanded in Scripture, but they're not against. scripture if they're done properly and this that's why there's so qualifications given here so that they can be done properly and not violate uh principles that God has laid down for his local churches These are just a way for local churches to work together in a biblical way, in a pragmatic way, for the good of the kingdom, for the sake of the gospel. They're voluntary and advisory bodies. That means they're not mandated Uh designed to elicit, combine, and direct the energies of our people in the most effective manner. Members of New Testament churches should cooperate with one another in carrying forward. The missionary education on benevolent ministries for the extension of Christ's kingdom. Christian Unity Oh, get that on your screen. Christian unity in the New Testament sense is spiritual harmony and voluntary cooperation for common ends by various groups. of Christ's people. Hopefully you can read between the lines here. control, organization, organizational control from some body above and outside of the local church We're going to maintain God's organizing his kingdom in local churches, Christian and the independence of those churches Christian unity in the New Testament sense is spiritual harmony and voluntary cooperation for common ends by various groups of Christ's people. Cooperation is desirable desirable between the various Christian denominations when the end to be attained is itself justified, and when sup such cooperation involves no violation of conscience or compromise. of loyalty to Christ and his word as revealed in the New Testament. That's such a key phrase that comes right at the end, but it really sums up what we must maintain no matter what, in all of our efforts. And all of our cooperation, loyalty to Christ and His Word, as revealed in the New Testament. So our unity, our cooperation must be based on truth and must be grounded in a true obedience to the New Testament, true fellowship in the Holy Spirit And it's all f it's all for the sake of the gospel, for the good of the kingdom. If it becomes about something else, we're off track and we're better off not to do it. It'd just become a distraction, right? Because the purpose is for the advance of the kingdom, for the advance of truth, for the salvation of souls, for the health of the church. So if the cooperation um becomes unhealthy or becomes a distraction or detriment to those ends that something's seriously wrong it needs to be addressed. First through prayer The preaching of the word and the power of the Spirit is what can get that right. Just like that. Those are the things that can get everything right. All right, so there you have it. Cooperation with local churches for the sake of the gospel according to the New Testament. Father, we thank you. Thank you again for saving us and for Christ. And we sing his praises. We give you thanks and we remember your faithfulness to us in this moment. Through Jesus, you've delivered us from our sins. You've given us the Holy Spirit. You've given us a task to do, and you're present with us, and we thank you for that. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. God bless you, and I will see you, Lord willing, this Sunday. for the catechism a week forty one of the forty first Lordsteck. God bless ya, see you soon