Hello everyone, welcome again, Confession of Faith 2021, week 10, and today is our last week in looking at a scripture. We've been looking at passages of scripture that are basically summary statements of core Christian doctrine. Next week we transition into our church's statement of faith, the Baptist faith and message, and we'll look each week at a different article or a different subset of an article in that confession of faith. And so today's scripture is 2 Timothy 3 verse 6 verses 16 and 17. I'll begin with a prayer and we will get into it. Father, we thank you for your word, and as our passage today is about your word , It's a nature, it's power, it's sufficiency. I pray that you would drive these things into our heart and mind, that we would look to you and you alone by your word and spirit. Would you bless us now? In Christ we pray. Amen. Okay. 2 Timothy 3, beginning in verse 16. All scripture is breathed out by God. And profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness, that the man of God may be complete Equipped for every good work. We're focusing on verse 16, although so much could be said about the surrounding context, and also verse 17, the focus here on Timothy and his work as a pastor. The man of God is the first application here, not the only application, but that he might be complete or mature. and equipped for every good work, able to do what God has called him to do. And of course that extends to any Christian. The Word of God is what makes us able to do what God has called us to do and able to live how God has called us to live by the power of his spirit. But the reason this is starting, uh the reason this is ending this series of a confession of faith, uh going through different passages. is because of its focus on scripture and when we get into the our church's statement of faith, the Baptist faith and message, the foundation is our view on Scripture. And it says all scripture is breathed out by God. that is uh is breathed out by God is one word in the Greek text. Theop neustos. Theop nustos breathed out by God, inspired by God. It comes from God. Scripture is produced and written by God through human authorship, of course And in human language, of course, because God is communicating to humans. But all scripture is a divine product. It's a product created by God. And it the uh this word is so important here. All scripture. All scripture. So we don't have the authority to come into Bible and come into the Bible and say I like this part. This part is true. So therefore this part is from God. But this part seems outdated. This part seems irrelevant. This part seems like most people are not going to like it. In fact, I don't really like it, so that's not from God. That's not inspired. No, we cannot do that. All scripture is breathed out by God, and it's profitable. AKA Useful, aka beneficial, helpful for teaching, right? Teaching us what is true, what is not true, what is good, what is not good. For teaching who God is, for teaching us about who we are, teaching us about our sin problem, teaching us about salvation in Christ is profitable for teaching. Where does the teaching of the church come from? It comes from God's Word. All scripture is breathed out by God, so it's inspired of God, and it's profitable for teaching the truth For reproof that has to do with reprimand, calling us on our sin, showing us where we are wrong, showing us how we fall short of God's glory, it teaches us the truth, it reprimands us, it reproves us, in other words, it rebukes us. But then also for correction. Very closely related to the idea of reproof, but it's maybe you could say it's the other side of the coin. God does not just uh reprimand us and reprove us and tell us what's wrong, but he also tells us what's right. Here's how you need to correct this. Here's the path of life. Here's the way to live before the Lord. All scripture is inspired of God. It's useful for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for correcting us. for setting our path straight and for training in righteousness. For training in righteousness, for the actual training and equipping and empowering that we may walk in the ways of God. Righteous living, holy living, godly living. There's so many different ways you could say it. Christ-like living, spirit-filled living, scripture-based living, Christian living. Again, there's so many ways you can summarize this, but all of Scripture is inspired of God, so this is the inspiration of Scripture, and it's profitable. This is the Sufficiency of scripture it scripture, it is able. It is sufficient through the power of the Spirit. The Word of God is able. to teach us what we need to be taught, to reprove us where we need it, to correct us and show us the right way in so many ways that we need that, and to train us in righteousness. That is feet to the ground, training, equipping, empowering to live for God. So the inspiration of scripture And the sufficiency of Scripture and what Scripture is able to do, of course, used by God, used by God, by the Holy Spirit in our minds, in our hearts. This is what we need. And if we do not get this doctrine of Scripture right, it is the first domino that will fall in a long line of horrible, horrible dominoes you do not want to fall. Because if this If this confession of faith fails, if we forfeit this, a view of Scripture, on the inspiration of Scripture, on the sufficiency of Scripture, it will impact every other belief that we hold. And so we must know that the Bible is God's word. We must not be ashamed of that. We must believe it is God's word because it is God's word. It is breathed out by Him. It is profitable to teach us, reprove us, correct us, and train us to help us live how God would have us to live. So next week we start going through our church's statement of faith, the Baptist faith and message. I hope you'll join us for that. We'll look at an article or a piece of an article each week. Until then, rest. Assured, knowing that the Bible is God's inspired word, and it is able, no matter what the fallen culture tells you No matter what your own subjective ideas or emotions tell you, the Word of God is able to help you. It's able to point you in a good direction, in the right direction. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for your Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit, fill our hearts and change our minds and help us to live for you. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. Alright, well God bless you. I'll see you on Sunday for Catechism 2021. It'll be the 11th Lord's Day. And next week again on Monday for Confession of Faith 2021, week 11. See ya.