Good afternoon everyone. Welcome to Confession of Faith 2021. I'm a few days late on this, but this is Week 45, Article 17 of the Baptist Faith and Message, looking at religious liberty. I'll pray and we'll get right into it. Father, we thank you. Thank you for making us Thank you for redeeming us in Christ. I pray that you would continue to grow us in your spirit, grow us in your word, grow us in humility and service in your kingdom, that you would be known. It's in Christ we pray. Amen Alright, I'll get right into it. It's a lengthy article today on religious liberty, Article 17. So I'll read through it, make a comment here and there. And there's only one more article, I believe, after this. Let me scroll down just to double check that. The Family. Article 18. I believe that's the last one. Yep. We'll spend a few weeks on that Here we go. God alone is the Lord of the conscience, and he has left it free from the doctrines and commandments of men, which are contrary to his word, or not contained in it. I'm sure I'll come back to that once I'm done reading through this. But if we could get that, then we're in real good shape. Because what this is saying is God alone is the Lord of our conscience, and we are under obligation, ultimate obligation, to obey Him. as Lord and God and as our ultimate authority. And now that is not to say there are not other authorities. in society. There's an authority structure, the civil authorities, the authority structure of church and in the home. But God alone is the Lord of the conscience. He has left it free from the doctrines and commandments of men. So man-made Teachings, man-made commandments do not bind our conscience. Only God binds our conscience, which are contrary to his word are not contained in in it. So here specifically talking about Man-made doctrines, which just means teachings or commandments or rules that are contrary to what God has revealed. You know, we give allegiance to God and His will, His commandments, His doctrines and teachings, not the will of man. Church and state should be separate. The state owes to every church protection and full freedom in the pursuit of its spiritual ends. In providing such freedom, No ecclesiastical group, no church group, or denomination should be favored by the state more than others. I see this is arguing against a state-sanctioned or state even state-favored religious group over another. Civil government being ordained of God, it is the duty of Christians to render loyal obedience thereto in all things not contrary to the revealed will of God. So we submit to the authority of the government, we respect and honor that authority, but we do not do things, we do not support things that go contrary to God's will. The government is an authority ordained by God and put in place by God, but it is not the ultimate authority over us Let's see what we go here. The church should not resort to the civil power to carry on its work. The Gospel of Christ contemplates spiritual means alone for the pursuit of its ends. The state has no right to impose penalties for religious opinions of any kind. Let's go to let's say something about this. The church should not resort to the civil power to carry on its work. The gospel of Christ contemplates spiritual means spiritual means alone for the pursuit of its ends. The church does not use um the means of the state authority or military to carry out gospel ends or to achieve the purposes of the church It's spiritual means. It's new spiritual means. The work of the gospel, the work of prayer, service in the church and by the church. Spiritual ends achieved by spiritual means, not worldly ends. Not worldly, uh not spiritual ends where we use worldly means to achieve those ends. No, spiritual goals or spiritual ends with spiritual means or a spiritual method. The state has no right to impose penalties for religious opinions of any kind. The state has no right to impose taxes for the support of any form of religion. A free church and a free state is the Christian ideal, and this implies the right of free and unhindered access to God on the part of all men, and the right to form and propagate opinions in the sphere of religion without interference by the civil power. This is the idea of freedom being connected with the idea of separation. The purpose is so that the state does not um legislate religion or legislate faith, but that we are free to worship God, spread God's word, obey God according to His will and um without interference or sanctions from the civil authorities. So pretty big topic always throughout history and right now, definitely uh maybe seeing a revived interest based on what's been going on in our country the last two or three years, but this should always be um you know front burner stuff for us, not the central focus. That will always be the gospel. That will always be God's word and the work. of the ministry, but in terms of understanding the kingdom of God, this should be front brunner stuff. The kingdom of God is not a geopolitical kingdom. It's not a worldly nation. It's a spiritual kingdom It's a heavenly kingdom that exists on earth, manifesting the power of God on earth through the gospel and the power of the Spirit, through the prayers of God's people, the witnesses and service, the witness and service of God's people. The church is a spiritual kingdom, part of God's spiritual kingdom, the kingdom of God. We do not operate according to the principles and ways and goals of worldly kingdoms. It we're separate from those, so Um, you know, it's a huge topic, but in terms of understanding who we are as God's people and how God has organized his kingdom in local churches scattered all throughout the world, scattered all across our nation. This is important stuff. This is because this is what Christ is doing. He's building a church. He's advancing his kingdom to its glorious end. We want to be involved in that. We want to be excited about that. But And in order to do that properly, we cannot get the kingdom of God confused with the kingdom of man or any um any nation, any other worldly, any worldly kingdom. We've got to keep those separate in our theology. And then that's that will enable us to apply it properly when we go to the ground level uh and the specific separation between churches here in America and the civil government in America. We've got to get the underlying theology right of understanding the kingdom of God, what that means for us and for our calling and for our purpose in life. That's really the heart of the issue here. Father, we thank you for Jesus and for his work on our behalf, his righteous life, the perfection of his character and ministry, the power of his ministry. And the sacrificial death that He died for us so that we could know you, so that our sins could be blotted out, so that we can have a relationship with you forever. We thank you, we praise you. In Jesus' name, amen. Thanks for joining me again, and I'll see you, Lord willing, this coming Sunday for Catechism, the 46th Lord's Day, and see you next week for week 46 Confession of Faith. God bless you. See you soon