Good morning everyone. This is Confession of Faith 2021. This is for week 48, which was last week in week 49. this week and I'm pretty sure this will be the last uh posting for Confession of Faith unless I decide um Off the cuff to do another one as the year closes out. Of course the catechisms will go through the 52 weeks. That's the way it's mapped out. Today we have two verses. The first one is Revelation 22 20. I wanted to finish the confession of faith devotions the same way we began, which is right in the text of Scripture. Some of the core um components of our faith, what we confess, what we profess to believe, and then those things, you know, shape the way we live. So we began the year with Scripture, we'll end the year with Scripture. In between was the Baptist faith and message, which we went through for the bulk of the year. Revelation 22, 20 will be our first one. He who testifies to these things says, Surely I am coming soon. Amen. Come, Lord Jesus. Now he who testifies is the Lord Jesus, so he's the one who testifies um that he is coming soon and he said that to the first century audience. So I'll get back to that. But first Let me pray, talk a little bit about this verse, and then another one from 1 Peter. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your goodness to us. Thank you for your providence in this world. Thank you for your kingdom. Thank you for the gospel message that's Saving souls for all eternity, for your glory. We're thankful that it's happening. We're thankful to be a part of it, to have a part in it, to see what you're doing. Father, we're thankful for the hope we have in Christ. In his name we pray. Amen. In Revelation 22. 20, as the revel the revelation and the Bible comes to a close, Jesus says, Surely I am coming soon. Amen. Earlier in that chapter. Verse 7, he says, Behold, I am coming soon. Blessed is the one who keeps the words of the prophecy in this book. Right above that in verse six, and you can compare these with cross-references in chapter one if you want to look at that in your study. These words are, trustworthy and true in the Lord, the God of the spirits of the prophets, has sent his angel to show his servants. what must soon take place. So the uh original audience in the first century Would have understood these things, the bulk of these things that are revealed in Revelation to happen soon. Or begin happening soon, and whatever's not are clued and hinted at in the book But this is to Jesus' coming. Often can be a confusing thing. Well, was he coming soon or was it was he not? Kind of both. The immediate context is referring that Jesus was coming in judgment against Jerusalem soon. Jesus had prophesied that in his earthly ministry uh that judgment was going to come against apostate Israel, not true Israel, not the elect, not believers, not spiritual Israel, not his people who received him and believed in him. But the rebels, the apostate, uh, Israel, judgment was going to come against them. In that generation, the temple would be destroyed. As the climax of that judgment, Jesus was the one who would come in judgment. God comes through throughout the Bible, throughout history, God comes in judgment against cities, against rebellious people. God coming in judgment is not always his final judgment at the end of time. Is Jesus going to come and bring about the end of time as we know it? As we know. Yes, he is. And that is part of our confession that Jesus is coming back. Jesus is returning. He came in judgment, testifying to his lordship and his kingship in the year A. D. 70. In that generation, from their perspective, that would have been soon. But yet we also know that Christ is coming again. We wait on his return. And whether it happens in our generation, or a future generation, we know Christ is coming back and he will bring all things in perfect conformity with his purpose. One more Verse to finish out the year. 1 Peter 4, 7. The end of all things is at hand. Or another way to say that would be the end of all things is upon us. Therefore, be self-controlled, be sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. And let's just keep going because what I like about this passage is it goes right from uh this reality that the end of all things is going to happen, the end of time as we know it, the end of this era of history is going to end, but then it goes right to the practical application. This should change how we live. Therefore, be self-controlled, which is the opposite of how the world tells us to live, and be sober-minded. Again, opposite of how the world tells us to live, which is just, you know, live however you want, do whatever you want, whatever you think is good, whatever you feel is good. Go crazy with it, you only live once Therefore be self-controlled, sober-minded for the sake of your prayers, we should be a prayerful people. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. So it devotion to love and earnest Love. Love one another earnestly and intense devotion to love. Show hospitality to one another without grumbling As each one has received a gift, use it to serve one another. It's good stewards of God's varied grace. Stewards of grace, what a powerful concept. God has shown grace to us. And we use that grace that God has shown to us in the way it's changed our lives and the different gifts He's given us, the different resources He's given us to minister to one another, to serve one another. Whoever speaks is one who speaks the oracles of God. Whoever serves is one who serves by the strength that God supplies. In order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. That's the goal. That's the goal of all things. In everything, God will be glorified through Jesus Christ. And our lives should be a microcosm of that To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. I think that's a perfect sentence or a perfect statement to end a year of devotions focused on the confession of faith To him be glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Lord Father, we thank you. Thank you for Jesus' salvations you've given us through his life, death, and resurrection. Thank you for the Holy Spirit. You've given it within our hearts. The pledge, the deposit, the guarantee of resurrection, glory. We wait, we serve, we ask for you to help us in these things because we are weak We're foolish. We're prone to wander. But Lord, we pray that you would use us for your glory in Jesus' name. Amen. Thanks again for joining. And uh Lord willing, I see you this coming Sunday for Catechism week fifty. God bless ya. Bye.