Good afternoon everyone. Confession to faith 2021, week 27, Baptist Faith and Message article This is the second week we're doing an article six the church. So we have the uh the last portion of this. I'll pray we'll get right into it. Father, we thank you for what you are doing in your church, gathering sinners to yourself Through Jesus, by your grace, through the power of the Holy Spirit, we thank you. We thank you. In Jesus' name, amen. Okay, now last week we did, I think we just did the first sentence, which was a long sentence, so it doesn't sound like a lot. But just got a warning that my battery was about to die. So, alright, we're set. Last week we did This first sentence. So let's go right to the rest of it Which begins here with each, and we'll go right down to the end. But let's look at this section first. Each congregation, so each local church, operates under the lordship of Christ through democratic processes. So that's talking about the government of the church or the polity of the church, how it's led. It's a question of authority. So biblically there's no denomin overarching denominational hierarchy that through a top-down authority governs the local church. The local church is directly under the lordship of Christ In such a congregation, each member is responsible and accountable to Christ as Lord. So there's a personal aspect, there's a duty, there's an accountability of each person, each member in a local church. If scriptural offices officers are pastors and deacons. Pastors are also called overseers. Pastors could also be called elders and then deacons. Two offices. Two officers, well two officers too. The officers fill the offices of leadership in the church. While both men and women are gifted for service in the church. The office of pastor is limited to men as qualified by Scripture. And that is one of the qualifications of Scripture. And then there's other qualifications as well. Not just any man, but a biblically qualified, God-called, spirit-equipped pastor. And of course, while both men and women are gifted for service in the church, and that's everyone. Everyone who God saves, he gifts that they might serve in the church. There's a place for everyone. The New Testament also speaks or speaks also of the church as the body of Christ which includes all of the redeemed of all the ages, believers from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. Well that's important. That's a different paragraph because it's zooming out now. The focus of the first that first big paragraph is the local church. And that's what you see in the New Testament. Is the gospel goes forth And as missionaries go from place to place, Paul, Barnabas, Silas, local churches are started in different places. And each one is a church under the Lordship of Christ. But the Bible also speaks of one church, one body of Christ, the overarching people of God. The body of Christ, which includes all the redeemed for all ages, believers from every tribe and tongue and people and nation. So it's uh an aspect of the unity of God's people in Christ. Of course, any unity of God's people has to be in Christ because the only way to be reconciled to God is in Christ. There's no other way. So join us next week. Oh, by the way, here's your long list of cross-references, at least Each one can be a beginning of a cross-reference, right? Because you could go to it, read the larger context, look to your margin, and you can see the marginal notes, follow out your marginal notes, cross-references, look at your study notes if you have a good study Bible And um each one will be about a different aspect of the church. As we exist on this earth in this age, our discipleship is going to be located in the context Sorry to scroll back. I hope that wasn't confusing. Of a local church. Our discipleship is is lived out, worked out in the context of a local church, an actual biblical church under the Lordship of Christ. We should not lose sight of the one body of Christ, of all the redeemed, from all places, of all ages, but that's not how you live it out. You'll get to enjoy that. in the age to come. But in this current age, don't use this down here , the one church From all ages, from all places. Don't use that as an excuse to not be involved in this church, this local church, because the whole New Testament is about this It's God calling people into the fellowship and worship and service of the church. That's at least the the picture that the Bible Paints for how Christianity has lived in this age. And I pray you would embrace that picture. And um it's not easy to find a biblical church. I empathize with that. I sympathize with that. But they are out there and through prayer and being proactive in your search for one, God will uh guide you to one. Alright, let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you again for what you're doing in Jesus. Thank you for your grace toward us Giving us the greatest gift of all, a relationship with you that will never end. Thank you for taking our sins away. Father, help us each day more and more to love Jesus, to love you, to seek the power of the Holy Spirit in our lives. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright, well, God bless you. Thanks again for joining. I'll see you next Sunday for Catechism, 28th Lord's Day, and next Monday, Lord willing, for Confession of Faith, week 28. God bless you.