Anthony, welcome back to the podcast. It's been a while. How are you? Doing well. Feels like it's been a long time since we sat in front of this brick wall, but it's good to be back. It was either late November or early December. Either way, we're launching into a new series of podcasts on our core values in the lobby of the church. One of the posters you'll see is Core Values which just means um you know the central or the the kind of the most important truths things we want to focus on what I want to do today is go through each one of them briefly. I believe there's seven of them. One, two, three, four, five, six, seven of them. So real quickly, I'll Say each one, give a Bible verse. For one of them I have two Bible verses, and then get your thoughts on them. So I guess three or four minutes on each one and we'll be done. But then after this, I want to do one episode on each core value and go pretty deep into it Talk about the significance, talk about the practical application of each one. So let me read the list and then Back up and do a verse and get your thoughts on them. So number one is the glory and praise of God. Number two is the salvation of souls Number three is the gospel of Jesus Christ. Number four is the work of the Holy Spirit. Number five is the inspiration of the Bible. Number six is the advance of God's kingdom. And number seven is the importance of the church. As we get into the individual episodes on each one, it will become more and more clear how these are all interconnected with each other. To understand one, you've got to understand the others. Um so the first one, the glory and praise of God. So the glory of God basically the shining forth of who he is. And the praise of God is us responding to that in awe and adoration and worship. Psalm 29 to Ascribe to the Lord the glory do his name, worship the Lord in the splendor. of holiness. We ascribe to him the glory that is due his name. That means we acknowledge his glory. that he has revealed, and then in response we worship him. We worship the Lord in the splendor of his holiness. This has got to be number one. Christianity starts with God. Christian living starts with God. If we're going to talk about core values as a church, It has to start with the glory of God and the praise of his glory. The glory and praise of God. What are your thoughts Yeah, well this list is in in order necessarily like this is number one and then the importance of the church is the least important. I do think the glory and praise of God being number one is crucial because It's to the glory of God that he saves the s of uh the to the glory of God for the salvation of souls. To the glory of God that the gospel of Jesus Christ goes out. Um and to our praise. So it all of what follows after this must be uh is wrapped up in this reality that it's the glory and praise of God. So when someone walks in our church, they see this, they know the bottom line this is what we're about. Right. Yeah, that's the way I was thinking about it, um, that all the other ones are in service to this one. Like everything else is to this end. Because you'll have like you'll have uh number three on our list is the gospel, but in 1 Corinthians 15, Paul says that's of first importance. So there's for all of these, in one sense, they are the most important thing because they all go together and they are all to the glory and praise of God. It's just fundamentally different ways of living. Uh live for our own glory or live for God's glory. Live for our own name and reputation. or live for God's name and reputation. Try to build for ourselves a kingdom of trivial and temporary earthly things. Or join God and and glory in God and his kingdom and what he's doing for eternity. So And there's a temptation in churches uh to put You know, we are all about missions. We are all about church planning in this church. Well, that's good things. And but they're not intentionally avoiding it. But essentially what they're saying is we're all about the glory of God by and we do that by missions. We do that by planning churches. So I think it's great to start there and say, we're about the glory of God. And whatever else comes out of it, this is how we do it. Yeah, I think you're right. I think in any of the external ministries. And there's always a danger of forgetting the heart. First and foremost, we have to have hearts that love God and are seeking His glory and praise. Number two is the salvation of souls. That means People being delivered from bondage to sin and reconciled to God, people being delivered from the guilt of sin. experiencing forgiveness in Christ and so that um they can be saved in this life, reconciled to God, filled with the Spirit. But then also on the day of judgment, they are saved. They are spared from that judgment of God on the last day. And if we w I don't if I say this too strongly, just um please correct me here on the podcast. The primary and central way God brings glory to himself and brings about the praise of his glory. primarily and essentially is by saving souls through Jesus Christ. Right. You on board with that? I'm on board with that. Yeah, because that's what gets us in the posture to praise him. Yeah. We now have an understanding of praising him. Before that we're rebels and don't want to praise him, won't praise him. Yeah. That's a good point. I haven't even thought about that aspect of For us to be able to even care about that first one, God has to save us by his grace. Yeah. So I have Psalm one or Psalm eleven. I think it's one sixteen. Yeah, one sixteen, sorry. Psalm one sixteen, verse four. Oh Lord, I pray, deliver my soul. And then first Peter one nine just part of it, obtaining the outcome of your faith, the salvation of your souls. And now that specific verse is looking forward. To the day of judgment. And we can't get into this now. Maybe we will on the episode where we focus on this. The scripture talks about salvation in the past tense the present ongoing tense and also the future tense. So we have been saved. We've been united to Jesus by faith. We have been saved. But we are being saved. We are being saved uh in our sanctification And then we will be saved on that day of judgment. So of the the goal of your faith, the outcome of your faith, that finish line of your faith, the salvation of your souls. And the y wor the use of the word soul is so important that it's not just our problems are gone, our pain's gone, but it's the the very core of who we are is saved. Yeah. The part of you that that lasts. The part of us that needs to be saved is saved. And then ultimately too on the on the day of resurrection, we'll receive new bodies. perfect, glorious heavenly bodies like Jesus. But if the soul is not saved, you we won't get to that inheritance. So, you know Again, that salvation of souls is in service to the glory and praise of God. And then the next one is in service to the salvation of souls. That's the next one, number three, is the gospel of Jesus Christ. For the listener, a great passage on this is the first two paragraphs of 1 Corinthians 15. Here I have 1 Corinthians 2, 1-2. Paul writes, And I when I came to you, brothers, did not come proclaiming to you the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. uh by what she means worldly wisdom, like trying to be the smart guy, trying to be the philosopher, trying to be the ear tickler. That wasn't his method. He didn't come proclaiming the testimony of God with lofty speech or wisdom. Verse 2, I decided to know nothing among you except Jesus Christ. and him crucified. Was that the only topic that Paul talked about? No. But everything else revolved around that topic. You can be sure he will preach, he will teach the gospel of Jesus Christ, Jesus Christ and Him crucified. Not only that it happened, but the proper interpretation of it. And that's the gospel that's the heart of the gospel of Jesus Christ. Of course, there's more to the gospel, his righteous life, also his resurrection and ascension, but the heart of it is preaching Jesus Christ and Him crucifying. And here we we'll preach through a wide range of topics. Um obedience, fighting temptation, uh you know we'll even talk on politics at times, but all of that is rooted in the gospel of Jesus Christ. So while you say, Well this this topic isn't you're not preaching the gospel word for word well right, but the reason we are here is because of the gospel of Jesus Christ. It's the very core of our preaching and our teaching in this church. Always. That's what makes us uh a Christian church. That's what makes us a church. That's what makes our preaching, biblical preaching, is it's whatever else it's doing is heralding Christ and the good news of Christ and If you've been at this church for any amount of time, you know that we try to do the best we can in always preaching the gospel. not a 30-second superficial overview tacked on to the end of our messages, but seasoning the message, flavoring the message, whatever it is. Trying to connect whatever topic we're on to the gospel because that's where the power for power for spiritual change is, is in the gospel. So if we want the power of God experience, We have to be preaching the gospel. So number one, glory and praise of God. Number two, the salvation of souls. Number three, the gospel of Jesus Christ. I really like this list. Who made it? Number four, the work of the Holy Spirit. Again, you can see hopefully you can see the connection, right? Because if the gospel of Jesus Christ saves sinners and sanctifies Sinners because of the work of the Holy Spirit. So these two, wherever they were in the list, they almost had to be right next to each other. Yeah. Because you have the word of Christ and the work of the Spirit. Ezekiel 36, 27. It's a prophecy, a promise of what will happen when the Christ comes in the new covenant era Ezekiel writes, I will, he's uh, this is God speaking, Ezekiel's writing it, I will I will put my spirit within you, and cause you to walk in my statutes and be careful to obey my rules. One of the best verses, maybe the best verse in all of Scripture, that's um showing that We need the Holy Spirit to be able to obey God because it's the Spirit that enables us to do that. Yeah. So when you think about Hawaii Why is the work of the Holy Spirit a core value of the Church? It's because when we're when we're talking about how to live as Christians, the only way that can be accomplished. is by the work of the Holy Spirit. We're not pleading with people, do better, work harder, you gotta improve yourself. We're saying because you're born of the Spirit, you're born again, you're new in Christ. This is then how you're you're called to live. So it changes our approach and people 's understanding of uh what we're encouraging and teaching and preaching for them to do in their lives Yeah, that's really good and uh so let's put some uh some examples and concrete application to that, just thinking of all the time There's counseling situations or people have questions or they're struggling with something in their life that they don't feel is good enough or they don't feel is is Uh according to God's will, maybe their maybe even their assurance they're struggling because of it. What's what would be the difference or some of the differences of of addressing those issues, addressing those questions and struggles. What's the difference between on one hand pointing them to the spirit? And on the other hand, what would it look like to point them to something else? I I don't wanna, you know, I want to see how you say it before I I uh uh that's a great question. The first like example that came to mind is the the commandment of love your neighbor. So someone comes and says, Well how am I supposed to love my neighbor? In a very humanistic way, it would be, we'll we'll go serve them, go help them in their times of need, go, you know, do X, Y, and Z But if we're understanding the work of the Holy Spirit, we're saying because you're new in Christ, you now understand who that human is and who they're made in the image of. Therefore you love them as God loves them. Now you can go help and do these things. So kind of taking the focus out of I'm supposed to love my neighbor so that someone's happy with me so that uh God uh finds pleasure with me, but instead we're saying because you're new in Christ, because of the word of the Holy Spirit, this is what you do and here's some practical ways of doing that. Right. So if you skip the identity in Christ and you skip Um look into the spirit for help and guidance. And and if you just go right to the good work, that's it's a recipe for disaster because because what's gonna happen is you're gonna train yourself to find your sense of identity in your good works. You're gonna define your your standing with God based on your whether you're doing good works If you're doing them good enough, if you're do well enough, if you're doing enough of them, if you're able to get other people to do them with you, if you're able to get the church to make you know, huge good work we can all do together. Just Seek the Spirit's guidance. If he guides you to love someone and do a good work, just go do it. It's really But I think the approach of go right to the good work can be dangerous. We want to go to the work of the spirit, go to the wisdom of the spirit first, and So then maybe the answer you you brought up security uh our security of our salvation, like um It was never about you. It was never done by your hand. It was always by God. So don't think that your failure in this moment uh then nullifies God's work. Remember that you were made alive by the Spirit and now you're living by the Spirit So it's removing you out of the equation, putting God in the right place, and now your reliance on God for everything starts to change. Right. Reliance on God, yeah, it's huge because It's relatively, maybe it's absolutely easier, far easier to do externally good deeds. But what takes supernatural power is to seek the Spirit's transforming work within us. That's what we need most. That's what we need more. We seek the work of the Spirit within us first. And total reliance. I forget how you said it, but 100% reliance. on God to work out the details of what does that look like in our lives. The next one, number five, the inspiration of the Bible. That the Bible is the objective. Word of God, that God is the ultimate author, and therefore the Bible is his word. It is it it is endowed with his authority and This is the foundational one, even though it's fifth on the list. It's almost underneath all the other ones as a foundation. Because if we reject the inspiration of the Bible, we will reject all these other doctrines. 2 Timothy 3. 16, all scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction. And for training in righteousness. I feel like this verse has come up on like eighty percent of our podcast. Yeah, I think so, because it's uh I mean, how how are we to do anything else? This isn't No, Pastor Matt and Pastor Anthony's good idea time. This is well maybe it turns out that but ultimately That's our other podcast that no one listens to. Ultimately We're relying on the word of God, the wisdom of God for everything we do. Is that a period after that? Yes. I thought that was a semicolon. Yes. We are relying on the Word of God for everything we do. And um right, so like the going back to the previous one, the work of the Holy Spirit. Um that's not a vague spiritual feeling. Just coming to a religious service and having some kind of emotional experience. There could be the work of the Spirit going on there, but not necessarily. The work of the Spirit in our lives is going to be connected to a healthy ongoing diet of the Word of God. Because the Word of God is is the sword of the Spirit. The Spirit uses the Word. The Spirit works. through the word. That's why we have to be hungry for the Bible because we are desperate for the work of the Spirit in our lives. So And how would we know that it's truly the Holy Spirit at work and not a lie from the enemy? How would we know how to praise God if it was not for the inspiration of the Bible to teach us and guide us. Right. It would it's completely arbitrary, completely subjective. Um You need, we need, not just you, we need truly God's word. God to speak to us. in an objective way that's accessible to us, that's understandable, and that's what we have in the Bible. And that's why it's the Bible, it's the basis of all these core values. Glory and praise of God, salvation of souls, gospel of Jesus Christ, the work of the Holy Spirit, the inspiration of the Bible, the advance of God's kingdom. That may need to be Two episodes to define what God's kingdom is and to prove from scripture that God's kingdom has already been established in Christ. and is now gradually advancing, gradually spreading the the saving dominion of God all over the world, bit by bit, age to age. So there's a lot there. The verse I have, it's actually two verses here for this, is about the growth of the kingdom. Matthew 13, 31 to 32. He put another parable. before them, saying, The kingdom of heaven is like a grain of mustard seed that a man took and sowed in his field. It is the smallest of all seeds, but when it has grown, it is larger than all the garden plants. Not just large, Pastor. It's the largest. That's my that's my my grammatical, historical, literal larger than all the garden plants and becomes a tree so that the birds of the air come and make nests in its branches. So it will have to be proven from Scripture and clearly demonstrated that the kingdom was established at first Christ at Christ's first coming. And now in history, it's growing. It is advancing centers are coming into it and ultimately it's going to be the largest Kingdom. Again, maybe we need to do three episodes like that doesn't mean it's the same nature of earthly kingdoms. It's a different kind of kingdom. It's a redemptive spiritual kingdom. It's a supernatural kingdom. It's a heavenly kingdom. But nonetheless, it is a kingdom, it is a realm of Christ's authority. exercised and outwardly expressed and experienced on earth. Sorry I'm getting all fired up. I've been trying to stay calm so we can get through these at a respectable time. Anyway, the advance of God's kingdom, go Yeah, I don't know if we want to talk too much more about this, because we'll go down some rabbit trails that are good and will be beneficial. But I think m as the core value as itself, we're saying we believe and uh we are uh excited for the advancement of God's kingdom now. Not just a a feature, but that's one of our core values as a church is advancing God's kingdom, preaching the gospel, planning of churches. So all these things are happening, but we are all about that. Because God has commissioned us to do it. Right. Yeah, that's good that's a good summary. That's something that's happening now. It's something we're involved in now. It's a top priority. It's not like an extra thing that we might start thinking about, but it's just wrapped up in who we are and what we want to be about. Um and lastly, the importance of the church And there there is um this idea what's people will call the universal church is talking about all the saved. all the people of God from all ages or or all Christians on the earth, w whatever, just different aspects to it. But what I'm talking about here is the local church God 's design for organizing his kingdom, for advancing his kingdom, for the worship of himself is local churches, the importance of the church. Almost like how the work of the spirit and The gospel had to go next to each other. The advance of the kingdom and the importance of local churches, those had to be next to each other It's not last because it's least. I was just trying to get a practical flow to these. 1 Timothy 3. 15. If I delay, you may know how one ought to behave in the household of God. You mean I can't just come and behave however I want? Point number five, inspiration of the Bible. Point number five, inspiration of the Bible. That's right. Um if I delay, you may know how one ought to behave. in the household of God, which is the church of the living God, a pillar and buttress of the truth. Thoughts on this value I agree. You better agree. Or we have to redo this this whole whole episode. But uh yeah, if we missed the If we devalue the bride of Christ, then we're devaluing Christ and what he has done. I'm not I didn't come up with that, but that that must be our mindset. And I think recently we've had having to cancel and delay church because of the weather, I think was a good reminder for us. Like, oh wait, there's something there. While we may not have the words to put on like fully uh a good theological description of why we gather on Sundays with one another, but we felt something after a few weeks. Or if you're out for sickness, you feel something, you go , all right. There's something there. Yeah. And should drive you into the Word of God to say, why, why do I feel this way when I'm not able to be at church? So there's so many so many different applications um this of scripture that it's hard to boil this down to seven points. Um one of the things, if there was gonna be an if there were going to be an ace, which we're not gonna add an ace, but would be biblical Christian living. You know, because that's not directly said in any of these, but that's that's a discipleship. That's um striving to live for Christ. That's our sanctification. And it it's it's an application and it it's a connection to each one of these. So The first one, the glory and praise of God. That's not an abstract idea. I mean, right out of the gate we're saying we want to strive to live for the glory and praise of God. That's Christian living. The salvation of souls. Well, we're saved. We're God's children. We're God's people. We're striving to live for Him. So that's practical Christian living. Um and on and on and on, the work of the Spirit. That's the work of the Spirit in our in our lives and in the church. The importance of the church. That's a category of discipleship. So uh learning to honor God in all areas of life. Well, that's just one area of life is is the church. But that's Central for our discipleship. Any closing thoughts on this list as a whole or any one of those that you had one more thing you wanted to say about or just any any questions or applications that came to your mind as we were working through these Well all of these and your point number eight, I think is it's our purpose statement for the church. So Second Corinthians uh five fifteen. And he Excuse me. And he died for all that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. This is the fresh living. All of this is why we live for Christ. This is why we are dead to the old self and we're alive in Him. This is why we give up whatever we have to follow after Him. So our core values and our purpose, they're all linked together intentionally, um, really to the glory and praise of God. Yeah, that's a good reminder. I'm loving that verse more and more. Second Corinthians five fifteen just 'cause of the because of the simple way that it says that. Live for him. Yeah. No longer live for ourselves, but we live for him. Yeah, so that's the that's the preface to this Because w then we would ask the question, well how do we how do we do that? How do we live for him? What th this list gets us Started. Um let me scan these over again and see if there's anything else I wanted wanted to say. I think that episode was a whole lot shorter than I thought it would be, which is okay. It's just an introduction to the list. I guess I would want to close on some direct practical application for the listener So I'll I'll throw two out there and then if you have any you can throw them out and then one way or the other just close us in prayer So, first practical application, I would say bury yourself in the Word of God and in prayer. Seek God's will. Seek God in his word And maybe you've been doing that and keep doing it and do it all the more. Encourage others to do it. Set a good example. But if you're in a dry spell, if you're in a s a a season of coldness, uh a spiritual winter and you haven't been in the word and you haven't been hungry for the word, so you've been negligent in church. You and you haven't been doing personal devotions and there's just there's just nothing else in your heart or nothing in your heart that's just desiring the word Pray for mercy, pray for grace, pray for God to help you, and just proactively Just go to church and sit under the word and see what God does. Trust in God. Do things, but trust in God to stir you up and to bring revival. And I guess wrapped up in there is the other point of application I wanted to say is find a biblical Christ-Centered Gospel Preaching Church that's giving you substantial Bible teaching and preaching and Join that church and just be a part of that church for the good of your own soul, for the sake and spread of God's kingdom, but ultimately for the glory of God. When we do things God's way, God gets the glory, and God is honored and God is pleased. And so if you've separated from the church, if you've wandered away from church, if you if you felt that you don't need church or that it's not part of God's will. Come back to Scripture, learn about the church, go to biblical church. God designed it. We didn't design it. People didn't design it. Um it's it's God's design for your practical discipleship and so bury yourself in the Word and get into A biblical local church. Yeah. And for our people, uh I hope it's encouraging that you go, Oh yeah, that's this is what my church is all about. This is what North Harford Baptist Church is all about in all of our our problems this is what we're about and may it may excite you and then if you're you know you're sharing the gospel or you're inviting your friends and family to come to church and they say, Well why should I go to North Arford Baptist or a biblical church compared to I don't know, first Jarrett's Unitarian Church of whatever you want. Well it's because this is our core value. Right. It's not nothing else, but this is it. We we've heard some examples of that, people coming here and saying, Yeah, I was here, but it they just kept going back to this one topic or this one cultural issue. And I just want truth. I just want the Bible. That excites us when people say that. And it shows that's what our passion is all about. Let me close this out in prayer. Holy God, we thank you for this time in your word. We thank you to be reminded of your goodness, to be reminded of what you have established North Harvard Baptist Church to be here in Hartford County. And Lord, I ask that you give us the strength and the wisdom to live this out in everything we do. May we give you all the glory and praise. We praise in Christ's name. Amen.