One verse tonight, verse five, because I see in this verse uh just an encouragement Um a very basic and simple encouragement on you and I depending on the Lord. And I'll describe what I mean by that as we get to the verse. But first I want to take you back in my life some well over 37 years ago. I got a phone call. From a man by the name of Jack Beck, who many of you know, former pastor here. And you've heard me say this before, but this passage reminded me of this account in my life on the phone. I knew that, you know, he represented a church that was looking for an associate pastor. Um and so already there's excitement and some nervousness, of course, just naturally speaking to Uh Jack Beck with the big voice he has even over the phone, I could tell he was probably, you know, seven feet tall or so. And no, I'm just joking But it was a blessing to speak with him. But he he asked in the middle of the conversation, are you interested in Colossians 4 and verse 12? And I I don't have a Bible in my lap. You know, we're just chatting about the possibility of ministry. So I said the right thing. I said, uh, I'm interested in scripture. What does it say? And he read it, and it said this, epiphrast. who is one of your number, a bond slave of Jesus Christ, sends you his greetings. And here's the part, always laboring earnestly for you in his presence. prayers, that you may stand perfect and fully assured in all the will of God. So that was a verse that governed Jack's life Verse he wanted to share with me as I uh considered the possibility of working alongside him that it was important that I be interested I've never forgotten that, never forgotten that verse. One of the first things I shared with uh With Pastor Matt when he came was not this verse, but was John chapter 15 and verse 5, where Jesus says, I am the vine, you are the branches. He who abides in me and I in him will produce much fruit, for apart from me, you can do nothing. Nothing. And I wanted to impress upon my own heart and Pastor Matt's heart as we began ministry together that uh that I believed that. And um and we do believe that, and you all believe that. And so we know the need of title of the message, depending on God And I almost titled it Pray Like a Widow, but I didn't have the courage to do that. So depending depending on God. And I was reminded of Colossians 4. 12 and John uh fifteen and verse five in first Timothy five five. So let's look at it together. Now she who is a widow indeed. And who has been left alone, has fixed her hope on God, and continues in entreaties and prayers night and day I see in this verse three lessons, in this description really, three lessons. uh of what it means to depend on God. Number one, and you have this outline on the bulletin. How about that? A PM outline imprint on your bulletin. If you have a bulletin. If you don't, it's a simple outline. Recognize, here's number one. Recognize your need and inability to meet it on your own I take that from the words who has been left alone. A widow left alone in uh the age in which Paul was living first century w did not have income, di had to depend on others for the basics of life and anything in life. And that's why he's describing or telling the church that those are ones who need to be with with other qualifications we looked at this morning, they need to be supported by the church. So recognize your need and inability to meet it on your own. And I want to speak of three areas that are personal to me You can think of similar areas or your mind can go to other places. But three examples where I need to recognize my need and inability to meet it on my own The first one is church growth. I'm a pastor, so I think of what is a healthy church and how can it grow. And I have always been struck by 1 Corinthians chapter 3 and verse 6, where Paul says, I planted Apollos watered, but God was causing the growth. Now, what happens if you take God out of that equation that Paul gives? Well there is No growth. We can plant and water all we want and be faithful in doing that. But God causes the growth. So recognize your need and in inability to meet it on your own. My one of my examples, church growth. Well we all want that. So we all need to be praying for God to cause growth. Second example from my life. I certainly want, and this is church related too, to feed and lead the flock effectively. And the verse I think of there is one that I've already given you. John fifteen and verse five. Jesus said to his disciples who would begin the work of the Great Commission and the work of building the church I am the vine, you are the branches, he who abides in me, and I in him, he bears much fruit, for apart from me you can do Nothing. Recognize your need and inability to meet it on your own. Um it is not the intelligence the wisdom, the knack, the personality of a pastor that is what is needed to feed and lead the flock effectively. It is pastors that depend upon Christ to be the vine. So that's always spoken to my heart. in that way. Recognize your need and inability to meet it on your own. One other area that you all can easily relate to, well if you're a husband you can relate to the first part of this, but you can all relate to the second So this is my third example. I want to love my wife as Christ loved the church, and along with that, live holy in all my behaviors. So just thinking of obedience in life. making that very personal as a husband, but then in all of life to be holy in all of my behavior. And recognizing my need and inability to meet it on my own, I think of Romans 7. 18 Paul says, I know that how much good dwells within me? Nothing. Nothing good dwells in me. That is in my flesh. For the willing, the willing is present in me, but the doing of the good is not. So our need to Whether it's love your wife or respect, submit to your husband, be holy in all your behavior. We desire that as believers, but the doing of the good is not within us. Alone. We need the Lord. So, first lesson, recognize your need in all of life, of course. I've given you three examples, and your inability to meet it on your own So what is this going to do? It's going to make you pray like a widow, laboring earnestly in your prayers. Secondly Fix your hope on God. That's from the phrase, she fixed her hope on God Three areas where I need to fix my hope on God. They're the same areas. Church growth. Well, where do I find hope? Matthew 16, 18 Upon this rock, Peter's declaration of who Jesus is, the truth there. Upon this rock, Jesus said, I will build my church. I believe he is. I believe he has been. I believe he will continue until he comes again. The gates of Hades will not overpower. So fix my hope on God. My hope is in what Christ does at North Hartford Baptist Church. And tonight, as I shared earlier, pray for the churches in other lands where they need to be stronger. My hope is in Christ to continue building His church. A second example to feed and lead the flock effectively. Well, fixing my hope on God doesn't lead me to be clever or to find fresh stories that you've never heard before. It leads me to 2 Timothy chapter 3. sixteen and seventeen, where I read that all scripture is inspired by God, profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness, so that the man of God hath I would take that for myself, the man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. And so fix my hope on God means trust the teaching of Scripture to Be what you need to be taught, what you need for reproof, for correction, for training in righteousness. One of my seminary professors told a story. about a young man who uh came to him and was saying what he had been preaching recently and he needed another good idea for a sermon. And the professor Handed him a Bible. And that's what he needed to realize that we we preach and teach the scripture. God has given us the balanced diet that we need by going through the Word of God. And then the third example that I'm using to love my wife as Christ loved the church, to live holy in all my behavior, where do I find hope in that Well again, not in myself, but in the Spirit. Galatians 5, 22 and 23, the Spirit, the fruit of the Spirit is, and you know, love, joy, peace. Patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness, gentleness, and self-control. Those are things we need in our relationship. There are things that we need in order to to stay pure in the world. Fix your hope on God. And thirdly, she continues in entreaties and prayers night and day So my third point is pray without ceasing. That's how we depend on God. 1 Thessalonians 5, verse 17 leads us to that conclusion with the command, pray without ceasing. So just some examples of how I try to do that, and I would never claim perfect faithfulness in what I'm about to share, but the implications of my messages, which I try to have every week, applications. uh which I call them implications at the end. They become my prayer list as I'm coming here on Sunday morning and sitting here or sitting at home now watching over my mom's care. But those become a prayer list for me. the application of the message for the flock. So I guess an example of that would be helpful this morning. Let me just look back and see what our implications were. There were four of them, as you remember, so turning these into prayer that we would see one another as family, as brothers and sisters, grow in that. uh and and the older among us would be respected as mothers and fathers that we would take that family illustration that God used that Paul used for Timothy and and practice that more and more. That many most of our families are self-supporting. And uh and so we don't have the issue with widows that they had in the first century. But that is something that our young people need to learn to watch out for um family members. And so pray that that is taking place in families Thirdly, we should appreciate the valuable service widows can and do perform for the church. So a double prayer request. Yes, Father, we're thankful for that. So I want to be faithful to thank you, but I also want that too to continue and and keep increasing all the more. Uh the blessing of that. And and then that fourth one was not to miss the warning in this passage. Just about every, well, always when we are proclaiming the Word of God, there's opportunity for the Spirit, and the Spirit does work in the hearts of The lost, I believe, convicting them. But this morning there was a especially a couple of verses that gave a warning to the lost, and so praying that God would prick their conscience through the messenger So praying in in those ways for growth of believers and growth in the sense of people coming to Christ. That would be one way that I do that. To feed and lead the flock effectively, well, one way that I um seek to be faithful in my prayer there is acknowledging God in all my ways So when things come up in ministry, uh this past week I had to had a a counseling appointment and uh th there's always a sense of need there to pray. This one particularly so so acknowledging God in all my ways is is simply God I depend on you and I I usually sit for a time to think about what scripture should be brought up and sometimes the appointment goes in diff different directions. We understand that that can be the case, but to depend on God, you know Help to help me be equipped and also just praying that he would use me in that time. So to lead and feed the flock effectively, that's just one example, counseling, where I would acknowledge God in all my way. and make sure that that I'm praying. An another I mean it used to be my pattern now I I have to admit it's changed some i i because I do this more at home now, but it used mu to be my pattern to be finished with all the details of being ready for Sunday morning and just Just sit on this pew in quietness and uh pray for uh effective uh uh leadership as a pastor and sensitivity to to what was happened during the services and so forth. To love my wife as Christ loved the church, to live holy in all my behavior. One way that I pray generally every day is according to the prayer Jesus taught us. Our Father who is in heaven, hallowed be your name, to be a person of praise. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven, to consider what God is doing in my life. what he is teaching me, w how he is correcting me, uh to want to be obedient. Uh give us this day our daily bread to be dependent on him and thankful to him when he provides day by day. And you can understand that uh Alicia and Andrea might have a better handle on that kind of a uh why Jesus teaches us to to pray, give us this day our daily bread because it comes so easily to most of us, but faith missionaries know more about that. I don't want to forget those lessons. I want I don't want to forget that I'm a sinner every day. Uh m and I want to be sensitive to sin in my life and keep short accounts with the Lord. And I also want to be one who forgives others very quickly as well. As well. And do not lead us into temptation. I know that I'm vulnerable. I want to love my wife as Christ loved the church. I want to live holy in all my behavior, so God don't Don't lead me into temptation and deliver me from evil. I'm not beyond being tempted, neither are you, any of you. And so we need to humbly pray about that, without ceasing, pray about that day by day Well, depending on God. This verse is one that you can circle if you mark in your Bible, underline whatever you want to do, write it on another piece of paper, but it's just another place that uh God gives us an example here of what it means to depend on Him, to recognize your need and your inability to make it to meet your needs on your own. to fix your hope on God alone and to pray without ceasing. Let's pray together. Lord, I thank you for this verse of Scripture and how it came off the page to my heart as an example. I thank you for those within this church in the past and present, and I trust in the future who indeed exemplify this in their lives. As as widows. So we have that example before us, and we thank you for those examples. But help us each to take this and to grow in our dependence upon you. pray. I know that honors you, it pleases you. It's where we need to be. It's where growth happens personally and in ministry. So I pray that You would continue to make us a church and individual believers who depend upon you. Like these widows, like Jesus taught us in John 15, 5. Like Epiphrast did, not ceasing in his prayers. In Jesus' name we ask. Amen.