Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. Let's go to the Gospel Primer devotion. It's on your handout, looking at section eleven this week. Section 11 is loving my brothers and sisters. I really enjoy the progression of these devotions. Two devotions ago was that were justified by faith, not by works. And then the last devotion was that as those who are justified by faith, we then devote ourselves to good works and obedience. Now he zooms in on one specific aspect, a central aspect of this. Section 11: Loving my brothers and sisters, the more I experience the gospel. the more there develops within me a yearning affection for my fellow Christians who are also participating in the glories of the gospel. This affection for them comes loaded with confidence in their continued spiritual growth and ultimate glorification. And it becomes my pleasure to express to them this loving confidence regarding the ongoing work of God in their lives. Footnote 34, Philippians 1, beginning in verse 3. I thank my God in all my remembrance of you. Always offering prayer with joy in my every prayer for you all, in view of your participation in the gospel from the first day until now. Verse 6 I'm confident of this very thing that He, God, He who began a good work in you, will perfect it until the day of Christ Jesus. Do you see that relating up to this? This this confidence we have that God is working in the lives of our brothers and sisters. For it is only right for me to feel this way about you all, because I have you in my heart Since both in my imprisonment and in the defense and confirmation of the gospel, you all are partakers of grace with me. Back up into the body of of the uh of the writing. Additionally, with the gospel proving itself to be such a boon in my own life, I realized that the greatest gift I can give to my fellow Christians Is the gospel itself. Indeed, I love my fellow Christians not simply because of the gospel, but I love them best when I am loving them with the gospel. Verse uh or footnote rather 35, 1 Thessalonians 2, 8, having so fond an affection for you We were well pleased to impart to you not only the gospel of God, but also our own lives, because you had become very dear to us. And back up. And I do this not merely by speaking gospel words to them, but also by living before them and generously relating to them. In a gospel manner. That just means with love and grace and forgiveness and mercy and a spirit of reconciliation. And thinking highly of them, honoring them, esteeming them in cr in Christ. I thereby contribute to their experience of the power, the spirit, and the full assurance of the gospel. You can talk about this. Sometimes it helps me personally to put things in terms like that a five-year-old or a six-year-old would understand. And for this it would be something like this. God uses you to help others grow. Right? And he'll use others to help you grow. He'll use you to encourage others. And he'll use others to encourage you. He'll use you to build up others. And he'll use others to build you up. And it all centers on the gospel. Gospel words, but a gospel attitude. Footnote 36, 1 Thessalonians 1 5, for our gospel did not come to you in word only. but also in power and in the Holy Spirit and in much assurance, as you know what kind of men we were among you for your sake. I love that spirit. It comes out in that verse of Paul. It really mirrors Christ's attitude. What Christ did, he did for our What Paul did, he did for their sake. And the way we relate to each other is for each other's sake. Of course, under, you know, everything's ultimately for the glory of God. By preaching the gospel to myself each day, I nurture the bond. Powerful image. I nurture the bond that unites me with my brothers and sisters for whom Christ died. And I also keep myself Well versed in the raw materials with which I may actively love them in Christ