Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. Alright, a gospel primer by Milton Vincent. This week's devotional is Section 6, A Cure for Distrust. And he writes, Every time I deliberately disobey a command of God, it is because I am in that moment doubtful doubtful as to God's true intentions in giving me that command. Does he really have my best interests at heart? Or is he withholding something from me that I would be better off having? Such questions, whether consciously asked or not, lie underneath every act of disobedience I don't think I've done this yet, but I'll I want to pause at this point to say that that is w one of the great tactics of the devil is to make us think that God is trying to keep something good from us. And to make us think that his commandments are to harm us. Not to help us. God wants to lead us into blessing. He wants to lead us into what's good for us, what's best for us. He has good things to give us. The chief good thing he wants to give us is himself in fellowship with himself. And his commandments are a way to obey him and reflect his glory and enjoy his blessings. However, he continues, the gospel changes my view of God's commandments, in that it helps me to see the heart of the person from whom those commandments. Come. Such an important principle. The gospel shows us God. The gospel brings us into a relationship, a favorable, friendly relationship with the one who gave those commandments that we we violated. And when I begin my train of thought with the gospel, I realize that if God loved me enough to sacrifice his son's life for me, then he must be guided by that same love when he speaks mu speaks his commandments to me. Right? D do you we believe that in our hearts? That his his gospel and his mercy and his forgiveness come from a heart of love. Do we believe that his commands and requirements come from the same heart of love? Viewing God's commands and prohibitions In this light, which are really just uh two different two sides of the same coin, right? Every commandment of God requires something and forbids something. Viewing God's commands and prohibitions in this light, I can see them for what they really are. Friendly signposts. From a heavenly Father who is seeking to love me through each directive so that I might experience his very fullness forever. And Deuteronomy 5. 29, O that they had such a heart in them, that they would keep all my commandments always, that it may be well with them and with their sons forever. And when controlling my thoughts as described above, the gospel cures me of my suspicion of God, thereby disposing me to walk more trustingly on the path of obedience to his commandments. It's life in Christ first, and then obedience to God's commands. That's the gospel way. The way of works Would be obey first, and on the basis of your obedience you receive life. Well, only Christ followed that pattern. He obeyed, he received the reward of life. For us, we received life first as a free gift, in order that we might obey Because part of the life that we receive, or the life that we receive, is the Holy Spirit living within us to create a heart for obedience, a heart that loves God, a heart full of gratitude to God for his mercy and forgiveness. And that is the fountain spring of all obedience. So the cure for distrust, the cure for being skeptical of whether God wants something good for me or has something good for me or wants to do good In me and for me. The cure is seeing God's heart of love and communing with Him in the gospel. We've got to go to God through the gospel. Always and everywhere, every day.