Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. Alright, let's go to our Devotional from A Gospel Primer. If you haven't seen this yet, this is the book we're going through: A Gospel Primer by Milton Vincent. Short sections. They all revolve around the general theme of growing in the gospel daily as the source of our spiritual growth. And this week is section 10, enslaved by Christ's righteousness. Now he puts this, he puts section 9 and 10 next to each other for a practical reason Section 9 was resting in Christ's righteousness. And do you remember what the gist of resting in Christ's righteousness is? It is that we're saved by his righteousness credited to us, not by works. It's not by his righteousness plus ours. It's we're saved a hundred percent by his righteousness, not by ours, not by our works, not by our obedience. Well, that does not mean therefore we live however we want. The Bible doesn't teach that. And so section 10 is enslaved by Christ's righteousness And here's what he says: the righteousness of God, credited to me through Christ, is not merely something I rest in, but it is also the premier saving reality by which God governs Me. According to Romans 6, when I obeyed the gospel call, I was both declared righteous and quote became a slave to righteousness. End quote. At the same time. Footnote number thirty, Romans six and seven verse seventeen. But thanks be to God that you became obedient from the heart to that form of teaching which you were committed. And having been freed from sin, you became slaves of righteousness. Back up in the main body. Quite literally, the righteousness that God credited to me Became my master on that day I was converted. And now I am daily called by God to surrender the members of my being. as slaves to do whatever this righteousness dictates. Romans six nineteen, in the footnote, for just as you presented your members as slaves to impurity and to lawlessness Resulting in further lawlessness, that's talking about us when we were lost. So now present your members as slaves to righteousness, resulting in sanctification. Growing in holiness. Alright, back up in the main body, second paragraph. That I would be called to present my members as slaves of this Imputed righteousness implies that my justification has something to say to me by way of directing me how to live my life each day. That's a a long sentence there. The structure and the concept is pretty simple. The fact that we're declared righteous by faith is not just something that's True about us in terms of our status before God, but it also directs how we live. We become slaves of righteousness. Just put it in layman's terms, it's we become people who really want to obey God. Right What it directs me to do is to be holy, and what results from my obedience to its rule is sanctification or holiness of life. The footnote, Romans 6, 19. Now present your members as slaves to righteousness, which results in sanctification. Hence It could be said that sanctification is merely the lifelong process wherein I joyfully surrender myself to God's imputed righteousness, and then do whatever this righteousness directs me to Experience the full let me see if I have this through more three more lines the full governing force of its sanctifying power in my life. And the more sanctified I become, the more I experience Experience the full breath of eternal life that God has given to me in Christ. Mount and just think of this in real general terms, real simple terms, what is he doing? He's connecting our identity in Christ with the way we live. There's far too many people in the world who they think their identity is child of God. They think their identity is forgiven, reconciled, saved, but yet their lives have not been re- Shaped by the gospel, they're not living with a heart fully given over to obedience. Well the biblical picture ties identity and life together. That's what he's trying to do. And And that takes a lifetime of growth and prayer and God humbling us and God's God sanctifying us through trials and he is faithful and he will grow us gradually and we'll never be perfected this side of eternity. We'll be perfected when our bodies die and our souls depart. And are made righteous and go to dwell dwell with God in heaven. But on this earth, in this life, there will always be a measure of disobedience in our lives, but we walk by faith, not by sight. We walk under grace and not under Under law. We 're forgiven people. Not righteous in and of ourselves, but righteous by the blood of Christ. Let's go ahead and pray