Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. So in 2022, these devotions will be coming from A Gospel Primer for Christians by Milton Vincent. The subtitle is Learning to See the Glories of God's Love. You have the printout of section one before you. I highly recommend getting this. You could probably get a used one for four to six bucks and A new one, I think, anywhere from eight if you find a really good sale to like eleven or twelve dollars normally that's what it is. Again, Milton Vincent, a gospel primer for Christians, learning to see the glories of God's love. It is about experiencing the encouragement and the power of the gospel in the day-to-day life of being a believer. Often we can think of the gospel as being strictly or almost exclusively for unbelievers so that they can come into a relationship with God. But we must also remember that the gospel is for believers to grow in our relationship with God. And so you can follow along as I read section one. If I can find it here. And it's called the New Testament model. The New Testament teaches that Christians ought to hear the gospel as much as non-Christians do. In fact, in the first chapter of Romans, the Apostle Paul tells the believers in the church that he was anxious to preach the gospel to you who are at Rome. Of course, he was anxious to preach the gospel to the non-Christians at Rome, yet he specifically states that he was eager to preach it to the believers as well. To the Corinthian Christians who had already believed and been saved by the gospel, Paul says, I made known to you the gospel which you have believed. He then restates the historical facts of the gospel before showing them how those gospel facts apply to their beliefs about the afterlife. This is actually Paul's approach to various other issues throughout the book of 1 Corinthians. In most of Paul's letters to churches, Sizable portions of them are given over to rehearsing gospel truths. For example, Ephesians 1 to 3 is all gospel. Colossians 1 and 2 is gospel. Romans 1 through 11 is gospel. The remainder of such books shows specifically how to bring those gospel truths to bear on life. repreaching the gospel and then showing how it applied to life was Paul's choice method for ministering to believers. Thereby providing divinely inspired pattern for me to follow when ministering to myself and to other believers. Romans 1:15, so for my part, I am eager to preach the gospel To you also who are in Rome. So to evangelize, literally, you who are in Rome And he's speaking to believers. First Corinthians fifteen, verse one. Now I make known to you, brethren, the gospel which I preach to you, which you also received, in which also you stand. by which also you are saved if you hold fast to the word, the word of the gospel, which I preach to you, unless you believed in vain, for I delivered to you as of first importance That Christ died for our sins according to the Scriptures, and that He was buried, and that He was raised on the third day according to the Scriptures. As we get into the sections, and if you were to read this book, get one for yourself, you find very quickly and very clearly that the theme is learning to preach the gospel to yourself daily. to be blessed by it, to grow in it, to see the glories of God's grace, the wonders of his love more and more, more deeply. and to enjoy and experience it. So that's what this devo these devotions will be about because that's what the book is about. And um pretty much going just to read through the section by section each week. Read the cross references and probably, like I'm about to do now, point out one or two of the uh most powerful sentences that stood out to me. I think the last uh the last sentence here stands out to me. Re of the last two sentences, rather. It says the remainder of such books show such letters shows specifically Here's the phrase that popped out to me. How to bring those gospel truths to bear on life. How to bring gospel truths to bear on life. That's an ongoing journey for the Christian. Learning how to bring gospel truths to bear on our lives. And then he says this repreaching the gospel. and then showing how it applied to life was Paul's choice method for ministering to believers. So going back to the gospel, going back to the gospel. And it makes sense because the gospel is God's climactic and God's central revelation of himself. That's what the Christian life is about. It's seeing God. It's knowing God. And we do that through the gospel. So next week we'll do Section two my daily need.