Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. First we are doing Gospel Primer Section 8. So it's on that handout, the right side, where it says 8. And the section this week is Freedom. From sin 's power. Talk about practical application. I know I need that every single day. That's not like something I needed way back and then I became a Christian and I didn't need help with that anymore. This is a daily fight, a daily struggle, a daily battle against sin. Freedom from sin's power. And before I read it, just real quick, that's that should make us think of the uh Two of the central blessings of the gospel is freedom from sin's guilt, right, where it's no longer on our record, but then also freedom from sin's power where in our heart it doesn't rule over us any longer. So the erasing of our guilt, but then the breaking of the spiritual shackles in our heart that were not enslaved to the power of sin. As long as I am stricken. With the guilt of my sins, I will be captive to them. Just get that mental image of burdened down with guilt What a horrible place to be. And will often find myself recommitting the very sins about which I feel most guilty. Friends, isn't it true? The guilt can be so crippling. The devil is well aware of this fact, and he knows that if he can keep me tormented. By sin 's guilt. He can dominate me with sin 's power. The gospel, however, slays sin at this root point and thereby nullifies sin 's power over me. What is the root point? It slays sin at this root point guilt. A guilt. It erases the guilt of our sin and thereby nullifies sin's power over me. The forgiveness of God. made known to me through the gospel, liberates me from sin's power because it liberates me first from its guilt And that goes, you can see the cross-reference down there from Romans 6. 14. Sin shall not be master over you, for you are under grace. So it's being under grace. That's the reason why sin is no longer master over us. And back up into the main paragraph, it liberates me from its guilt and preaching such forgiveness to myself. is a practical way of putting the gospel into operation as it nullif as a nullifier. I don't think I've ever said that word before in my life. Nullifier. Sounds like a superhero. He's the nullifier. Nullifier of sin 's power in my life. The uh look at the second paragraph again, the second sentence, the forgiveness of God. There's going to be a subtitle given to the Bible that would be in the running. Bible. The forgiveness of God. That's what this book is about. God making known his forgiveness, teaching us about his forgiveness so that we would believe in him and be forgiven of our sin. Guilt erased and sin 's power. I love that image. What does he say? Where is it in here? Cut to the root or something like that. Slave sin at this root point. I love it. Freedom from sin 's power. Of course, the overarching application is that freedom can only come from God. It can only come from God through the gospel of Jesus Christ in the power of the Holy Spirit. And I pray, pray that we would seek that daily