A short devotional on Ruth chapter 4. I preached on this passage in Zambia And I love the way that Christ is seen in this passage. I don't really have time to develop this into a full message. So this is maybe a bit more like a lecture than uh than you might uh expect, but I'm a theology professor, so Yeah. But turning your Bibles to Ruth chapter 4. And while you're turning there, let me just reminds you of what happened in the first three chapters. I assume you probably looking out I know all of you, I assume you know the story of Ruth pretty well. But just to recap In chapter 1, the book locates the story in the time of the judges when there's no king in Israel and everyone did what was right in their own eyes. There's a famine in the land of Bethlehem. Which literally means house of bread. Um, so that's ironic. The book is filled with irony. So uh the family has to flee into the land of Moab um where they can find food and uh the the two um uh two sons marry Moabite women and then the father dies and the two sons die lean leaving Naomi with um the two foreign daughter-in-laws in the foreign country. And then um Naomi decides it's time to go back to Bethlehem and one daughter-in-law stays there in Moab. But Ruth, in spite of Naomi's pleading, no return, she says, no, I will go with you. The rest of the book describes this as a remarkable act of kindness where she pledges to be with Naomi no matter what. Naomi goes back to Bethlehem, and when she gets there, she's pretty discouraged, and she says, I have returned empty. And she says, don't call me Naomi, call me Mara, which means bitter. Naomi means pleasant. Mara means bitter. And then, chapter two, Ruth goes out to glean in the field, and that was a provision for poorer people, that they could eat the leftovers that was uh after the field had been been picked through first. You could pick through at once and then you had to let the poor people We'll take it through afterwards. And the text says that it ha uh that Ruth happened to happen upon the field of a man named Boaz. who shows her remarkable kindness and turns out to be a near relative who is able to be a kinsman redeemer. who could really buy her out of her poverty. And not only her, could also bless the family as well. Ruth returns from a from gleaning the field to um Naomi and says that the person who owned the field is Boaz. Naomi says, oh, he is a near relative. But but Naomi, my reading of Naomi, at least, is that at this point, she really isn't Trusting in God. She's learned Murphy's Law, right? And things have always gone wrong. And I I think what she's doing in chapter three is she's trying to set Ruth and Boaz up. She's trying to get them together. And remember, this is a time when everybody's doing right in their own eyes. So I don't think she expects Boaz will act honorably in this situation. But but if they can get together in some way, that would be of advantage to to Naomi because then she would be taken care of, at least to some degree. I think that's what she's thinking. What she doesn't expect is that Ruth will be remarkably kind to her. And if you read the text, Ruth actually proposes to Boaz, basically, not only to be her husband. Um, or not only that that he would be her husband, she would be his wife, but also to redeem the family which will take care of Naomi for the rest of her life and take care of her wealth. In other words, what I think is going on in chapter 3 is Ruth is making good on that promise she had made to Naomi when they were back in Moab that said I will be with you. I will never leave you. And Ruth is doing this for her. But of course, for this plan to work. Another nearer relative would have to refuse to be the redeemer. And Boaz, who is willing to redeem her, needs to see if that other redeemer Redeemer will redeem. If not, then he will do it. So that's how Chapter 4 is set up. So let me read Chapter 4. Now Boaz had gone to the gate and sat down there, and behold, the Redeemer of whom Boaz had spoken came by. So Boaz said, Turn aside, friend. It's interesting, in Hebrew, that word friend is actually more literally translated, this and that. Turn aside this and that. Which is an odd name. That's for a reason. Sit down here, Boaz says. So he turned aside and sat down. And he, that is Boaz , took ten men of the elders of the city and said, Sit down here. So they sat down. Then he said to the Redeemer, Naomi, who has come back from the country of Moab, is selling the parcel of land that belongs to our relative Elimelech. So I thought I would tell you and say of it, buy it in the presence of those sitting here and in the presence of the elders of my people If you will redeem it, redeem it. But if you will not, tell me that I may know, for there is no one beside you to redeem it, and I come after you. And he said, I will redeem it. Then Boa said, The day you buy the field from the hand of the Naomi, you also acquire Ruth, the Moabite, the widow of the dead, in order to perpetuate the name Pay attention to that word name, it shows up a lot. Of the dead in his inheritance. Then the Redeemer said, I cannot redeem it for myself, lest I impair my own inheritance. Take my right of redemption for yourself, for I cannot redeem it. Now this was the custom in the former times in Israel concerning the redeeming or exchanging to confirm a transaction. The one drew off his sandal and gave it to the other And this was the manner of attesting in Israel. So when the Redeemer said to Boaz, Buy it for yourself, he drew off his sandal. Then Boaz said to the elders and all the people, You are witnesses this day, that I have bought from the hand of Naomi all that belonged to Elimelech. and that belonged to Chileon and to Malon. Also Ruth the Moabite, the widow of Malon, I have acquired to be my wife, to perpetuate the name of the dead in his inheritance. that the name of the dead may not be cut off from among his brothers and from the gate of his native place. You are witnesses this day. Then all the people who were at the gate and the elders said, We are witnesses. May the Lord make this woman who is coming into your house like Rachel and Leah, who together built up the house of Israel. May you act worthily in Ephrata, and be renowned in Bethlehem, and may your house be like the house of Perez, whom Tamar bore to Judah, because of the offering that the Lord will give you by this young woman So Boaz took Ruth, and she became his wife, and he went into her, and the Lord gave her conception, and she bore a son. Then the women said to Naomi, Blessed be the Lord who has not left you this day without a redeemer. And may his name be renowned in Israel. He shall be to you a restorer of life and a nourisher in your old age. For your daughter-in-law who loves you, who is more to you than seven sons, has given birth to him. Then Naomi took the child and laid him on her lap and became his And the woman of the neighborhood gave him a name, saying, A son has been born to Naomi. And they named him Obed. He was the father of Jesse, the father of David. Now, um don't have time to develop all of this here, uh, but I want to show you two pictures of Jesus in this passage. And I think we are led to see those pictures if we pay attention to the two speeches at the end. When you see a speech in the narrative, it's often a sign that it is a clue to how to interpret the rest of the uh action. And we see two speeches speeches at the end, one from the elders and one from one from the elders to Boaz, and one from the women to Naomi. And I think those are are hermeneutical keys. for how we should understand this book. And I think they show us Jesus in a in some remarkable ways. So the first speech. Look there at verse 11. This is where the elders are at the gate and they are blessing Boaz because of Ruth. The elders are saying, you've got a really good woman, may she be a blessing to you. Now, recognize what's going on here. Boaz is clearly sacrificing something in order to uh marry uh Ruth and then perpetuate the name of the deceased and care for Naomi. This is this is a financial cost to him. He is the Redeemer for for this family. And when you're a redeemer, a kinsman redeemer, you are purchasing back those people who are impoverished, restoring what they once had, giving them financial security and safety. And that would be a cost. to you. And and Boaz is fulfilling this role of the kinsman redeemer to buy this family out of poverty, out of destitute. Of course we see how Boaz is a is a picture of Christ, right? He is he is called the the kinsman redeemer. He is a relative, one like them, who is therefore able to have this uh uh opportunity to buy them back, to rescue them from their impoverishment. Um he so clearly pictures Christ in that way, who is our Redeemer, right? Who who buys us back not from financial uh poverty, um, at least not in this life but he buys us back from the uh debt that we could not pay of sin. He he purchases us from the condemnation of the law, uh from God's wrath against us, and and purchases us for himself. that we would belong to him , that we would be his and he would be ours. And if you look at this speech by the elders, They are acknowledging that he is a worthy man, and they are saying, May what you have done, this kindness to this family, may that be a blessing to you. May this woman who you are taking in, may she be a blessing to you. And And it's interesting, uh, if we look at this passage, in the in the flow of the Bible, actually in the flow of the Hebrew Bible, um, our English Bibles order the books differently than the Hebrew Bibles do. And in the Hebrew Bible, this book is not after Judges, it's after the book of Proverbs. And the end of the proverbs ends with what? Passage. Proverbs 31, right? And Proverbs 31 is about the excellent wife, the worthy woman. That phrase, uh those those Hebrew words for excellent wife, worthy woman, however you you want to translate that, occur twice in the book of Ruth. The liberate connection, therefore. to what came just before the book of Ruth. Proverbs 31. In other words, the book of Ruth is saying, here is the Proverbs 31 woman. And and if you look at Proverbs 31, it's a it's a chiasm. The first part nears the second part, and when you have a chiasm like that where the first part nears the second part, the first half nears the second half You want to look at what happens at the very middle, because that's usually the key for the whole thing. And the very middle of Proverbs 31 is the verse that's not about the woman, the only verse that's not about the woman. What about the man? That he will be honored at the city gates when he sits among the elders of the land. And what is happening with Boaz right now? He is at the city gates, among the elders of the land, being honored. Because of Ruth. See, clear connection there between that passage. So what's going on then? Boaz is It's the picture of Christ, right? He is the Redeemer, buying this woman, this family back from poverty, taking her to himself, a worthy woman who will be a blessing to him. Can't help but think of Christ and the church, what's going on there, of Christ purchase purchasing the church for himself and then washing the church with the pure water of the word, so that the church will be the radiant, spotless bride of Christ, who will be a blessing to Christ in the end. I think Boaz points us to Christ, not just in himself, but also his marriage there to Ruth. It this helps us see that Jesus is the worthy uh the worthy Redeemer. Oh, and by the way, Boaz is is the worthy Redeemer uh in contrast to that other worthless redeemer. Redeemer who did not redeem. And isn't it interesting that he that other redeemer did not redeem because it would have compromised his inheritance? In other words, it would have compromised his name. He didn't want to work for somebody else. He didn't want his investments to be for somebody else. He wanted to preserve it for himself, presumably to to secure his name because The emphasis in this passage is that Boaz is doing this so that the name of the deceased won't be forgotten. And of course, what's the name of that other Redeemer? Well we don't know because his name is not mentioned. All the other names of everybody else are mentioned. But his name is not mentioned. He's called this and that. In other words, he was acting for the sake of his own name and he doesn't have one in the book of Ruth. And yet Boaz, who's not thinking of his own interest, but the interest of others, his name is recorded in scripture, points us, of course, to the one who received a name. But there's another picture of Jesus in here that I just want to look at very briefly as our time is coming to a close. And see if we only had uh well let me just just just mention it rather than than set it up. Uh I think that um Ruth is a picture of Jesus. In here, in a in a rather startling way. Because in the going all the way back to chapter 1, what do we see? She makes that Covenant oath when she says, I will be with you, and then she says, Curse, basically, I let me be cursed if anything but death separates. me from you. That is a a covenant oath, a a covenant basically that she is making with her mother-in-law to say, I will be for you. And then the question that that is really hanging over the rest of the book is, will that promise that she makes, will that covenant oath that she makes to her mother-in-law, will that translate into anything? Will that be good for anything? Naomi doesn't really think so, because she returns to Bethlehem and says, I am empty. I am uh I am um you know I am bitter. Uh her her daughter-in-law, who has shown a great kindness, is with her, but she nevertheless calls herself empty. She has nothing. So Naomi doesn't think much of Ruth's problem. Naomi doesn't also think much of God because she says that uh that the Almighty is against me. So she doesn't think much of Ruth and doesn't think much of God. And then the question is, is she right in that? And as the story unfolds, we see that she is decisively wrong. And that speech at the end, uh let me let me find that. That speech at the end, uh where 's sorry, I had it Well, this is what happens when you rely on notes instead of actually having your Bible up front. That speech at the end, uh the women say to Naomi, um I'm sorry. Sorry. What is it you said don't switch your layup mid mid don't switch your game plan mid layup? Matt was Pastor Matt was trying to use a sports analogy with me Uh it didn't work. It didn't work. I switched up what I was planning to do midway through. Um Yeah, the women, verse 14 of chapter 4, the women say to Naomi, Blessed is the Lord who has not left you without a redeemer today. May his name become famous in Israel. May he also be to you a restorer of life. So this is God's name. God has not left you without a redeemer, the women are saying to Naomi. In other words, God's not really against you. Your daughter-in-law, who loves you and is better to you than seven sons, has given birth to him. In other words, Naomi, you have thought lightly of your daughter-in-law's covenant to you you of her love to you, and yet it has been the only thing that matters to you. It's interesting to think about this in light of when this book was written and what this book is doing overall. And why also there's this emphasis on David in this book. Because it it appears scholars uh don't know exactly when this book was written, but pretty much all scholars agree that this was very late when it was actually written down. I mean the events happened uh at the time of judges, but it was written down way later than that. And they think that because of the way in which it you have to explain the customs. Back in Israel long ago they used to do the custom in that way. You only do that when you're explaining history. This is history when it's actually being written down. Probably it's written down a lot of people think during the exile, when Israel is uh taken to Babylon. Aren't th they are feeling empty. They are wondering, is God's covenant to us going to amount to anything? Because God has made a covenant to them. I will be your God, you will be my people, I will take you to myself, I will not abandon you or forsake you. Similar to the covenant that Ruth made to her mother-in-law. And Israel would be tempted to think like Naomi. That's not going to amount to much. Look at us. Look where we are. And yet I think the point of this book is to say, no, no, no. Don't discount that covenant. That covenant that Ruth made amounted to something in the end. The covenant that God has made will amount to something. in the end. And it's interesting too that there's this mention of David in this book. You know, the that David is the uh you know uh it ends And to Obad was born Jesse, and to Jesse David. Now it would make sense to mention David if this book was written around the time of David. But if this book is written in when they're in exile or headed that way, why mention David? Because the Davidic monarch is in shambles at that point Well I I think because the author was looking to the the offspring of David to come. And and one like David would arise And so I think that even in this book, there's evidence that whoever wrote it was recognizing that David, who lived uh a long time ago, was not the end of the story of David. But there was one like David to come. So I think we see there two pictures of Christ. One picture of Christ in in uh And Boaz, who is the redeemer, gives of himself to redeem this woman, who is then a blessing to her. It's a beautiful picture of Christ in the church But then the picture of Christ that we see in Ruth is is even deeper in some ways because She is kind to her mother-in-law when her mother-in-law is not kind to her. She says, I will be with you no matter what. Naomi is a picture of how we all can be at times. Thinking lightly of God's promise, thinking lightly of God's covenant. But what we see in here is that in the end of the day, that covenant is the only thing that matters. Let's pray. Our God, we thank you for your kindness to us. That in Christ you have made a covenant with us that you will be our God and we will be your people. Oh Lord, may we never think lightly of that covenant. May we never look at our circumstances and think, maybe that doesn't really matter all that much. But rather, Lord, we pray that we would trust in your word and know that at the end of the day, that's the only thing that matters. You have promised to be our God. You have promised to act for us. And thank you for how you've done that in Christ. That He is our Redeemer. That he rescues us not just from negative circumstances that might be uncomfortable or unpleasant here, but from your wrath that we justly deserve. Securing for us an eternal weight of glory, far beyond comparison. Where we will enjoy you and enjoy being enjoyed by you for all of eternity Oh Lord, may we look towards that and believe in your covenant faithfulness. We pray this in Jesus' name. Amen.