Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. Weekly devotion. This week is section two, my daily need. And He writes, The gospel is so foolish, according to my natural wisdom, so scandalous, according to my conscience. What any guess is what the three and the four are up there? Oh, after the two you mean down there? Yeah, there's little ones. There are Bible verses that cross references for your devotions, and when you if you were to get the book They're right there on the page. The passages are written in full on the page. So as you're reading what he has to say, you can look down at the passage and read that too. And we'll look at those when we're done. But the gospel is so foolish and so scandalous, so incredible according to my timid heart, that it is a daily battle to believe the full scope of it as I should There is simply no other way to compete with the forebodings of my conscience, the condemnings of my heart, and the lies of the world. and the devil than to overwhelm such things with daily rehearsings of the gospel. This whole book is an encouragement that we would strive to rehearse the gospel daily, to live and experience God's love in the gospel daily. He's saying we need this. The the daily battle to believe the full scope of God's grace and to believe it the way we should to be comforted by it the way we should, to be able to fight he he says it here, conscience, the condemnings of our hearts the guilt we feel, all of those things, the burdens we experience, the lies of the world, the lies of the devil, we need the gospel daily. Please don't ever think and I'm not accusing any of you of this I have to rehearse this to myself daily. Please don't ever think that the gospel is just what gets us started in the Christian walk. It is the walk. It's the whole path is the gospel path. Um let's see. Oh there it is. The gospel so foolish I must not be logged in. It's supposed to bring that passage up. 1 Corinthians 1:21, for since the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased. through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe, we preach Christ crucified. To Gentiles' foolishness. That's not the entire verses that you can see the dot dot dots and dot dot dots. He's he's just trying to bring out the salient points No, the message is foolishness to the world based on the world standards. And that's why we should never ever try to make the gospel sound wise according to worldly standards. It is the wisdom of God. We don't need to upgrade it. Alright. I'm trying to click on that four, but this little box keeps coming up. There we go. 1 Corinthians 1 23. We preach Christ crucified a stumbling block, and the Greek word there is scandalon. So that's why he's using this scandal of the gospel. There we go. So incredible according to my timid heart. I think two more verses here. First John three, nineteen We will know that we are of the truth, and we will assure our hearts before Him in whatever our hearts condemn us. And finally , 2 Corinthians 4. 4, the God of this world has blinded the minds of the unbelieving so that they might not see the light of the gospel. of the glory of Christ. And what's the only thing that can enable the unbeliever to see the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ? Answer: the light of the gospel of the glory of Christ. It is the thing that opens the eyes to see it and embrace it by faith. So I I encourage you to get this book Again, it's the Gospel Primer for Christians, Learning to See the Glories of God's Love by Milton Vincent, and it is short devotions with Bible passages. And again, the entire book is to encourage us and to help us live in light of the gospel daily and to daily be transformed by it and comforted by it to help us walk the walk of faith