Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. So a week three devotion again from a gospel primer for Christians by Milton Vincent We're on page 14, section three, the power of God. Now, before I read it, let's go ahead and uh give the evening to prayer. Father, we love you and we thank you for your care toward us, for your love that you shower upon us, for your mercy toward us. You forgive our sins. You give us new hearts. You persevere us through difficult times. Father, we thank you. Lord Jesus, we thank you. Holy Spirit, we need you. We call upon you, and we thank you in Jesus' name. Amen. Section three, the power of God. Outside of heaven, the power of God and its highest density is found inside the gospel. This must be so, for the Bible twice describes the gospel as the power of God. Romans 1:16, I'm not ashamed of the gospel For it's the power of God to salvation to everyone who believes, and first Corinthians one eighteen. For the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved it is the power of God Back up in the paragraph. Nothing else in all of Scripture is ever described in this way except for the person of Jesus Christ. 1 Corinthians 1 24. Christ, the power of God. Such a description indicates that the gospel is not only powerful, but that it is the ultimate entity in which God's power resides and does its greatest Indeed, God's power is seen in erupting volcanoes in the unimaginably hot boil of our massive sun. and in the lightning speed of a recently discovered star streaking through the heavens at one point five million miles per hour. Yet in Scripture such wonders are never labeled the power of God. How powerful then must the gospel be that it would merit such a title, and how great is the salvation it could accomplish in my life. If I would only embrace it by faith and give it a central place in my thoughts each day. Hebrews 4. 2. For indeed we have had good news preached to us just as they also. But the word they heard did not profit them, because it was not united by faith in those who heard. In Ephesians 1, from verse 18, I pray That the eyes of your heart may be enlightened so that you will know. And then picking up again in verse 19, what is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe? One of my favorite sections in the book, one of my favorite sections of anything I've read in the past ten years This little two-paragraph section labeled the power of God. The gospel is the power of God. There's your thesis statement. That's it. The gospel is the power of God. If we want experience The power of God daily, we must daily feed ourselves the gospel of Jesus Christ