Hello everyone, here we are. I want to spend a few minutes looking at four different discipleship topics. So I'll try to not rush through this, but I do want to be relatively quick and going through these. So one thing is sermon audio dot com plus an app for your phone that's connected to the sermon audio platform. And then I want to look briefly at the devotional calendar for 2021 that we've put together. Here at the church for your personal discipleship. And then I'll say a little bit about uh catechism and a little bit about confession of faith, which are two new online discipleship tools that you can use for yourself. You can use as a family. You can use in a small group setting. And I just want to show you those and talk a little bit about what they're for. But the general um the general point of all of these things is discipleship. These are all things to help facilitate getting into the word, getting into prayer more, and growing in our walk with the Lord, growing in our knowledge of Christ, growing in the grace of Christ, and experiencing that personal communion with Him in our daily lives. And that's what we want. Okay, so let's get into it. The first thing I have up here is the Sermon Audio web page. And I'll show you one thing here. See this right in this area where I'm moving the cursor. You see our logo? And you see it says My church, North Harford Baptist Church. Well that's because I'm signed in and I have already made this my home church, all right? Our church, obviously. And so when you first go on to Sermon This right here will not have our logo. It will have a little box, and I believe it just says in that box, my church. And if you click on it, what you'll do is enter our number which is zero two one five two. Zero two one five two. So when you come to sermonaudio. com, go to this lit this this same area, it's the same size, it's the same location all the way webpage where it says my church click on it enter our number and then you can make our church your home church and there's lots to play around on here Um you can go to this uh see up here, this will now you you'll set it to always remember your home church. So whenever you go back on it'll automatically be on our home church. It doesn't mean you can't search other sermons or look at other ministries. I do it almost daily listening to sermons and looking looking other resources from other churches That's just something I've done for a long time. I really love this site. It's worth the time to play or play around on. But you can go to our homepage and you'll see here it is North Harper Baptist Church. church, Pastor John, here's me right here. And um it 'll list our sermons in order. You could also look at them by series, by speaker, by topic. You can do a search by passage. One of the things I love about sermon audio is you can have something playing, close the app, be it well not close the app totally but but minimize the app, go to another app, it'll still play. You can download download the sermons there. Um so you can have them and use them in different ways. So that's the first thing. On sermon audio is make us your home church. And then that connects to what I'm going to show you now. So back at the home page , what you can do is scroll all the way down to till you find this article right here where it has this um this graphic and it says church one app version two point two for all broadcast This is an article, but the purpose is to get to this app. It's the Church One app for your phone. It can be on an iPhone or on Android. This is specifically a sermon audio app. And what you'll do is go to that link at the bottom of that page Go to that article and it'll take you here to the article with links for iPhone or Android. And this is just showing you what will pop up on your phone and you would download that app. It is free. And now this is specifically for sermons Specifically for sermons, and it's really good for watching the live streams. Anytime we do a live stream, it will give you a notification. North Harford Baptist Church is is streaming live. Whenever we post a new sermon, it'll give you a notification. North Harford Baptist Church has posted a new sermon. If we post something on the blog that's on that site, it'll give you a notification but most specifically for the sermons that are streamed and posted you'll get that information and you'll just do the same Same thing. It's very simple. Go to that app, download, download the app, open it up, and make our church your home church. I'll give you that number again. It's 02152. 02152 And I'm not totally sure about this, but I think you could just search us by name to find us, but you might need that number to make it your make it your home church. I didn't log out and try and log back in to figure out that out but you have all the information that you need. So that's sermonaudio. com up here in this area making us your home church And then from there you can explore and over the over the coming weeks and months we'll look at different ways and talk about different ways you could use this this site as a discipleship resource. But everything that's going on in the tech world and uh the political landscape and the social media landscape, I'm really thankful for Sermon Audio. It's A Christian website that is a ministry done for churches, for biblical churches that hold to um biblical doctrine and so it's a really good place. Anyway, make us your home church and then scroll down to the article with this graphic, Church One app Download that on your phone, make us your home church there. And that's all I wanted to say about sermon audio. But it's a really, really good resource. All of our sermons, all of our lessons. Confession of faith, our catechisms, they're all going to be on there. So this is going to be sort of a one-stop shop for the media. You'll still be able to access it on our webpage. But That's what I plan to use more and more as much as I can as many different ways as I can as the weeks pass here. Sermonaudio. com. Alright, and now briefly want to show you the updated way website. Here's the web, here's our homepage, and I'm just going to scroll down. Now about a week or so ago, maybe exactly A week, maybe less, I'm not sure. All we had to get to are new new discipleship tools, which is the calendar, the confession of faith, and the catechism, was through this link new online discipleship tools. That's still there. You can still click on that, and I'll do it. And it'll take you to this page, Structure Life and Devotion to Christ. That's our goal. Discipleship 2021 and there's the calendar There's the catechism, and there's the confession. Alright. And I know I went fast, but that's just because I'm gonna get back to those things. But that's still there for you to go and access All of them in one place. But if you keep scrolling down, I now have given uh devoted links, so I'll do this one first. Right here, catech Catechism 2021 with its own button and its own page. Catechism 2021, weekly biblical instruction for practical growth. And let's look at this for just a uh just a moment here. Catechism just means instruction. It means instruction. This is weekly biblical instruction for practical growth. It's in question and answer format. It's really conducive for memory work. It's uh really conducive for uh a home discipleship or family discipleship. But I've been Saying all along you can use this as a springboard for your personal study time, personal prayer time, small group study time or prayer time. But that's what catechism is. So if you've not heard that word before, don't get thrown by it's a tradition. Word just means instruction and particularly weekly biblical instruction for practical growth in question and answer format. And now uh I'm going to scroll down and see if I'm lining it up. So, what does this ministry include? Very simple. Short weekly videos, and then a printed resource. That's it. And those are just companion resources to get you in the Bible, to get you in. prayer in some kind of structured way. And so the videos, the weekly videos, is right here. And they'll always be there. I put them on sermon audio, they automatically show up here. First Lord's Day, Second Lord's Day, the Third Lord's Day, and I believe one I believe they're Around ten or fifteen minutes. I didn't check them out. Now that's your videos and they post 8 o'clock every Sunday morning. It'll post on Sermon Audio, it'll post on Facebook And it'll post here, obviously, because whatever goes on sermon audio is automatically here. In terms of the printed resource, you can request a free book by clicking on here. Let's take you to a page, just tell us you want one, we'll get you one. You can download a PDF by clicking on this button. Download a PDF, print it up, or just leave it on your your laptop and open it up whenever you want to use it or you can click on click on the book here. I did that pretty fast. Let me just I just went over the book and clicked on it And it takes you to an online flipbook. Right? Table of contents is right here. Scroll out, I'll zoom in a little bit. table of context. There's an introduction there. Um what did I call it? Preface. If you want to read that preface, that'll give you a little idea of the practical purpose. of a cat the catechism in general and a little and some specifics, a little bit of specifics about the structure and emphasis of this Catechism. There you go. On the first Lord's Day, question one and the answer with biblical cross-references. Question two And the answer and biblical cross-references. The videos just walk through those. Then there's different ways you can use them and springboard into study time or discussion time or prayer time with yourself or with whoever you're with. Alright, Lord's Day 2. Question Answer Biblical cross references. Question answer biblical cross references. So again, it's designed to be concise. It's it's conducive to to memory work, it's conducive to be a springboard for other discipleship activities, prayer, study, discussion, and on and on and on. And obviously I think it's self explanatory. But uh let's go back here to where was it? It's very simple what we what we do. The video for the first Lord's Day corresponds with those questions and answers for the first Lord's Day. And so you know what you're got what we'll be doing this coming Sunday. We'll be doing the fourth Lord's Day. So you can look at it ahead of time. Do some study. You don't have to watch the video on Sunday morning. You can watch it whenever you want after it's posted. And so that is your catechism. Again Weekly biblical instruction for practical growth. It's in question and answer format. I think I've said enough about the format. It's simplicity. It's meant to be practical. It's meant to be a springboard to help you get more into prayer and the word. Alright, now let's close some of these tabs out. Here we are back at that homepage. That's your catechism. Devoted link. Now here is the uh well we'll do calendar last. We'll come down to this one. Confession of faith. Same thing. Yes, it's still on that hub where they all are, but now this is it's a devoted page. Confession of faith 22 twenty one summary statements of core beliefs. So it's similar to catechism in some ways. Then I've just set this up to be weakly and concise, but it's different different format This is not question and answer format. These are summary statements of core beliefs, fundamental, foundational Christian doctrines in summary statements. And what I'm trying to make a point to do, I hope I'm doing a good job of this because this really is where the where the power comes from for discipleship is what I'm really trying to do is show the biblical foundation, whether it's one One verse or two verses or three verses that teach or give a really good window into a c whatever core belief we're looking at that week. Summary statements of core beliefs. We should know those. We should know the core Christian beliefs and we should know where to go in scripture that says, okay, here's where this is taught. And what we're doing right now is here's our statement of faith, the Baptist faith and message. in a a few weeks or months, I forget exactly when. We'll be going through the different points and articles in that confession and Looking at a cr we won't be able to look at all the cross references because each article has many of them, like in the catechism, but we'll look at a biblical foundation as much as we can for these core beliefs. Right now what we're doing is taking uh confession of faith confessions of faith straight from the text of scriptures So for example, the very first week, which is the foundational confession of the of the believer, is Jesus Christ as Lord. So we talked about what that meant a little bit. We talked about the uh foundational Bible passages for that confession. And then again, same thing as with catechism. Springboard. Springboard. This is meant to launch you off into your own time of study and prayer and devotion to the Lord. Alright, so that's uh confession. Same same exact design here. The videos will show up here, week one, week two, week three, and uh Um for this button takes you to the ESV online Bible and I just go to whatever whatever verse we're looking at. So you could you'd be able to see that During the video. Same with the catechism, I forgot to say that, but as on the videos, it'll have me talking, but you'll be able to see the text of the question, answer, and cross-references. Eventually we'll get to the Baptist faith. the message and same thing you can request a free one of those or you can just uh you know whatever whatever week we're on let's say the first week we're on the scriptures I'll have this for you to see. It'll be embedded in the video. And we'll read it, talk about it, talk about the main points at least, and I'll I'll cherry pick some. references for that doctrine. But that's a core doctrine, right? Our belief that the scripture is the word of God is a core Christian doctrine. If you lose that, that's just the first domino that's false. And the whole Faith will fall if that domino falls. And so that's just an example. But there's your weekly confession of faith. Again, summary statements of core beliefs, core Christian beliefs. given a biblical foundation with them. So that's what that ministry is for. And those post Monday , I say 8 p. m. but I like to get them done. And get them up there. Early in the day, I'm more focused. So what I found myself doing, it's only been three weeks, but I've posted them pretty early. But either way, I purposed to give 8 p. m. as a deadline. line for getting them up there. Be on sermon audio, be on Facebook, it'll be on our webpage too. Now lastly, so we've talked about sermonaudio. com, making making us North Africa for Baptist Church, your home church, 02152, and then downloading that church one app for sermon audio. Same thing, make us your home church. That's really good for the sermons. For the live streaming feature. Catechism looked at that. Confession of faith looked at that. Let's go to the devotional calendar. Same. thing. It's still there on that hub for new online discipleship tools, but it has a dedicated page. 2021 devotional calendar, daily reading, prayer, and wisdom and what that means is there's a daily reading like a main passage for trying purposing and trying to do the whole bible in a year. There's a main reading right now we're in Genesis. Prayer and wisdom. So what I did last year is we just had one reading per day, and Psalms And Proverbs just have their own section of the year. I think Psalms was two or three weeks. Proverbs was a week. Well now what I've done is I've taken those out of the main rotation so they don't have their own dedicated weeks or month but every day every weekday you have a prayer and part of a psalm Or a whole psalm sometimes. Or uh sorry, a uh a psalm and part of a proverb. A psalm and part of a proverb, and that's why I'm calling it prayer just referring to a daily psalm or a daily passage from the Psalms. And wisdom, I'm just referring to a daily proverb, a daily Piece of wisdom, or to use a trendy word, a daily nugget. Okay, a daily nugget of wisdom from the Proverbs, a daily um piece of A daily part from a psalm, a prayer, a worship, hymn, whatever you want to call it, but then your daily reading. And so that's what we're doing each weekday And I'll click on here is if you click on that button, PDF, here again request a free hard copy. Really nice calendar, it'll last you the whole year whole year I'll just click on the web version. I'm going to zoom in. And I just want to show one thing here and then we'll be done. So again, Flipbook format online Right now we're in January. Zoom in. I think that's as as much as I can zoom in. But you can see on here um Monday, Psalm, Proverbs, and then your main reading mark. Tuesday, Psalm, Proverbs, your main reading mark. That's the rhythm, that's the pattern for the whole year Nothing on Saturdays on the calendar, but it's probably gonna be something on Saturdays, catch up or just some other something else that you're studying or look at. But uh in there to put a catch-up day. And yeah, just one thing. I'm not going to get off in a whole big uh discussion about why I structured the calendar, the order of the books the way I did. But broadly speaking, as you go through the year where we are moving chronologically through the Bible is is one kind of one thing that's going on. But also what I've tried to do in the order of the books is order them in such a way to help us understand the link between the Old Testament and New Testament. Okay, so that's why the year starts with Mark, the gospel Of Mark, and then it's hard to or Malachi rather up here. The first was Malachi, the book of Malachi , the closing book of the Old Testament, the closing promises of the Old Testament. And the closing prophecy of the Old Testament, Malachi, and then we go right into Mark to see that link, a little bit of the link between Old and New. See the continent And the unity of the story. And then we backed up to go to Genesis, and we are going starting with Genesis, going chronologically through the Bible, but also at times hopping back and forth from Old Testament to New Testament, Old Testament to New Testament. So we can keep the bigger picture in mind. So we're looking at the progression and the unfolding of the story of the Bible. but also the unity and the coherence of the Bible, the fulfillment that we see in the New Testament. So for example, when we read Leviticus, we'll read Hebrews in conjunction with Leviticus. I forget which one I put first. You have the priesthood, and then you have Christ, our great high priest in heaven, and um taught and teaching how those the things of the old covenant priesthood were shadows prefigured Christ, but the substance and the reality is revealed in Christ. So those two things is what I'm trying to do. Go chronologically to see the story of the Bible as it moves and as it unfolds. but also the big picture and the relationship between old and new. And last thing here, the catechism schedule and the confession schedule are all on this calendar. So you see the highlighted in blue here each Lord's Day, highlighted in blue here each Monday. Alright I hope you'll take advantage of these ministries. They are easily accessible. They are not a huge time commitment. focusing on substance, trying to give you something just to the structure can help with uh finding discipline in our devotional lives. And I I think we all need as much help as we can with that. And so use these tools and God bless you as you do. See ya