Let's go to Second Corinthians four, verses sixteen through eighteen. Second Corinthians four 16 to 18. Today we're talking about obedience, but a special focus on the encouragement. Don't give up. Stay the course. Cling fast to Christ. Do not give up. Talking about the need to persevere in the Christian life. As you're turning to 2 Corinthians 4, 16. Say a few more words about perseverance, and then we'll pray together for our time in the Word. Persevere simply means to not give up. To persevere means To keep on going. It means to keep pressing forward, even in the midst of obstacles, even in the midst of distractions all around us, even in the midst of difficulties and suffering. Persevere. Keep going forward. Don't give up. Don't lose heart. Stay on the path that God has put you on. That's what we're talking about. Don't give up. Now the Bible pictures the Christian life in many ways with many metaphors. One of the pictures of the Christian life is like running a race. And running a race calls for endurance. Running a race calls for perseverance Some of you out there may actually be runners and you may enjoy and like the challenge and maybe running comes easy to you, but not to most of us. But even if it you do enjoy it it still takes perseverance. And endurance, and that's one of the pictures of the Christian life. You know what another picture of the Christian life is? Fighting a war. Fighting a war. Fighting a battle after battle after battle, that you must be armored up in the things of God. To fight this war calls for perseverance, calls for endurance, calls for not giving up. And I'll give you just one more on this Another way the Bible pictures the Christian life is carrying a Roman cross. Think about that. It's a metaphor, it's an image of dying of ourselves and living for God, living unto Christ, living by the Spirit is carrying an instrument of public and shameful execution. Heavy. Heavy heavy heavy. A Roman cross was not light. Have you ever picked up a log? A Roman cross, big enough and strong enough, you can hang a the body of a full grown adult on it And it would stand up, carrying a Roman death cross, running a race, fighting a war, it all calls for endurance. There's no Christian life that does not require perseverance. And endurance. We need persevering strength. We need a persevering will that's empowered by the hand of God. That's what we're talking about. Let's pray. Father, we pray that you bless our time together in your word. Fill our hearts with joy. Humble us. Instruct us. Give us the spiritual strength to do what you've called us to do. Help us to love your word. Help us to see who you truly are. Teach us your wisdom. Father, we pray that you fill our hearts, minds, and souls with the spirit of perseverance, with the spirit of steadfastness, with the spirit of faithfulness. Help us in our time of need. Stir us afresh to the glories of Christ, to the wonders of Christ, and all that He's given us, all the blessings of the gospel, make clear to us, make delightful to us. And let them be transformative in our hearts, we pray. It's in Christ's name. Amen. This will be our last of our series. I forget if it's number four or number five. This little mini-series on obedience. within that larger series on Matthew 28, the Great Commission passage. Today's passage is 2 Corinthians 4, 16-18 Let's look at it together. It begins like this in verse 16. So, we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. As we look not to things that are seen, but to things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transient. But the things that are unseen are eternal. In verse 16, the very first phrase It's really what captivated my heart to preach this message on don't give up. And this is how verse 16 begins. So we do not lose hearts. We do not lose heart. We do not give up. But rather we hold fast to Christ. And why is it so important that we do not lose hearts? Well, quickly, just to point out some phrases in the verse, or some words and phrases in this passage. And then we'll get into the outline and elaborate some more. But quickly, look at this phrase in verse 16, right in the middle, wasting away. Wasting away. We need to not lose hearts in the midst of this existence and these bodies That are wasting away, that are aging. And we know these bodies will die and will decay. We will not have these bodies forever. This This life is temporary. And in the midst of that, and all the sufferings that that entails, you know that that entails suffering. Living in these bodies in this world entails suffering and hardship In the midst of that, brethren, do not lose heart. Do not give up. Do not give up your confession that Jesus Christ is Lord. Do not give up looking to him in faith, no matter what the world says. Do not give up praising him, no matter how how difficult things get in these bodies that are wasting away. And that's what the outer self is. The outer self is the body. This these mortal bodies. But then also look at this word in verse 17, another clue into why we need to stand fast and not lose heart. Verse 17, look at this word. Early in the verse. Affliction. Affliction. Now he calls it what kind of affliction? Heavy and eternal? No. Light and momentary. We'll talk about that later. Because it doesn't always feel light and momentary, does it But in the midst of affliction, we need to have this mindset. I belong to God and I will not lose heart. Child of God, you belong to God. Do not lose heart. Do not lose heart in the midst of affliction. And then one more word in verse 18. Why it's so important that we do not lose heart. Toward kind of in the middle, but toward the end, this is where it starts with a T. Transient. That just means passing through. It means temporary. It means you can't hold on to it. It means passing away. Transient. I'm just talking about the things that are seen, the things of this creation, the things of this age, the things of this world that are transient in contrast with things that are eternal. Since we live in transient bodies in a transient world full of transient things, passing away things, fleeting away things, things that we will not hold on to, we cannot keep, in the midst of This world of transience in a transient body, it's important that we do not lose heart. Because um this world the things of this world are under the curse of sin and death. And they bring suffering and they bring temptation and they can bring persecution To bring distraction upon distraction, all kinds of things. But the enemy would wage war against us. So in a bodies that are wasting away, in a world full of affliction, full of transient things that we cannot keep We do not lose heart. Verse 16. We do not lose heart. Beloved of God, I would just uh exhort you, plant your flag there. Plant your flag there. I belong to God and I will not lose heart. That's the profession of faith. That's a confession of faith Now just to um roadmap where we're going, three major points. I know, shocker, three major points, and they all start with the same letter. First, we'll look at the power of perseverance. Alright, that's number one, the power of perseverance. And that's getting to what is the fuel behind our perseverance? What's the energy behind it? What's the power of perseverance? Secondly, we'll talk about the pillars of perseverance. What do pillars do? Pillars hold things up. Pillars hold up. Whatever's above it. They the uh what's important is lifted up, it's put into place, but it must be held up by pillars. If you take away the pillars, it all crumbles crumbles down. So what are the pillars? What is it? Spiritually, that holds us up in the midst of affliction. That holds us up In these bodies that are wasting away. That holds us up in a world of transient, fleeting things. The power of perseverance, the pillars of perseverance. And then finally the purpose of perseverance. The purpose of persevering in the Christian life. What we're getting at under the purpose of perseverance is why is God doing this? Why is God bringing us through these things? What is God's purpose that we must persevere through the afflictions and through the sufferings and through the temptations and through the trials of this world? What is God's purpose? Because we're not atheists. We're not unbelievers. We do not believe that this world exists by random chance We do not believe that we exist by random chance. We do not believe that we are only bodies with no souls, but that we are bodies with and stole and made in the image of God. And there's a meaning to our existence. There is a meaning to the world. There is a meaning and a purpose to our life. And every day and every moment, God has purpose for us. Even through the trials and sufferings we must endure and persevere through, what is the purpose of this need for persevering in the Christian life? God has a great, great purpose. And bringing us through trials that require us to persevere. We'll have some particular things that the passage will bring out. But underneath all of it, we don't need to leave that as a cliffhanger. We could say right up front the supreme purpose in all of these things that require perseverance is that we would learn to trust in God more and more. ourselves. We would learn to and that we would learn to look to Christ and appreciate Christ more and more as our Savior and Brother and Lord and Master. God is teaching us how to trust in Him and not the not transient thing. He's teaching us how to look to Christ and love Christ and worship Christ and live for Christ, even though we cannot see Him So the power, and then the pillars, and then the purpose of perseverance In the Christian life. Number one, the power. Well, the power of holding fast to Christ, the energy The fuel, the power behind holding fast to Christ is the work of Christ within us. The work of Christ within us is the only thing that will enable us to persevere in the Christian life. Verse 16. See if you can spot the key phrase. So we do not lose heart, though our outer self is wasting away. And boy don't we feel it. Our inner self is being renewed day by day. Well I'm really happy for the last clause of that sentence Amen. Because what's our situation if all we have is the outer self that's wasting away? Period. Nothing. Amen. But praise God for the comma. Our inner self is being renewed day by day Hasn't been hasn't that always been the lingering and lurking major theme of this whole series of God conforming us to the likeness of his son by the work of his Holy Spirit within us? The inner self, soul, spirit includes the mind being renewed by the work of Christ within us. It includes the heart being sanctified and purified by the work of Christ within us, the will being strengthened, the will growing in discernment, the will growing in maturity. All of this, brethren, all of this is the work of Christ within us. Just one practical application of that is persevering in the midst of hardship. We get tired. We can get fed up. Things can happen in our lives. We get frustrated. We get angry. We can get off course. We can we can steer off course for a season. And apart from the work of God within us, all of us in any particular situation would give up in a snap. So by His Spirit, by the presence of Jesus Christ within us. God enables us to persevere. If not, we wouldn't carry the cross. We would drop it in a second and run our own direction. Praise God. Praise God for the work of Christ within us. He is our salvation. He is sanctifying us. Our inner self is being renewed day by day. Hopefully we know that principle that whatever God requires for us to make it to heaven, He provides for us that we would make it to heaven. I'll say it again. Everything that God requires of us to make it to heaven, He provides for us that we will make it to heaven. Does that make sense? So He's not expecting us to save ourselves. He's not expecting me to sanctify me. He's not expecting you to renew your own mind. He's not expecting us to, in our own strength, in our own will, persevere through the trials of this life. Whatever God requires for salvation, He graciously provides as our salvation. He requires holiness. We're not going to turn to these passages and If you want to write them down, fine. If you wanted to get them later, just ask me, I'll email them to you. He requires holiness. Hebrews 12, 14. He graciously provides holiness, 2 Corinthians 3. 18. And of course he provides the holiness by how? By the work of Christ within us. He requires faithfulness. Second Timothy 2. 12. And he provides that faithfulness Jude 24. And how does he provide it? The work of Christ within us. He requires obedience. 1 John 2. 4. And you should be able to predict what I'll say next. He provides obedience. Philippians 2, 12-13 And how does he provide it? The work of Christ within us In fact, I'll read that one, Philippians 2, 12 to 13. Paul writes, Therefore, my beloved, as you've always obeyed, So now not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence, work out your own salvation with fear and trembling For it is God who works in you both to will and to work for his good pleasure So obey God because God requires obedience and God is pleased with obedience, and then the promise connected to it, it is God working in you that you would be obedient So that after we obey, we praise God for the gift of obedience. God gets all the credit for every aspect and every action of salvation. Now, why would we talk about perseverance in the middle of a mini-series On obedience. Well, we all know the answer to that. We may not say it in the same words, but we know it's it's just it's easy to give up. Easy to give up on things that are hard. Whether the Christian things, the things in the world, I think they're particularly difficult in Christian things because they're dealing with dealing with spiritual things. Can't see, things we can't touch, things we can't smell, places we can't go quite yet, like heaven, things we can't see, we can't see Jesus, we can't see the Holy Spirit. It's easy to give up. It's easy to get distracted. It's easy to get distracted from the things of God. Amen? And our own weakness and sin, that's all we would do. And we live in a culture where we're addicted to distraction. It's easy to go with the flow of culture. It's easy to go with the flow of hobbies and our shows and all the busyness of life and forget what God has called us to do. It's easy to forget what God has called us to do I mean this the whole scriptures testify to this. That's why we're backing up and talk about perseverance in the middle of a series on obedience. Because obedience requires perseverance. Trying to obey God bring more difficulties in our lives. Brings more difficult decisions in our lives. Brings more struggles. Because spiritual spiritual growth is a race It's a war. It's carrying a cross. So trying to be obedient requires perseverance. This brings us back to that list of twenty commands of Christ we've been working through. If you haven't heard any of that, it's just that we're not do the It it's not like these are the only commands of Christ or the only commands of God. I just on this little mini-series on obedience cherry picked twenty commands of Christ in the Gospel of Matthew. Because we started in Matthew 28 and Matthew 28, the book ends where Jesus says, making disciples, baptizing them. In verse 20, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. That's obedience. So in my studies I went back through Matthew and just started looking for things Jesus had commanded them. And it 'cause at the end of the book he says, Teach them all I've commanded you. Okay, so natural question, what has he commanded you? So now we come to numbers uh 17, 18, 19, and 20. Number 17, uh isn't it amazing? We got here. You d didn't think we'd ever make it Number 17, boy, this is a big one. Big one always. Particularly big one. Uh right now in our cultural societal situation, do not fear God's enemies Do not fear God's enemies. Don't fall prey to fear mongering. Matthew 10. 28 is where I got this. Matthew 10, 28. Do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him who can destroy both body and soul in hell. We don't live in the fear of man. We live properly in the fear of the Lord. And we need to be wise at those who have set themselves against God, we need to be wise in the midst of persecution or losing Persecution or being rejected or being ostracized by family, whatever it is. Um we need to be wise And we need to be gracious, but we need to be a people who ultimately are living in the fear of the Lord, not afraid of God's enemies. Can't be afraid of God's enemies. We we We believe in the Lord. We're not of those who shrink back in fear, but we're those who stand in faith, the power and the wisdom and the plan of the living Lord. So do not fear God's enemies. They will not win. They will not win. They cannot win. They've already been defeated. It's just now a process of this of a h a historical process of uh the effects of Christ's victory over our enemies, over the enemies of God, the historical outworking of the effects of Christ's victory over Satan and all of his forces. darkness. So do not fear God's enemies, but rather walk in the fear of the Lord, not the fear of men. Number 18, love God with all that you are. Love God with all of your heart. And now this one's it comes as number 18 because of where it falls in the book of Matthew, but this really is the fountain spring of all other obedience. Matthew 22, 36 to 38 is where this comes from. Matthew 22, 36 to 38. Teacher, which is the great commandment in the law? And he said unto him, You shall love the Lord with love you love the Lord your God with all of your heart. And with all of your soul and with all of your mind, this is the great and first commandment. Now there is an outward obedience There's other ways to obey God, but it all stems from this inner obedience of loving God, of cherishing God, of adoring God, worshiping God, desiring God. It all starts inwardly in the heart, loving God. And the lost heart, and my lost heart before I was saved. didn't care at all about loving God. I would love things, I would love myself, I would love the pleasures and comforts and and and corruptions of this world and this age, but didn't love God, didn't love his word, didn't love his church, didn't love his people. People didn't love the Holy Spirit, didn't love Jesus, didn't love forgiveness because it did because it didn't love God. That's my lost heart before God changed it. That's the heart of lostness. The hear of God and to hear of the call of the love of God and is just completely over the header, like Jesus would say, just like a bird just comes immediately. It snatches it, snatches that seed of the Word of God. And that's why we need the power of the gospel to change our hearts that we would love God and not love sin. Do not fear God's enemies. Love God with all you are. And number 19, do not be deceived or alarmed by end-time speculation. Do not be deceived or alarmed by end time speculation. Matthew 24, 4 to 6. End time speculation That deceives or is designed to alarm people is big business. It 's really big business. But Jesus doesn't want us to be alarmed by end times speculation. He wants us to have hope and joy and peace and confidence on end times truth that he's clearly revealed in his word. Matthew 24, 4 to 6, Jesus answered them, see to it that no one leads you astray. That means it's their duty that they're not lead astray. See to it that no one leads you astray. Verse 5, for many will come in my name, saying, I am the Christ, and they will lead many astray. And you will hear of wars and rumors of wars, but see that you are not alarmed. It's their duty, it's our duty to not be alarmed. By wars and rumors of wars, or led astray by false representatives of God. It's our duty. See to it that you're not alarmed, for this must take place, but the end is not yet. If you want to learn and grow more and more in study of end times, study of last days And we're already in the last days. The last days was marked by the coming of Christ. But if you want to grow on those things, just give yourself more and more and more to the primary source material, which I'm referring to scripture. Study the scriptures, study the scriptures, study the scriptures. Go back to the scriptures. Word by word, phrase by phrase, clause by clause, sentence by sentence. Verse by verse, paragraph by paragraph, chapter by chapter, book by book, book by book, go to the primary source. And that will give us clarity. God's purpose in teaching us in teaching any doctrine in Scripture is not to put a veil over it and make it obscure so that everyone's confused and everyone's alarmed and everybody's speculating. This is a revelation. This takes the veil off. This unveils and makes clear the truth of God. Not everything and not every section is equally clear and equally easy. But we don't approach end times doctrines with a different approach that we than we approach every other doctrine. And we can go to scripture, what has God made clear, what has God made obvious, and this is On end times, it's not to alarm us or drive us to speculation or to make us worried with all this fear-mongering that's out there, but to stake to plant our flag again to stake our claim here that Christ is victorious, that Christ is discipling the nations, Christ will return, and on and on and on. Whatever whatever subtopic you want to be on. Number twenty, disciple the nations. Do not fear God's enemies. Love God with all you are, and do not be deceived or alarmed by end-time speculation, rather but come back to the primary source, the number twenty disciple of the nations. And that's the that's the whole that's the main point of the passage at the start of this series, Matthew 28, 19 and 20. Go therefore, make disciples of all nations. Baptizing them in the name of the Father and of the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you, and behold, I'm with you always to the end of the age. Which interestingly enough it points us right back to the work of Christ within us. That He is with us to the end of the age. Verse 16. See if you can spot this key phrase again. So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. We do not lose heart. And wanting to obey, wanting to persevere, requires the work of Christ within us, and he is Faithful to do that. Well that's the power. The power of holding fast to Christ is the work of Christ within us. Number two, the pillars. Pillars are things that hold us up as we're striving to hold fast to Christ. In the midst of affliction, bodies that are wasting away. As we strive to hold fast to Christ, what is it that holds us up? Well for this one I'm gonna cheat. We're gonna just look quickly at the paragraph that comes before. So this will be 2 Corinthians 4. Verses 13 to 15. The first pillar is faith in God. Faith in God. Faith in God will hold us up. If we stop believing in God, our spiritual lives will hit a brick wall immediately. Faith in God, verse 13 in 2 Corinthians 4, since we have the same spirit of Faith, according to what has been written, I have believed, and so I spoke. We also believe, so also we speak. You see it three times in there. Faith, believed, believed, faith in God will hold us up. Letter B, knowledge of the resurrection will also hold us up. That's what practically speaking that gives us that fills out that colors in the lines of this eternal hope that we have. Knowledge of the resurrection. Verse 14 Knowing so that's talking about knowledge, right? Siri doesn't understand that Alright, Siri. Resurrection is when Christ returns and he bestows upon all children of God a glorious resurrection body like unto the resurrection body of Christ. Knowledge of the resurrection, verse 14. Knowing that he who raised the Lord Jesus will raise us also with Jesus Jesus and bring us with you into his presence. Amen and amen. Glorious point. Glorious future you have in Christ. Don't forget it. Let us see a burden for the lost. This also will help to hold us up in obedience so that we don't lose track. And um In verse 15a, for it is all for your sake. It's a great verse here. This is great, great, great, great verse. It's all for your sake, so that as grace extends to more and more people, it may increase thanksgiving to the glory of God. Isn't that a wonderful reason to have a burden for the loss? Because we have a burden for the loss, we're busy in outreach, busy in evangelism, busy in sharing our faith, busy in preaching the gospel, busy in trying to win souls for the glory of God. What's happening? What does it say here? Very simple. It says This is the grace of God extending to more and more people, and then what's the result of the grace of God extending to More and more people. It increases thanksgiving toward God. Because you have more and more people who've been saved. So you have more and more people giving thanks to God for being saved to the glory of God. Grace of God extending and extending and expanding and spreading, saving more and more souls for God. Which also means thanksgiving to the glory of God is extending and extending and expanding and Expanding and covering the earth for the glory of God. So burden for the lost, and finally the glory of God, which I just alluded to at the end of verse 15. This is the key to a godly life. Key to a godly life. Three words. God comes first. God comes first. Not Matt comes first, not church comes first, not outward good deeds comes first, not money comes first, not reputation comes first. Not pleasures come first, not vacations come first, nothing comes first but God and God alone. God comes first. That's the key to a godly life. God must come first These are the pillars of holding fast to Christ. Faith. Knowledge of the resurrection. You will be risen with Christ in glory. Burden for the lost. This is not just about us. This is about the world and Jesus bringing salvation to the ends of the earth, to all nations and tribes, and the glory of God. All of that's all for the glory of God. Now third and finally, the purpose. The purpose, the God's reasons for struggles and afflictions that require perseverance. This comes from verse 17 in our passage. Well verse 17 and 18. God's purpose, God's reasons, how God uses Just required persevering through hardships. Well, there's an A and a B under this that come from our passage. Letter A, preparation. Preparation You'll see basically that you'll see that word in the passage. And then let her be perspective. Perspective. Which means she's she's teaching us how to see things the right way. Teaching us how to have the right mindset. So first of all Preparation. Preparation is part of God's purpose in this, and that comes from verse 17. For this light momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory beyond all comparison. So yeah, our affliction doesn't seem light. Sometimes it indoors, it's always there. It's uh it's always we carry it around with us everywhere we go. It doesn't seem even though intellectually we know one way or another our afflictions in this life are temporary, are momentary. Now they don't always feel that way. But light momentary affliction, what's the point of that phrase? Well that's when you compare the afflictions of this life to the glory of the life to come. And in light of the glory that is to come, any affliction in this life is by comparison light And momentary. And that's exactly what he says. The light in momentary affliction is preparing for us an eternal weight of glory that's beyond all comparison. God preserves us and perseveres us and even strengthens us through sufferings in order to prepare us for eternal glory. How is that? How does that work? How does that happen? Well, because God uses hardships to mature us. And God uses hardships to strengthen us in the faith. The scripture testifies to this, James 1. James 1 Would you say amen if you're still with me? James 1, verse 2. Count it all joys, brethren. Count it all joy, brethren. When you meet trials of various kinds. For you know that the testing of your faith Produces steadfastness. And then let steadfastness have its full effect That you may be perfect and complete, lacking in nothing, which just means maturity in Christ So the trials come, and they're not intended to stir up bitterness or angst within us But they're intended to in fact stir up joy within us because we know that God will use the testing of our faith through trials to produce steadfastness, which is just another word for perseverance and endurance. The testing of our faith produces steadfastness, and the result of steadfastness will be maturity in Christ. And brethren, isn't that what we want? Maturity in Christ. Romans 5, 3 through 4. Not only that, but we rejoice in our sufferings, knowing that our suffering produces endurance. And endurance produces character, and character produces hope. Which means as we grow maturity, it enables us to live more and more in light of the hope of eternal life. You do not endure alone. You endure in spiritual communion with the risen Lord. And just as he suffered unto glory, you suffer with him, that you might be glorified with him forever. And it's in light of that that all of our sufferings are light and momentary afflictions. But that's why we have to have faith. Because they don't feel that way. Preparation Communion with Christ. Persevere with me on this message. I'm just caught up in the glory of it. Communion with Christ. Gradually produces in our hearts more and more gratitude, which will culminate one day in a perfect heavenly gratitude. That will never be diminished. But not only gratitude, but also joy. Communion with Christ produces more and more joy in the living Lord. That will one day culminate in the perfect and heavenly, eternal joy that will never be diminished. A sense of praise and worship in our hearts. It's communion with Christ, living in daily communion with Christ that gradually increases in our hearts a sense of praise. And awe and wonder and worship for God that will one day culminate in perfect heavenly praise and heavenly worship that will never be diminished. And you could go on and on and on with every fruit of the Spirit and every Christian virtue. Love, peace, contentment, whatever it is, it's living in communion, living in spiritual fellowship with Christ now. This is the preparation. It increases. And it increases and through hardship, it increases, and through trials, and through temptations, it increases and increases and increases, and finally it culminates in the perfection, in heavenly glory. before the throne of God. That's the preparation. And the perseverance, or rather the perspective. Let it be the perspective. God um God does bring us through sufferings and hardships to shape our perspective. Now what's the temptation is the complete opposite. If you're still with me, would you say amen? The temptation is the complete opposite. We lose perspective. We get off course. We get distracted. We lose heart. We give up. That's why the exhortation, don't give up. Brothers and sisters, don't give up. Don't lose heart. God is shaping your perspective. Verse 18, and then we're through. Verse 18 As we're going through these afflictions, verse 18, as we look not to things that are seen. But to things that are unseen. For the things that are seen are transients, but the things that are unseen are eternal. Isn't this isn't this intriguing and quite incredible? We live in a world that is seen. We live in the midst of things that are seen, but we're not looking to those things that are seen as a source of our hope. We're not looking to the things that are seen for inner security and meaning. We're not looking to things that are seen as what gives us Value or anything, security, anything, confidence, salvation, whatever. We're looking to things that are unseen, namely the living Lord who reigns in heaven. So our perspective through hardships Shaped for eternity, shaped for eternity For those who do not have eternal life and therefore do not have this eternal perspective and the hope of glory and the hope of resurrection and salvation from the reigning power of sin or salvation being spared from the guilt of our sin. You can have it this morning freely. Without working for it, without earning it, without proving yourself worthy of it, because none of us can do that because none of us are worthy of it. But on the basis of Jesus' sacrifice on the cross, where he died as a substitute for sinners, on the basis of the death of Christ. You put your faith in Christ for the forgiveness of sins, and you too will share in the hope of resurrection. Share in the hope of heaven. All your guilt will be erased. You'll be reconciled to God on the basis of the death of Christ. And of course, we know. He not only died, but he rose again. Because how can how can a sinner be united To Jesus living in heaven, if Jesus is not living in heaven, but rather dead and decaying in a grave somewhere. So he died to forgive us our sins. And he rose to forgive us our sins. And he lives today to receive any sinner, whoever would come to him in faith, Jesus is there willing and happy to receive. I encourage you and invite you in your heart, nothing you do outwardly, but in your heart, turn to Christ in faith for the salvation of your soul. Let's pray.