Let us look into our Father's words. The words in which I want to draw your attention to this morning come out of the book of Galatians. Chapter 3, verse 1 through 6. The title of the sermon today is Faith from Beginning to End. Galatians 3, verse 1 through six. Let's hear the words of Paul. Oh foolish Galatians. Who's bewitched you It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you suffer so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain? Does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Just as Abraham believes God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. As we look, my intentions, my goal in preaching this morning is twofold. I want you to see that salvation comes through faith in Christ alone, and that sanctification comes by faith in Christ alone. Alone. From the beginning of the Christian walk to we go into eternity, to be with Christ forever, it is all dependent on faith There's no works that we can do, there's nothing we can earn, nothing we can say to please God outside of faith in Christ. I don't know about you. I really don't to like to receive gifts. So you know that's a little insight of me. I I actually hate getting gifts because I feel really awkward in getting the gift. When I receive the gift, let's say I get a nice new shirt, I then think and make a mental note, I must make sure I go and get a gift for that person of equal or greater value. Right? I never want to be shown up in my gift buying abilities. Or if I get a gift I then or someone buys me dinner or gives me something, I then am tempted to sit back and think Okay, I gotta keep a mental note and in the future I gotta make sure I pay off that dinner that he bought me. I gotta make sure I give that gift. I gotta buy something back for them I think that's our temptation when we think about Christ. We think, okay, there's no way, this can't be, there's no way that we come and we are called God's child. We are saved from our sins without doing something, without earning it, right? Give me a list. That's what I want. Give me a list of things I can check off to say I'm a Christian. Give me a list of things I gotta do. Give me a 10-step program for me to become a Christian. Give me a 20-step program to keep me a Christian, to keep me following after Christ, to make me more like Christ. That's what I want. I think if we're honest, many of you would want the same thing. But that's not what we see in Scripture Because our works would never be sufficient. Our works would always fail us. It is by faith in Christ alone. Now looking at our text here, we must examine what's happening. We're kind of jumping into the middle of a letter, so let me give you a little bit of a background, a little history of what's happening here. Paul is writing to the church in Galatia, and he loves that church. He knows that church very dearly. He he's been there, he's seen them, he preached the gospel to them. And he has seen the work of the Spirit in their lives. He's seen people come to know Christ through faith. He's seen people through their faith in Christ live lives of a Christian. And with great joy he was able to leave and allow the church to grow and mature without him present. But later on he gets word that there's been some issues that have come into the church. There's been a false gospel introduced into the church. This false gospel was brought in that yes, salvation is in Christ plus works. This gospel being brought in is brought in by a group of people known as the Judaizers. They believed, they taught. That salvation is by Christ, plus you must continue to follow and fulfill the old law, the old covenant. The Old Testament. And one of their key things that they were pushing, that they were saying must happen for you to be saved, is for the men to be circumcised. Now today's culture we may not comprehend how severe this would have come off, but the only circumcised people in this time would have been the Jewish people. And the world thought they were insane for following after God's instruction to be circumcised. So what they're saying is that okay, this church, you have Christ, that's good, but now to really be a Christian To really understand this, to really become like Christ, you now need to be circumcised. You now need to follow all of the old law. You now need to make sure you're checking off all of these boxes. to really be a true Christian. And when Paul gets word of this He's angry. He's frustrated. Now he has the right to be angry to them. There's two parts here. One is that he knows these people. He loves these people. Think about how you interact with your your family and your friends who you love dearly compared to how you interact with a complete stranger you meet in the store. You're gonna say some things maybe to your brother I've some brothers and I'll say some things a little different to my brothers than I would to a complete stranger So we see that happening here. Paul knows these people and he loves them dearly. The second thing that we see, and the second reason we see Paul's uh anger and his passion coming out in this moment. It's because he saw the testimony of these people. He saw them have faith in Christ. He saw them living as Christians before he left. So when he gets word that they're following after this false gospel, when he gets word that they're following after the teaching of the Judaizers He knows that's not what they were taught. He knows that's not what they believed when he was there with them. So here, starting in verse 1, we start to see the sharp language of Paul Because he loves them and he knows that they know better. So looking back in verse one, O foolish Galatians, who has bewitched you? It was before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified. Let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Paul starts off harsh, doesn't he? Oh foolish Galatians. He wants to catch their attention. He wants them to realize their foolishness. How foolish are you to follow after another gospel? How foolish are you to miss and forget the Christ that Paul himself preached and proclaimed to them? Paul's so convinced of their foolishness, he's so convinced that they know the true gospel that he asked them, who has bewitched you? Maybe some translation says, who has cast a spell on you? He's so convinced that this is such a wicked and evil teaching that they are following after, that they're receiving, that it only must be the work of the enemy to allow them to fall and follow after such a false gospel. And Paul can say this. This is why it's so important. Paul loves them and he knows them. So he can say this. He's not challenging someone he's never met. He's not saying, Oh, who has who has tricked you to someone he has never interacted with and just heard. I think he would approach that very different. I think he would say, well, let's look at scripture. Let's let me tell you who Christ is. But Paul knows these people. He knows that they know Christ. So when he hears this account of them following after a false gospel, then thinking they have to do some kind of works to earn God's salvation and God's pleasure, he knows how foolish they are. Because he knows what they already know. And look what he says in verse one before your eyes that Jesus Christ was publicly portrayed as crucified This is the gospel, folks. This is the gospel. Paul's the one that gave them the gospel. So he takes confidence that they know the truth. He doesn't say publicly before your eyes, you read through the entire Torah, you memorized all the laws. He doesn't say publicly before your eyes, I saw you do X, Y, and Z. I saw all of your baptisms. I saw you help the needy. All those things are good and valuable, but all he says is before your eyes, Christ was publicly betrayed as crucified. The gospel was presented to them. They heard the gospel. And the gospel is this. Christ came, the Son of God came to live on this earth as man. He fulfilled the law perfectly. Every aspect of the law he fulfilled. In what he did, in what he thought, how he worshipped God. He fully fulfilled the law. And in his perfection, he went to the cross and died on the cross, taking on your sins, taking on my sins. Taking on the punishment that we all deserve. The just judge, the creator of the universe, looked upon his son and the perfect Lamb as he hung on the cross. He saw you and I and our sins and he punished them fully. He poured out his cup of wrath upon his son. I mean Christ's death, he was buried into the grave, and three days later he victoriously rose from the dead. Destroying death, destroying death, destroying sin And now we know he sits at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth. He is the Lord of lords. He's the King of kings. He is our Savior. He is the Redeemer. That's the gospel Paul preached to the Galatians, and that's the gospel Paul knows the Galatians believed before he left them. So Paul asked him, looking at verse 2, let me ask you only this. Did you receive the Spirit by works of the law or by hearing with faith? Brothers and sisters, regeneration, salvation, the new spirit, it starts by faith in Christ alone. Do you believe the gospel of Christ? Do you believe that He died for you? Do you believe that He lived the perfect life? Do you see the perfect, unblemished Lamb sacrificed on your behalf? Put faith in him. That's how you're saved. You are not saved by coming to church, as I so foolishly believed as a child. You are not saved by walking down an aisle and saying a prayer. You are not saved even by your baptisms. These are all good and beautiful things. But they only happen because your salvation, your regeneration, your new spirit, the new life you're given is through faith in Christ alone. So I'm sitting here, I noticed that you guys have Hebrews 11:1. Now faith, what is faith? Is the assurance of things hoped for, the conviction of things not seen. What are we looking for? We're looking and putting our hope in Christ alone. You may not physically with your own eyes saw Christ. I don't think any of you are that old. Correct me if I'm wrong afterwards. But we know we've heard the gospel preached. You've read the words, the testimony of Christ, you've heard it preached. You place your faith in Christ alone. And boys, new life given to you. The grace of God is poured out upon you. So that's what Paul does. He takes them back. He calls them out and says, How foolish are you? Has someone cast a spell on you because I know you heard the gospel and I know that you know that your salvation came by faith alone. For some of you in here today, that may be where you're at. You've never even placed your faith in Christ alone. I encourage you to do that this morning, to come speak with Pastor Matt or myself and and hear and see the beauty of the gospel and the new life that is found only in Christ alone. But I think many of us sitting in here this morning fall into the second category. You're saying, okay, Anthony, yes and amen. Of course, salvation is by faith alone, grace alone, Christ alone. You probably can quote it over and over again. And if someone asks you, how are you saved, you would lay that out for them. It is through Christ alone, through faith in Christ alone. And I praise God that so many of us believe that and are living in that truth. I think if we're honest, we struggle with what happens after the regeneration. So great, we're saved by faith alone. Yes and amen. Now it's time for Anthony to get to work. Now it's time for you to get to work. Isn't that the mentality we take? Okay, I'm forgiven of my sins. I know that. I've placed my faith in Christ. I believe that. But boy, I want to make sure God's going to stay happy with me. My church attendance better be perfect. My street evangelism better be consistent My tithing better be above and beyond anyone else I know of. All these things once again are good, but they are not what sanctifies me. They are not what makes us new. And that's what we must examine. So we see that faith in Christ is the beginning of the Christian life. But what happens from the beginning to eternity? And that's what we want to look at now. And that's what Paul addresses here in verse 3. Are you so foolish? Paul's talking to you and I right now. Are you so foolish? Having begun by the Spirit, are you now being perfected by the flesh? Did you not suffer so many things in vain, if indeed it was in vain? So if you're in the category right now saying, I recognize my salvation is by faith in Christ alone Paul's now asking, so does that mean your sanctification is by faith or is it by your works? Is the salvation by faith alone, is the power of God to save you sufficient enough to sustain you into eternity? That's the question we must ask ourselves. If Christ's work is powerful, sufficient, is the new Spirit given to us through faith sufficient and powerful? To forgive us of sins, to regenerate us? Is it powerful enough? Is it sufficient enough? Is Christ powerful enough? Is his work complete enough to make us new? To make us like him? To carry us and keep us, to seal us as his all the way through the end of our lives I struggle with this. I struggle with what works I'm doing. Am I trying to fill up my life? Am I trying to do things that are pleasing God because I think I'm earning something from him? Am I taking that checklist? Am I saying, okay, a good Christian reads their Bible, prays, goes to church, and doesn't swear? And then I'm just checking off that list because I want to earn God's pleasure. Because I think that's what's going to make me become like Christ. And Paul's asking us, was your salvation by works or by the Spirit? And we should all answer, by the Spirit. So then he says, Well, likewise, is your sanctification going to be by works or by the Spirit? By the Spirit. It's through faith in Christ, and the Spirit grows us and matures us. And because of the Spirit, we then start to do the good works. Some of you maybe were sitting in here going, okay, Anthony. Nice, I like that, the face, I like that sound, and that's cool. But are you saying after church there's nothing Christians do, we can just continue going on, living our lives as we choose, or I get to go home and just eat Cheetos on the couch until Christ calls me home. There's nothing I need to do because I have faith in Christ alone. And if I may, quote Paul out of Romans by no means. We talked about James chapter 2 this morning in Sunday school class. It says, show me faith without works, and I will show you a dead faith. Your faith is resulting Works. The new spirit that you've received, the newness of life you received in Christ, does and gives you the will and the desire and the ability to do miraculous and beautiful works for Christ. Christ in his kingdom. The new spirit Christ has given you through faith, has given you the ability to love your neighbor. He's given you the ability even to love your enemy. He's given you the ability and the desire to gather with his people in the church. He's given you the understanding of the multiple blessings that He's poured out upon you, both physically and spiritually, that then you want to respond in worship through your tithing and giving. None of that is bad. But the moment we place our identity, our salvation, or our sanctification in any one of those aspects, We miss the glory of God. We miss the mercy and the grace of Christ. And we miss true salvation and true sanctification through faith in Christ alone. We see that we should be energized by this. Verse 5, does he who supplies the Spirit to you and works miracles among you do so by works of the law or by hearing? with faith. We see that none of this is done outside of faith in Christ. So when you're when you're tired, when you're worn out, when you sin. Do you just look inward and say, what can I do to get better? What do I need to do to gain more energy? What can I do to even desire to go help so and so, to love my neighbor? Love the person in the pew next to you. When you're in that moment, stop looking inward and start looking towards Christ. Start seeing that He's the one that gave you salvation, He's the one that gave you the new spirit, and He's the one that will continue to grow you. He was the one that will give you the desire, the will, and the ability to do the good works. Faith in Christ in Christ alone is the beginning of the Christian walk. That's where we Find our salvation is having faith in Christ. It's where we find the new spirit. The newness is where we find our forgiveness. And it carries us through to the end. into eternity. So faith in Christ alone, from beginning of the Christian walk all the way into the end of our Christian days on this earth until we gather around his throne, worshiping him. And living with Christ in heaven. Faith from the beginning to the end of the Christian life. That's not the end though, right? I read verse six, and Paul quotes and identifies The Old Testament. He says, just as Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness. Paul's Paul's once again using this teaching skill, this teaching style of asking a question. He knows the answer. He knows when he asks, Are you saved by works or by faith? They were going to say by faith. He knows when he asks, Was Abraham saved by believing in God or by his works? Believing in God, it was counted to him as righteousness. They were gonna say, Yes, that's true. That's in the Torah, that's in the old law, we know that So may I draw this back and say, faith in Christ alone is not just the beginning of the Christian life into the end of your Christian life. It has been God's plan of salvation since the fall of man. I may even push it farther back and it has always been God's plan. He has never created a design, created a a plan of salvation through the outworking and the achievements of man. Because he knows that man can never fulfill that. You would fail. I would fail. You are failing. I am failing if we try to do that on our own. But recognize that Paul points the the the reader and points us all the way back to Abraham, the father of the Israelites, the father of the Jewish people, the father of the faith. He didn't earn salvation through his works Even though he was the one commanded to circumcise, and he obeyed God and circumcised himself, the servants, his sons. He didn't receive God's favor and being the perfect worshiper of God. No, that story appears as though Abraham, when he was Abram , God called him. There's little to no evidence of Abram actually worshiping God before God called him into following him. We don't see anywhere in scripture of Abraham fulfilling the law perfectly and God saying, wow, I'm really well pleased with you, so I'm going to save you. I'm going to redeem you. I'm going to bless your children. Do you know about the Abraham covenant? Uh when it's committed, when we see the the covenant fully established. And the normal tradition would be to cut the animals in half and then both parties walk down the middle of the animals, representing the the commitment and unity and not breaking the covenant. Asleep and God's Spirit walks through that covenant commitment by himself We see this in the book of Hebrews once again, that Abraham is recognized as a father of the faith. He is saved by faith. So if you're sitting in here today going, man, I wish I lived 3,000 years ago as a Jewish person just so I could check off the list of loss. I want to teach you a little bit about that history and how foolish that would be and uncomfortable you would be there, but also recognize that was never God's plan of salvation. From the very beginning, God's plan of salvation, his redemption for his people, was through faith in Christ alone. Now Abraham didn't know the name of Christ. He had faith in the coming Messiah. He had faith in the goodness and hope of God. And now 2,000 plus years after Christ, we look back and we recognize the fulfillment of Christ throughout the whole law. We now see the man Man of God, the son of God, that Abraham was placing his faith in many, many years before Christ ever came and walked the surface, lived the perfect life. So may we see that faith is from the beginning, the regeneration, the salvation of us, all the way through our sanctification. And faith in Christ results in the good works we see. Faith in Christ shows us and builds the fruit of good works. Faith in Christ gives us This fruit of the Spirit that we all love and tr uh treasure and think are so sweet and we want to see grow in us And if you want to see them grow, you must continue to go back to Christ. You must continue to place your faith back in the Christ. When you sin, you place your eyes back on the Christ. When you're struggling, when life hurts, when things seem to be falling apart, place your eyes back on the Christ. Sit and dwell in his beauty. Know that He is the only Savior. He is the Lord of Lords, the King of Kings, and He has called you His. Faith from beginning to the end of the Christian life, and faith from the beginning of history to eternity is what it is all about. This is what the Christian life is. This is where you root yourself as a Christian, is your faith in Christ, not by your own works, because they will always be found worthless before God. Join me in prayer. Father, thank you for your word Thank you for the truth that you redeemed us through the work, the blood, the sacrifice of Christ on our behalf. Lord, where we desire, where we place our pride into this, where we look inward and examine ourselves and look for ourselves to achieve anything When we think we have good works of gold to bring before you, show us the filthiness of those works Show us our sin of pride. Remove that from us. Turn our eyes back to Christ. May we cherish, may we love the Spirit that you've given us. May we seek after the wisdom from the Spirit. May we recognize that the Spirit is the one giving us new love And may we focus our hearts, our minds, every aspect of our lives onto Christ. In Him away. Pray this in His name. Amen.