Turn, if you would, to the book of First Timothy, chapter six. We'll start there, but we're going to be going to Matthew chapter 6 for the for the body of the message. But I do want to begin with this verse. I said this morning that it was a good summary application of Ecclesiastes, the second part of chapter five, and then chapter six. We were learning this morning. Of having a God-centered focus in a material world. And so I think that this is a great summary of those lessons. Instruct those, 1 Timothy 6, 17, instruct those who are rich in this present world not to be conceited. The word means high-mindest, high-minded, so looking to material things for some status. that you might think yourself more important than others or might just want to be to a certain level. Not to be conceited. Think that that's the answer, or to fix their hope, their trust, their expectation on the uncertainty of riches So fixing our hope, we're talking about security now. So neither your status nor your security should be in material things, but on God. who richly supplies. Richly, notice that word. Richly supplies, I don't mean making us rich, but it means he knows what he needs to do and will do it and can do it. He richly supplies us with all things. And Paul says to enjoy. So did Solomon. Solomon used that phrase a couple of times this morning in the chapters, the enjoyment. of the material. Not that we would look to material things for fulfillment, but we can have enjoyment from them. And Paul mentions that. So fixing your hope, that's where my attention was fixed in this verse. Fixing your hope is language. That should only apply to God. Okay? What are we hoping in ultimately? Fixing your hope in this verse is language that should only apply to God. Our faith, our trust is to be in Him. And so tonight we're going to look for several minutes at some measurable Indications as to whether or not you personally have fixed your hope on God when it comes to material things. Now we didn't I didn't put a an outline in the bulletin, but it's simple enough if you want to jot it down in your bulletin. Jesus' teaching in Matthew chapter 6 offers us, I believe, four measurable indications. I'm not suggesting these are the only four in scripture, but In Matthew 6, they become very convenient to see. Number one is, and by the way, before I begin with number one , I hope that you might have some testimony about some of these things because we've lived life. And some of us have gone through times of leanness financially where we had to trust. And I think sometimes sharing those times, those points of need, and how God was faithful can can be helpful to share if you have a testimony like that. uh just anything that could be of help in sharing, I'll try to remember to give you that opportunity on each point. Okay? Number one What did I call these? Well, I called them measurable indications. The first one, evidence of hope in God, measurable indication, your prayer your prayer. If you have fixed your hope on God, as 1 Timothy 6. 17 said, you pray like you have. You pray like you have. Look at Matthew chapter 6, verse 11. Matthew chapter 6, verse 11. You may recognize that that's right in the middle. Of the Lord's Prayer, as we call it, the prayer that Jesus taught his disciples. Matthew 6, verse 11. And we read, Give us this day. Our daily bread. Daily dependence on God For physical needs. That's what Jesus is teaching us. Daily dependence on God And I should have said it this way, for daily physical needs. Give us this day our daily bread. God is concerned that you have food to eat, clothes to wear, and a place of shelter. Those things come up in chapter 6. And these things come to us relatively easily. I'm looking around the room. I think that's the case for each of us. So much so in our part of the world and because of the blessing we have of jobs and income, most of us, they come so easy that we can easily take them for granted. I'm going to tell a story on my mom. The other day I was at the home And she said, John, I want you to look in my pantry. Do you remember saying that to me? Since you're here, I'm going to point it out. She said, I want you to look in my pantry. So I got up and looked in our pantry. She said, What do you see? And I said, Well, not too much. Crackers and a few other things. And that's because my mom is not cooking anymore. But that's okay. We keep the food at our house and we cook it for her. So her pantry has just shifted one house over across the driveway. But if you look in your pantry tonight when you go home, not my mom, so she's the exception to the rule. Hers is pretty empty. But most of us we may not know what we're going to eat tomorrow. But we have food in the pantry or food in the refrigerator. We have clothes in our closet. We have a place of shelter to go to These things come so relatively easy that we do take them for granted because the food pantry is there. The shopping center, the grocery store is there, the refrigerator is there, the closet where I keep clothes. You know, Jody and I had a house fire, so we know what it is to lose those things, but it was very temporary. And because of the church body, we had a family put things together in our rental home right away. Because we live in in that area of the world where that was very possible for you all to share. Our homes seem secure. Most of us don't expect to to go home and not have a home. We we know that it's there. We also know that they can be gone. We see the news. We're thankful that we don't live where the fires are in California. or where the hurricanes have come ashore and flooded and destroyed homes, or the tornadoes that have gone across the Mid-South We're thankful, but we pray for those who live in nations where through warfare they lose all that they have and become refugees or choose to be refugees to get out of a difficult situation. So things can be gone, and that could happen here through natural disaster or some other means. Financial pressure can come. That's probably more easy for us to realize. And some of you have lost a job. Some of you have had an emergency happen that drained the bank accounts. In daily prayer, Jesus teaches us, regardless of our circumstances and regardless of maybe how easily things are going financially, he teaches us to acknowledge that all our substance comes. from God. Give us this day our daily bread. And you know that's true. He is the source of everything in that pantry or in that closet. or the home that you live in. He's the source of rain, the seasons, the growth of crops, the minerals in the soil. to make it fertile, the natural resources for transportation, for building homes, animals and plants, all of those things. He is the source. He wants to be recognized as that and thanked for that. So truly food, clothing, and shelter do come from his hands, his hand, and if we don't keep acknowledging that If we don't keep asking that he continue meeting those daily needs, we're in danger of not hoping in him. The way Paul exhorts us in First Timothy six, verse seventeen. So if we don't eat with thankfulness I mean, I'll talk about in a minute what we should do there, but if we don't eat with thankfulness in our hearts, if we don't get dressed, maybe not every time, but at times with thankfulness that we have clothing. If we don't go home and rest in our homes with thankfulness for our homes, it's likely that we are not praying to God the way Jesus taught us to pray. Give us this Day, our daily bread. I'm not trying to make you feel guilty. I'm just trying to make you see that your prayer life is a measurable indication of whether your hope is in God. If you pray the prayer, give us this day our daily prayer. Now, I don't suggest repeating the Lord's Prayer just from memory, just to say it. But I do suggest, I think it is a good exercise to pray these principles every day using the words that Jesus gave us, but meditating upon them. That has been a good practice for my heart, I'll say it that way. The prayer Jesus teaches us, calls us to fix our hope on God, to not take daily needs for granted, to be thankful. Parents in the room, grandparents in the room, give this memory to your children, to your grandchildren that when you gather for lunch or supper or out at a restaurant, wherever you are, that you stop and you give thanks. I have a high school friend who knows that that's what I'm going to do before we have lunch when we're out on some excursion together. Uh Jodi lets me go. I'm not just leaving the home or anything, but it She lets me have a day with my high school friend. And and uh And he just knows that that's a part of my life, and he's he's not a believer, but he's willing for that and respects that. I think that that's a memory for him But I think it's a memory for my children growing up that whenever we were together at the table, nearly every time, maybe not every time, but nearly every time we stopped and gave thanks. I hope you do that. I hope you do that when you're out. I think it's a good witness. But I think it is from the heart a way of fixing your hope on God, being thankful that He has provided for your daily need. I hope you understand that I say that to people who can so easily take it for granted, and that's why I'm harpy. on it a bit. But your prayer life is an indication of whether or not you are fixing your hope on God. Any testimony there before I move forward? I think that's the simplest one of the four that I'm going to give you. Yes, Anita. We play every Sunday because there are ten twenty hours. means each one individually. Sure you would all everyone would listen for their names. Kids now are telling their kids, you know what great grandpa used to do? And you've never forgotten it. Yeah, so um I I think that's a great uh memory that you have and a great tradition. And yeah, you're waiting to eat, and he's going to name every name. But but but but you remember it. Yeah. Anybody else? All right. Oh yes, Janet, I'm sorry. When we go to visit with our kids, um particularly one particular husband, who is the lawyer, as soon as we go out for dinner He automatically just puts his hands up because he knows we're gonna pray at our meals, whether we're with him in the house or whether we're with him at the Praise God for that. It is, it is. It is a great um y uh you can use the word habit, but I don't mean that in any slight way. It is a good practice in your lives. Number two, your giving is a measurable indication of whether You have fixed your hope on God. Because if you have fixed your hope on God, you give like you have. The next verse in 1 Timothy 6, I know we're in Matthew 6. Look at verses 19 through 21. That's what we're going to read. But in Matthew's, I mean in 1 Timothy 6. 18, Paul goes on to say, instruct them. To do good, to be rich in good works, to be generous and ready to share. Jesus teaches us, do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth where moth and rust destroy. and where thieves break in and steal, but store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal. For where your treasure is There your heart will be also. There your heart. There your hope will be also. If your hope is in God , you know that you are free to be generous with regular giving, tithing, or whatever you've come to in that in that level, tithe is a good uh biblical practice of the Old Testament. It's never spoken against a and I would say it's a God honoring minimum. I I was I'm so thankful that um that was what I was taught, what I began to practice as a young adult when I was making um starting to earn money and such as a youth as well. And it's been Jodi and I's practice throughout our lives to give at least that in a regular way. If you are uh let me say it this way, if you you are not selfish with your money Jesus is teaching us not to be selfish with our money, not to think only of what we'll need, but trusting God that we could give to others who have needs that we could give to his kingdom. I thought of 2 Corinthians 9, 8. God is able to make all grace abound to you, so that all we That always having all sufficiency in everything, you may have an abundance for every good deed. The problem is most people are actively trying to establish, especially younger folks, and I understand this, and I guess I'm an older folk, or at least an aging folk, but most people are actively trying to establish a sense of personal security through material wealth. I mean there's wisdom in that. There's biblical wisdom in that. Uh I mean we we do want to save money. It's wise to have some money saved. Um people do it differently, but we wanted to be able to send our kids to college. without them racking up debt. We were able to do that with the exception of one who was accepted to Johns Hopkins, the most expensive nursing degree you could ever find in your life. Well you gotta pay for some of that. And he did very well and very easily. But that might be the next v vehicle that you you need. You know, there there's wisdom in having money in reserve if if Brian Akers was here. There's probably some other financial Danny would know this. I mean there's there's wisdom in having uh an emergency fund. So I'm not I'm not throwing all that out But if you can't be generous in giving, living where we live and most of us making more than we need to exist, if we can't be generous in giving when generosity is called for. If we can't give in faith, that is more than our normal giving, special offerings, then I think maybe your storehouse has become your place of hope rather than fixing your hope on God. And so I think to be generous when there's a need for it, maybe in the body of Christ, maybe with an individual need of someone that you know that you can help. with I think there's great blessing in that in the body of Christ. And I don't know if there's anyone who would want to give a testimony here. Giving is not something we want to you know, advertise, oh I did this. But but I'm sure that in this congregation tonight there are those of you who when you found out about a need You gave to it because you just had a heart to and you thought it was what God wanted you to do and you did it. And you didn't think so much about the fact that, well, that's not going into the emergency fund or that's not going to be available for me. No, you you You knew that you could, you knew that God had been faithful and you did so. There's also people in this room who have received such gifts. I know Jodi and I did in our early years from from mom and dad as well as uh from a dear uh friend at one of our churches, someone we've lost contact with. But at a time when we didn't know what our need was, he gave a very generous gift that provided for us in a very special way, something that we needed. Um at the time, again, not knowing what our need would be, he could see it and uh gave us a four thousand dollar gift. And back then in um nineteen eighty two or three or four or whatever it was, that that was a very generous gift. We'll never forget that. Andy Raines. You remember Yeah. So uh any testimony there? You're giving. If you fixed your hope on God, you give like you have. I don't mean you empty your bank account, but you give give generously. All right. Anybody else received a gift like that? We could talk about that. That'd be okay. You can read the biography of the one who did the orphanages George Mueller and you'll be just encouraged at his faith but also if you think about it with all the ones who gave generously throughout his life to keep that orphanage. And the timing of those gifts. God is providential in all of that. Number three, your lack of worry. If you have fixed your hope on God, you don't worry as if you haven't. Look at chapter six in Matthew twenty-five through thirty-two. For this reason I say to you Do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink. Nor for your body as to what you will put on. Is not life more than food? And the body more than clothing? That's the phrase I used for. The Book of Ecclesiastes, the subtitle is Not Life More. Look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Are you not worth much more than they? In your heart you should be answering these questions. Yes, I am. And who of you, by being worried, can add a single hour to his life? None of us can. And why are you worried about clothing? Good question. Observe how the lilies of the field grow. Now really r obviously Jesus is speaking at a time when clothing was much more difficult to obtain and keep than it is for us in our culture right where we live. But still we should think About this. Observe how the lilies of the field grow. They do not toil, nor do they spin. Yet I say to you that not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself. Like one of these. But if God so clothes the grass of the field which is alive today and tomorrow is thrown into the furnace, will he much will he not much more clothe you, you of little faith? And the answer is yes, he will. You're more valuable than the grass of the field. Verse thirty one Do not worry then, saying, What will we eat or what will we drink? Or what will we wear for clothing? For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things. Jesus is using Gentiles here in the context of those who don't know the Heavenly Father. Your Heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. Well, the the question that he's asking us is a genuine one, even for our Western culture, do you have uncomfortable thoughts or anxious thoughts about having enough money for food, clothing, and shelter? And if such thoughts come because you know it's your fault for poor management, maybe overspending, well that's one thing. We can learn from that. We can repent. We can confess sin. We can receive God's forgiveness and be more wise. But if you're doing what you should do and you're still worried , Then you're not setting your hope on God. But how can I stop worrying? Well you believe what Jesus has said. That's the answer. You believe the word of God. Let me ask it this way. Do you let your children go without food, clothing, and shelter shelter? Or if you were a parent, if you don't have children. Would you let your children go without food, shelter, and clothing if you could give that to them? And the answer for all of us is no, of course we wouldn't. Well, neither does God. And if you are a believer, you are his child. Jesus illustrates this by pointing out how God has provided for plants and animals in the world that He's created. In verse 32, look at it again. God knows that you need these things. So if I am faithful in stewardship, if I'm not being sinful in the use of material things , I can have hope that God will provide for my needs. Even as Paul said in 1 Timothy 6 17 , That he can do so richly, again, not making us rich, but just faithfully, abundantly, to where we would not be worried about it Look over to Matthew chapter 7 and just remind yourself of the faithfulness of God the Father. Matthew chapter 7 and verse 7. I had turned to uh First Timothy sixteen Verse 18, so let me get there. Verse 7. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened. This is not a blank check. We know that. This is within the will of God Or what man is there among you who, when his son asks for a loaf, will give him a stone? There's the same the same illustration that that I spoke of a moment ago. Or if he asks for a fish, will he give him a snake? He won't give him a snake snake, will he? If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give what is good to those? Who ask him. God is a father who wants to meet our needs. If you have fixed your hope on God, you don't worry. As if there's something wrong with God. You believe that He will meet your needs. Any testimony here? Maybe a lean time in life when you had to lean on these promises Uh more than other times? Tom? pump went out or something like that, some major thing. Uh and we had prayed about it and a check came in the mail that was within two dollars of the price of pump It had to you know, then we realize you know, and you realize that that can't gotta be written several days beforehand and maybe for God had already answered that qu uh thing Yeah, you had a George Mueller moment, we'll call it, because that's what happened to him so often. Yeah. Thank you for sharing that. Anyone else? Just ways ways God provided the board Borner? And there was this trip to go to um to big camp out in camps that finds the voice really well. It's awfully expensive and especially five children. So I said, Well, we just have to trust God, pray about it. And two weeks before the uh forms had to be filled out and the money spent in, we got a check in the mail, we had um overpay the When does that happen? Somehow someone I I we had an accountant because they of course that was And there's been a mistake when we got the money and we used it to send voice to be Christ. You had five kids. What were you thinking, Maura? I don't know. Joking, of course. Anyone else? Alright, let's go to the last point, and that is verse thirty-three of chapter six. Your aspiration, what you aspire to. Because if you fix your hope on God, you aspire to further his kingdom. Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to you. You see the focus there, his kingdom and his righteousness. We want to see him increase, and we want to be a part of that through the way we live our lives. And we see the promise that as we seek first His kingdom and His righteousness, we will be cared for in the way of food, clothing, shelter. So when your hope is in God, you don't make decisions merely based on money. Uh obviously it's a factor, but you look more and lean more on what God wants for your life as his servant. And as his representative on earth. So for an example, I would never counsel someone to take overtime work on Sunday. uh and miss church service in order to make things easier financially. No, I think you should prioritize assembly together. And I was never asked to do this, but but my calling has always been to be a pastor. So what if in those college years uh I had been offered something, say, much more lucrative? and the church has blessed us completely. But let's just say during some well, not only the college years, the the dental brace years too. We didn't always have the dental policy that we have today. But anyway Uh so the so so those were not times where we didn't have, please don't misunderstand, but let's just say they were more challenging than they actually were, and someone had come along and offered me something that was double the salary. And with all the benefits that that the church provides. Well, it would be wrong for me to walk away from a calling that God has given me for for a financial need. No. Seek first his kingdom. And his righteousness and all these things will be added to you. I I know that was a struggle, not really a struggle for me, but a struggle for me in talking to my father and explaining to him my call as I was in in a very real way following in his footsteps footsteps in electrical engineering, but in the middle of my junior year at Virginia Tech, being called into the ministry and that was clear to me that I was not going to be an electrical engineer. Well, you've heard that testimony before, but it it was a challenge for me and a time for me to seek first his kingdom and to trust that even though I was taking a you know, a turn away from uh the job that I was well, uh really already had as a co op student. And would have assumed they would have offered me something. Taking a turn from that, it was it was thankfully by God's grace an easy thing to do because of the the sureness, the certainty of his calling. But my point is for all of us, day by day, to seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to you. So that's just a part of day-by-day stewardship in the use of our means, our finances that we would seek first. God. So to hope in God means I can follow His will for my life without compromise and be confident that He will provide what I and my family need. Any testimony there other than me? All right. Some measurable indications as to whether or not you have fixed your hope on God when it comes to material things. Your prayer? Your giving your lack of worry, or to say it positively, your your reliance, your trusting dependence on God, and your aspiration that you are seeking first his kingdom. Let's pray together. Father, I thank you for Your church here, I thank you for examples of these principles that have always been in our midst. And I thank you for teaching us these principles. And I pray that we would continue and grow in being a generous church in the way of giving toward missions. I pray that each of us individually would be open to your leadership in giving to meet needs in the body of Christ. Help any here who uh are are forming their their principles of giving. Lord, show them the freedom they have to give regularly and to give generously. to you. We pray that all of our fellowship would be practicing that and children would be learning that from their parents. We thank you for this , for what you're teaching us in Ecclesiastes and this study. tonight. Bless the week ahead. And Father, if something comes to our comes before us as a need to meet, Lord, help us to rejoice in that. Pray in Jesus' name. Amen.