Find your way to Ephesians chapter 4, as we'll be looking at the text that was read a moment ago, verses 7 through 16. It's a question that every sincere believer asks in some way. That is, what can I do for God? What am I supposed to be doing? How can I serve Jesus. Along with that, thoughts come, I'm not particularly talented, or these are my talents, how can they be used? How can I help the church? Where do I fit in? I want to assure you That Jesus is not in his hands in heaven, wringing his hands, wondering how to answer that question. In our church covenant, we promised to strive for the advancement of this church, and I and I think it's good to ask what is a particular way There's ways we all do that, but what are is there maybe is there particular part or parts of that that he has significantly for me. Well today's passage shows us that Jesus intends that each and every one of the members of the body of Christ are to be involved in its growth. Not because we're born with the ability to help the church, but because every Christian, listen, is gifted To help the church. That's what verse 7 is telling you. And we look first at the giving of gifts. Verse 7, a very general statement. But to each one of us. So think, who is Paul describing? Well, each member. He's not talking about just himself and those traveling with him. He's talking to the church at Ephesus. But to each one of us, grace was given. According to the measure of Christ's gift. So Paul is moving from the truth of the unity of all believers Verse 6 has that word all. He's looking at the church as a whole, as a unit, to focus now on the uniqueness. of individual believers, each one of us. I want to say several things about the giving of gifts. First of all, each believer has a spiritual gift of some kind. Verse 7 says, to each one of us grace was given. I use the phrase spiritual gift. That's a term that Paul uses elsewhere for this grace, verse 7. A spiritual gift is a God-given ability which God enables you to use to help the body of Christ. Now certainly not everyone has a gift that places him before the congregation in a public way, for example, teaching, but each one has a special capacity. Within the body of Christ for serving or showing mercy or giving or encouraging, organizing, etc. Those are just some examples. I do not believe there is a complete list of gifts in Scripture. I don't believe if you put all the lists together, they make a complete list. I think they are examples of spiritual Giftedness. So yours and how God would use you likely is named in Scripture, but may not be exactly named. Those are my convictions concerning it. But since Jesus gives gifts, since he does It's important that you and I recognize, hey, we've been given, thus we ought to be honoring him with the use of those gifts in ministry. That's what Peter encourages in 1 Peter 4. 10, as each one has received a special gift. Employ it in serving one another as good stewards of the manifold grace of God. The illustration Scripture uses several times concerning this is our physical bodies. Our physical bodies are made of many parts that do a lot of different things for the health of the body as a whole. And most days we don't think about it Or even remember to thank God for it. If you do, may I be more like you. Because when a day goes well physically, often I don't thank him. It's when I get sick that I thank him for the way my body works all those other days. But when everything is doing what it should do, we enjoy good health. But if parts of the body stop doing what they're designed to do, The body suffers. Well, we know that's the case with the heart, but it's also the case with lungs, muscles, nerves, and parts we don't even know the names of. Likewise, in the body of Christ, good health depends on the members of the body, you and I. Doing what we are designed to do. And when we fail, the health of the body does suffer. Now I recognize that there's a struggle here if you honestly don't know where you've been gifted. I do want to say you're not Alone in that. I think others would say the same thing. So to give a little bit of help to that, let me just ask: where are you most consistently burdened? And or interested and/or excited for the church and the church's ministry. I asked that question carefully because I think we should be excited about everything God wants to do in the church. But Usually, there's something that keeps coming back and burdens your heart, excites your heart. For the lost, maybe for the hurting, the financial needs of the church, biblical knowledge of the people. The organization of resources to get things done, the people who stop coming, the worship of God. the many tasks that need to be done. Having a burden in one of these areas May be indicating to you where God is wanting to use you and where he has gifted you Baptist leader Ken Hemphill, in a book that's uh quite a few years old now, wrote this. It seems apparent that our sense of calling, and it's a book about spiritual gifts. And by calling, he means burden, interest, excitement. Our sense of calling to a specific task or ministry provides the best clue. for the discovery and development of our spiritual gift, or at least where God would want us to be ministering and use what he has gifted us with, even if we can't put a name on it. I'm adding that. He says this: God would not lead us to an area of ministry where he will not empower us for effective service. Look back at verse 7. But to each one of us, I'm emphasizing that. Underline it in your mind, or actually in your Bible. I think it's good to do that. Each one of us grace was given according to the measure of Christ's gift. So what a rebuke to anyone who would think There's nothing he or she can do in the church because that's not what God says in verse 7 So there's the challenge for you if you've ever thought, and it's gentle, and it's with love. There's the challenge for you if you've thought, I don't know what to do. Well We'll pray with you. We'll talk with you. But don't sit back and believe that that is the case. Because each one of us Has been graced with a way to help the church. Secondly, there's a wide diversity in these gifts. Verse 7. according to the measure of Christ's gift. Saving grace is the same for all, but each believer's endowment for service Well, it's different from stressing the unity of the body of Christ. In verse 6, as I said, Paul changes the emphasis when he writes to each one of us, grace was given according to the measure. of Christ's gifts. So the thought has turned to the diversity of the individual parts, like the body has many parts. The diversity of the individual believers that make up the whole, the body of Christ. Thirdly, we see that Jesus is sovereign in the distribution of the gifts. The special grace which each Christian possesses is given according to the measure of Christ's gift. Verse 7. Theologian Charles Hodge wrote: The rule is not our merit, nor our previous capacity. like talents we had, even when we weren't a Christian, no nor are asking But his own good pleasure. So he said the rule is not our merit, our previous capacity, nor our asking, but Christ's own good pleasure. And the lesson here is that each believer should be content with his gift and not envy people who, let's just use as an example, are in more public places of service. Nor should anyone look down on those which with a seemingly less important gift than one's own. I guarantee you there are parts of the body you know not of, but if they stop working, you suffer physically. Likewise, spiritually in the church. Fourthly, the giving of these gifts is in accordance with a prophetic declaration concerning the ascended Messiah. I didn't even try to shorten that point, just wanted to say it all. Verse 8. Therefore it says, and Paul is quoting from Psalm 68. And this is David praising his victorious God. Therefore, and Paul is applying it to Christ. By the inspiration of God. Therefore it says, when he ascended on high, he led captive a host of captives, and he gave gifts to men. The imagery is that of a military commander, military conqueror, leading captives in triumph. Loaded down with the spoils of war, which he then distributes to his followers. Now, Paul is thinking of Jesus as a victor over Satan, over sin and death. Paul is thinking of the resurrection, which led to the ascension. So Jesus as one enriched by his victory and giving gifts to his people. To the church. And so the church becomes a display of his glory, a display of his victory. And if he gives gifts that are meant for service, using them is part of the display. Not using them diminishes The display of his glory as he is victorious in resurrection and ascension. So don't do that, church, members of the body of Christ. Use how he has gifted you. Be involved. We'll get to that. The Holy Spirit inspires a parenthesis, verses 9 and 10. And does so in my mind anyway to exalt Christ. So let's look at that. Now this expression, he ascended, what does it mean except that he also had descended? Into the lower parts of the earth. Now, Jesus ascended, we know, from earth to heaven. He descended from heaven to earth through incarnation. his conception in Mary's womb. And so by the inspiration of God, we're to think of that here and thank God for that and believe that If you haven't, to believe that God sent his only begotten Son through conception. He descended, He emptied himself. And became a man. And the phrase lower parts of the earth certainly refers to the great depths to which Christ descended in his incarnation. I think that's the main point to come from God the Son in his glory in heaven to Conception in Mary's womb. But this descent does include, I believe, his descent between his physical death and his resurrection. between the crucifixion and the resurrection to the location of what is termed in 1 Peter the spirits now in prison 1 Peter 3. 19. He went, Jesus went and made proclamation to the spirits now in prison. So after death, we know that he was in paradise with the thief that believed in him. But there's also this in scripture that he made proclamation to the spirits in prison. So not only descended to earth as a human, that's an amazing descent But then after death descends into the world of the dead, making this proclamation He who descended, Paul writes in verse 10, is he who ascended far above all the heavens, so that he might fill all things. His ascension shows his supremacy over all things and shows his, puts him in the position to be the influencer over all things. As well as the responsibility of all things, then to acknowledge his supremacy. Do you see that? He is ascended as Lord. Over his church, and we are to acknowledge that. From his ascended position, he fills all things. The text says. What does that mean? I think it means he fills all things with his presence. Matthew 28, 20 would point to that. I'm with you always, even to the end of the age. He also fills all things with his blessings, as we see here in verse 7, his gifts to believers, or what Paul had in focus. But he fills all things in the sense that he is bringing all things to fulfillment, and he will return. When that is the case. Paul then speaks about some of these blessings that he has given. Verse 11. He gave some as apostles. So specific Gifts, graces. He gave some as apostles, some as prophets, some as evangelists, and some as pastors and teachers. Let me describe these briefly. I believe apostles is a reference to the twelve, the men who walked with Christ, the men who saw him after the resurrection and were commissioned with authority. to proclaim his message. Paul then was made an apostle by Jesus. Judas, of course, was disqualified as an apostle because of his um uh um disobedience to the Lord and betraying the Lord. But Paul is made an apostle by Jesus In this sense that I am describing it and that I believe Paul is writing about it, there are no apostles today. Apostle also means messenger, so sometimes we see it in Scripture used in that way. But God is not gifting people to be apostles. You might hear that in some denominations. It is not what Paul meant here. I do not believe. Prophets. A prophet was an inspired spokesman. Get that now. An inspired spokesman, just not just a good speaker. Okay. Because sometimes pastors are said to be great prophets because they speak well. That's not what this is. A prophet was an inspired spokesman, an infallible messenger of God. This gift was essential during the transitional period of the early church. It provided God's message for local assemblies that could be relied on until they have what we have, the Word of God, the Scriptures. Until that was completed. And in this sense, there are no prophets today. Evangelists has reference to the ability to share the gospel of salvation. And by the way, no prophets today because the word of God is complete. Okay. I think Hebrews 1 speaks to that and other places in Scripture. Evangelists has reference to the ability to share the gospel of salvation with great ease, courage, effectiveness. Paul, I believe, is an example in scripture of having this gift. You have likely met others. I would put Roger Carswell in that list of having the gift of evangelism. And so I think that is a gift that can be certainly present in the church and in ministry. And then pastor-teacher. And the reading of the Greek supports the interpretation that this is one person. As a pastor or shepherd, he leaves, guards, comforts, and cares for the flock, and as a teacher He instructs in, exposites, and applies the word of God. Exposite meaning bringing out the meaning of God's word. And so the pastor-teacher represents one person who is gifted by God and called to shepherd a local congregation. Through biblical teaching, he performs, and I do say he, that is designated in Scripture elsewhere, he performs the Responsibilities of a shepherd leading, protecting, and feeding the flock. In the New Testament, the words bishop, overseer Elder and pastor are used to refer to this office. The more common term used today, and the one that I personally like because of its descriptiveness, is pastor. So the giving of the gifts, and the one thing you need to know, in addition to all that's on the outline, but but especially he has gifted you. Verse 7: He has gifted you. And then the purpose of the gifts. And to get at the meaning of this passage, I'm going to ask and answer several questions. These are questions and answers that are used in the membership class. We talk through this passage generally. So, Roman numeral two, the purpose of the gifts. And the first question: what is the pastor's assignment as he uses his gift? Well, look at the first verse, the first words in verse 12. For the equipping of the saints, for the work of the service. Let me just quickly point out, if your version places a comma after equipping of the saints, realize that's a matter of interpretation. The presence of the comma would mean the work of service is a second pastoral duty. The absence of it, which I think is the correct interpretation, means that The equipping of the saints so that they can do the work of the service. And that fits the context So equipping or perfecting means putting into proper working condition the saints, the members of the church. The root of this word is actually a medical term. For the word equipping, it's used of setting a bone. If that makes you squirm, it makes me squirm. I didn't want to use that illustration. But setting a bone, if you've broken a bone, um, some of you have. A related Greek word is used of mending nets, so fixing something that needs to be fixed. The tool of the pastor in equipping is the Word of God. That is clear throughout Scripture. 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, all Scripture is inspired by God Profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction. There's particularly the medical idea, the mending idea, the healing idea for correction, for training in righteousness, so that The man of God may be adequate, equipped for every good work. And then 1 Thessalonians chapter 2, verse 13. For this reason, Paul is Is saying to the Thessalonian church, we're we constantly thank God that when you receive the word of God which you heard from us. You accepted it not as the word of men, but for what it is, really is the word of God. And listen to this, which also performs its work in you who believe. The living word of God is the tool of the pastor in equipping the saints. So a pastor's ministry of teaching the Bible is used by God to put into proper working condition that which sin has put out of proper working condition in our lives. The need for such healing, such fixing is mentioned in another passage, Hebrews chapter 12, which deals with the discipline of the believer. The word i is interesting here at the end of verse 13. It says, strengthen the hands that are weak, the knees that are feeble, make straight paths for your feet so that the limb Which is lame may not be put out of joint, but rather be healed. That is another ill illustration of this equipping of the saints, bringing healing to where they need it. So pastors who faithfully teach God's word are week by week offering the medicine of God's word Performing its work in those who believe, equipping you. What is the pastor's assignment equipping? What is the assignment of the church member as he or she uses Their gifts, verse 12, for the equipping of the saints for the work of service. So the work of service or the ministry And one way to get an overview of what this work involves is to think of some of the gifts mentioned that are given to perform this work. A helpful list, examples, is in Romans 12, 7, and 8. I mentioned them before, but the gifts of service, teaching, exhortation or encouragement, giving. Leadership, mercy are mentioned there. Thirdly, what is the purpose of the pastors and the church members' gifted ministry? Notice it in verse 12. The building up of the body of Christ. Same root word there, edifying. The pastor does that for the members, the pastor and the members. That's what God uses to edify the body as a whole. So the word translated building up is a noun that means building. And Paul is using it figuratively of the church as the larger context shows. If you go back to chapter 2 in Ephesians, verse 19 and following. This idea of building is used there for the church as a whole. He says you're no longer strangers and aliens, but you are fellow citizens with the saints and are and are of God's household. Having been built on the foundation of the apostles and prophets, two of the gifts that he's mentioned here. Christ Jesus Himself being the cornerstone in whom the whole building, there's the word. In whom the whole building being fitted together is growing into a holy temple in the Lord, in whom you also are being built together into a dwelling of God in the Spirit. So the church is God 's building, and pastors and members are to use their gifts for the purpose of keeping the church strong and growing. What are the indications that this purpose is being accomplished? Verse 13 Until we attain to the unity of the faith and the knowledge of the Son of God to a mature man. To the measure of the statue which belongs to the fullness of Christ. So, what are the indications that The purpose of growth, building up the body is being accomplished. Number one, unity of the faith. This is the faith in the gospel, the good news that God has sent a savior, and Lord Jesus, the unity of the faith was emphasized in chapter 2 In that all people, Jew and Gentile, or however we would divide the people today, are welcome to believe as believers Are welcome to believe and as believers are equal, equal members of the church. So there's not an upper class neighborhood and another class neighborhood in the church. No, we are on equal standing. Unity of the faith, too , and growing in that, understanding that, with the acceptance of one another. Knowledge of the Son of God is two. This comes through a thorough study of the Word of God, seeing Listen, the promise, the prophecy, the person, the proclamations, the purpose of Christ, over and over and more and more in Scripture. Knowledge of the Son of God. And maturity, verse 13. To a mature man, the measure of the stature which belongs to the fullness of Christ Now notice that maturity is measured by what? Look at it, verse 13. Measured by the example of Christ. So thinking and acting in a Christ-like way. That is an indication. That the pastor and the church members are doing what they are supposed to do. By the way, more on maturity tonight. We're going to look at that word as it is used in the New Testament to see marks of maturity. So I hope you'll be back for that. Verse 14 shows the proper working of the gifts that Christ has given to the church. Must be governed by and will then contribute to clear doctrinal thinking. As a result, verse 14 If this is happening as a result, we are no longer to be children, uneducated. No, we're becoming more biblically minded. We're no longer to be tossed here and there by waves unstable. We're more stable. No longer carried about by every wind of doctrine, easily deceived by false teaching. By the trickery of men, that's people who would conceal some evil motive. By craftiness and deceitful scheming, it's a deliberate Planned strategy to lead astray from God's revealed truth, such as Satan's strategy in the garden. Did God say, causing us doubt? Second Corinthians eleven three, I'm afraid that as the sepent sir as the serpent deceived Eve By his craftiness, your minds will be led astray from the simplicity and purity of devotion to Christ. But if the church is working the way it should, we're guarded against that more and more. Verse 15: but speaking the truth in love. Speaking the truth in love in all of the church's ministry. Through every gift, we should purpose to communicate And apply the teaching of the Bible, doctrine, with love for Jesus and his church Speaking the truth in love. Truth and love always go together. And through this, verse 15, we are to grow up in all aspects into him who is the head. Even Christ. So another way of saying maturity, the purpose of doctrinal truth, the purpose of our God-given gifts is to grow in Christ-likeness. So if we want to grow in Christ-likeness, Church, then we must use the textbook that He, our head, Jesus, has given us, which we understand to be the Bible. We use that in our teaching, we use that, must use it in our evangelism, must use it in our exhortation, must use it in our serving, in our giving, in our mercy, etc. Are guided in whatever ministry by the Word of God. Verse 16 then describes a healthy church body. From whom, that's Christ, who's the source of power and direction, from whom the whole body, that would be every believer, remember all the different parts of the physical body. illustrate many parts of the spiritual body, the different members, from whom the whole body being fitted That's the idea of every member properly positioned in the body. My heart wouldn't do as good down in my foot. No, it's centrally located. My foot wouldn't do very good, you know, on my shoulder. So properly fitted, positioned in the body, and held together by what every joint supplies. Notice that. Every member dependent on the ministry of others. Do you see that? Held together by what every joint. We're connected. We're not independent. We're connected. Meant to be. Have to be. It's God's design. According to The proper working of each individual part. So every that means every member, each part, individual part, every member functioning properly, proper working, according to his or her gifts, and then notice Causes the growth of the body for the building up of itself in love So the purpose of the gifts is the spiritual growth of the body. And if that's being done well, love will be a characteristic of it, always. So what then is each Christian Each Christian's responsibility for the growth of the body. Let me elaborate to make it clear. Number one, to be active in a local church. There the word is fitted. And those who avoid membership, and those who are members who avoid service are not properly fitted. Now when I say avoid service, I'm not finger pointing. I'm ask yourself. But those who avoid membership will not be properly fitted. So that's one challenge. But then those who are members who are not looking to serve would be another challenge. That's number one. Number two , What is each Christian's responsibility? To benefit from the ministries of others. We're held together by what every joint supplies. So don't be independent. Receive ministry from others. Three, be faithful in the ministry that God has gifted him or her according to the proper working of each individual part. Proper, each member Exercising, how Christ has equipped him or her. I think that's something we can say. We grow in that, in the proper working. But we're praying about that, listening to people's comments about our ministry, what we're effective in, and so forth. Working. So it's not just good intentions from a sermon the pastor preached on July the third or June the 13th, but it's active service. Proper working. And then notice the phrase, each individual, all are involved, all are responsible Because please understand, the pastor has a significant task here. Uh but without the members, I I will fail. Pastor Matt will fail. If we equip and the equipping does not result in the proper working of each individual part, we do not grow the way God would Want us the way Christ has designed us to grow. So each individual all are involved, all are responsible, and then notice the word part. A part is a part of a whole, and the whole is the body of Christ. So we should see the importance of our service, and we should also see the importance of the service of others who are gifted differently than we are. And we should not lose that illustration of the body. And so I read to you from 1 Corinthians chapter 12. The body is not one member, but many. If the foot says, Because I'm not a hand, I'm not a part of the body, it is not for this reason any less a part of the body. And if the ear says, because I'm not an eye, I'm not a part of the body, it is not for this reason any less a part of the body. If the whole body were an eye, where would the hearing be? If the whole were hearing, where would the sense of smell be? But now God has placed the members, each one of them, in the body, just as he desired. That should sound to you like verse 7 of Ephesians 4. If they were all in the rest of the passage, if they were all one member, where would the body be? But now there are many members, but one body. So we see the importance of our service and the service of others who are gifted differently than we are. Paul is saying that the proper working of each individual apart Causes the growth of the body. And notice the evidence Again, of a healthy growing body at the end of verse 16 for the building up of itself in love. Love, Christ-like love for one another. We have room to grow always in that. We've not exhausted our understanding. Remember the height, depth, length, and width? We've not understand not exhausted our understanding of Christ's love. So, gifted ministry. Jesus gives gifts that enable us each, as we are guided by Scripture, to have a part in helping the church grow more and more like Christ. I've already given implications, applications. Let me give three things real quick again. Be active in the local church. Be fitted. And if you are coming here and you have not joined the church, I think that means membership because there's accountability and responsibility that is a part of our understanding of the local church. Do that. Talk to us about that. So be active in a local church. Benefit from the ministries of others. Held together by whatever joint supplies. Appreciate that. And be faithful in the ministry for which God has gifted you. Keep praying about the proper working of your individual, you you as an individual part The starting point of all of that is to believe the gospel, which verses 9 and 10 point to. Jesus descended. Why? Why would he come? To see what it was like? No, because man is a sinner and needed a savior. And in God's design The way was a blood sacrifice on a cross, and the only fitting sacrifice was a perfect human, and none existed, none could be savior except the Son who became man And died on the cross for our sin. Have you believed that? Have you trusted that alone for salvation? Your good works. You may be able to please God in some of the ways that you honor the fact that He made you. But without a savior, you will not go to heaven. And those works that you're trusting in, he calls filthy rags if you're trusting them. for salvation. Jesus descended. He finished his work. The ascension of salvation. He ascended and he is doing the work of building the church and he will come again. We look forward to that. But for those who haven't understood his coming to earth , you're not ready for that. So I pray for you. Let's pray together. Father, we the church want to grow in honoring you in our giftedness and in our service. Father, for others listening, watching online, here who are not believers, we pray that by your grace you would turn their heart. To repentance and faith. And Father, cause that to lead them to a public profession of their faith and membership in this church We pray, Father, also, that you would continue to guide us and strengthen us in the use of our gifts for your glory. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.