Abraham was promised that he would be the father of a great nation, and he's been waiting for the birth of a son, and we've been waiting with him as we've gone through this series. on the God of Abraham. His wife was barren. It didn't seem like it was going to happen. Some twenty-five years have gone by. Since God called him to move, to leave, and to come to the land of Canaan. But God was clear. He and Sarah Would have a son. That is, she would become pregnant. We fast forward. At another time in history, Israel was promised a son, a Messiah, by Isaiah the prophet. You're familiar with the passage. We read it at Christmas. We should read it anytime, of course. Isaiah 9, verse 6, unto for a child will be born to us, a son will be given to us, the government will rest on his shoulders, his name will be called wonderful counselor. Mighty God, eternal Father, Prince of Peace, there will be no end to the increase of his government or of peace. on the throne of David and over his kingdom to establish it and to uphold it with justice and righteousness from then on and forevermore. The zeal of the Lord of hosts will accomplish this. And it wasn't 25 years, it was 700 years after Isaiah prophesied of this son. That indeed, as they understood this would be the Messiah, it was twenty seven hundred years before the fullness of time came, and God sent forth his son. The point is, God is faithful. He does what he says he will do. He still will do all that he said he will do. But it will be according to his timing. It will be according to his ways, according to his wisdom, etc. But God is faithful. And you will leave today, I pray. With heightened encouragement from that phrase, God is faithful. Because I hope we will see it in the text and take it personally. Genesis chapter 21. Father, we ask your blessing as we go through this text together, as we draw its principles, its implications to our lives. In Jesus' name Amen. First of all, God is faithful in his promises, verses 1 through 7. Verse 1. And notice these phrases about God. I'll emphasize them. Then the Lord took note. Of Sarah. So God remembers, he doesn't forget. As he had said, the Lord took note of Sarah as he had said, He keeps his word. And the Lord did for Sarah as he had promised. He takes action. He did. He is acting for Sarah, as he had promised. So Sarah conceived. God opens and closes the womb. And she bore a son to Abraham in his old age. Notice at the appointed time of which God had spoken to him. God is on schedule. In Genesis eighteen, verse fourteen God said, is anything too difficult for the Lord at the appointed time I will return to you at this time next year. And Sarah will have a son. And indeed he is fulfilling his word. Verse 3. Abraham Abraham called the name of his son who was born to him. whom Sarah bore to him Isaac, which means he laughs. It was a name that God told him to call the son. It was given when Abraham laughed in amazement that he and Sarah could have a son. God is specific in his words to Abraham and he fulfills them completely. Verse 4. Then Abraham circumcised his son Isaac when he was eight days old, as God had commanded him. Now Abraham was one hundred years old when his son Isaac was born to him. Sarah said, God has made laughter for me. Everyone who hears will laugh with me. No longer in her heart the laughter of doubt, but now the laughter of joy, of amazement with Abraham. Verse 7 And she said, Who would have said to Abraham that Sarah would nurse children? Yet I have borne him a son in his old age We see here that God, who is faithful, is not bound by nature. He works on his timing, in his wisdom, he is faithful to his promises. Secondly, God is faithful in our problems, even in the midst of fulfilled promises. There can be problems, right? Even in the midst of fulfilled pro promises, even when God is doing things exactly as He wants to do them. We go through problems because we live in this world. And Jesus said, in this world you have tribulation. Verse 8. The child grew and was weaned, and Abraham made a great feast on the day that Isaac was weaned. Now Sarah saw the son of Hagar, the Egyptian, whom she had borne to Abraham, mocking This is Ishmael. He's now fourteen years old. He's no longer the only son of Abraham. Therefore, she said, verse 10 to Abraham, Drive out this maid and her son, for the son of this maid shall not be an heir with my son Isaac. The matter distressed Abraham greatly because of his son. It was his boy, Ishmael. And when we need Direction from God when we are distressed, when we desperately need guidance. We see God is faithful to give it in verse 12. God said to Abraham Do not be distressed because of the lad and your maid. Whatever Sarah tells you, listen to her, for through Isaac your descendants shall be named And of the son of the maid, I will make a nation also, because he is your descendant. So with this word from God, Abraham sends away his son Ishmael. We don't know the difficulty of doing that. I don't think any of us have had to do anything quite like that. But let me interject that God promises help in our times of needing direction. He shows up for Abraham here and gives him clear direction. Well we're told in the book of James, chapter one, if any of you lacks wisdom. Let him ask of God, who gives to all generously and without reproach, and it will be given to him. You read on, it's to the one who has faith that he will receive it. So Abraham obediently rose early in the morning, verse 14, and took bread and a skin of water. and gave them to Hagar. Now he would have known that that was not enough for her to to return to Egypt, but he gave her what he could that she could carry, putting them on her shoulder, and gave her the boy. And sent her away. And she departed and wandered about. Well, that's not things are not going smoothly if she's wandering about. It means that she's lost her way in the wilderness. Of Beersheba, verse 15. When the water in the skin was used up, she left the boy under one of the bushes. uh likely just for the shade. And she went and sat down opposite him about a bow shot away. For she said, Do not let me see the boy die And she sat opposite him and lifted up her voice and wept. We see the faithfulness of God in that he hears, he hears Verse 17. Notice who he hears. God heard the lad crying. I think that's pointed out because the promises were made to Ishmael that God would make of him a great nation. God hears the lad. crying. And the angel of God called to Hagar from heaven and said to her, What is the matter with you, Hagar? In other words, did you not believe what I told Abraham concerning your son? Do not fear, for God has heard the voice of the lad where he is. So we note that God hears, God remembers. Arise, lift up the lad, and hold him by the hand, for I will make a great nation of him. God remembered his word, of course, is going to fulfill it. And God provides. Look at verse 19. God opened her eyes. And she saw a well of water, and she went and filled the skin with water and gave the lad a drink. And they lived. They didn't die. And God protects them. Verse 20: God was with the lad, and he grew, and he lived in the wilderness and became an archer. That means a hunter. So they would have food. He lived in the wilderness of Paran, and his mother took a wife for him from the land of Egypt. And if you want to see fulfillment of God's promise to Abraham concerning Ishmael, I would ask you to jot down Genesis chapter 25. Verses 12 through 18, because it shows that God kept his word to Abraham for Ishmael and what would come of Ishmael's line. God is faithful in our problems. And thirdly, God is faithful in our protection. We remember that Abraham was promised the land, but he's still a sojourner in it. And as a sojourner, he is vulnerable to those who are established in the land. Verse 22. It came about at that time, the time of Abraham's sojourn in the Negev It came about in that time that Abimelech and Thikol, the commander of his army, spoke to Abraham, saying , God is with you in all that you do. Amazing statement. Abimelech had witnessed Abraham's God firsthand in a dream, you might remember. He knew that Abraham's God intervened for Abraham when he had taken Sarah to be a part of his wife, to be one of his wives. But God protected Sarah. God appeared to Abimelech in a dream, told him he was a dead man if he didn't return, Sarah. And God uh Abimelech had seen that God protected and had prospered. Abraham. And so he, Abimelech, becomes an outside witness of the covenant of God with Abraham. Notice what he says: God is with you in all that you do. You know, others do say things like that of Christians today, because they see the peace of God in a believer's life. Philippians 4, verse 7. Peace that surpasses understanding. Or they see stability in a believer's life, and that they've given their life to obedience of God's word, and they're like the house on the rock stable. Not that they don't have problems. The wind and the rains come, but they don't affect them like they do other people or households. Or they see in a Christian purpose in life. Because indeed, God has seen already the works that He has for us, and we live for that. We live with purpose, not meandering in life, where they seek comfort. From the Lord and how that affects an individual or a family. Blessed, Jesus said those, blessed are are the Is it the meek? No. Well, blessed are those who mourn. They shall be comforted. Matthew 5 and verse 4. Or they see hope in a believer's life, 1 Peter chapter 1 and verse 3, and then later in in Peter, that others would call on you to give an account for the hope that is in you. Or they see joy in a believer's life. John 17 and verse 3, etc. Others could say, God is with you. We can see that. Psalm 67, verse 7 is a verse I have circled in my Bible. God blesses us, listen, God blesses us that all the ends of the earth may fear him. God doesn't bless us to make us rich and comfortable. That comfort might come from his blessings in some ways. But no, God blesses us for his glory. And here it's worded in this way, that all the ends of the earth may fear him. So as you live your Christian life, as you live the abundant life Jesus talked about, yes, others will be outside witnesses of the covenant As they see peace and stability, purpose, comfort, hope, joy, etc. in your life. Abimelech sees evidence that God is with Abraham and he fears Abraham's God. And in verse 23 , We see that God uses this to protect Abraham. Now therefore, swear to me, Abraham, here by God. that you will not deal falsely with me or with my offspring or with my posterity, but according to the kindness that I have shown to you you shall show to me and to the land in which you have sojourned. It's similar to Abimelech's fear of God is similar to That the people of the promised land have when Joshua goes in. They've already heard about God, and in that case, they already fear God. They're afraid of the Israelites coming into the land. Here, Abimelech fears Abraham's God and wants to be on good terms with Abraham. He understands that he should be good to Abraham for his own welfare. And he intuitively understands that God will bless those who bless Abraham , a part of the Abrahamic covenant. Well, Abraham agrees and says in verse 24, I swear it. I will show goodness, kindness to you. But something happens in verse 25. Abraham complained to Abimelech because of the well of water. Now, by the way, a well of water in this area of land is a most valuable commodity. So if there's a problem with a well, it's a big problem. He complained to Abimelech because of the well of water which the servants of Abimelech had seized. There's the issue. And Abimelech said, I do not know who has done this thing. You did not tell me, nor did I hear of it until today. So you just hear him establishing his innocence. We know that he fears Abraham's God. Abraham, I didn't know about this. You should have told me is his i is is what he is saying to Abraham, because I fear your God. Verse 27. Abraham took sheep and oxen and gave them to Abimelech. That's in essence to say all is good between us. And the two of them made a covenant. More formal now than the verbal agreement that we see evidence of in verse 24 where Abraham says, I swear it, or said. I swear it. The two of them made a covenant. And a part of that was Abraham set, verse 28, seven ew lambs of the flock by themselves. Abimelech said to Abraham, What do these seven you lambs mean, which you have set by themselves? He said, You shall take these seven ew lambs from my hand, so that it may be a witness to me that I dug this well. So accept this as confirmation that this is my well. Therefore he called that place Beersheba, which means well of the land or well of the seven. Sometimes it's translated. He called that place Beersheba because there the two of them took an oath Now, it's interesting, Beersheba, just by way of biblical knowledge, Beersheba becomes the southern hallmark, so to speak, of Israel And you'll hear the phrase beginning in Judges and in Samuel particularly from Dan to Beersheba. If some of you recognize that, it was a descriptive way of saying all of Israel. Verse thirty-two. So they made a covenant at Beersheba, and Abimelech and Thikol, the commander of his army, arose and returned to the land of the Philistines. Abraham planted a tamarisk tree at Beersheba, a way of marking the area, the well perhaps, the covenant as well, and there he called on the name of the Lord. The everlasting God. A man of faith, praying to God, believing Him to be the everlasting God. Indeed, we see in that descriptive phrase, God is eternal. And in this chapter we see He is faithful eternally. So today you woke up, God is faithful. We don't know what tomorrow holds, the Bible tells us, but tomorrow God is faithful. We don't know what next year holds. Some of you, we would have had no idea Last year on March 7th that we'd be going through the year like we've gone through. But God is faithful Because he's the everlasting God. He does not change. So there's not going to be a decrease of his faithfulness. He's every bit as faithful today as he will be tomorrow. He doesn't grow in faithfulness. He's God. And he's the everlasting God. And Abraham sojourned in the land of the Philistines for many days. Let me just point out that there's a picture there in verse 34. A picture of Abraham sojourning in a land that was not yet his , not yet Israel's, as it would become one day. And it's a picture of the church. sojourning, so to speak, in the world, awaiting for the new heavens and the new earth. We're not claiming territory. We are doing the work of missions as sojourners in this world, awaiting the return of Christ. And so we see a picture of that in verse 34. And we believe that God is faithful, and those promises of the return of Christ indeed will take place. God is not slow about his promises, as Peter said. He is with us. He is with us in the problems that we face as believers. He protects us for his purposes. And one day, the everlasting God will send his son, Jesus. Now the implications of this, let me say two things, two sentences, very short, and then we'll look at them in scripture. But The implication of this to take home with you is God is faithful. Trust him. Trust him. Grow in trusting him. So let's see that in some passages. God is faithful in his promises. He promises salvation in Jesus. John 3:16. Whoever believes in him Will not perish, but have eternal life. I exhort you, if you have not, to trust in Jesus as your Savior. God is faithful to the promise to save those who trust in Jesus. He promises God does the return of Jesus. He's faithful. I trust him. And so until that day comes, I and we, and the church after us, if the Lord tarries, continues to do the work of witnessing His truth and his glory in this world. But he will come. He promises the return. First Thessalonians chapter 4, verse 16 and 17. 1 Thessalonians 4, 16 and 17. The Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout. With the voice of the archangel, and with the trumpet of God, and the dead in Christ will rise first. Then we who are alive and remain will be caught up together with them in the clouds to meet the Lord in the air. So we shall always be with the Lord. God is faithful in his promises, and those are just two of them: salvation in Christ, the return of Christ. God is faithful in our problems. Look if you would, or remember if you want to just remember it, Romans chapter 8, verses 28 and 29. Romans eight, verse twenty-eight. We know that God causes all things to work together. for good to those who love God, to those who are called according to his purpose, for those whom he foreknew He also predestined to be conformed to the image of his son. He's making us more like Jesus. And he is doing that through all the things in our life, including problems. We know that God causes all things, including all of our problems, to work together for good ultimately for the purpose of conforming us to the image of his son. He'll have other purposes in there too. That we can be a blessing to someone else, that we could witness to someone else, that we would come in contact with because of our problem. But he is faithful in our problems. Another great passage in the book of Romans, chapter 5, beginning in verse 3. Chapter 5 of Romans, beginning in verse 3. Not only this, but we also exalt in our tribulation. Our problems, knowing that tribulation brings about perseverance. And perseverance proven character Proven character, hope. Here's a description of how you're becoming like Christ, as Romans 8 said. And hope does not disappoint because the love of God has been poured out within our hearts. Through the Holy Spirit who is given to us. So tribulation, but God is present there and pouring out his love through the Holy Spirit. Is God faithful in our problems? Yes, he is faithful in our problems. And he is faithful to protect us. Just as we saw with Abraham, he is faithful to us. John chapter 10. In verse 28, he protects us spiritually. Jesus says, I said, I gave, I give eternal life to them, to believers, and they will never perish. And no one will snatch them out of my hand. He is faithful to protect us spiritually, to keep us as believers, interceding for us at the right hand of God. In John chapter 16, verse 33, He is faithful to protect us from things in the world. Jesus said to His disciples the night before the cross. In me you may have peace. In the world you have tribulation, but take courage. I have overcome the world. Nothing will come your way That has to rob you of peace. It can make life hard. It can stir up your emotions But God is faithful. Trust Him. And you will have peace. Because Jesus has overcome the world. We'll know that in the full way when he returns. We know it by faith now. God is faithful. Trust in him. Let's pray together. Well, Father, we thank you. I know that before me and those watching online, I know there are different challenges, different problems, different trials. The people are walking through also opportunities and joys and blessings Whatever we find ourselves in, whatever we find around us, by faith we say, God, you are faithful. And we will trust in you. Help us in that, we pray. We thank you for your promises We thank you that our problems don't confound you. We thank you for your protection. We pray that we would be That our lives of trusting you would bring honor and glory to you. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.