Yeah, yeah. It is coming off. I'll be distracted by this one here. I don't think I could priest being distracted by two mics. So yeah, the uh I think we just The the wire inside the thing broke, um just came apart. So Deuteronomy Chapter eight, verses one through five, going on in the series of remembering and responding to God's glory. This particular section that we're in is a series of God's glory through what he requires of his people. And this morning we're looking at the fact that God requires humility, as we already saw in verses 2 and 3. So, what I'd like us to think about today is humility. If you look this up, the dictionary will say something like: humility is a modest or a low view of one's own importance. Humility is the opposite of thinking much of yourself. Humility is the opposite of being full of yourself. It's the opposite of arrogant. Jesus said, Blessed are the poor in spirit, which means they recognize their lowliness. They recognize their neediness and they look outside of themselves for help. Specifically, they look to God. They are not haughty. They are no longer under the delusion of independence, but rather they are dependent upon God. They have a modest or low view of their own importance. As Christians, we need to add another layer to this basic definition of humility. As Christians, we want to say that humility is learning to see ourselves as God sees us. Having a right view of ourselves. Having a view of ourselves based on truth, not based on the lies. of the world around us, not based on the lies of the flesh, not based on the lies of the adversary, the devil, but based on truth. Those who truly are humble, poor in spirit, have come to see what they truly were, apart from Jesus. Helpless sinners, but they also remember who they truly are in Jesus: sinners saved by grace. So this morning let's think about humility. Now this is not on the outline that was in your bulletin, but I do have a few introduction points. It's a basic introduction. I want to front load the relevance and the practical application of this for us. So let's just say this to begin. Humility is essential to the Christian life Humility is essential to the Christian life. An arrogant Christian is a contradiction in terms. That would be like saying it is a cold fire or it is dry water or it is a blue red Cushion. It's a contradiction to say arrogant Christian. A Christian is someone who, by definition, has been humbled by God and has humbled him or herself before God. Christians are humble , not perfectly humble. We will not be as humble as we ought to be until we depart from this age and go to be with the Lord. But by the power of the Holy Spirit, Christians are truly progressively humble. Verse 2 In Deuteronomy, it says that he might humble you. And verse 3, it says he humbled you. Let me give you some New Testament cross-references. Colossians 3, 12. So, as those who have been chosen of God, holy and beloved, put on a heart of compassion, kindness, humility, gentleness, and patience. Ephesians 4:2. Be completely humble And gentle, be patient, bearing with one another in love. What a great memory verse. What a great summary verse for how we Ought to interact with and relate to each other. And that's exactly what that verse is about. Be completely humble, be gentle and patient, and bear with one another in love. Why is humility essential to the Christian life? There are three points on this. Well, the first is more of a how. How can we be humble? The Holy Spirit The Holy Spirit makes us humble. When you came to faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, it's not only that you received gifts from him, you most certainly did the gifts of eternal life, the gift of forgiveness. But it's more than that You did not just receive gifts from him, but rather he transformed you by the power of the Holy Spirit. We are new creatures in Christ. We're filled with the Holy Spirit. And if we're believers, the Holy Spirit is cultivating in our hearts humility, among other things. With humility. Are you pursuing humility? Are you pursuing the power of the Holy Spirit to grant you humility? It's interesting, you cannot come to the Lord in the first place without humility. A person will never truly repent. Toward God and believe in Christ as Savior, apart from a new humble heart to replace that old, hard, disobedient, rebellious heart. Number two, why is Humility essential in the Christian life. We are saved by grace. That's why. First Corinthians one twenty seven to thirty one. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise. Did you ever think of yourself in that category as one of the foolish things God has chosen? That's the context of this passage. He's talking to Christians to try and help them understand who they are. You remember in the church at Corinth, they struggled with pride that led to infighting, that led to division. But God has chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong. And the base things of the world, and the despised God has chosen the things that are not, so that he might nullify the things that are So that, here's the reason, he chose the foolish, the weak, the despised, so that no man may boast before God. But by his doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, and righteousness, and sanctification and redemption, so that Just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. The fact that we are saved by grace Disqualifies us from having any boast in ourselves Number three, why humility is essential in the Christian life. The imitation of Christ. This is part of our imitation of Christ. This is part of Being like Jesus. I never wore one, but perhaps you wore one of those. What would Jesus do bracelets when they were popular 10, 15, 20 years ago? Well, no matter what else he would do, is he would be humble. He would be humble. Philippians two, verses five through eleven, the apostle Paul writes this. to the church at Philippi. Have this attitude in yourselves, which was also in Christ Jesus, who, although he existed in the form of God did not regard equality with God as a thing to be grasped. What that means is he didn't He didn't hold on to his divine place in heaven. He didn't grasp onto it to the point where he just couldn't let go of it. Rather, what did he do? He let go of it and he came to earth. To serve and to save. So that's what that means. He did not regard equality with God as a thing to be grasped. But he emptied himself taking the form of a bondservant, and being made in the likeness of men, being found in appearance as a man, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death. That connection between humility and obedience is a really big deal. That will come out as we move on this morning. But he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. For this reason also God highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name which is above every name. so that at the name of Jesus every knee will bow, of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and that every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. But he didn't start out there. The path to this glory, the path to the name that is above all names, is a path of humble obedience. That's the path of the Christian life as well. It's a path of humble obedience in Christ and then exalted with Christ in glory. Some of us want to skip the humble obedience part and go right to glory. It cannot be. While we are on this earth, we are defined by humble service. And so in the midst of a culture that's telling us to live for ourselves and that we can and should do anything we wish, Calling us to live a me -centered existence. Here comes God, and God calls us to something different. God calls us to humility Therefore, God wills and works to humble his people. Roman numeral one. Are you ready for Roman number one? Anybody? Yes? Okay. Just making sure you're awake and tracking. Roman numeral one. God wills and works to humble you because he loves you. God wills and works in your life to humble you because He loves you. This comes from verse 1 in Deuteronomy 8. All the commandments that I am commanding you today, you shall be careful to do, that you may live and multiply, and go in and possess the land which the Lord swore to give to your forefathers. Where does the idea of God's love come from this verse? It doesn't say anything about his love. We don't have time to go into the greater context of Deuteronomy. The the the greater context, the main theme of the whole story is God's love for Israel. But in here, in this one little verse We see three components or three aspects of God's goodness to Israel. We see a reminder of God's law, his commandments that he gave to them. We see God's call upon them, that they shall be careful to obey his law, that they may live and multiply. To create a nation of obedience, we see God's law, we see God's call, and we see God's gift, or rather, God's inheritance. That you will go in and possess the land which the Lord swore to give to your forefathers. Now, apart from God's sovereign love and choosing Israel according to his promise and according to his purpose, they have none of those things. All of those things are wonderful divine gifts. So when we talk about humility, the backdrop of this of God requiring humility is God's love. God requiring humility from me, from you, from his church. Is not an act of malice. It's not of ill will. It is an act of kindness. Sometimes we forget, Apostle Paul says, the law is good. Because the law is a reflection of God's character. The requirements of God are a reflection of his character so that we might imitate him and be like him. We also forget that Paul said the law is spiritual. Which means it is a guide for spiritual living. Now the problem, the reason the law is a curse to us when we're under sin, is because of sin. It's not because the law is sinful. The law cannot save because we are sinful Let me give you some cross-references, some interesting cross-references. We normally don't think of Israel as a whole as referred to as God's. But I want to give you some cross-references on that because what we're talking about here is fatherly love. Hosea 11 1 When Israel was a youth, I loved him, and out of Egypt I called my son. Exodus 4. 22, then Yush shall say to Pharaoh, thus says the Lord, Israel is my son my firstborn. Jeremiah, for I am a father to Israel, and Ephraim is my firstborn. God's love, God's decision to make for himself a people. To worship him, to live for him, to love him. God's decision to make for himself a people that would love him is the backdrop for thinking about this call to humility. What we're talking about is sonship. Adam failed as an obedient son and proved to be disobedient. Israel failed to be an obedient son and provide and proved to be disobedient. But Jesus came. Jesus did not fall prey to the devil's schemes and lies. He did not fall into temptation. He proved to be an obedient son. The obedient son, or rather The Son of God. Now, what about you and I? We become children of God. We become sons and daughters of the promise through Jesus. We are adopted in Christ. To, in effect, share in the benefits of Jesus' obedient sonship. Romans 8, 14 through 17. It's a great passage on adoption. For all who are being led by the Spirit of God, these are the sons of God. For you have not received the spirit of slavery leading to fear again, but you have received a spirit of adoption. What a great phrase. The Holy Spirit that you've received is the Spirit of Adoption. It's the Spirit that makes you a son or a daughter and heir of God. You've received the spirit of adoption as sons by which we cry out, Abba, Father. And the Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, heirs also, heirs of God, fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him, so that we may God wills and works to humble you because He loves you. Just think in practical terms of your own life. Do you want your children to be arrogant or humble? Humble. Everybody says humble. Well why is that? It's because you love them. Right? Do you want them to Be self-sufficient and absolutely independent or dependent upon God as their maker and savior Well, you want them to be dependent upon God. That would be our prayer for our children. I would hope that they would that would be our prayer. Why? Because we love them. We do not want them living under the delusion of pop culture, succumbing to the lies of pop culture, that that you are to live independently of God. Live as if God doesn't exist No, no. We want them to live in light of their Maker, God Almighty. Do we want our children to be rebellious toward us, to not care about what we say to them, or do we want them to be obedient? Wanting to serve. Well, we want them to be obedient. We want and that's why we teach humility and obedience. And that's why we want to set an example. Are you awake this morning? Set an example in the house of humility. and obedience. Because of love. Now if we have that kind of love toward our children that we want them to be humble and we want to teach them humility And we want to be an example. How much greater God's love for us? How much greater His desire for us to be humble. The point is, love is the catalyst for wanting humility in the hearts of of children, God for his children and us for ours. Roman numeral two, God wills and works to humble you through testing. Verse 2, you shall remember all the way which the Lord your God has led you in the wilderness these forty years, that he might humble you. Testing you to know what was in your heart, whether you would keep his commandments or not. These periods of testing, these periods of difficulty that you go through Is a way that God means to humble you. God wills and works to humble us through testing. Now, very quickly, I just want to give you the distinction between Being tempted and being tested, because both are a part of our experience as God's people. Well, the devil tempts you. That is an act of hatred. He twists the truth. He wants you to sin. He wants to hurt you. He wants to keep you from God. The devil tempts God, consistently in Scripture, tests his people. He brings them through a period of trial, of difficulty. And when God tests, it is an act of love. It is an act of kindness He wants to humble us. He wants to bring us near to himself. And ultimately he wants To exalt us in his presence. Matthew 23, 12. Whoever exalts himself shall be humbled, but whoever humbles himself will be exalted. A couple key words in verse 2, if you'll glance at it again, is hearts. The heart is the issue here. And then this phrase, whether you would keep. whether you would keep the commandments. So the testing process is a humbling process. The testing process is an exposing process, which means it exposes the heart. It sheds light on the heart. whether you would keep the commandments. And so if they are to obey, it will be a sign that they've humbled themselves before their God, that they've trust they're trusting in God, they're delighting in God, they're wanting to be faithful to God. They don't want to be rebellious. or stubborn, if they obey, that's what's exposed about the heart. But if they disobey, it's a sign of what? Just the opposite. That they've not humbled themselves before God. That they've risen up against Him to be their own God, to be their own Savior. to trust in themselves, to delight in sin, to be rebellious, to be stubborn. Rather than pursuing God, they want to run away from Him, to chase Anything instead of God, quite frankly, idols, sexual immorality, thievery, violence. If they disobey, that's what's in their heart that is exposed God requires humility because you cannot obey without humility. How can you love your neighbor as yourself without a humble heart? You can't. It is literally impossible. Am I saying that too strongly? It's impossible. If you're full of yourself in your heart, if you're proud and arrogant and you see yourself as better than your neighbor, and your neighbor is so far beneath you, you cannot love them. How can you serve others in the church without a humble heart? You can't. You'll always be looking to be served. See how obedience is dependent upon a humble heart? How can you set a good example at work? How can you reflect The character of Christ at work without a humble heart, you can't. How can I be the husband God has called me to be without a humble heart How can you be the wife God's called you to be without a humble heart? How can you be the son or daughter or cousin or nephew you're called to be if you don't have a humble heart? How can we be students, friends, employees, athletes? In relation to others without a humble heart, we cannot obey God. We cannot love and serve others without a humble heart. Just as sin flows and grows out of the proud heart, so also obedience from a humbled heart before the Lord. Grievous trials that we've been through in our lives. Different trials for each one of us. Different times, different details, but we've all had those seasons. Trials, emotions, pain on the inside, sometimes on the out that we never thought could exist. We have no frame of reference, so to speak, for for the suffering, the hardship that we can go through. Does that mean God has left us? Does that mean God doesn't care about us? Does that mean God doesn't see Our suffering or doesn't hear our prayers? Has God forgotten about us? May it never be said May it never be said. God says he won't forget. God says he won't turn away. God says he won't forsake. How do we respond? How do we respond during the time of testing? How do we respond during the time of trial? Just as by way of personal testimony, as a younger man, it's one of the most encouraging, I mean top three most encouraging, most edifying things for me. is when I see older saints in the Lord who happen to be going through s just an unimaginably grievous trial and yet they have joy. There's this radiance, there's this countenance of an inner peace that you just have no idea where it would come from apart from trusting God in the midst of it all. It's such a great encouragement to me. The author of Hebrews talks about that. This cloud of witnesses, this great cloud of witnesses, looking to them will help you persevere and stand firm in the faith. Jesus was tempted in the wilderness. Jesus went through difficulty. Jesus went through suffering. God loved Jesus. Okay? God tests. In order to humble us. Romans 3. By the way, I'd give you some homework. If you want to write it down or just memorize it, if you read Matthew 4 today and your devotions later on. Where Jesus is tempted in the wilderness, is these three temptations, they all center around his identity as the Son of God. If you are the Son of God, since you are the Son of God, And it's all designed to get him to disobey God and disqualify himself as the obedient son of God. And all three of Jesus' response to those temptations, these responses that gave him victory over temptation, all three of his responses came from this section of Deuteronomy. We just saw one, verse three, and our and the other ones I'll let you look at Matthew 4 if you want to read that. Roman 3, God wills and works to humble you, to make you depend upon Him. He wants us to depend upon him. This comes from verse 3. He humbled you and let you be hungry. And he fed you with manna, which you did not know, nor did your fathers know, that he might make you understand that man does not live by bread alone, but man lives by everything that proceeds out of the mouth of the Lord. What did they need to learn? They needed to learn to depend upon what comes out of the mouth of the Lord. God 's promises to them. Trust in God's promises. And so He sovereignly To humble them, allow them to be hungry, so that he would have the stage to provide for them manna to address that hunger, but then the manna itself is just a lesson to them to remind them that you cannot live by this alone. You must live according to and dependent upon what God says to you. God's good promises to you. God wills and worked, willed and worked In Israel's history, in their wilderness wanderings, to make them depend upon him. And he does the same same thing in our lives. He wills and works in our lives. to humble us so that we would depend on him more deeply and more consistently. Which is an area we all need to grow in. I mean it's not like 70% of Christians need to grow in humility. It's not like 94. It's not 99. 999. Every single child of God Until we get to heaven, need to grow in humility. This is something we ought to be praying for. I mean, I need to repent. I need to pray for this more in my own personal prayers So all you, so also you. Romans 4, God wills and works to humble you as an act of fatherly discipline. This comes from verse 4. And five. Your clothing did not wear out on you, nor did your foot swell these forty years. In other words, God was there. God took care of you. It was difficult, but God took care of you. He sustained you. Verse 5. Thus you are to know in your heart that the Lord your God was disciplining you just as a man disciplines his son. God wills and works in our lives. As an act of fatherly discipline. Practical relevance when difficulties come, and they do come, and they will come again. Don't always and only say that the devil is trying to get you. There's more to say than that. Now is the devil trying to get you to trip you up, to tempt you, to destroy your faith? Yes. Of course. That's what he does. That's how he got that name, Satan, the adversary, the accuser, the devil, that serpent of old. First Peter five eight. Be of sober spirit, be on alert. Your adversary The devil prowls around like a roaring lion seeking someone to devour. But that's not all that is going on in the Christian life. And that's not the central thing that is going on in the Christian life. The central thing is God is working in our lives. Sometimes I feel like we're more aware of the devil's limited presence than we are of God's omnipresence. Like Like God's infinite and unlimited power is somehow subservient to the devil's limited power. Sometimes our mind can be more captivated on the devil's diabolical schemes against us than it is on God's eternal and perfect purpose for us. Sometimes our impulse to attribute bad things to the devil, we miss what God is doing in the whole thing And what God is doing is he's working to humble us by way of fatherly discipline But if we're not thinking about that, if we don't believe that God does that, if we don't have our spiritual eyes looking to see how God is trying to discipline us, we'll be stunted in our growth. Let me just give you a cross-reference on this and we'll wrap this up. Hebrews 12, verses 4 through 11. And the author of Hebrews is writing to Christians who are experiencing persecution, extreme difficulty. And they're tempted to abandon the faith because of hardship. And they're looking around, and some of their brothers and sisters had abandoned the faith because of hardship. And here's what he says. You have not yet resisted to the point of shedding blood and striving against sin, which all that means is they're being persecuted, but they're not yet being martyred and killed for their faith. Okay? But you have forgotten the exhortation which is addressed to you as sons. Quote, My son, do not regard lightly the discipline of the Lord, nor faint when you are reproved by him, for those whom the Lord loves, he disciplines. And he scourges every son whom he received. End quote. Verse 7. It is for discipline that you endure. God deals with you as with sons. For what son is there whom his father does not discipline? But if you are without discipline, and in the context that would mean without hardship, without this persecution, without these trials, without this testing, if you are without discipline, of which of which all have become partakers, then you are illegitimate children and not sons. You see, the hardship is a sign of God's discipline And God's discipline is a sign of your sonship, which is a sign of div of God's divine favor and love upon you. You see, that's the Christian worldview. That's how we that's the thinking that enables. getting through the trials and the hardships and maintaining that witness. God is active in the world. God is active in the church. God is active In your life, in my life, for better or for worse, in good times and in bad, in sickness and in health. God our Father is there Willing and working to humble us that we might serve him better, serve others better, and worship him from a deeper place. of not independence, but dependence upon him. He wills and works to humble us because he loves us He does it through testing. He does it to make us depend on him in newer and richer ways. And he does it as an act of fatherly discipline. What kind of parent wouldn't be loving enough to teach And mold and shape and discipline their children. I am just like you, and you are just like the person sitting down the row from you. We do not know when we will draw our last breath, but we do know this. Every single one of us will at one moment in history draw our last breath and we will go to stand before the Lord. And my prayer, and our prayer as a church, would be that each of us will be humbled before that happens. That we would humble ourselves before the Lord now for salvation, so that when we stand before Him, we will not be humbled in a different way, the way of condemnation. Would you believe in Jesus Christ for salvation now? Today. Today is the day of salvation. And it lasts for you as long , whatever period of time exists before you draw that final breath. For you, as long as it is called today, today is the day of salvation. If you would come and trust in Christ by virtue of his death on the cross and his resurrection from the grave, repent from pride to humility. And receive salvation. And that's what we've been reflecting on this morning. Humility. I'm going to pray for us in just a moment. After I pray, we're going to sing. And if this morning you would humble yourself and have Jesus by faith, or if you need to come forward with any other spiritual need. Um that you would request prayers for, or if you decided you'd like to play place membership here at North Harford Baptist Church, won't you come at that time as we sing? I'll be right up here to receive you. Father, we pray we thank you for Jesus Christ. We thank you for your word. We thank you for your spirit. And Father, our prayer, collectively, our prayer this morning would be this. Humble us. Humble us by the Spirit, and that we may serve you better and serve others better. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.