The grass withers and the flower falls, but the word of the Lord remains forever. And that's why, brothers and sisters, we're always giving ourselves to the study and to the devotion of God's Word. Because we need His Word. We need the power of God's Word in our lives. We need strength that comes from God's word in our lives. We need the wisdom that comes from God's word in our lives. I could go on and on, and you could too, but I'll just give you just one more. We need the encouragement We need the encouragement day to day that comes from God's Word. Please don't ever forget that God ministers to his children Through his word and through his spirit. And so if there's anything, brothers and sisters, that we devote ourselves to, let's make sure we keep devoting ourselves to the Word of God. Amen. Any guesses on what the topic is this morning? God 's great love. Let's take our Bibles and turn to John 3, 16 and 17, this morning talking about God's great love. It's God's great love that solves the world's great problem. God's great love that solves the world's great problem. That's one way we can think about the gospel, is it's a solution to a problem. I heard one preacher say it's a fix. The gospel is a fix. It's the way God fixes a problem that man has. And that problem is that man in his natural state is separated from God and is unable to get back to God on his own. You have God over here. And man over here, the Bible says our sins have separated us from God, and that's the problem of the world. That's the problem of us in our natural state. Separated from God and unable to get back to Him in our own strength. And God's great love is that He makes a way for us to get back to Him And it's through Jesus, it's through Jesus Christ that God enables us, God brings us back to Himself, God's great love to solve man 's great problem. Before we read this passage, I want to pose the question, who is this message for today? This message of the gospel of Jesus Christ. The message of his death, burial, and resurrection for the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. The message, the heralding of God's grace. In salvation. Who is it for? Number one, it's for those who don't know God that they might come to know Him. And if you're in here this morning and you don't know God, the gospel is for you. And it's for you in a very specific way so that you could come into a relationship with God. Alright, bottom line, that's what the gospel is for. That's why it exists. So that you, anyone who doesn't know God, can come to know God through faith in Jesus. Secondly, this message is for those who do know God This message is also and always for believers, also. The gospel is put before us. It's put before believers. And how does God use it? Well, God uses the gospel to fill our hearts all the more with gratitude for what He's done for us. The gospel is put before the children of God to fill our hearts and to enrich our hearts all the more in love for God God uses the gospel to fill our hearts and to change our hearts all the more to be humble before Him and humble toward each other. Please don't ever think that the gospel is irrelevant for you, irrelevant for you, believer. It is the most practically relevant thing you could ever have. The gospel of Jesus Christ. When the most beautiful thing in all the universe is put before us, the most wonderful gift from God, when that's put before us, the response should never be that's boring and irrelevant for me. It should fill our hearts and enrich our hearts with gratitude and love and humility And we need to be shepherded in how to hear and respond to the gospel properly in our walk with the Lord. As I said earlier on this morning, the gospel is the heart of the Bible The gospel is the heart and soul and the fuel of daily Christian living. It's the mountaintop peak of world history, the gospel of Jesus Christ. And that's what we're peering into this morning and as we peer into it I pray that God would use his Holy Spirit to drive these gospel truths into our hearts. Let's read the passage. John 3, 16-17. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish But have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him Once more, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him Should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send His Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through Him. Amen indeed. Before we get into your outline, and if you're looking at the outline in your bulletin, you'll see a 1, 2, 3, but just some preliminary remarks before we get into the outline. By the way, church, I have heard your cries. Your cries have come before me to give you more space for note-taking during the sermon. I've gotten multiple requests for that. So now you have the front and the back. Alright? And if you need more space than that, you know who to see. Okay? Before we get into the outline, I want to cherry-pick two phrases from this passage. And I want to cherry-pick these two phrases simply to clarify the topic in our hearts. So phrase number one comes from the end of verse 16. The second phrase in verse 16. The second phrase in verse 16, and that is this: He gave his only son. Alright? He gave his only son. And this clarifies the topic of God's great love. Because the message of God's great love, or the gift of God's great love, is in the Son. And then the other phrase I want to cherry-pick is in the end, at the end of verse 17. Where it says this, saved through him. Right? Saved through him And if you take these two cherry-picked phrases together, you have this. He gave his only son Right? That we would be what? Saved through him. He gave his only son that we would be saved through him So the message of God's great love is a message of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, and the message of God's great love is a message of salvation. To be saved from danger, to be saved from death, to be saved from sin and all of its consequences and all of its power to be saved by the Son of God. That's the message of God's great love. So these two cherry-picked phrases do clarify the topic Jesus you can think of as the content of the gospel message, the message of God's grace, the message of salvation. Jesus is the content If you have a cup and the cup is labeled with God's great love, the content, what's in that cup, is going to be the message of Jesus. If you have a storage locker or a storage chest that's labeled God's Great Love, you open that storage locker, it's all about Jesus. If there's a museum and the name of the museum is Museum of God's Great Love, You go into the museum and you're walking around the exhibits, and every single exhibit is about the Son of God Jesus Christ and the great salvation that any sinner can find in him. So the content, the substance, the treasure, the museum exhibits that demonstrate to us and teach us about God's great love is the message of the Son, Jesus. Christ. The problem is God is over here and man is over here. Our sin has separated us from God. The work of the Son, the salvation of the Son is to reconcile us back to God. And that's the great blessing of The gospel. That's what the Bible is about. That's what Christianity should be about. Is about. That's what church should be about. Is about. That's what our message is. That's what we want for everyone Amen? That's what we want for people. To come to know God, to be saved, to be reconciled through Jesus, by Jesus to God. To enjoy that relationship forever. He gave his only son, verse 16, that we would be saved through him, verse 17 Now you'll see one, two, three on your sheet. And if you don't see it, just know that it's there. And what we're going to talk about is number one, God's great love. Number two, man's great problem. And then number three, the great solution. Very simple. I don't honestly, I don't think you can make a simpler outline. Great love, great problem, great solution. Alright, great love, great problem, great solution. So number one. Spend let's spend some time contemplating and seeking to understand God's great love. Look at verse 16 God so loved the world. God so loved the world. That's the point we're on. God's love for the world. It's a way of saying God loved the world in this way. Dot dot dot. Or it's a way of saying, here's how God loves the world. And then describe and expound and open up the way God has loved the world. That's what this passage is summarizing. It's summarizing the nature of God's love for the world. No , what is love? Love is when you seek the blessing of someone instead of the cursing of someone. Love is when you help someone rather than harm them. That's what blessing is. Or that's what love is. Love is when you do good to someone rather than do ill toward someone. That's what love is. You know the difference between a loving parent and an unloving, abusive parent. Everybody knows that. You know the difference between a friend who loves you and an enemy who wants the worst for you? We should know, we should know what it means to love people, to seek their good, to seek their blessing, not to harm them, not to hurt them. That's what love is. Love is kindness. It's to seek the well-being of others, not to seek their harm, not to seek their injury, not to hurt them, not to curse them, not to wound them, but to help them And to support them, and to encourage them. Are you with me? And to forgive them, and to be patient with them, and to speak well of them And you could go on and on and fill that list out. We know what love is, and that's what this passage is about. It's about how God has sought your blessing. It's about how God has sought to help us and not hurt us. It's about love. And it says, God so loved the world. In the Old Testament, there's a peculiar love, there's a peculiar revelation of God and his salvation given to one nation, and that nation is, just say it. Israel, but in the new covenant, in the church age, God's salvation, God's peculiar revelation of Himself is for Israel, plus every other nation and tribe and language God so loved the world. Dot dot. That's what the world means. It's the salvation revealed and given to and spread all around The world. Can we not take that for granted? I mean, seriously, brothers and sisters, do we know what the world would be like if the salvation of God ha is not has not been spreading? For centuries has not been spreading all over the world to turn hearts to God. Let's not take for granted the salvation of God and the sanctification and the worship and the practical obedience that results from that. And God is still spreading his gospel. God is still saving sinners. God is still changing heart to show forth his grace and glory. God so loved the world. God's great love is wonderful. God's great love is spiritual. And God's great love is essential. It's wonderful It's spiritual and it's essential. What are we talking about? God's great love. And what is it? It's wonderful. It's spiritual and it is essential. God's great love is a wonderful love that solves a terrible problem. You see it in our passage. Apart from this, we would perish. Is what it says. And apart from this love, we would be condemned. We would stay condemned. It's a wonderful love that solves a terrible problem. If a problem was only a $50 debt and God paid that debt for us, well, he's solving a problem. But that's not the problem that God is solving. Again, what's the problem? God is over here. We're over here. Our sin has separated us from God, and on our own we have no way of getting back. That's a wonderful, wonderful solution to a terrible problem, the worst problem. That's the worst problem. It's not only a wonderful love that solves a terrible problem, but it's a spiritual love that solves a spiritual problem. Now we have physical problems Amen to that, right? We have physical problems. We have earthly problems, not only physical our bodies, but we have earthly problems and our relationships. All of our relationships aren't perfect. Our financial situation isn't perfect or even where we would like it to be. There are lots of earthly problems. There are lots of problems down on this level, the level of the physical, the level of the temporal, and we don't ever want to diminish those, right? Those are real. And we need to seek God's help and we need to seek God's wisdom and endurance in the problems down here on this level. But our ultimate problem is a spiritual problem. So the gospel is a spiritual solution to a spiritual problem. Not only wonderful love and a spiritual love, but it's an essential love. God's love in Jesus is an essential love that solves an inescapable. problem. You know, in our culture, just the spirit of the age. We think that if we or react as if if if we Don't think about something, it'll go away. Right? If we don't think about the realities of absolute right and wrong, that'll just go away. And we'll have this silent, we'll have this unspoken agreement with each other. Let's just not talk about it, and then we won't have to worry about it If we don't think about the fact that we're accountable to God, maybe that will go away. If we don't think about our eternal destiny, maybe that issue will go away. It won't go away. This is an inescapable problem. You can't wish this away. You can't make this go away on your own. I can't make this go away on your own. Religion, outward religion, can't make this go away All the good intentions of the world can't make this go away. God is over here. I am over here. We are all over here. Naturally, our sin has separated us from God. This is inescapable. We are all going to die. News flesh, right? We already knew this. But it needs to be proclaimed to us Because we don't always think about the implications of that. Because after death, then we stand before God as our judge. And we are accountable to God. We will be held accountable to God. And that is an inescapable reality. And just a refusing to think about that, refusing to contemplate that. Will not make it go away. God's great love is wonderful in that it solves the terrible problem. God's love is spiritual in that it solves the spiritual problem. God's love is essential, absolutely essential. That just means we need it. And it solves an inescapable problem. Dear friend, if you want to know more about this love, just keep your heart tuned in to God's word. If you leave today desiring this love, then decide in your heart that you will seek God in his word, the Bible. If you don't understand something about this love, find me afterwards and let's talk. Or find a mature Christian that you know and trust and talk with them. But press into this. Seek the Lord in his word. Seek in your heart. Decide in your heart. Purpose in your heart to find out more and more about God's love and its implications for you and your eternal destiny. God's great love is not for the righteous, it is for sinners. God's great love is not for those who have it all together and can fix all their own problems. God's great love is for the weak. For the unable and for the hurting who need help from God. That's who God's great love is for. Are you with me, church? It's not for the righteous. It's not for the powerful, strong, and able, but for the weak and unable who want to throw themselves upon the mercy of God. That's what God's great love is for. That's who God's great love is for God's great love can be yours today. If you turn in your heart, turn in your heart and believe in Jesus for the forgiveness of sins, And for the gift of eternal life, on the basis of his blood sacrifice on the cross, which we'll come to later, which we've already talked about this morning, that Jesus died as a substitute for sinners, so that's That message is already in your heart. That steed is already in your heart. Jesus died on the cross as a substitute for sinners to take their penalty as his own, to take their condemnation To take their death, to take their sin as his own. On the basis of that, which is God's great law, on the basis of that, if you turn and put your faith in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins and for the gifts of eternal life, what happens? You're reconciled to God. Your sin has separated you from God. Jesus unites you with God. Jesus reconciles you to God. You can believe right now. Right now, you know, I think back to the day I was saved. You know, on the morning I woke up, the last thing on my mind was: you know, I think I'll come into a relationship with God today. Which just was nowhere on my radar. I was going to church. God had been working in my life to stir me up, to stir up some kind of interest. To stir up some kind of seeking him in his word. God had already been working, but I was not saved yet. I had not turned and put my faith in Jesus yet. But in coming to church and the word of God was being preached, and the death of Jesus Christ was being preached, and the reality of my sin was being preached, and it's burrowing into my heart, and the guilt of my sin being preached. And the guilt of my sin being laid upon Jesus was being preached, and God put these things into my heart in a powerful way that turned my heart to believe in Jesus Christ. And that's how people get saved. And you can do that today. You can turn today. Your sin put him on the cross. If you believe that, you believe in him, you're reconciled to God. And that's a blessing that nobody can ever take away from you, including the including the devil and all of his hosts Now, would you agree or disagree? That's a great love. Let's just make sure we're on the same page. That's a great love. You know the word great really doesn't do it justice, it does it Incredible love, incredible to the millionth power, love of God. Apart from this love, ultimately we have nothing. Ultimately, we have nothing That's a great love. God so loved the world. God loved the world in this way. Here's how God loved the world. That's God's great love. Now, number two, the great problem. The great problem. You'll see this word if you look closely in verse 16. Perish, should not perish. And then you'll also see in verse 17 the word condemn. Did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. Jesus' first coming, his mission was a mission of salvation, not condemnation The world was already under condemnation. The world was already headed for condemnation. That's where I was headed. I was headed for condemnation, and rightly so for the horrible life that I lived, in rebellion to God, living only for myself and the passions of the flesh Just like everybody else. So we're all already heading for condemnation, already heading for perishing And Jesus comes to save us from the perishing. Jesus is sent by God to save us from being condemned. This is the part of the Bible's message that many will leave out. In fact, it's the part that all of us, because of the weakness of the flesh. All of us are tempted to leave this out or at least water it down. And the reason is this message, this part of the message, is offensive to human pride. And in the culture around us, pretty much the only thing that's wrong is to offend somebody What does perish mean? It means be destroyed or killed. What does condemn mean? It means to be found guilty and receive just punishment. Perish and condemn. Perish and condemn. God is way over here. And natural man is way over here, and our sin has separated us from God. And as long as we're over here , what we have looking forward to is to perish and to be condemned. And so God so loved the world that he gave his only son that we would not be condemned, so that we would not perish going that way, but that we would come this way and be reconciled to God. If we love people, brothers and sisters, if we truly love people and we truly believe that the Bible is the Word of God, if we truly want the best for people, we have to be honest And we have to be clear about the problem of sin. We have to be honest. This is like if you make a punch list of maybe the five most important things for a church. One of them would be being honest. And being clear, because that's what you do when you love someone, right? You're honest with them and you're clear about things about the problem of sin. Honest and straightforward and clear about all people 's. Sin problem. Apart from Jesus, we will perish. Apart from Jesus, we'll be condemned. Now, why is that? Why is that We are sinful and we have sinned. You can put that in your notes, at least the whiteboard in your head or the notebook in your head We are sinful and we have sinned. We are sinful and we have sinned. I'm sinful and I have sinned. I am utterly sinful on my own I have sinned so much against God. And apart from God's grace in my life, brother, that's all I would do. Sister, that's all we would do. Because we are sinful and we have sinned. I told you this is the part of the good news of the Bible's message that is offensive to man's pride. Did you know that that's what the gospel is meant to do? It's meant to cut us down and humble us and then exalt us and lift us up in a joy that words cannot express. But if you want to skip over the being humbled and get to the joy, you're just going to run into a brick wall Humble yourself before the Lord and acknowledge your sin. Acknowledge your guilt. Now there are some difficult and confusing teachings in the Bible, but this is not one of them, that all people have sinned and all people are sinners. You know, there's no debate we need to be having about that. There are things we could debate. Keep debating the millennium, whatever. We're gonna debate all kinds of stuff, but it is crystal clear that all people are sinners and all people have sinned. Ecclesiastes 7. 20. Surely there is not a righteous man on earth who does good and never sins. Now, if that is the reason that we would perish, if that's the reason we would be condemned, that we're sinful and we have sin, then we need to know what sin is We need to know what sin is. If our hearts will be convicted of our great problem, we need to know what sin is. And if we're going to be faithful witnesses of the gospel to the world around us, we have to know what sin is. Sin is the breaking of God's commandments. It's disobedience. That's very simple. Right? Now, sin is complex, and there's other words the scripture uses. There's other concepts involved. But bottom line is sin is disobedience. It's the breaking of God's commandments. And when you hear commandments, just think of the things that God requires. You can think of what a teacher requires of her students. That's commandments. That's expectations. You can think of what parents require of their children. What parents expect, the behavior they expect from their children. That's commandments. Disobedience is the essence of sin. Unbelief and disobedience, the breaking of God's commandments. 1 John 5. 17, one of the simplest statements in all of Scripture. 1 John 5. 17 All wrongdoing is sin. All wrongdoing is sin. Isn't that simple? I like simple readers digest condensed definitions. All wrongdoing is sin. And then 1 John 3. 4, sin is lawlessness. 1 John 3. 4, sin is lawlessness It's the breaking of God's commandments. Another way you could say this, it's the violation of God's holy law. Another way you could say this is it's the rebelling against God's authority. I told you there's many aspects. I don't want to go too far on this because I don't want it to be confusing, but I'll give you one more. It's the rejecting of God's goodness. God says that he's good, he shows us that he's good, and natural man says, no, he's not. He's a tyrant. He's a mean, unrighteous, oppressive tyrant. Now you can see sin as a crime, a crime against God, not merely physical crime against people, but spiritual crime against God. The violation of law, the rebelling against authority, the rejecting of his goodness, the refusal to do what God requires requires, even the inability to do what God requires I would have never looked to Christ for salvation unless, first, God convinced me in my heart that that was me. And that's called the conviction of sin. That's what needs to happen first. An acknowledgement, I'm a sinner. Not just a philosophical I believe sin exists, but the genuine, heartfelt acknowledgement, feeling, feeling, I have sinned against my Creator. I have rebelled against God. I have lived for myself instead of him. I have rejected his ways. I am a sinner. I have sinned. God be merciful to me. That's how you come to Christ. That's how you find salvation. Putting your faith in Jesus Christ on the basis of his substitutionary death. That just means his death in the place of sinners. And you receive the forgiveness of sins and the gift of eternal life. Because God's way over here. And you know where man is. Man 's way over here, and our sin has separated us from God. And Jesus Christ, God's great love, can bring us back. You know, a lot of churches are just trying to entertain people into the church. They're trying to provide entertaining, socially enjoyable religious experience, hoping to get people hooked. Brothers and sisters, we are never, by God's grace, by God's grace and by God's gracious ongoing providence, we'll never have that approach Religion, outward religion, and the feelings that come from participating in outward religion cannot reconcile sinners to God. What do we want? We want sinners to be reconciled to God. That's what we want. And we know that the only thing that can do that is God. Is the Holy Spirit of God working mightily and working mercifully through his word and by his spirit inside the human heart? to change their heart, to turn their heart, to believe in Christ, to cry out, be merciful to me. I am a sinner. That's what we want. We're not playing religion games. We're not trying and we will not try to entertain people. We are not going to try to provide a socially enjoyable religious experience, a Christian-themed social club. That's not what this is about. This is about souls being changed, hearts being changed by the goodness and power of Almighty God. And that has to undergird everything in what we're doing, what we're praying. Because I can't save people and you can't save people. All the Christians in the world cannot muster our energy together and save people. People can't save themselves. You can't be saved by your family, heritage, or lineage You can only be saved by the gospel. You can only be saved by the gospel. And so, yes, we know that the message of man's sin and sinfulness And perishing and being condemned, we know that that is offensive to natural man. We know that But we know that God has the power to change the heart so that it's not offensive to natural man. So that it convicts natural man and And instead of sending them further away from God and hating God, it turns the heart to love God and cry out to God for forgiveness. Why are we accountable to God? Again, you don't need any courses in philosophy to figure out why we're accountable to God. Because do you want to know this? You want to know why we're accountable to God? Alright, four people. Someone already said the answer. You gotta know this. Because God made the and God made us. That's it. It's very simple You don't need to go to a workshop to learn that. God made the world and God made us. He is the king over the world. He's the lawgiver of the world. He's the judge over the world. And praise God, he's the savior and redeemer of sinners in the world. That's why we're accountable. What are his commandments? What are his commandments that we violated? That we've broken Well, certainly, we cannot go over all the commandments of God in one portion of one sermon. But we can summarize them because God gives us a summary of His commandments. The Ten Commandments are essentially a summary of God's requirements. of his moral ethical requirements and prohibitions of what he expects from people created in his image And we'll just I'll just be able to paraphrase these, not go word for word for word exposition on this, but Exodus 20 for your own study, Exodus 20, Ten Commandments. Number one, only worship God. God requires that. Not just that we worship him, but that we worship him only. And none of us do that. Naturally, none of us do that We worship money. We worship people's attention and we worship people's approval. We worship carnal fleshly pleasures and passions We may worship another person. We may worship creation itself. We've all violated that. And secondly, don't make something out of the creation and then call it God. Don't make an idol and then call it God. Don't make something and then call it God. Don't project deity onto something else in the world. Well, we do that all the time when we love things in the world as if they're God, as if they're ultimate. Whenever you seek rest for your soul in a created thing, that's what you're doing. That's idolatry. Because the human soul is created in such a way that its true rest can only be found in God. Number three, don't misuse or curse God's name Don't misuse God's name at all. Don't curse God's name at all. Don't say anything that's going to defame. God or His name. Number four, keep holy the Sabbath day. Keep holy the Sabbath day. Now under the old covenant In Israel, under the old covenant, that looks one way , but how does that apply under the new covenant? How does that apply in the new covenant to keep holy the Sabbath a day? Well, it's a day of rest And in short, in summary, it means this: in the midst of the busyness of life, in the midst of the grind of life, the grind of work, is anybody familiar with these things, or is it just me? One of the things I hear most often is things have been so crazy. Things have been so busy. Top three things I hear as a pastor. You probably hear it too. And I say it, I don't just hear it. I say the things have been a lot very busy, very hectic, very crazy. In the midst of this grind of life, the commandment is make sure you find rest the way God tells you to find rest. Now, in our time, in our day, the commandment is: find rest in Jesus. Come to Jesus, and he will give you rest for your soul. We are not to go through the busyness, the craziness, the grind of work and life and family and extended family and all kinds of stuff without resting in Christ. Resting in Christ must be first. And that will give us the foundation and fuel on the path of life. Number five, honor your parents. Honor your parents. None of us obeyed our parents perfectly. None of us honored our parents perfectly with the with the gr no none of us were as grateful for our parents that we should have been when we were younger. As we get older as God matures us, we come to see more and more just how much gratitude we need to have for our parents or legal guardians or whoever it was. That gave you that parenting in your life. As you get older, as you mature in the Lord, if that's the course that you're on, maturing in the Lord, you'll grow more and more thankful for your parents. And learn to express that to them. But none of us have honored our parents perfectly. Number six, do not murder Do not murder. Now, maybe, probably, we have not, you have not committed the act of physical murder But in our hearts, we violated the spiritual essence of this commandment in hating others, in speaking ill of others, slandering others, gossiping at others Blowing a gasket and losing it on others, throwing things and slamming the door, passive aggressive hatred, violence to each other. None of us have loved others and sought their well-being in the way that we should. Do not commit adultery is number seven. Speaking to this the spiritual heart, the spiritual essence of this. None of us in our minds, hearts, actions, words have lived lives of perfect sexual purity. None of us have done that. Number eight, I mean is there any conviction in your heart of your sinfulness and sin? Number eight, do not steal. Do not steal Not working when you're at work is stealing. Leaving early, not telling anyone. Is stealing. There are all kinds of ways we steal and rob others. Rob others' time, rob others' things. Number nine, do not bear false witness against others. Has everything we've said about other people been a gracious and true representation of that person? No way, Jose. No way, Jose. A lot of times we'll go out of our way to put someone in a bad light. We'll emphasize, we'll emphasize the bad And ignore the good. Instead of what God wants us to do is show grace and forgiveness for the bad. Show mercy for the bad. Because we all sin. We have to have grace and mercy toward each other And highlight the good and recognize the good and give praise to God for the good. And build that person up and and make that person look better in the eyes of someone else instead of like a monster. And then finally, number ten, do not covet the possessions of others. Don't crave what others have, but just be thankful for what God has given you. Don't be jealous over the situation of others, but be thankful that you have life and breath from God. Don't be envious. Don't be envious of the good things that others have, but rather Be thankful to God for for that person. Be happy for them. Don't be mad for me. Be happy for them. That doesn't come naturally. You see, we are all sinners And we have all sinned. And though this is offensive to our pride, we need the Spirit of God to convict us, to convict us of our sins, so that we would turn to Jesus to be saved. He's the great solution. God's great love and the great problem and the great solution. Now I'll read this great solution. I knew this was the last point. I knew I'd be Short on time, so I wrote this out so that I could be clear about it. God's great solution was to send Jesus To save us from condemnation, to save us from perishing, and to give us the gift of eternal life God's great solution, because of his great love, was to send Jesus to save us from condemnation, to save us from perishing, and give us the gift of eternal life. For God so loved the world, he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Did you see that? Not perish. Good news. Great love, incredible love. Not perish, but have eternal life. That's life in communion with God And then verse 17, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. You see, not perished, but have eternal life. Not be condemned, but to be saved from condemnation. Now, if you've got that down, you've got Christianity down. That's what church is about. God sent Jesus because God's over here and we're over here. So God sent Jesus to save us from condemnation, to save us from perishing, and give us the gift of eternal life, which is very simple. You've heard me say this from the pulpit many times It's life in communion with God that will never end. Life in communion with God that will never ever end. How in the world does Jesus save us from such things? Well, we only have time this morning to talk about the central thing Jesus did, not everything that Jesus did. You do need to know that it's bigger than this. It's much Grander than this, there's more detail than this, but the center of what he did was die on a cross as a substitute for sinner. That's the heart. That's the heart. Jesus died on the cross as a substitute for sinners to save us from condemnation. So we had God over here, we had sinners over here, that's us over here. Now think in the middle you put the cross. In the middle, God sent the Son, God sent Jesus, and Jesus died on a cross. And all the condemnation that was over here on us was poured out on Jesus on the cross. All the perishing that was for us was poured out on Jesus on the cross. All the guilt of our sin and sinfulness over here that's ours, that's rightfully ours. was put on Jesus' account on the cross. You see? Substitute. Right in the middle between God and man. He's the mediator. He's the way to God. He died as a substitute for sinners. Now if your heart is convicted of your sin, that you know that you're a sinner, that you know that you need to be saved, and if you grasp and see the beauty of the work of Christ on the cross, that he's a substitute for sinners. And that's how he can save you from perishing, because he perished in your place. And that's how he saves you from condemnation, because he was condemned in your place. And that's how the guilt of your sin is erased, because he took the guilt of your sin on himself In your place, on the cross, believe in him. And you'll have the forgiveness of sins and you'll have the gift of eternal life. And I gotta tell you this, you will never regret it. If that's real for you in your heart, you will never forget it. And your life will not be perfect after that You'll still have trials and sufferings and sorrows of this life, but underneath it all you'll have a peace that surpasses everything You'll have a joy that surpasses everything because you'll have an assurance for your eternal destiny, and you will know for sure You will know for certain that when you stand before God in judgment, you will not be condemned. And when you stand before God in judgment, you will not perish. But you will enter into his glory. You will enter into the blessedness of his presence for all eternity. Because why? Because of the blood of Jesus Christ. Turn in your heart and believe in him today. And if you do that, follow up with me. Follow up with someone in the church. Follow up with Pastor Anthony. Email the church. Email Jen, our secretary, and say, I've come to faith in Christ and I want to take the next steps to live a Christian life. Let us know. That's what we're here for, is to help you in that. Let's pray. Father, your word teaches us that the wages of sin is death, but the free gift of you is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. Father, we thank you for that. We thank you for also what your word says. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. I pray for everyone in here that they would know Jesus, that they would believe in Jesus, that they would be saved. We lift this prayer in his name. Amen.