Today's message is about God's great mission. in the world. God's great mission in the world. We actually do have one main text, 2 Corinthians 3. 18. In your Pew Bible, it's 1544. 2 Corinthians 3. 18, page 1544. This will be more of a topical sermon, organized by way of topic and breaking down the topic, but I do want to use this verse as a springboard. into the sermon. And then also later in the message, we'll spend considerable time on this verse again when we circle back to it. 2 Corinthians 3. 18. Today we're thinking about God's great mission in the world. And God's great mission in the world is to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. Now we don't do final exams and you don't listen to sermons as if you're preparing for an exam. But if we you did, and if we were, this would be the first question on the exam. What is God's great mission in the world is to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. To fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. God's great mission in the world. Let's begin with 2 Corinthians 3, 18. Then I'll pray for us, and then we're going to dive into this thing Here's what Scripture says in verse 18 of 2 Corinthians 3. And we all, with unveiled face , Beholding the glory of the Lord are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. For this comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. And let's go ahead and read that again. Amen, church? It's just one verse instead of a passage, which we normally do. So we'll read it twice. And we all, it's Christians, we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord. Unveiled face is a metaphor for something spiritually that's happened to us. It's a metaphor for the fact that the eyes of our heart Have been enabled to see the glory of the Lord in the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's what unveiled face means. With unveiled face, beholding The glory of the Lord. We're a people who see God's glory. We're a people with the knowledge of God's glory. Beholding the glory of the Lord and our being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. Not only are we a people who see the glory of the Lord, and we're people who have a knowledge of the glory of the Lord. But friends were people who are being transformed by the glory of the Lord into the same image, which means into the image of Christ. Praise God, brothers and sisters, that he's revealed his glory to us through the Lord Jesus Christ. That's the way we know God. If God didn't reveal his glory in the way he does through Jesus Christ, we wouldn't know God. We'd have no path to God. We'd have no way of s did I just get louder? I mean the point is important, but we'd have no way of standing before God with a clean slate. If God did not reveal his glory to us in the way he did through the Lord Jesus Christ , unveiled face, we've been enabled By God's grace, we've been enabled to see God's glory as revealed in Christ. 2 Corinthians 318. Well, I said that would be a springboard, and hopefully that's a good springboard into the starting to understand what it means that God's great mission is to fill the earth. with the knowledge of his glory. It's basically to fill the earth with people who know, love, and worship Jesus Christ. Now a mission is a plan that you want to carry out, or a goal that you want to accomplish. That's what a mission is. A student may have a mission to get all A's. It's a plan they want to carry out. It's a goal they want to accomplish. A military unit may be given the mission to guard a particular city. That's The goal they must accomplish. That's the plan they must see to. It's a plan to carry out or a mission to accomplish. And that's what we're talking about. What's the plan that God is working out in the world? What's his goal that he's accomplishing in the world? It's to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. Now quickly on that phrase, knowledge of his glory Glory is simply the shining forth of what something is. You can think of this: radiant beauty The shining forth of something, the beauty of a bride adorned, the beauty, the radiant glory of the sun as it shines forth. For the radiant beauty of a clear, starry sky, the radiant beauty, the shining forth of who God is, is God's glory. And then it's the knowledge of his glory. Knowledge we don't mean just intellectual knowledge, but a genuine life-altering experience of. That's what the word knowledge means when we say knowledge of God's glory. God's great mission is to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. Now I broke this down, this message, into three simple points. I've tried to make them simple We can dive deep into them once we get to each one. But first of all, there's a qualifier I want to talk about. There's a c one qualification or One qualifier. I need to qualify the point that I'm making. And that just means you put boundaries about around what you're talking about. We qualify it. We put a fence around it. We're talking about this one thing, but we're qualifying it with these boundaries. We're not talking about this thing outside the fence. One qualifier. And then verify. After we qualify what we're talking about, we'll move into the second point, which is to verify that the scripture actually teaches that this is God's mission in the world and for the world to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. Can't come from me, it's got to come from Scripture. So we'll move from the qualification to the scriptural verification. And then the final point will be to clarify, or the clarification. Just talking. Nuts to bolts, rubber meets the road. What does it mean? What does it look like that God is filling the earth with the knowledge of his glory? So number one, qualifier. Number two, to verify. Number three, to clarify, what does that look like? If you want the points to rhyme, you could just say qualification And then verification and then clarification. What do you mean by that? What will it look like? Let's talk about the qualifier. In w this is a qualifier. In one sense, the whole earth is already filled with the glory of God. Scripture teaches that. In one sense, in one way All the earth is already full of the glory of God. Isaiah 6. 3. We know this because angels already sing this in heaven. In Isaiah 6. 3, and one called to another and said, Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is, you already know the rest of the phrase, the whole earth is full of his glory. God 's glory as the Almighty creator of heaven and earth already fills the whole earth because everywhere you go on earth is God's creation. The whole earth is God's earth. The whole earth, the heavens and the earth, is a revelation of God's glory as the Almighty, Infinite Creator, Sovereign over this world. In that sense, the whole earth is already filled with the glory of God. And nothing could ever change that. There's nowhere you can go in the world where God's glory as creator is not revealed. Romans 1. 20, for his invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and his divine nature. have been clearly perceived ever since the creation of the world in the things that have been made. It's Romans 1. 20. Since the world was created, God's invisible attributes, namely his eternal power and his divine nature. In other words, the things that make him different from the creation, they have been clearly perceived. Romans 120 Ever since the creation of the world, in the things that have been made, God's glory already fills the earth in this sense. Jeremiah 23, 24 is another good cross-reference on this. Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him? That's the Lord speaking. It's a good question, isn't it? Can a man hide himself in secret places so that I cannot see him, declares the Lord. Do I not fill heaven and earth? declares the Lord. That's what we're talking about, brothers and sisters. That's the qualifier. This is already true. In this sense, God's glory already fills the earth, fills the heavens and the earth. Because God made it all. God reigns as King over it all. God's working out his purpose in it all. The glory of God's knowledge of everything. The glory of God's authority everywhere on earth. The whole earth is already filled with the glory of God as Almighty Creator. Now, what's the problem? What's the problem with humanity? You should already know it. No one naturally acknowledges God's authority. No one, naturally speaking, acknowledges God as the Almighty Creator and gladly, humbly submits to His authority. That's the problem with humanity. That's the problem. God has revealed his glory as creator, but man has rejected that. And man suppresses the truth of that. Romans 1. 18 and following. So what's needed is a different knowledge. What's needed is a different revelation of God. What's needed is a different glorious manifestation of God. Specifically, what's needed is the knowledge of God in the gracious salvation of Christ. And that's what all of Christianity is about. And that's where you can share my volume up on that. What's needed is the knowledge of God as gracious Redeemer. And God is the gracious Redeemer through the person and through the work And through the Holy Spirit of Jesus Christ. That's the thing that brings humans into submission to God's authority That's the thing that brings humans into a right relationship with God where we do acknowledge his glory as Almighty and Infinite Creator. That's the thing that enables us to clearly perceive and properly perceive the revelation of God's glory in creation. The knowledge of God's gracious redemption in Christ. To fill the earth with the knowledge of this glory, the knowledge of God and the gracious redemption in Christ Is God's great mission, His great work, His great goal, His great plan for all the earth. And nothing in the world can stop God from achieving His purpose. Nothing in the world. To fill the earth with the knowledge and the life-altering experience of his mercy in Christ. to fill the earth with the knowledge and the life-altering experience of his compassion in Christ to fill the earth. with the knowledge of and with the life-altering experience of the grace and of the power of Jesus Christ. This is God's great mission To fill the earth, to flood the earth with the knowledge and the life-altering experience of the immeasurable love and the immeasurable kindness of God through Jesus Christ. That's God's purpose. Hopefully that qualifier has settled down into your heart. Now we're not saying that the glory of God is in no way manifest in all the earth, because Scripture doesn't teach that. In all the earth God's glory as the Almighty Creator is always and everywhere present in all of creation. Now let's go to the verify. Alright, now we're coming back to the main claim that I'm making this morning that God's great mission is to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. And for this point I'll ask that you Um flip to some passages, if that's what's better for you, or you could just listen to them and let them sink in. But here's an important question. Where does God say in God's word that he wants to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory? First of all, Numbers 14. Numbers 14, 20. That's page 207 in your Pew Bible, Numbers 14, 20 to 23. Israel has been redeemed out of Egypt. They're not yet in the promised land. They're in the wilderness. And they're in the wilderness. As judgment, as discipline, as punishment for not believing God and not trusting God that He would be powerful enough and faithful enough to give them the land when they went into the land. And Moses intercedes for the people in light of that sin, where they didn't trust God, didn't believe in God, that he was powerful enough to give them the land. And in Numbers 14, 20 and 21, you'll see that God certifies the promise. On the fact that his glory will fill the earth. Now don't race over that. God doesn't make an oath. God can swear an oath by his name. God can swear an oath by his faithfulness. Here, God swears an oath, essentially, certifies a promise on the guaranteed fact that he will fill the earth With his glory. Now that's plenty of time for you to have turned to Numbers 14, 20 to 23. Alright? Then the Lord said, I have I have pardoned according to your word. Talking to Moses. Verse 21. But truly, as I live, and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord. Did you see it? All the earth Filled, glory of the Lord, will be. Right? As I truly truly, as I live and as all the earth shall be filled with the glory of the Lord. None of the men who have seen my glory and my signs that I did in Egypt and in the wilderness, and yet have put me to the test these ten times, and have not obeyed my voice. shall see the land that I swore to give their fathers, and none of those who despised me shall see it Of course, most of you know that story. Only Caleb and Joshua would be the ones from that first generation, the Exodus generation, who ultimately would enter the promised land. But as God is making this promise. He makes it on, he certifies it on the basis of the fact, the sure fact that all the earth will be filled with his glory. Now go to Psalm 72, 19. Psalm 72, 19, that's page 745 in your Pew Bible. Here you're going to see that David longs for, and David prays for, and David expects God's glory to fill the earth. Now, brothers and sisters, that's the heart we must have. That's the mindset we must have. That's the hope we must have for this age. Not the ultimate hope. Not ultimate hope. Ultimate hope is new heavens and new worth Ultimate hope is resurrection body. Ultimate hope on the other side of Christ's return. But God is working in this age. to accomplish his purpose as well. He doesn't skip to the end goal, friends. Psalm 7219 Where David longs for, prays for, and expects God, expects God's glory to fill the earth. Actually, look start at verse 18, part of this doxology. Blessed be the Lord. The God of Israel, who alone does wondrous things, and blessed be his glorious name forever, and may the whole earth be filled with his glory. Amen and amen The prayers of David, the son of Jesse, are thus ended. Verse 20. David longs for, and we should long for. God's glory to fill the earth. And David prays for, and we should pray for. God's glory to fill the earth. And David expects , we should expect, God's glory to fill the earth. It's an interesting study. If you were to if you were to read through the whole history of Israel Start with the call of Abraham in Genesis 12 and just read all the way through the whole story of Israel. You'll see clearly, I mean all the way through, read all the history. Read all the Psalms and wisdom books. Read all the prophets, the big ones and the little ones. And you'll see clearly and consistently that God's purpose has always been to bring his salvation to all the earth. To make his gracious salvation known to all the earth. And it starts that plan of redemption begins in in that capacity with Israel in Genesis 12, 1-3, where God calls Abraham and He tells, Abraham will make him into a great nation. And then from that nation will come a savior, and the Savior will bring salvation to the whole world. It's always been God's plan. For the knowledge of his redemption to fill the earth. His glory will fill the earth. Now Isaiah 11. 9. This is page 882, 882, in your Pew Bible. Isaiah 11. 9. And now we'll you'll bring into The language, the idea of knowledge. Those other two verses were just filling the earth with God's glory. Filling the earth with God's glory. Isaiah uses the word knowledge. So it means a saving knowledge of God. It means a true knowledge of God. Isaiah 11 Verse nine. It's in the context of a straightforward prophecy of Christ. If you could just glance at the beginning of 11, you'll see several phrases and several verses that Come right to mind. That you know this is a prophecy of Christ, a prophecy of the Savior of the world. And verse 9, here's what Isaiah writes: They shall not hurt Or destroy in all my holy mountain. That's referring to the enemies of God. And the enemies of God always set themselves against God's people. Not just God, but against God's people and God's plan on earth. They shall not hurt or destroy in all my holy mountain, for the earth shall be full of the knowledge of the Lord. As the waters cover the sea. Now that last phrase is informative Because technically you shouldn't need it. But God knows that we're prone to disbelief and we're prone to pessimism Where he says, as the waters cover the sea, it should be just sufficient that he says, All the earth will be full of the knowledge of the Lord. Because it's one, all the earth, and there's two, it's full. Then you have the knowledge of the Lord, a saving knowledge of the Lord, a true knowledge of the Lord, a true worship of the true God that truly honors God. All the earth full of the knowledge of the Lord. Then he says this, as the waters cover the sea. What in the world does that mean? Well just ask yourself, in what way do the waters Cover the sea. When you look out on the sea, how much of it is covered by water? 100%. It's a hyperbole, it's a metaphor, but the meaning and the intention is clear. Everywhere, everywhere, there'll be a knowledge of the glory of the Lord everywhere. All the earth will be full of the knowledge of the glory of the Lord. If you were to read the greater context of this, a prophecy of Christ, a prophecy of redemption in Christ, the day of salvation, you'll see that it's a day where repentance is occurring. just clues us in that this is this current age. After the final judgment, after the new heavens and the new earth are brought fully about, after you receive your resurrection body, there's no more day of repentance. There's no more opportunity for repentance. This is talking about the age of kingdom expansion, which you some kingdom parables maybe come right to mind. The parable of the mustard seed. that grows to be the biggest tree in all the garden, the parable of the yeast or the leaven that gradually works its through its way through the whole lump of dough. The whole earth will be filled with the knowledge of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. Well, I'll hit the pause button. Just ask if you believe that. Do you believe that? Do current events cause you to not believe that? Do sufferings and tragedies in the world cause you to not believe that? Does some unbalanced, unbiblical view of the power of the devil cause you to not believe that? When you hear of wars and rumors of wars and turmoil, does it cause you to not believe that? You know what Jesus says in Matthew 24 Which is for that generation first, but you can apply the principle to any generation within the church. You know what he says when you hear wars and rumors of wars? What's the first thing he says? Don't be alarmed. Don't be alarmed. We're not to let the the tragedies, the wars, the rumors of the wars, and all the turmoil in the world. We're not To allow that by faith. We're not to allow that to let us spiral out of control and become pessimists as if God's going to fail, the church is going to fail. The gospel is going to fail. We're losers here on earth. God will never fill the earth with the knowledge of him. The task is too great. The enemies are too strong. No, no, no. That's not The van the uh the viewpoint, the mindset that scripture teaches us to have. You know what that would be the mindset of the ten spies, not Joshua and Caleb who believed God would accomplish this purpose. Joshua and Caleb who believed God could defeat that enemy, but the ten spies who did not believe God could accomplish this purpose. And the rest of Israel who bought into the ten spies where scripture says they gave a bad report. That's not a good report, that's a bad report. When you say God can achieve God's purpose, that's a bad report, and Israel came under judgment. for that for believing that bad report. We have to be a people of hope. We have to be a people who exude confidence that God will accomplish his purpose in all the earth. You believe he'll accomplish his purpose in your life, right? Right? You believe he'll accomplish his purpose in your life? Well, what's different with everyone else's life What's different about our individual lives in our little pocket than all the earth? Is God not the God of certain? Nations? He's the King of Kings. He's the Lord of Lords. He's the King of Nations. The whole earth is his. Well I get off on a tangent about that. You know, I get off on a tangent with that. Because It there is a widespread pessimism regarding these things. And there's this just it's spiritualized almost to where it's the height, where's the pinnacle of spirituality? to gripe over and to talk about how the Satan's r Satan's doing this and Satan's doing that and everything's just going to hell in a handbasket and We're just going to lose and lose and lose and lose, and then God will show up at the end and accomplish his purpose. No, God is accomplishing his purpose. And nothing can stop God from accomplishing his purpose. One more on this, Habakkuk 214, page 1195. Page 1195. Habakkuk 2. 14 We have to be a people who are absolutely captivated by and captured by a knowledge of the glory of God. It's got to be in our hearts first. Not distracted by the things of the world. Not captivated by temporal pleasures. but completely consumed with the knowledge of God that has saved us and that is conforming us to the likeness of Christ. Habakkuk 2. 14 For the earth will be filled with the knowledge of the glory of the Lord as the waters cover the sea. And again, in the context, if you study out the context, it's not talking about something that can be true in the eternal state There are things in the context that have to be on this planet in this age, before the age of perfection. This is the age of kingdom expansion. The other side of Christ is the age of fully grown, fully complete kingdom. So there's a verification, and that's only four verses. Verses that use the actual words. There's many other verses where doesn't use the actual words, but the same concepts about God accomplishing his purpose of salvation in all the earth. You know it's accomplished because in Revelation when angels are singing songs of God's salvation, they praise God that He's redeemed people from all nations and tribes and tongues. They wouldn't be singing that if God didn't do that. Now to clarify. What does it mean? What does that look like? We did the qualifier. In one sense, the whole earth is already filled with God's glory. Specifically, his glory is Almighty Creator. To verify, where does God say this? We went through the verses that he wants to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. Everything else that God is doing falls under that. Everything else is just part of God accomplishing that. Now third and finally to clarify, what does this look like? I told you before, nuts to bolts, rubber meets the road, simple language, anyone can understand. What does it look like God filling the earth with the knowledge of his glory? And just give you an A and a B. Alright? Here's your A. Filling the earth with people who know and love and live for Him through faith in Jesus Christ. Should have already known that. That's what God's doing in the world. Filling the earth with people who know, love, and live for Him through faith in Jesus Christ. In other words Spirit-filled people. In other words, redeemed people, saved people, people who've been reconciled to God by the power of the gospel. The proclamation of Christ crucified came into their lives. The proclamation of Christ resurrected came into their lives. The proclamation of the free salvation that Christ offers came into their lives and changed their hearts. And made them into believers instead of unbelievers. Praise the Lord. I can remember clear as day when God changed my heart, like a lightning bolt. Supernatural power of the gospel took this pathetic unbeliever living for himself, loving sin, and turned him into a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ. Christ is all I have. And as a preacher, Christ is all I have to offer. And as a church, Christ is all we want to worship. And all we want to sing of, and all we want to lift our prayers to. Jesus Christ, the centerpiece of God's great mission in the world. Obviously that makes sense because Christ is the centerpiece of God's eternal purpose. All things exist. All things exist. I can't even do a gesture that could represent all things. How do you do it? All things exist. Only because they play a part in God manifesting his glory through Jesus Christ, his son. That's what everything's about. That's what everything's about. God's revelation through Jesus Christ, and then being praised for that revelation through Jesus Christ. Nuts the bolts, bring it down. What does it mean? What does it look like that God is filling the earth with the knowledge of his glory? He's filling the earth with people who know him. And filling the earth with people who love him, and filling the earth with people who live for him and long for him and hunger for his word and serve him humbly and obediently and faithfully through Jesus Christ, the Spirit-filled people. That's just A. That's just A. That's not B. That's A. But that's just people. That's individuals. And what does he do with what does he do with those people once he saves them? Letter B. What does it mean that God is filling the earth with his glory? Letter B. It means he's filling the earth with churches. It's filling the earth with churches who faithfully and biblically, even if you're not a note taker, write that down somewhere. Faithfully and biblically. That's the only kind of ministry I long to be about. That's the only kind of church I want to belong to. Faithfully and biblically, worship, serve, and proclaim Him. He's filling the earth with churches who faithfully and biblically worship, serve, and proclaim Him. Now you've got to have biblically in there. You've got to have biblically. Otherwise we just make up on our own what we think should be going on. We just organize it how we want to organize it. We just do what we want to do. Brothers, we just preach and teach what we think is interesting. We'll just tell you jokes. Keep you entertained. We'll tell you stories, heartwarming stories, try to get you moved and emotionally buy into things, trying to make it exciting. Biblically, brothers and sisters, biblically, God is filling the earth with his glory with spirit-filled people. That's a people who know love and live for him through faith in Christ. And he's filling the earth with spirit-filled churches, aka biblical churches, aka faithfully, biblically worshiping, serving, and proclaiming God. That's not my plan to organize the kingdom of God on earth. That's God's plan for organizing and advancing his kingdom on earth Men you have a tool room or some kind of workroom. Listen, go home set it up however you want to set it up. Organize it however you want to organize it. Label all your little things, label all your tools and your different kinds of screws and whatever But God is the one who organizes his kingdom in his way. And he advances his kingdom in his way. If your flower garden You pick the flowers, you organize them the way you want to organize it, the different heights, the pre get your perennials over here, you organize it your way. But as God's people, as the church, it's our duty and it should be our delight. Are you with me? Our delight to submit to God's organization for God's church because it's God's church for God's glory for God's kingdom on earth. Faithfully and biblically worship, serve, and proclaim him. Spirit-filled people, spirit-filled churches. There you go. Spirit, A, Spirit-filled people. B spirit-filled churches. As a homework, you can go back and read Genesis 1, the creation account. And as you get to verse 26 through 28, you'll see the creation of man. And you'll see. a glimpse into God's original purpose in the creation account. God creates man in his own what? Image and likeness, that's right. To reflect God's character on earth. Then he tells man, be fruitful and multiply. Fill the earth. And he gives man dominion to rule over all things as a representative ruler in God's creation. God's purpose can be seen in creation. His original purpose is Still his purpose is just now being achieved through redemption. But you can see it in creation to fill the earth with people who reflect his character. People who reflect his character. Fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. Um I said I would circle back to 2 Corinthians 3. 18. So we're gonna we're gonna go there. And we're going to close on close on that. 2 Corinthians 3, 18. God's glory, because that's what we've been saying God's great mission is to fill the earth with the knowledge of his glory. His glory is seen in the gospel. And this is glory in the gospel that saves sinners. God's glory is seen in the gospel. And this glory, as it's seen in the gospel, is the thing that saves sinners. And by the way, it's the thing that sanctifies sinners. as well. The biggest need for believers is a steady diet of gospel preaching. Because it's the gospel, it's the grace of God and the face of Jesus Christ that sanctifies us and that strengthens us and that sustains us and that will give us the right motives, it will fill our hearts with the right motives for true obedience and true discipleship. Second Corinthians three eighteen, we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another. This comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. Well if nothing else. You see at the end of that verse where the power source of all this is. The power source is Christ working through the Holy Spirit. That's what he says. This comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. It doesn't come from us. It doesn't come from just the emotions of practicing religion. Spiritual power comes from Christ in Christ alone, through his Holy Spirit. And of course, he uses the word to do that. But what I want you to think about, as you just let your eyes camp out on verse 18, think about the fact that the word gospel is not used. So, where am I getting this idea that this is about the gospel, the glory of God made known in the gospel? Well, it's very simple, from the context. from the context. Now that the glory of the Lord here equals seeing Christ in the gospel As you see the Christ in the gospel, you're seeing the glory of God. And this is the glory of God that He's filling the earth with the knowledge of. You go back to um Verse 6 in that same chapter. The very beginning of verse 6, chapter 3, rather, verse 6, where Paul says he's a minister of the new covenant. A minister of the new covenant. Which is one one way of saying he's um he's a minister of the gospel of Jesus Christ, because that's what the new covenant is. The new covenant sealed in whose blood. Christ's blood. You can't be a minister of the new covenant if you're not preaching Christ, crucified, the blood of the new covenant. And of course Christ risen, the mediator of that covenant. But then in chapter 4, look at verse 3 in chapter 4. Even if our gospel is veiled. Gospel is veiled. The whole context is gospel ministry. The whole context is the preaching of the gospel. And to many people that gospel is veiled. Now the gospel has the power to change the heart, but naturally speaking the gospel is veiled to everyone at some point. Now go down to the next verse. At the end of verse 4, look at the word light. Find the word light. Right in the middle of verse 4. Chapter 4, verse 4. The light of the gospel, right? What does a light do? A light shines something forth, right? The light of the gospel of what? Say it out loud. Of the glory of Christ. That's the light of the gospel. The light of the gospel shines forth the glory of Christ. The glory of Christ is shown forth in the gospel. The light of the gospel are the glory of Christ who is the image of God. So the glory of Christ in the gospel is the glory of God. Alright, verse 4. Now, last one. I promise you, last one. Verse 6. Go right in the middle of verse 6 and find the same word, light. Middle of verse 6, light. The light. Of the knowledge of the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. The face of Jesus Christ. The gospel came to you. By faith you saw Jesus. And when you saw Jesus, you came into the knowledge of the glory of God. And it's a transformative knowledge. It's the true, life-altering spiritual, supernatural experience of knowing God. We should be content. We should be joyful. We should be at peace with one another. You could go on and on with these. We should lay down our lives to love and care for one another and on and on and on, all because Jesus died for us. And Jesus brought us into a relationship with God. He's given us the knowledge of the glory of God. This is God's great mission. This is God's great mission in every generation. And every church and every pastor and every church member, every generation, every church must double down and triple down and keep proclaiming this. The glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. The glory of God. God's great mission is to fill the earth with the knowledge. of his glory. He's doing that by filling the earth with spirit-filled people who hear the gospel and believe. And he's doing that by filling the earth with spirit-filled churches. Who submit to God's word and God's plan, not their own word, and not their own plan. Oh, I hope, I hope, that you will double down in your hearts. And I hope that you will triple down in your heart to commit yourself to God 's great mission in the world A mission that's for his glory and for his name through his son, Jesus Christ, and by the power of his Holy Spirit. Let's pray. Father, we worship you, we praise you, we thank you. In whatever way that you've brought us in. To join you in your work, to join you in your mission. I pray it's real in our hearts. I pray that we love your mission. I pray that we understand your mission. I pray that we would give ourselves afresh. To service in your mission, that you would get us focused in whatever way we need to be focused, that we would repent if we need to repent Now fill our hearts with a zeal for your kingdom, a zeal for your glory, a joy for your glory, a passion for the knowledge of your glory to continue to spread and fill this earth as is proper, for the earth is yours. In Christ we lift this prayer. Amen.