1 Corinthians chapter 1 verse 18, I was reminded of this passage. Pretty familiar passage. Uh certainly one that we've looked at before, but I was reminded of it because of what it says about God's wisdom. So God's wisdom is the word of the cross. And so when I was talking this morning about God's wisdom is not going to be vulnerable like our practice of wisdom is. This this is one of the key things I was thinking uh his wisdom will be shown to be true and on time and perfectly carried out. And uh that brings us to a talk about the word of the cross because that's That's an aspect of his wisdom. It is the only hope that man has. You know, most of the unsaved world uh whether it's this country or another country, they believe that life after death, whatever they believe about that that good things about life after death depend on whatever good outweighs bad in their life. life. Most of the world has this scale mentality of good outweighing bad. And that leads to comparison with others and if they think they're not as bad as others, many times they will think they are good as Enough. Sort of like the Pharisee with the publican. Jesus spoke of. Jesus, by the way, did talk about being judged for our deeds. There's truth in that judgment, but not in the way of good versus bad is how we are judged. for eternity. He was clear with Nicodemus, you would remember, he said, whoever believes in the Son of God will not perish, but have eternal life. So I want to say we have good news to share because we know God's word of wisdom. We have God's wisdom on how to be forgiven, how to have eternal life, and it is the word of the cross. So if you are at 1 Corinthians 1, let me just read the passage For the word of the cross, verse 18, is foolishness to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. Where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? Has not God made foolish the wisdom of the world? For since in the wisdom of God the world, through its wisdom did not come to know God, God was well pleased. through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. For indeed Jews ask for signs and Greeks search for wisdom, but we preach Christ crucified. To Jews a stumbling block. To Gentiles foolishness, but to those who are the called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ the power of God and the wisdom of God. Because the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of men Of God is stronger than men. A few things I want to point out. First of all, no matter what people think, the word of the cross is the message that saves them. And the only one that says verse eighteen, for the word of the cross is foolishness to those who are Perishing. First of all, what is the word of the cross? Well, if we had time, we'd do some question and answer tonight and we'd talk through that together. Let me simply say the revelation by God that Jesus' death was according to God's will as a sacrifice for man's sin, paying its penalty, making it possible for God to completely forgive us. Forgive. God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. Much more than having now been justified by his blood, we shall be saved from the Wrath of God through him. world. Look at verse 18. Perishing. Perishing means separated from God and headed for eternal punishment. It's talking about people who are lost, another biblical word, which means dead spiritually. blind to the truth. In chapter 2, verse 14, Paul writes, same book, 1 Corinthians. Corinthians, a natural man does not accept the things of the Spirit of God. They are foolishness to him. He cannot understand them because they are spiritually appraised. And that's why the word of the cross seems foolish to them. But notice in verse 18: the word of the cross doesn't seem foolish. To those that God is saving. But to th to us who are being saved, see, the word of the cross is foolishness to those, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God, it being the Word of the Cross, if you follow the grammar, it is the power of God. So God saves using the Word of the Cross, the message, the gospel. That by God's power, that message is used to awaken and turn hearts to Christ. So the word of the cross, the gospel, is the necessary power tool in the mission of the church. And that's what Paul says in Romans 1. 16. I'm not ashamed of the gospel. It is the power of God for salvation. to everyone who believes, to the Jew first and also to the Greek. Romans 10, 17, faith comes from hearing, hearing by, you know, the word of Christ. There's nothing wrong with the word of the cross. That's it's not anything wrong that it's foolishness to those who are perishing. Lost man in his wisdom thinks it's a foolish message, but no matter what people think about it, the word of the cross is by God's God's declaration, the message, and the only message that saves. And let's just a couple of examples of its saving power. Acts 2. 37, the day of Pentecost. When they heard this, which would have been the word of the cross. the gospel. They were pierced to the heart and said to Peter and the rest of the apostles, Brethren, what should we do? And it was believe in Jesus. Jesus. Acts four four Many of those who had heard the message believed, and the number of the men came to be about five. Faith comes from hearing. And that hearing is of what Paul is talking about here. Word of the cross. Secondly, the word of the cross is the wisdom of God. I didn't give you an outline, but I'll repeat these points at the end if you want them. The word of the cross is the wisdom of God. Look at it in verse 19. For it is written, I will destroy the wisdom of the wise, and the cleverness of the clever I will set aside. That's a quote of Isaiah 29 and verse 14. And God warned the people of Jerusalem in that time of Isaiah through the prophet about thinking they knew God's mind when they had gone astray. And God judged their insincerity with a loss of spiritual wisdom and discernment. Paul witnessed a similar lack of wisdom and discernment in his ministry, and he's connecting that prophecy to his ministry. in people's response to the gospel. So he sees a fulfillment. He sees the same non-understanding of the gospel. So he says in verse 20, where is the wise man? Where is the scribe? Where is the debater of this age? In Paul's day, such thinkers and writers and orators were revered in the culture, especially the culture of Corinth. who this letter is going to. Who of them, he's asking in verse 20, will stand and contend that their wisdom is superior to God's wisdom. And Paul gives the inspired, the God-inspired assessment of this wisdom, verse 20, has not God made foolish the wisdom of the wisdom? God has shown that the wisdom of the world will not help them come to know Him. It is foolish. It is absurd. How? Well, it was God 's wisdom, his design that mankind would not come to know him through their own wisdom. In other words, they would not come to understand how to be right with God on their own. It had to be spiritually appraised. That is of the Spirit given to man awakened to understand it. Verse 21 for since in the wisdom of God the world through its wisdom did not come to know God, that is, did not Come to know him, how to be right with him. God was well pleased through the foolishness of the message preached to save those who believe. believe. By God's wise design, man cannot come to know God through his own thinking. That's so important to understand. It's why we do missions. Man cannot come to know God. He can come to know there is a God, but he needs to hear the gospel. He cannot think high enough about God's holiness, and thus he's not going to think low enough about himself. No, he'll come up with some way to be right with God through his own goodness. What happens in one world religion after another? Man's efforts apart from God's revelation have been futile. The epitome of that was that it in Athens, close to Corinth Paul had seen that altar you might remember with the inscription, to an unknown God. In other words, let's not miss anything. Let's let's let's cover them all. What is man's wisdom with regard to being right with God? Well I've already life in Indeed. the And to those called Christ is neither stumbling block nor foolish, but the power of God. Signs are not needed. Verse twenty two Because we see Christ. The wisdom of God replaces the wayward wisdom of our own mind. Verse 25, because the foolishness of God is wiser than men And the weakness of God is stronger than men. That which is thought foolish is shown and will be shown to be wiser than man. That's why, as I read this morning, every knee will bow, every tongue will confess Jesus Christ is Lord. And that which is thought weak is shown and will be shown to be stronger. Than man. He will come back. His kingdom will reign, and all who have rejected him will be judged. So, no matter what people think, the word of the cross is the message that saves. The Word of the Cross is the wisdom of God, and the Word of the Cross may not be the message people want, but it is the message. people need. Real quick, four implications, or at least three. Guard the priority of proclamation and ministry. It's certainly up to your pastors to do that, but it's up to all of us. to require that of the church that you are a part of. Guard the priority of proclamation of the gospel. Second, pray for proclamation opportunities. And I mean personally, for your personal opportunities. Colossians 4. 3 Tells us to be praying that God will open up a door for the Word so that we may speak forth the mystery of Christ. Well, yes, we want that to happen in outreaches. I want that to happen at the funeral Wednesday, but we want that to happen in our conversation. conversations with individuals in the pathway of life. So pray for open doors for the word in your day-to-day life. Thirdly, know that fruit comes through the preaching and proclamation of the gospel. There's no smarter way to do church. We proclaim the gospel. Thank you, Pastor Matt, for your insistence on that and your teaching and preaching. I think it's been a strength to all of us. And fourthly, be certain of your own salvation.