I remind you, uh, as I have several times, since we're not going through verse by verse a book of the Bible, I I guess I feel the need to keep reminding you why we are taking several of the psalms. I have I have uh hand picked them as ones that lead us to understand and Appreciate the glory of God. And it stems from Psalm 27, verse 4. David prayed, said, declared this, one thing I've asked from the Lord That I shall seek, that I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to behold the beauty of the Lord and to meditate in his temple. We're always thinking of what we have to do and asking God to bless that. David's desire was to be still before the Lord and to see more of his glory. And so I hope that in some way our stopping at these Psalms, today Psalm 111, help us to do that How do we behold the beauty of the Lord? Well, my quick and correct answer to that is you study the Word of God. We've been assembling in his present-day temple week by week, his church, and through this summer series. Seeing God's glory. Is it okay to say this summer series and next week after Labor Day? I don't know. But anyway, uh we're going to continue it on for another week or two. We've been seeing God's glory, God's excellence as revealed in the Psalm. Psalm 111 points us to the works of God. That word works is seen four times in the text. Points us to the works of God and makes the point that God 's works are consistent with And show forth his character. So here's God in his glory. What he does is consistent with that glory. What he does shows forth that glory. And thus the title, God's Glory Reflected in His Works. That that sounds like such a historical sermon title. I don't know, but that's what I came up with. It could be the title of a book one day. God's Glory. reflected in his works. I want to read the Psalm and I want to point out God's glory in the Psalm, really pointing out the obvious to you. So let's look at Psalm 111 beginning with verse 1. Praise the Lord. I will give thanks to the Lord with all my heart, in the company of the upright and in the assembly. Great, I underline the word great, are the works of the Lord. They are studied by all who delight in them. Splendid and majestic. Is his work. And his righteousness endures forever. He has made his wonders to be remembered The Lord is, notice, gracious and compassionate. He has given food to those who fear him. He will remember his covenant forever He has made known to his people the power of his works in giving them the heritage of the nations. The works of his hands are truth and justice. All his precepts are sure. They are upheld forever and ever. They are performed in truth and uprightness. He has sent redemption to his people. He has ordained his covenant forever Holy and awesome is his name. And then verse 10: the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all those who do his commandments. His praise endures forever. So notice the Lord is great And great are his works. The Lord is splendid and majestic. Splendid and majestic are his works The Lord is righteous, his works are done in righteousness. The Lord is wonderful, and he does wonders. The Lord is gracious and compassionate and does works of grace and compassion, we'll see. The Lord is powerful and does powerful works. The Lord is true and just and upright, and his works are true and just and upright. The Lord is sure. And his works are sure, standing the test of time. The Lord is holy and awesome. Holy and awesome are his works. Well, the second part of the outline is the big part, okay? First part of the outline is verse 1. The psalmist exhorts us to honor the Lord with praise. And we've seen verses like this. That doesn't mean we don't cover it. It means God is underlining it because we've seen many verses like this in the Psalms. Praise the Lord. I will give thanks to the Lord with all my heart. Private and a public aspect of praise. Verse 1 is calling for that. So honor the Lord. with praise. And secondly, the big point of the psalm: honor the Lord by studying his works. By studying his works. Well lots lots of other things are said, but I like that word study in verse two. Great are the works of the Lord They are studied by all who delight in them. One commentator said, Praise is nurtured By thinking about what God does. That's the word study is meditate upon, understand. Praise is nurtured by that. What he does is great according to verse 2. That is amazing, awe-inspiring. And so believers should verse 2 delight in the works of the Lord. Particularly in view in Psalm 111 are the Lord's works in the history of Israel. But all of his works should be on the table for our study as New Testament believers. To study creation, to study things in the natural world and how they work, to study history and God's sovereignty there, and of course, to study Christ and salvation. And as an example, let us take a brief tangent and study the work of the worldwide flood in Noah's day Don't ask me why I picked that. It's what came to mind, okay? It's on the table. It's one of the things we could study. Turn if you would to Genesis chapter 6, verse 17. Now I'm just going to give a cursory glance to some of the principles But the first principle about the flood in Noah's day is that it was a worldwide event. Try to wrap your Your mind around that. When I see flood floods on television, eastern Kentucky was it recently? Other areas. I'm thankful for Federal Hill that I live on top of. You know, I'm thinking I'm on high ground. I don't think that's going to be an issue here for us. I don't think I'm going to be on the news. But look at Genesis six seventeen. Behold, I am bringing the flood of water. Oh, excuse me, I, even I, God emphasizes who's doing it. And bringing the flood of water upon the earth to destroy all flesh in which is the breath of life from under heaven. Everything That is on the earth shall perish. To study the great work of the flood is to realize, to let it sink in. This was a worldwide. Judgment. A worldwide judgment. Everything that is on the earth shall perish. And it was, as I was alluding to, a worldwide event. Go to chapter 7, verse 19 of Genesis. The water prevailed more and more upon the earth so that all the high mountains everywhere under the heavens were covered. And they were covered by water. Water. That's amazing. That's incredible. That that's again, we can't conceive of that with our mind. And so studying it brings us to that point of just praising God. God, I That's amazing that you did that from waters above and waters beneath. And then turn to the New Testament To 2 Peter chapter 3. We'll just take one more passage. 2 Peter chapter 3, verses 3 through 7. While you're turning there, let me mention Matthew 24, where Jesus tells us that the coming of the Son of Man will be just like the days of Noah. In those days before the flood, they were eating, drinking, marrying, giving in marriage until the day that Noah entered the ark, and they did not understand until the flood came and took them all away. So will the coming of the Son of Man be. The flood is studying it, you realize it is a confirmation of worldwide judgment to come. So 2 Peter chapter 3, verse 3. Know this first of all, that in the last days mockers will come with their mocking, following after their own lusts. And saying, where is the promise of his coming? For even since the fathers fell asleep, all continues just as it was from the beginning of creation. When they maintain this, it escapes their notice, it escapes their notice that by the word of God the heavens existed long ago And the earth was formed out of water and by water, through which the world at that time was destroyed, being flooded with water. But by his word the present heavens and earth are being reserved for fire, kept for the day of judgment and destruction of ungodly men. So studying the flood in Genesis 6 leads you to, we just mentioned three of the conclusions. It was a worldwide judgment, a worldwide event, and it is a confirmation of something even greater to come A worldwide, even heaven and earth-wide judgment to come when Jesus returns So the Lord's work of flooding the earth reveals him as sovereign over his created earth, a holy God who must and will judge sinners. So, to study the works of the Lord leads us to praise a God that we are accountable to. We don't need a special class to do it. We study the works of God by reading the Bible. Okay? By reading the Bible, by meditating upon what you read, by looking up cross-references, which is all I did to find Three that I wanted to share with you about the flood. Verse three. Splendid and majestic is his work, and his righteousness endures forever. So notice the Lord's greatness in the first part of verse 3 and the Lord's goodness in the second part of verse 3. They always go hand in hand. He can do all things, and all that he does is good and right. Not like an earthly tyrant, right, where might makes right, whatever I say goes, and that becomes right. No, his works are righteous, splendid, and majestic because he is righteous, splendid, and majestic. And notice that his righteousness endures Forever. He is not becoming more and more righteous. He is righteous and he will not be corrupted His righteousness endures forever. Verse 4. He has made his wonders to be remembered. Wonders like Passover for the Jew reading this psalm. That would come to mind. The deliverance of the Israelites from Egypt who applied the blood of the Lamb To the doorposts of their houses, escaping God's death angel. But for us today, we should think that, but we should also think wonders like the cross of Christ. Salvation for sinners who had by faith applied the blood of Jesus, the Lamb of God, to our hearts, escaping eternal death that we all deserve. So Passover became a yearly remembrance and celebration for Israel. The Lord's Supper is a regular remembrance and celebration for the church today. He has made his wonders to be remembered. The Lord is gracious and compassionate. And he showed this through his works on behalf of an often complaining and disobedient Israel. He shows it in the salvation of sinners today. Listen to Romans 5. 8 and think of the compassion and grace of God. God demonstrated his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. Don't tell me he saw something good in you and saved you. Because God says you were yet a sinner, and Christ died for you. Nobody's told me that, so don't feel guilty. But don't tell me that. Okay. So verse 5, he's given food to those who fear him. We think naturally as an Israelite of the daily manna. If you were reading the psalm back in the day, he provided daily manna for Israel in their journey through the wilderness. And Jesus, of course, echoed this work in feeding. The five thousand and the seven thousand plus women and children during his ministry. He will remember his covenant forever, verse five. God's goodness to his people, not because of his people's obedience. Often in spite of their disobedience. No, he remembers his covenant because of his faithfulness. We especially remember God's dealings with the people of Israel at Mount Sinai The Lord promised that Israel would be his people. Wings and brought you to myself. Now then, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, which included the Ten Commandments. The moral law and the more detailed regulations for life and worship, the ceremonial law. Keep my covenant, then you shall be my possession among all the peoples, for all the earth is mine. You shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the sons of Israel. The words of God. You know, the difficulties in Israel's history were not due to any forgetfulness. That is unfaithfulness on God's part. They were due to Israel's disobedience and unbelief, culminating in the rejection of the Son of God, Jesus, as Messiah. We who are believers in Jesus can read verse 5 of Psalm 111. He's given food, or the second part, he will remember his covenant forever. And we will know that he will remember the new covenant forever. He is ever, forever pleased with Jesus once and for all, death upon the cross for sin. And he is forever accepting, pleased with our trust In Jesus. And we as his people are his people forever, his church today. So where whereas Israel forfeited their right to be the people of God through disobedience. God will keep us forever. We we have a even better covenant. As we read verse five, we should be thinking that way on our new covenant with Christ. Verse 6. He has made known to his people the power of his works in giving them the heritage of the nations. Well again, as a Jew, you'd be reading this and you'd think the promised land, of course. It was a grant of God to Israel who enabled Israel to come in and to defeat and displace the sinful Canaanite nations that God was ready to judge. The Lord's power was on display And cause the hearts of the Canaanites to melt with fear when Israel was obedient to the Lord. In the kingdom that Jesus is building, verse 6 has application. Believers look forward to a celebration of souls in that kingdom from where? Every nation. So just pick up on that phrase, the heritage of nations, we can take that personally in our mission work, because we believe that every nation, every people group will be represented in those that God has saved among the earth. They will come to faith in a Savior. The Great Commission will be fulfilled that we go and make disciples of all the nations. So I want to say today his power is on display as churches continue to be established in areas where none have existed. And thus the prayer for our International Mission Board is they seek to do that week by week. Verses 7 through 9 make the point that the Lord's works and his word are absolutely consistent with his character. God is true, God is just, God is faithful, his works and his word reflect and declare this in unison. Verse 7: The works of his hands are truth and justice. The plagues on Egypt, the parting of the Red Sea. The drowning of the Egyptian army in the Red Sea, the giving of the law, the discipline of disobedient Israelites, the defeat of Canaanite peoples in the promised land, etc. etc. are expressions of God's truth. justice and faithfulness. Verse 7 continues, all his precepts are sure. What God has said, one writer put it this way, what God has said shall never be unsaid. He stands by it. Right and wrong remain. Promises are kept. Prophecies have been or will be fulfilled. All his precepts are sure. Verse 8, they, his works, is what's referenced there, they are upheld forever and ever. They are performed in truth and right and uprightness. So his works are in harmony with his words, with his word, their integrity will stand the test of time. He's not coming back like we do, regretting things we've done, apologizing for things we've done or how they've turned out. No, his works are upheld forever and ever. Deuteronomy 32 verse 4, the rock. Speaking of God, the rock, his work is perfect. For all his ways are just, the God of faithfulness and without injustice. Righteous and upright is he. So you see, he is and his work is. Verse 9, he has sent redemption. To his people. Again, the Israelite would think of their deliverance from Egyptian slavery. We would think today primarily of delivering sinners from eternal death. And we would pick up on the word sent, because he has sent the Son to be Savior. He sent redemption to his people. That is uh Certainly to point us to the sending of his son. The next part of the verse, he has ordained his covenant forever. The word ordained means decreed, established in this verse. He will stand by his word, he will accomplish his word. Think about it, the Lord's covenants with Adam, with Noah, with Abraham, with Israel, all find fulfillment in Christ, the final covenant. Because Jesus fulfilled all the requirements. So that whoever believes in him has eternal life, forever in covenant relationship with the Lord. He has ordained his covenant forever. We stand, we can look at Psalm 11 and read that phrase Knowing that there's not another covenant, okay? Uh there there were several, but they're all fulfilled in Christ, and we can stand and believe in him and know that we are going to inherit the blessing of the new covenant in Christ. Holy and awesome is his name. He saves us without compromise and his holiness, doesn't he? Think about that. He's not like us. I've said this before. If John McDonald, and John hasn't, but if John McDonald were to sin against me and I would say to myself, that, you know, he didn't, he probably doesn't even realize what he did. I'm just gonna forget about that. That would be fine. That would be biblical to cover that in love because I love John. And you didn't do a thing to me, brother. Okay, just just to reiterate that. See, and and John would do the same. We can choose to do that, but God who is holy, holy, holy, doesn't do that. Sin must be punished. If I were God, I would have to find a way to punish John, but I'm not. I can forget that. So when when we see holy and awesome is his name, his holiness was not compromised by the putting of his son on the cross. His holiness was fulfilled there Because wrath was satisfied in Jesus. I want you to feel the richness of the gospel in your heart as we're going to celebrate it in a few minutes. Thus we revere him. Thus we pursue him. We don't take him for granted. We don't drift from him or doubt him, which is where we are led in verse 10, the third point. Honor the Lord by fearing him. Fear, rightly understood, is the appropriate response to this God. The fear of the Lord Is the beginning of wisdom. A good understanding have all those who do his commandments. His praise endures forever. So the fear of the Lord is the reverence of his person and the fear of disobeying him together in our heart. Knowing that He is eternal, He is unchanging, and this is captured in the phrase, His praise endures forever. Never will anything change about how He should be praised that endures forever. Those who fear him, listen, those who fear him care about what he said. That's a part of fearing him. We want to read the Bible If you're not reading the Bible, pray that God would help you to fear it. That you would want to read His Word. That you'd want to read His Word. People who fear him learn what he said because they want to honor him, they want to obey him. And such grow in wisdom and understanding according to verse 10. I want that. You should want that. You do want that. If you're a believer. By the way, Psalm 112 expounds on the blessings of those who fear the Lord. Some people pair these Psalms, believe it was intentional that one would follow the other. Psalm 112, just the first part of it, 1 through 6, praise the Lord. How blessed is the man who fears the Lord, picking up on the honor of to honor the Lord by fearing him, who greatly delights in his commandments. His descendants will be mighty on the earth. The generation of the upright will be blessed. Wealth and riches are in his house. His righteousness endures forever. Light arises in the darkness for the upright. He is gracious and compassionate and righteous. So notice as we fear God, as we are blessed in that fear of him, we become more and more like him. It is well with the man who is gracious in limbs. He will maintain his cause in judgment. For he will never be shaken. The righteous will be remembered forever, and on and on it goes. Honor the Lord by fearing him. Psalm 111, honor the Lord with praise by studying his works. They reflect his glory and by fearing him Three implications briefly. Number one, study the works of the Lord. Let me give you another example. The incarnation of the Son of God. We're going to come to another Christmas season in a few months. Take it upon yourself, whatever the pastors decide to preach. Take it upon yourself to think about maybe this being a special study. You could look at fulfilled prophecy to study the work of incarnation. You you could look at how it was accomplished and come to uh Mary's interaction with the angel that it would be the Holy Spirit coming upon her and the miracle of that conception. You could study what it resulted in. the holy God man, amazing, the incarnate Christ. You could study why it was necessary that there would be a perfect righteous sacrifice. Of infinite worth to be laid down at the cross so God could forgive sinners, plural, on and on. So, just an example of studying the work of the Lord. We're exhorted to do that. We're exhorted to do that. Secondly, remember the wonders of the Lord. And so we come to the appreciation of the cross this morning through the Lord's Supper. We need to come appreciating the Lord's Supper as a remembrance of Jesus' death for our sins. It is that simple, but then it it takes our thoughts in wonderful worship, worshipful, sometimes examining our own heartways, sometimes simply praising God. But appreciate what we are doing. Have your mind in it. Don't let your mind wander. Focus on why you do what you do, as we observe. So remember the wonders of the Lord. And thirdly, I would say cultivate a healthy fear of the Lord. How do you do that? Two ways for different sets of people. For those who are believers, read the Word of God. Read the Word of God. It will if you read the Word of God in an unrushed way, not just to get through, but in an unrushed way, wanting to know God, you will You will fear him in the way he wants you to fear him. And the second group of people. Those who don't know the Lord of God, how do you cultivate a healthy fear of God? You realize your sin. You repent of sin. You realize what God did in sending his Son. To take sin upon himself and endure the wrath of God, the death penalty, on the cross. And you believe. To repent and believe is for you to have the fear of God. Otherwise Because God is holy, you will pay the penalty for that sin for eternity. In a place of torment, the Bible calls hell. Let's pray to God. Father, we thank you for the works of God. We thank you for your gracious work of the cross. And as we come to celebrate it, Lord, I pray that it would speak to the hearts of believers today and that we would worship you. We would contemplate the incarnation that had to take place so that the cross would be affected. I pray that we would That you would convict the hearts of those who are without Christ, who will not participate in this celebration, but who ought to participate by thinking about why we do what we do. I pray that you would speak to the hearts of the lost here this morning. In Jesus' name. Amen.