So let us read Romans 3, starting in verse 21. Remember, we were looking and thinking about defined God declaring his righteousness and his identity. Verse twenty one. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested apart from the law. Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. And are justified by his grace as a gift, through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forth as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. This was to show God's righteousness, because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just. And the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. God uses the cross to magnify his righteousness But what does it mean to be righteous? What does it mean that God has righteousness? Well it's actually the attribute of who God is, one of them. And righteousness is actually defined by who God is. We can't say anything is righteous without knowing who got it. The world attempts to. Of course we see that all around The world tries to say, this is righteous, this is good, this is correct, but this over here isn't. Well the only way they can get that correct is according to God. Righteousness simply means just, goodness, correct. Accurate. This is who God is. He's the definition of correct. He's the definition of goodness. He's the definition of just So what we see here is that God is declaring his righteousness at the death of the Son on the cross. The triune God comes Sunday nights, comes at the P. M. service to learn more about the Trinity, but the Triune God is declaring its righteousness, his righteousness at the cross of Christ. How can God be just? How can God be good? How can God be correct at the death of his son? It's what we must see. It's what we will examine. Well the first thing we must know is that God's righteousness is not dependent on the law As humans, we try to base our righteousness, our correctness, based off of rules. We all love rules. Doesn't mean we all love to follow them, but we love to have a set of rules that we can base our good and good uh good works and good deeds off of. Right? Don't we just want to list? How can I be a good person? Follow this rule, this rule, this rule, don't speed, you're a good person. Boom. Done. We can check that off. But God doesn't need a set of rules as his defining moment, his definition of who and how he is righteous. God 's actually the provider of the law. God gave the law to man, not for salvation. Please say that if you think that Israel was being saved by the law at any point in the Old Testament Check again, because the law never was able to save. , The law was never sufficient to bring sinner to be called a saint The only way, the only way to be called righteous before God is through the work of Christ. But not God. He didn't need the law. What he points to, what Paul points to here is that the law and the prophets. All of the Old Testament was pointing to the righteousness of God. All of the Old Testament is pointing to the righteousness of God. So may we take the Word of God, the totality, all the books of the Bible, and value them as the Word of God pointing to who God is, pointing to our Savior. The Old Testament's valuable. The law of God is valuable because it's pointing us to Christ. The law of God is valuable because it's pointing us to our Savior. Look at verse 22 in Romans 3. It says, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. Wait a second here. Actually Paul's taking a turn. He's in verse twenty-one he's pointing to the righteousness of God. And all of a sudden he takes a turn that God is righteous. And now he starts to point to man, he points to you and I, and showing that we have righteousness. We have correctness, just, goodness, found how? Through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. Now, this may not be as sharp to us reading it as it would have been to the original reader. Paul, a Jewish man, has now pointed and said, it's not based off of your ethnicity It's not based off of who your parents are. It's not based off of how well you've obeyed the law. It's not based off of how many times you've been to the temple. Your righteousness is based solely. Through faith in Christ, to believe in Christ, in his work. This is what God is declaring at the cross. That he is righteous. And Paul drives in, but there's no distinction. The righteousness of God has now been given to man, regardless of their background, but solely based off of faith in Christ. So let's look at this. One of the attributes that 's pointed out here at the cross is that God is holy. Look at verse 23 with me. It says, For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Now, if you're smart, we're going anthony, the word holy is not anything. Good job. Keep following along. But we must understand what does it mean to be holy? It's very similar to righteous, it's perfect, without blemish, set apart. We see the angels crying out to God in the heavens, and one of the their songs that they start with is crying out holy, holy, holy. Why do they cry it out three times? Because that's the number of perfection. That's magnifying the holiness of God. That God is so perfect He's so good. He's so without blemish. He's so set apart from all of creation that we gotta say it three times And I argue that the angels probably didn't stop after this three times. They're probably still today and into eternity crying out holy, holy, holy, on repeating. It's their favorite song. It's because they recognize who God is. So then how do I get holy out of verse 23? Well the holiness of God, the perfection of God, points to our sinfulness. We must recognize that God's holiness is actually a problem for us as sinful man. As a holy God, without Marmish, we cannot come before Him because we're sinners. Our sinfulness, our filthy rags, our blood-stained bodies cannot go before the Holy God. Paul reminds us, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. Man is sinful and has broken the law of God. All people. Once again, Paul is driving home this word all to show that there's not different people groups with different statuses before God. All the Jewish people have sinned. All of the Gentiles have sinned. We've covered all humanity right there. All people have sinned to fall short of the glory of God. Man deserves God's just punishment. We see this from the garden. God promises Adam that if they eat of the fruit on that day they will die. We're going to have to unpack that in a little bit, but recognize that there was a spiritual death that happened the moment they sinned against God. And that spiritual death has been passed down to us, and we are all sinners from birth. And we all deserve the just punishment of God, which is death and eternity separated from Him. None of us have experienced that yet. We think, oh, we're not with God, but God is still active in this world. But there is a day when the sinners, the rebels against God, will be cast away from him. If you don't know Christ, you will be cast into hell and then into the lake of fire, and that is the eternal punishment that you cannot fathom the pain and agony that will come from that. And brothers and sisters, you and I deserve that punishment, and God is just in punishing us that way, because of how holy and righteous He is. But what a beautiful truth we see here. Is that while God is magnifying his holiness, as he is magnified as perfect, we start to see the magnitude of our sin. We start to see the depravity of our sin. We start to see the disgustingness of our sins. We start to see the pain and agony that our sin brings upon us and the just punishment that we deserve because of our sins. Now we start to see what the cross is really doing. We start to see the glorious work of God through the cross. Let us see on your handout there is that God is glorious. For all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. What does it mean for God to be glorious? It means that He is worthy of fame and adoration. He has beauty and splendor. The glory of God's magnified in the cross. We should be in all of God at the cross. We should see how beautiful and splendorous God is at the cross. Because that's the punishment that we deserve. Is that death that Christ bore for us. That leads us into point number two. God declares that he is the Savior. Jesus is the only savior for sinful men. As we've magnified God's holiness and we've seen our sinfulness, we recognize that we have a problem. We need to get out of this sinful state. There's no works we can do, there's nothing we can achieve to get us out of that sinful state. Out of that rebellion against God. There's nothing we can do to get out of the punishment that we deserve from God. But then God sees us in our pitiful state and he sends the Savior to redeem us. God is the Savior. Jesus is the Savior. the only savior for sinful men. Look at verses 24 and 25a. So we read in 23, for all sin fall short of the glory of God and are justified. By his grace as a gift of the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. What is our hope before a holy God? It's Christ in Christ alone. How do you want to be you want to be saved? How are you going to do it? Is place your faith in Christ. Recognize that God is declaring that He is Savior at the cross of Christ. Jesus makes sinful man justified. He makes sinful man justified. What does it mean to be justified? Made right. Man had a punishment. Man had guilt and shame upon him. We all knew But Jesus took the guilt, took the shame, and now we can stand before God, the holy God , way to snow. Not stained by the blood of our sin. But we are stained by the cleansing blood of Christ. You remain justified. I don't hopefully not too many hands go up, but if anyone has ever committed a crime and had to stand in court And as the judge looks at them, declares, are they guilty or innocent? Or another word for innocent would be called just. They've been justified from the law. Don't want to raise your hands that you've ever been there, but could you could you imagine if if the weight of crimes that you truly committed, you truly committed a crime And you're standing before a judge, and the judge looks at you and goes, you are guilty of your sins, but you can stand over here, forgiven, and just in pardon. I mean can you imagine or you go well wait how that how does this happen? How how is this possible? How can you look at me, see all the evidence of all my sin, and you and look at me and say I am just and without sin is because of Christ and Christ alone. Christ took our sins upon the cross. May we recognize that God's beauty of being the Savior is magnified on the cross Jesus bears the wrath and punishment we deserve. We're going to examine this in the last two verses, but recognize that when we are found just before God , Our sins were not ignored. It's not like God looked at us and said, Oh, you have faith in Christ? Good. We're just going to act like your sins never happened. No, no, no. That's not what happened. On the cross, Christ took your sins, took your punishment that you deserve, paid the price you deserve to pay on the cross So were your sins paid for? Was the wrath of God poured out upon your sins? Yes, absolutely, through the work of Christ. Brothers and sisters, we must remember, we must think about that our sins weren't just covered up and not dealt with, but that they were dealt with fully at the work of Christ. If we get in the mindset or we get in the mind that God has just passed over our sins, there's really no, you know, there's no penalty for them, we're going to start to lose the value of Christ and His work. We're going to start to think that we're just getting away with sins. Actually, if if our sins were just passed over and not dealt with, that they weren't actually uh that there wasn't a penalty paid for them, then God isn't just. You know what I'm saying? God isn't just if he ignores the sin and doesn't actually pour out his wrath upon. How holy is a God that allows some sin to happen? How good is a God that that lets you and I get away with some sin? It says, okay, that's sin, you know, I'm holy and perfect, but that sin can happen and we're not gonna deal with it. No, that's not the God we worship God's declaring his holiness, his righteousness, and the fact that he is savior because he's poured out the punishment we deserve on Christ at the cross. Your sins have been paid for at the cross. How should this encourage us? How should we be uh gain zeal from the knowledge that Christ has bore the wrath that we deserve? Well let's be reminded. You are forgiven. Brothers and sisters, hear this over and over and over again because we must be reminded. If you have faith in Christ, you are forgiven. by the Creator. You are forgiven by the perfect judge. You are forgiven of your sins you've committed in the past. You are forgiven of the sins you will commit. You are forgiven We don't hear this language often enough in society. What guilt can the world bring upon you? What shame can the world bring upon you if you are forgiven by the Creator? What hope we have. What joy we have as Christians. Let us live happy and joyful lives. Let us go into the world proclaiming the forgiveness that can only be found in Christ alone. Because we are truly and eternally forgiven through the work of Christ and the cross that took the punishment that we deserve. Please be with God. Amen. Let us see. How does this how does this happen? How how can your wrath be placed on the Christmas through faith and trust alone? If you're not a believer in here this morning, if you have not been forgiven through Christ, you don't recognize your identity in Christ yet, do not think that you have to do steps to get there. There's no commandment that you must come up here after the sermon. There's no commandment that you have to start going to church and you must have an attendance of 83% or higher. There's no commandment that you must memorize different scriptures. There's none of that in scripture How do you become saved? How can you recognize that your sin, your wrath was poured out upon Christ? Is by placing your faith in Christ. recognizing that He is the Savior, believing that you were truly forgiven through His work, believing that He really lived a perfect life as an unblemished flame, that He really was holy and perfect, that He really did hang on the cross, He really did die for your sins. He really did, was he really was buried in the grave. And he truly and absolutely rose from the dead, physically and spiritually alive. Defeating sin and death. And now he sits in heaven, being king over all of creation, over the heavens and the earth. Is that the God you believe in? And you're a Christian. You're in. You're in. That's all it is. It's a little of us in grandness of our God. There's zero things we can do because it's all of Christ. What a glorious God we worship. Now we must deal with this word because we we have to understand the language that Paul's using here. We see in verse 24 and are justified by his grace as a gift. Okay, so so we are justified by grace and it was from God we didn't earn it through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus. That's a word of victory. Verse 25, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood to be received by faith. Big scary word, no need to be scared of it Propitiation could also be translated as atonement. In other words maybe scary words. No need to be worried. It's making right, a payment for sin. A reparation for the crime. A wrong has occurred and a payment must be made. A wrong has occurred through our sin, a payment must be made through Christ's blood, his death on the cross. That's all that is. It's a beautiful truth. We actually should should marvel at this word that our sins were paid for at the blood of Christ. We were sinners, made just. We were rebels against God, made children. We were guilty, now forgiven. Through the blood of Christ. What a beautiful truth this is. Now, these last verse and a half is where we're gonna really slow down because we're going to see the magnitude It was God's declaration at the cross. God's declaring, and we said this over and over again, God declares his righteousness. God is both just and the justifier of the sinner. Excuse me, of the sinner. He's both just and the justifier of the sinner. So look at verses 25b through 26. This was to show God's righteousness. Wait, wait. Hear this. What just happened? Paul just told us that Christ Bled in our place. Christ took on our wrath that we deserve. Why did He do this? This was to show God's righteousness. Because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just and the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. So brothers and sisters, when we look at the cross of Christ, what should we know about God? Yes, he is holy. Yes, he is Savior. And yes, he is righteous. How is he righteous? Why does this matter to us? Well, the first thing we must recognize is that God did not ignore the sins of the past. This is this is deep theology that is valuable for us to understand. All people through all of history that are that are redeemed by God, that are in heaven today and will be in heaven in the future, have been redeemed by the blood of Christ. Let me clarify that even more. All people, from whatever time frame in history they've lived, if they are in heaven, it's through Christ. If they are God's people, it's through Christ's blood. But wait a second, Christ came and and died in what 33 AD? There's many, many years, hundreds of thousands of years before Christ So do those people get away with sin? Or is no one from before Christ in heaven? Well we can look at Hebrews 11 and we see that there is there is Saints of old, saints before Christ, that are in heaven. How are they there? Hebrews 11. By faith. If you want to hear by faith over and over again, go read Hebrews 11. 12. You're gonna get tired of hearing by faith. By faith, by faith. We should never get tired of it. We must recognize the beauty of it. That all the way back to Canaan Abel was by faith that there was a good sacrifice And there's a lack of faith, and there's a bad sacrifice. By faith, those that came before Christ are redeemed by Christ. So what happens? Did God just ignore their sins? No. We see in the second part of verse 25, this was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance This means his patience. Forebearance is patience. Don't we all wish we had a little bit more divine forbearance sometimes? Godly patience. But in God's patience, he saw the sins of man unfolding. Let's take David as an example. He saw the sin of David happening before him. But he did not fully pour out his wrath upon David because he was patient because he knew that Christ was going to come and pay the penalty for David. Brother Sisters , are we recognizing that Christ is not just our Savior, but the Savior of all of those through all of history that are God's people? It was not by sacrificing an animal. Israel was not saved by sacrificing an atom. Israel was not saved by building a temple and going into the temple to worship God. Israel was not saved because they followed the law. Read the rest of Romans and hear Paul pointing back over and over again that the law did not save you. The law did not save them. The law cannot save you. Who can save Christ and Christ alone? All people of all time that are God's people were saved through the blood of Christ. It's beautiful. God did not ignore sins. He was patient and said, I will hold my wrath for those sins to the day of Christ because this will magnify. This will show all of creation my righteousness. Once again, God is just by pouring out the punishment upon Christ. All people, past, present, and future, are saved by faith in Christ. So all people that are saved have been saved through faith in Christ. Verse 26, it was to show his righteousness at the present time. Throughout history, people could have looked at God and said he was unjust, he was unrighteous because sin had been skipped over until the day of Christ. But in this moment, in this time, God chose his righteousness. He didn't care what the world thought. He didn't care what it appeared to be to human man He knew that in Christ would be the perfect time, the perfect plan to show his righteousness, to magnify just how just he really is That he wasn't holding back any wrath, that he didn't allow any sin to get passed over, that he poured it out on Christ. This is helpful for us to see and know that God's not going to let any sin get away with. So we see the world around us, we hate what we see so often We see corruption, we see sin, we see wickedness happening. And two things are going to happen. The sin that is happening around us, those people that are sinning, just like you and I, we're sinners. Rebelling against God, and when we came to faith in Christ, those sins were forgiven. Those sins will be paid for by Christ on the cross And if they're not, if those people continue to rebel against God, they never place faith in Christ, those sins will be paid for by those people in eternity. But hear this, that there is no sin that will get away from God. All sin will be punished by God, either in Christ and is already accomplished, or into eternity through the punishment and separation from God. This is good for us to know that our God is a good, just God. 26 reminds us of this, so he shows his righteousness at the present time, so that he might be just And the justifier, the one who has faith in Jesus. So God is just. He pours out his wrath. He uh penalizes sin, he doesn't let any sin get away, or any sin sinner get away with sin, but while he is just, he is also the justifier The one that is pouring out the wrath and the punishment upon Christ is the one that has redeemed you and I. He's the one that has made us right. The perfect judge has made you and I just before him. Has made you and I innocent before him. Has made you and I his children. What a great judge that is. What a just God that is. What a wonderful God that is. That all sin is paid for and we have been called justified before Him. God is the one that makes man justified. The just God is the one that makes man justified. Why is this important for us to examine? I encourage you to reread this section this week. Reread all of Romans whenever you can. Many of the early church fathers and even later root a lot of their coming to Christ, the revelation of their salvation by reading the book of Romans. Martin Luther does Some of the Wesley brothers do as well. As they were reading the book of Romans, they saw the glory of our God. They saw the forgiveness that can only be found in Christ. So I encourage you to reread it. Well, what does this mean? That God is holy, God is Savior, God is righteous. What does this mean for us today? Well, this is the God we worship. May we be in awe of him. May we recognize what he has really done on the cross. May we be reminded. That we see that all of history was radically changed at the coming of Christ. But even more, it was radically changed at the death of Christ on the cross. And even more, it was radically changed at his resurrection and his ascension into heaven. The kingdom of God is so victorious that it has overcome the sins of the past and will overcome the sins of the future. The kingdom of God is so glorious that while we still have not been perfected on this earth, we still get to live within his kingdom Well, the kingdom of God and the kingship of the Lord is so great and grand that while we deserve the punishment from the king, he calls us his children through the work of Christ. This is the God we worship. This is why we should be excited as Christians. This is why we should have fun as Christians. This is why we should have joy as Christians. Because we are forgiven by the greatest The greatest being of all of existence That's the God we worship. It's the God that has redeemed us. And he magnified his identity at the cross. So instead of allowing people to say, oh, the cross is wicked and evil because his son died, no, his son died in our place. Instead of allowing people to say God is a big mean God because He's allowing sin to happen all over the place, bad things to happen, sickness to happen, we used to recognize that bad things happen because of sin, but will be and has been made right because of God. This is the God we worship. That he hasn't just stepped back and forgotten us. He won't just let sin get by. He won't just let it be ignored, but that he pours out the wrath upon Christ for our sins and he will punish the unjust into eternity. And what a glorious God that he is unblemish, he is perfect. He's our Savior and He is both just and has made us justified before Him. Brothers and sisters, let us worship this God. Let us praise this God. And let us proclaim this God to the way. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for who you are. I thank you that we're reminded With the glory and might of the work you have done. Lord, as we fail to recognize The true and complete work of the cross. May you continue to reveal it to us more and more each day. May we continue to see and be in awe of what you have done Lord, may you continue to convict us of our sin, but not just that, not just leave us in a sense of depression, but may we be in all that we are forgiven. That we're made new. What a glorious truth this is. May we rejoice in it. May we proclaim this, that there's forgiveness in Christ, in Christ alone. We pray this in his name. Amen.