I'm doing one standalone message before we go back to our series in Genesis. But we are going back to Genesis and as the primary preaching series for this uh first portion of the year. But today's a standalone message from Colossians 1 9 to 14. So let's grab our Bibles and let's open them to Colossians 1, 9 to 14. I'm calling this God give me Strength. God give me strength. Now, I came up with that title because verse 11 is about being strengthened with all power. Strengthened by God to loop for Him and not for ourselves. But as I was thinking about that, I had these memories of in my childhood. That's what my mom would say when I was acting up. God give me strength. God give me strength. And all these memories started flooding back. Um but in all seriousness It is one of my prayers that every single one of us for every single day this year will pray to God, God, give me strength. I'm serious about that. Every day of this year, guess how many days in are we? We missed some days, but you can catch up. Every single day, every single one of us Will cry out to God for one thing or another. God give me strength. I mean, seriously, is there a day That we're going to live on earth where we don't need strength from God. That doesn't exist Now there are exist many days, there does exist many days where where we are not aware of our need for strength, and where we do not cry out to God for strength. strength. But there is not a day, brothers and sisters, where we don't need the Lord's strength to live for him and not ourselves. Pray that we'd be more aware daily of our need for God's strength. And if we grow in that awareness, we'll also grow in asking for God's strength. Which will be prayer. So you go from awareness to the asking, which will be prayer. And one of the things that will result from that is diving into God's word more and more. God will strengthen us through his word and strengthen us through Through his spirit. And it'll get it'll help us to be more consistent in worship, to come and hear the word. Why do we come and want to hear the word? Well the same reason we go home and read the word is that through his word God will strengthen us. And by his spirit God will strengthen us. So this is our theme. God give me strength. You know, we've really got to be like children. Jesus said something about that. His kingdom. We've got to become like children, dependent and just always asking for stuff. We've got to be like that with God. Always asking God to help us with temptation. Always asking God for self-control. Always asking God to help us guard our words. Right? Always asking for things. We become like little children, dependent and always asking for things. Let's pray together for our time in the Word, and then we'll start back in with this passage. Father, we ask you for strength, and I pray we join our hearts in faith. And we ask you that you help us this year to grow in our daily awareness of how we need your strength in our lives to live for you and not ourselves. And as a result of that, Father, we pray you would bear the fruit of praying to you daily for strength, getting back into your word consistently for strength. Getting back into worship more consistently, more zealous for worship, to hear your word, for strength, for your spirit to work within us. Father, we pray that you would help us to grow in these things. Father, we help we ask that you'd help us to pursue these things. These things for the right reasons, for your glory, because we love you, and because we're thankful that you've made us your children. Let us never strive in these things of obedience to earn your love or to work our way in to heaven or anything like that. But because we love you, and Father, we're thankful for all that you've taught us, all that you've given us, all that you've promised us. But you stir these things up in our hearts, we pray in Jesus' name. Amen Colossians 1 9 to 14 reads like this: And so from the day we heard, we have not ceased to pray for you. Asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. So as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God Being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all endurance and patience with joy Giving thanks to the Father, who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. And transferred us to the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption , the forgiveness of sins. My main point for this sermon is the main application of this sermon, and it is the main doctrine of this sermon, and that is we must walk in God's strength, not our own. We must walk in God's strength, not our own, if we are to live for God and not ourselves. If we're to please God and not seek to please the world. We must walk in God's strength, not our own. It's not optional for those who want to live godly lives. You sometimes we live life like we're in a sailboat. Instead of hoisting the sail up, rather we stand there and try to push on the mast. And move it forward on our own strength. And the only thing that happens is you get more tired and you'll get more tired. And if you keep going, eventually you'll get injured. You'll pull something or you'll injure something will pop out. And the whole time the boat didn't move one inch. Well, what we should have done is hoist the sail so that the thing can work properly and the wind can move us along. Sometimes, oftentimes, we attempt to live the Christian life on our own strength, pushing things forward in our own power, and our own might and our own wisdom instead of hoisting the sail of faith. And seeking God consistently and crying out to God consistently and trusting God's Spirit consistently. We must walk in God's strength, not our own. The first thing to note in the text is that this is part of a prayer. That Paul is praying. Actually, he's just describing his prayer life. Paul is telling the church at Colossae how he's praying for them, at least some of the stuff of what he's praying. And you see this in verse 9. We have not ceased to pray for you. Paul is describing his prayers for the church. Now, why whatever he's about to say after that. Why would Paul be praying for these things? Why doesn't he just say, do these things? I want you to do these things and give them a list. Why is he praying for these things Well, you know the answer. The answer is simple. Paul's praying for these things because only God can accomplish these things. Only God can give these things. So he says, we have not ceased to pray for you. And a key part of his prayers is that they would live for God and not themselves. He's praying as it pertains to how they live. Look at verse ten. The very first phrase so as to Walk. Dot dot dot. As we get into the message, we'll see what he says after that. But so as to walk. So as to walk. That's a biblical phrase that has to do with how you're living. To walk in this way means to live in this way. To walk on this road means to live according to these principles. So to walk is to live. So he's praying for them. The same reason we pray for each other. Because there's things we want in our lives that only God can give us. There's things we need in our lives that only God can accomplish. And also, it has to do with how they live. So as to walk. And right in the middle of this passage You have this phrase which for me is like the engine that makes this passage go. It's the engine that makes this thing come alive and really just rev up. Right in the middle, verse 11 How these prayers will be answered, how this life, this way of walking will come about is verse 11, being strengthened with all power. Friends, that's talking about God's power. That's talking about the church, the Christians at Colossae being strengthened with the power of God to walk in such and such a way, to live such and such a life And isn't that what we want in our own lives and for each other? That God would strengthen us with all power to walk. in obedience to Christ, to walk in faithfulness to God, to walk in faith and repentance. It's prayer because only God can do it. Let's just get that settled. The things that God has called us to in our lives, only God can bring them about. Secondly, secondly, being strengthened. Being strengthened. This is a pillar of Christian living, being strengthened by God. Some other verses just to help bring that concept to life a little bit. The Bible teaches that God will give us the strength to endure everything. We seek that from God. God's faithful to give us the strength to endure whatever situation comes about and not give up our confession. Philippians 4 13, I can do all things through him who strengthens me. That means I can endure whatever circumstance. If God will strengthen me, I can make it through. Yes? Many times God 's power in our lives, God's strength at work in our lives. Is manifest in our weaknesses and through our sufferings. It can be very uncomfortable, but that's how God refines us and that's how God matures us. His strength at work, his power made manifest in our lives. Happens in weakness. 2 Corinthians 12, 9. But he said to me, so this is God talking to Paul. Alright, God talking to Paul. He said to me, My grace is sufficient for you. For my power is made perfect in weakness. His power at work in Paul will come to greater and greater maturity. In weakness and through suffering. And what Paul needs to learn is the same lesson we all need to learn that God's grace is enough. God's grace is enough to get us through. My grace is sufficient for you. God says. Um, this strengthening of God, this being strengthened with all power, with supernatural power of God, will only happen and is only given through the Holy Spirit. That's why I've heard this said so many times in preaching, and I've tried to say this a lot in preaching, and the phrase doesn't come from me. I heard it in another from another preacher. He said, Don't move a millimeter without the Holy Spirit. Ephesians 3:16, that according to the riches of his glory, he may grant you to be strengthened with power through his spirit in your inner being. Through what? Through his spirit in what? In your inner being. It can't just be about the outward. Brothers and sisters, let's never let the outward And the external and the formal. Let's never let that drown out the inner being, the life of the inner being in fellowship with God, walking in the Holy Spirit All of this is just trying to round out and amplify this idea of verse 11 being strengthened with all power And um for the rest of our time, just to map this out for us, I want to talk about three, this is your outline, and if you've if you've seen it in your bulletin, this is your outline, three requirements for walking in God's strength. And not our own. Three requirements for walking in God's strength and not our own. And hopefully it's come across by this point that this won't happen naturally Naturally, we walk in our own strength. We need supernatural help. We need God's help. And so there are requirements. Nobody rolls out of bed and automatically is just walking in the strength of God and not themselves. The three requirements for walking in God's strength are not our own. Number one is we must walk in conviction of our need. Conviction of our need. If you haven't heard that word before, that's just being convinced. You're absolutely convinced I have a need. Like sometimes you're starving, and you don't have to go through this thought process uh of to figure out whether you're starving. You just feel it deep within you. You can feel in your mood. And what's the word we give for that? When you're starving and your mood is all out of whack? And you're hangry, yeah. And you just have, you should have, you do have, a strong conviction that you need to eat something. We must walk in the conviction of our need. Verses nine and ten. So from the day we heard, we've not ceased to pray for you, asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom and understanding. understanding, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him, bearing fruit in every good work, and increasing in the knowledge of God. Verses nine and ten. There's a lot there, isn't there? In verses nine and ten. And we need to walk in the conviction that we need these things that are outlined in verses nine and ten If we don't think we need them, if we don't feel like we need them, we'll never, ever, ever go to God for strength to accomplish them. Letter A. We need to be filled with the knowledge of God's will. That's the first thing he says. In verse 9, after he says we're praying for you, here he says, We're asking that you may be filled with the knowledge of his will in all spiritual wisdom. And understanding. That's a contrary wisdom to the wisdom of the world. That's a contrary understanding, a contrary knowledge to the knowledge of the world, to the knowledge of the fles We want God's wisdom. We want to be filled with the knowledge of God's will. You may be filled with the knowledge of God's will. That means to be hungry for the Word of God. Let's grow. Let's commit in our hearts right now, 1125, let's commit in our hearts to cry out to God that He would strengthen us With a hunger for his word, that he would increase within us a hunger for his word. It also means being desperate in prayer. We need God to convict us of our need for this, that we need to be desperate in prayer. How are we going to be filled with the knowledge of God's will if we don't know God's will? So we go to the Word and we're desperate in prayer, we're faithful in worship. We should be always going to the Word and always going to God in prayer. That He would grow us in an understanding of His will. And the idea of being filled with the knowledge of God's will is not just this intellectual thing where I know these bullet point facts of God's will. It's the idea of being influenced and led by God's will. We don't want just head knowledge, brothers and sisters. We want the knowledge of God's will to direct us and guide us in life. And that's what he's praying for. What good is being on a football team if you don't read the playbook You don't show up for practice, and you don't lift weights or train in the offseason. Why are you even on the team What good is the fact that the Bible exists and that prayer exists and that Christ-centered worship exists if I'm not availing myself of those things so that I can get in on what God is doing? So that I could grow in my experiencing what God is doing. And so we strive, we strive, we hunger. We thirst for God's word, to be desperate in prayer, faithful in worship, not because God needs us We don't gather to worship God because God needs something from us. God is fine. God is doing just the fine. We gather before God and worship because we need God. We need something from God. And today the focus is we need God to strengthen us. We gather before the great King of heaven and earth because we need him to help us. You got to be convicted of that If you're not convinced in that, you're not convinced that you need help and strength from God, we won't be able, none of us will be able to move forward. Letter A need to be filled with the knowledge of God's will. Letter B, so that we can live in a way that pleases God. This is verse 10. Verse 10, so as to walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. Fully pleasing to him. Walk in a manner worthy of the Lord. That means live in such a way that reflects what God has done in your life. Does that make sense Worthy of the Lord doesn't mean you gotta prove yourself to God and earn your way into heaven. It just means you're living life in a way that shows that you've been saved That means you're living while you're treating your wife, you're treating your children, you're treating your coworkers, you're you're listing your priorities, you're listing your your your use of your finances. Where you go, what you watch, the way you talk, all of these things are organized and lived out in such a way that it shows you're a child of God. That's all that that means. So don't get thrown by worthy of the Lord. It means to live your life in such a way that expresses or that shines forth something very simple. God has changed you. God has changed you. He's made you a new person. And that's not legalism. It's not legalism. It's not self-righteous. To strive to live a life, what Paul says, fully pleasing to him. If it were, Paul wouldn't command us to live a life fully pleasing to him. That means live life by faith in Jesus Christ. Live life by faith in Jesus Christ. Turning from sin. Are you aware of any sin in your life right now that you're self-consciously trying to turn from? Christians should have an answer to that. We should be striving to grow in holiness. We should be striving to turn from sin. We should be striving, striving for the things of God in our lives. It's called practical obedience. Now what is the philosophy of the world? Well I suppose we could be here all day talking about the nonsense. The multilayered nonsense of the philosophy of the world. But right at the heart of the philosophy of the world is live to please yourself. Live to please yourself Follow your passions. Follow your desires. Your opinions are truth. And you live according to that. Live to please yourself. This is your world. Be you. Do you live to please yourself? Now swoops in the Bible and says the complete opposite. Don't live for yourself. Live for God through faith in Jesus Christ. Christ. And that's what he says here. Worthy of the Lord. Walk in a manner worthy of the Lord, fully pleasing to him. And then letter C, he says, he says this: bearing fruit in every good work. Right, so walking in a way that pleases God should result in this, that we will be rich in good works. That's the end of that's the middle of verse ten. Bearing fruit in every good work. That means doing things that bless others. So that's not complicated. Doing acts of kindness, forgiving others, acts of generosity, helping others, encouraging others, building up others, not tearing them down and criticizing them and always critiquing and pointing out problems and just Just just killing people. Build someone up. Encourage them. Be generous. Give something away. Sacrifice something. Be rich in good works. And the great majority of that, brothers and sisters, the overwhelming majority of that would just be in our everyday private lives. Don't narrow that down. Please, God, please, God, don't let us narrow that down to the The formal public religion, good deeds I sign up for, those are good, they have their place. But the overwhelming majority of you and I being rich in good works is just out there in the world. In our homes, be rich in good works in your home. At school or in your hobbies, on a sports team, maybe. Be rich in good works. At work, be rich in good works. In your neighborhood, be rich in good works. That's Christian living. To be rich in good works. Amen indeed. And hopefully by God's providence, someone will ask you s someday something like this, why are you like this? And then you get the answer. Tell them how what God has done in your life to save you and change your heart. Letter D also. Letter D. Also living in a way that pleases God is not only being rich in good works, but letter D, increasing in the knowledge of God. Hopefully we didn't miss that. It's the very end of verse 10. The very end of verse 10. It says, bearing fruit in every good work, and then what? Increasing in the knowledge of God You know, good parents get to know their kids more and more. And they want to get to know their kids more and more just because they love them. A good spouse just wants to get his a good husband, wants to get to know his wife more and more. A good wife wants to get to know her husband more and more. I just want to get to know you more. I want to know more about you. I want to go closer to you. I want a relationship to grow. In many ways, uh good friend. A good friend is not someone who's always talking about themselves, always telling stories about them, always, always what's going on with them. Never ask you what's going on with you The second you start trying to sneak something in there about something about you know a job that you're praying for or an issue that you're trying to work through, boom, man, they scare it right back to them. And they just tune out. Have you ever known someone like that? Well, a good friend, a genuine friend, wants to get to know you more and more. Wants to know what's going on with you. And at heart, Christianity is a relationship with God. Christianity is a relationship with God. And so there's got to be a wanting to get to know God more and more. There's got to be a one. I want to get to know you more, God. I want to know more about you. I want to grow in my knowledge of God. That's what he said. Increase in the knowledge of God. Yes, be rich in good works. But you can you know you can throw something together that outwardly looks like you're rich in good works apart from the inner growing of getting to know God more. But he says both, brothers and sisters, he says both. To be rich in good works and increase in the knowledge of God. Not just have the knowledge of God. That's not what he says. Increase in the knowledge of God There'll always be room for that. There'll always be room for growing in the knowledge of God. And it's the greatest knowledge we could ever have. Knowledge of God. We must walk With a conviction, the heartfelt conviction of our need. We need to be filled with the knowledge of God's will so that we can live in a way that pleases Him. So that we'd be rich in good works, and so that we would increase in the knowledge of God, we must walk in the conviction of our need. Roman numeral 2, we must walk in constant crying out for help. That's really the second step. Once I'm aware of my need, now I can cry out for help. Um this is verses eleven and the beginning of verse twelve. So here's verse eleven. Being Strengthened with all power. In other words, that's the way that'll come about. Everything before that, here's how it'll happen: being strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might For all endurance and patience with joy, giving thanks to the Father. And this point ends right there, because then there's a comma, and then it says something about the Father we'll get to. But here's just the idea that we must be crying out to God for strength. Yeah, it's one thing to acknowledge that I need God's strength. And I could acknowledge, I could do that right now. I need God's strength. Every day of my life. But then I could go out and live every day of my life and not once call out to God for strength. And where would that get me? So another A, B, C, and D. Isn't that interesting? I didn't even notice that until just How about this? Even Stephen. A B C D. A, first of all, cry out for God to strengthen us. Uh verse eleven A. That's how it begins being strengthened with all power according to his glorious Might. Would you agree that God's stronger than we are? Would you agree that God's glorious might is in a different category than our pathetic, weak, feeble might. What we're able to do, what God is able to do in our lives is in a whole different world, literally the world of heaven. Supernatural power of God. Friend, the best thing you can do is lean on God for strength. The best thing you can do in life is go to God, lean on God for strength. And you're going to need God this year, just like I'm going to need God this year for strength. Number one, strength in spiritual battles. You don't have spiritual battles, you're not in the battle. Get in the battle. Get in the battle and start fighting against sin. Striving to grow in the things of God. And once you start doing that, the battles just come from everywhere. everywhere. The spiritual battles and spiritual temptations and different distractions. And we each one of us will need God's strength in the midst of Spiritual battles. But also in the midst of physical and emotional suffering, we've all gone through it. Some more than others. Some more on the physical suffering, some more on the emotional suffering, some a whole lot of both. Some of you just haven't experienced it yet, but let me tell you, you're headed that way, one way or another. Physical sufferings, emotional sufferings. And where are we going to go to for strength to help us get through those things and to put the proper mindset? We're going to go to God above. I'm gonna lean on God for strength in spiritual battles. We're we must lean on God for strength in physical and emotional suffering, relationship problems. Anyone in here who all your relationships in every area of life are perfect and have no issues and you never get mad at anyone. No one ever gets mad at you. You never have to say, you know what I was wrong. You never have to say, would you please forgive me? I really messed that up. You never have to say, you know what, don't worry about it. I forgive you. Let's just move on. Like you never have any problem. We all need God's strength in our relationships. Amen? In every single relationship. So spiritual battles, physical and emotional suffering, relationship issues and problems, how about just making wise decisions in life? Do we need God's strength for that or is that something we could do? We've all made the best decisions in life. We have no regrets. We never we never veered off the path. We never made these knuckleheaded decisions that just No, we all need God's strength to help us make wise decisions in life. Spiritual battles, physical and emotional suffering Relationship issues and struggles and problems, making wise decisions in life. How about just self-control? How about just growing in self-control or any area of godliness? We need God's Strength. So we must be crying out to God to strengthen us. And he says, now B, C, and D will be quick here because it's really Just summarizing and really encapsulating in a nutshell the immediate result of God's strength. Like so, God strengthens me, and then what? He says, endurance. And patience and thanksgiving. BCD. Endurance, patience, and thanksgiving. Verse 11. Strengthened with all power, according to his glorious might, for all patience, or for all endurance, rather, for all endurance. You know what that means? You know what that means. It means not quitting, right? It means sticking with it. Don't give up your profession of faith. Don't give up on practical obedience. I know how difficult it is to be disciplined and to grow in consistent Bible devotions. And in consistent, undistracted prayer. I'm not immune to those troubles, to those issues. And just like you, I need God to strengthen me And to give me endurance throughout any distraction, any suffering that comes my way, the endurance will come from God so that I don't give up. Because I don't want to give up. I want to keep going. And I want to encourage you, don't give up. Keep going. No matter how hard it gets. You stick with Christ and you keep going and you keep striving. Only God can give you that endurance. He says, unto joyful patience. Unto joyful patience. Still going in verse 11. He says, for all endurance and patience with joy. So I say joyful patience. Patience with joy. Now, that's interesting to me because that means that it's more than just endurance. The Christian endurance is more than just pushing our way through. Rather, it's pushing our way through with a particular mindset. Of joy. Joyful patience. Joy and patience mixed up together with this phrase. He says, Patience with joy We're waiting on the Lord to help us. We're waiting on the Lord to answer our prayers. We're waiting on the Lord to resolve a situation that's completely out of hand. We've tried everything, or at least from our perspective, we think we've tried everything. We've just gone so deep in the bag of tricks. Nothing is working. We're just waiting on God to help. We're waiting on God to give wisdom. We're waiting on God to bring a resolution. We're waiting on God to bring a reconciliation in a relationship or something like that. We're waiting on God to answer a prayer. Patience with joy. Patience with joy. That's the way we endure. That's no, we don't want to be just enduring mopey and grumpy. That's not Christian endurance. So it says endurance, patience with joy, and then it says thanksgiving. Thanksgiving, beginning of verse 12, giving thanks to the Father. So every step of the way, we're giving thanks to God. Every temptation, every spiritual battle, every emotional suffering, every physical suffering, every day, every prayer, every conviction, always thanking God for what He's already given us, what He's already promised us. God deserves our thanks. Amen? God's given us everything. He's given us life. He gives us food. He gives us clean water. He's given us eternal life. He's given This heaven you haven't gone there yet, but if you You put your faith in Christ. God's already given you heaven. He's given you the Holy Spirit as a down payment, as a deposit that guarantees your seat in heaven. The blood of Christ purchased your entrance into heaven. And the Spirit has sealed you for your entrance into heaven And so, brother, sister, we can always thank God no matter what is going on or going wrong in our lives. So we're crying out to God for strength. For endurance, for patience with joy, and for a spirit of thanksgiving. Can I read Isaiah 40, 28 to 31 for you? Have you not known? Have you not heard? The Lord is the everlasting God, the creator of the ends of the earth. He does not faint or grow weary. His understanding is unsearchable. And he gives power to the faint. And to him who has no might, he increases strength. Even youth shall faint and be weary, and young men shall fall exhausted, but they who wait for the Lord shall renew their strength. And they shall mount up with wings like eagles, and they shall run and not be weary, they shall walk and not faint. Now, why is that? It's because God strengthened them. Period. They got their strength from God. We must walk in the conviction of our need for God to strengthen us. We must walk in constant crying out for help for God to strengthen us. for endurance, for joyful patience, for a spirit of thanksgiving. Roman numeral three. Now just put this as the foundation underneath all of that. If you don't have this foundation underneath all of it, nothing we we just said or nothing I just said means anything. We must walk in the comfort of Christ. We must walk in the comfort of Christ. Verse 12B to verse 14. This is really flushing out after he says in the early verse 12, he says the fat giving thanks to the father, and then he goes off from there and expounds on why that is. He says, giving thanks to the Father who has qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. And he's transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. And because God did that, that's the only reason we care about this stuff at all. That's the only reason we're here today with open Bibles talking about drawing strength from the Lord to live in a way that pleases God. It's because God saved us through Jesus Christ. But this is a foundation. It's not just the starting block. No, it is the starting block, but is the whole racetrack that God is a great, mighty, merciful Savior through Jesus Christ. We must walk in the comfort of knowing who we are in Christ and knowing, brothers and sisters, what we have in Christ that none can take away So be comforted, be comforted, be consoled in your heart. Letter A, that you have heaven That you have heaven. That's what he says. Verse 12. Give thanks to the Father who's qualified you to share in the inheritance of the saints in light. Saints in light means saints in heavenly glory. It's a phrase of representative. There's saints in glory. And you're not there yet. You're not in light, in the glory of heaven yet. But it's your inheritance nonetheless. You share in the inheritance of the saints in light. Be thankful. God's qualified us for that. By virtue of the blood of Jesus Christ. That's how we've been qualified for this inheritance of the saints in light. You one day will be a saint in light. Isn't that cool? Isn't that great? Isn't that wonderful? Now you're a saint on earth. And now you're a saint, and now I'm a saint on earth with sin, still suffering, still struggling, still lagging behind, I'm sure, of where God wants to take me. But one day, one day, we'll be saints in light. And one day we'll be perfectly sanctified in God's presence. That's our inheritance. I hope that comforts us. Oh, that comforts you. There's nothing in the world that could give us the comfort that this inheritance can give us. And let her be also be comforted that you've been delivered from the domain of darkness. That's what he says in verse 13. He has, what tense is that? Past tense. Past tense. He has delivered us. Perfect tense, I believe. But the idea is it's already happened. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. He's delivered us from the domain where the spiritual realm, this domain where I was a slave to sin and love sin He's delivered us from that. And that should comfort us. That Satan is not our master. That sin is not our master. We should be we should have a great consolation in our hearts that we've been delivered from the domain of darkness. As one who's been transferred into the kingdom of God's beloved Son, which he's about to say, we should be comforted that we belong not to the weakest kingdom in existence. existence, but the most dominant kingdom in existence. That's what he says in letter this will be C. So A, heaven is yours B, you've been delivered from the domain of darkness. That's yours. Letter C, you've been brought into the kingdom of Christ. Verse 13, again, transfer us into the kingdom of his beloved Son. You weren't just plucked up out of darkness and put on a fence in between. No, you were plucked up out of darkness and brought into the kingdom of God's Son, the kingdom of redemption. Ephesians 1, verse 21 and 22, talking about Jesus who seated at the right hand. And here's what Ephesians 1 21 says. Far above all rule and authority and power and dominion, and above every name that is named. Not only in this age, but also in the one to come. And he, that's God the Father, he put all things under his feet. And he gave him as head over all things. To the church. Jesus is Savior. And Jesus is the mediator. And Jesus is the great high priest. But never forget that Jesus is King One of the things I like the most about the Christmas songs we sing in December is I think more than any other hymns, the good Christmas hymns for that time of year, emphasize Jesus is King over everything, and he always will be. Jesus is Savior, and he is mediator, and he is our brother, and he is our priest. And he's also the king over everything. And you are a citizen in his kingdom. And finally, this is letter D, letter D. Be comforted, not only that you have heaven, Not only that you've been delivered from darkness, not only that you've been brought into the kingdom of Christ, but let her D also be comforted. This really sums it all up, that you are a child of God. This is your identity. You see, brothers and sisters and friends, the salvation is not just receiving things. It's not just about things we get. Although there are great gifts we get from God, we're not ashamed to preach that. But at its core, it's not things we get, it's an identity. It's becoming a child of God. And here's the last thing he says in the passage. At the end of verse 13, he says, in his kingdom of his beloved son, and then verse 14 he says, In whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. That's being a child of God. That's being redeemed. Being bought out of slavery from sin. Being purchased by God to belong to God. And right at the heart of that is the forgiveness of sins. It's right at the core of what God has to offer sinners is forgiveness. And as a church, as individuals, we can share this message As a church, we teach and we preach this message that Jesus died on the cross so the sinners could be forgiven. That's right at the heart of our message. Jesus died on the cross So that sinners could have the forgiveness of sins. If you're here today, you could have come in here today not believing in Jesus as Savior. You could have come in here today not admitting that you need forgiveness of sins But in this moment, if you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you have the forgiveness of sins. On the basis of his death on a cross, if you believe in Jesus Christ, you have the forgiveness of sins. And you have been transferred out of the kingdom of darkness. You have been brought into the kingdom of his beloved Son. You have been granted entrance into heaven. And on and on and on. Believe in Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins. Believe in Jesus Christ for entrance into heaven. And you have not only a relationship with God in this life, but you have communion relationship with God for all eternity. And that's the message that we have. Let's pray. Father, we pray that every single one of us, every single day this year, will pray for your strength in our lives. I pray for any who are lost or who were lost as they came in here today. Pray that you would soften their hearts and even change their hearts. to believe in Jesus and be saved. It's in his name we pray. Amen.