Let's turn to Revelation chapter 4. All that God has done in creating a world and creating us has been to reveal himself. to sinners and to bring sinners into a relationship with him forever for his glory. And he's he reveals himself in creation His power and his wisdom, and in a saving way he's revealed himself through two things, through actions and interventions in history, and then his word, which is where he interprets those actions and interventions in history. in history. Otherwise we wouldn't understand the meaning or the significance of what God is doing, but He does things in history to save sinners and then He gives us His word. He's made Himself known. And then there are some high points In history and in scripture, where in a special way God pulls back the veil to reveal his heavenly glory And that's what we see in Revelation chapter 4. God, the Almighty Creator, who rules over all things. I'll pray and then I'll begin by reading that entire chapter for us. Lord, I pray you'd show us who you are today. And I am Uh uh in a way that I could never uh comprehend, not worthy to talk about you. But by your grace you called each one of us into your kingdom. And by the word that you've given us and by the Spirit that you've given us, you've enabled us to be able to come into a room and talk about you truly. We thank you for that. We worship you. And my prayer, our prayer, joining our hearts in faith Faith, Lord. Show us who you are. Show us your power. Show us your authority. Show us your glory. Crumble us into little bits and pieces of humility that we might worship you and serve you properly. Father, we pray. We call upon you. Pull back the veil in our minds that we might see your glory come to you in faith through Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Let's begin in Revelation 4, verse 1. After this, I looked, behold , a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. At once I was in the Spirit, and behold, a throne stood in heaven, with one seated on the throne. He who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian. And around the throne a rainbow that had the appearance of emerald. And around the throne were twenty-four thrones. And seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders, clothed. in white garments with golden crowns on their heads. And from the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder. And before the throne were Burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. Before the throne there was, as it were, a sea of glass Like a crystal. And around the throne, on each side of the throne are four living creatures. full of eyes in front and behind, the first living creature like a lion, the second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight. Four living creatures, each one of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within. And day and night they never Cease to say, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever The 24 elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. They cast their crowns before the throne, saying, Worthy are you, our Lord and God. To receive glory and honor and power. For you created all things. By your will they existed and were created. And that has been the reading of God 's word. Hopefully it jumps off the page to you the uh you know the key characters, the one on the throne and then the four living creatures and the elders who are on thrones, but the key elements would be number one, the thrones. The th the throne and then other thrones are a really big deal, and then the second one would be crowns. Cr the crowns are a really big deal, and what's done with those crowns. This is all about authority. The thrones in the Bible are an image of authority in the heavenly realm. So in the heavenly realm, in the sp in the spiritual realm, in the spiritual realm, and then in the heavenly realm, in a throne indicates authority. So, which throne is the throne that has the highest authority? It's the throne of God Every other throne, if it has any authority at all, derives its power, derives its authority, derives its glory from the throne, the throne of God. He is the Almighty Creator who really does rule over all things. God has not handed the whole world over to Satan and made Satan sovereign lord over all creation. God is sovereign Lord over all creation. He sits on the throne. He's never left his throne. He is the ruler of all things in heaven and on earth. Any authority or any dominion that Satan has been given has been given by God for the plans and purposes of God so that God can work out His will to his glory exactly as he wants on his timeline. God is on the throne. God is on the throne. This is all about authority. This is all about authority, and if we are going to live life properly, we have to see ourselves in light of this throne. In light of this throne. Yeah, we live under the illusion that we have control. On these little pretend thrones that we like to think that we're sitting on. But God is on the throne. Almighty Creator, who rules over all things, who rules over heaven and earth. He rules over the visible and the invisible. He rules over hearts. He rules over nations. He rules over peasants and he rules over kings. He rules over the past, he rules over the future, and he rules over the present. And I've got four points for you today. One message on God. How can you say everything? Well, you can say everything You can't say everything. The church will continue to exegete Scripture and preach the wonders and glories of God until Christ returned, will not exhaust his glories and wonders. But I've got four points from this chapter. God, as Almighty Creator, who rules over everything, is sovereign, he's glorious, he's holy, and he's worthy. He's sovereign. He's glorious, he's holy, and he's worthy. The first point is that he is sovereign, which means he has supreme authority over all things. Has that point come out at all so far? That's the point. The theme of this chapter is God's sovereign power and sovereign authority as creator. The theme of chapter five will be his sovereign authority and power and mercy and grace as redeemer. But chapter four Is his supreme authority over all things? He is sovereign. First of all, look at verse 1 and 2. After this, I look, and behold, a door standing open in heaven. And the first voice which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here, and I will show you what must take place after this. Once I was in the spirit, and behold, a throne. Stood in heaven with one seated on the throne. Everything else in the vision trickles down from that point right there. The throne and the one seated on the throne You know, all the hope that we have for the future , the assurance that we have in salvation, any experience of the blessings of Christ All of it depends on the one seated on this throne. It's because of the one seated on this throne that what Christ has accomplished cannot be reversed. It's because of the one seated on this throne that what Christ has given to you can never be taken away from you. It's because of the one seated on this throne that what Christ promises Thinking about the book of Revelation, the revelation of Jesus Christ. What Christ promises cannot be stopped. It cannot be stopped He cannot be stopped in spreading his kingdom and building his church and finishing his work to do on earth because of the one seated on this throne. Couple phrases to highlight. Look at verse one And the first voice, which I had heard speaking to me like a trumpet, as we were reading, did you wonder to yourself, Whose voice is that? That is the voice of Christ. That's alluding to the vision of chapter one. The glorious vision of the exalted Christ in chapter one. Flip backwards and look at chapter one verse seventeen. That voice had come like a trumpet and he turned to look And he sees the vision of the exalted Christ. And he uh verse 17, when I saw him fell at his feet as though dead, but he laid his right hand on me. This is the compassion of Christ Lay his right hand on him, saying, Fear not, I am the first and the last and the living one. I died, and behold, I am alive forevermore, and I have the keys of death and Hades And then you get to chapter 4, and it says, after this I look, the door's standing open in heaven, and the first voice which I heard like a which I heard speaking to me like a trumpet said, Come up here and I will show you what must take place after this. So this is Christ administering this uh revelatory vision, this uh revelatory experience To John, revealing this experience to John. This is Jesus who's going to take him to the throne room of God And give John a glimpse to the glory, the power, the radiance, the beauty of God. Jesus is doing this. And I'll also take note of the word toward the end of verse 1, I will show you what must Take place after this. It must take place. The plan of God, the purpose of God must be completed. And It's on the heels of that statement that we see the throne of God and his authority and his power Because he's the one who's in charge of all this. I go back to um chapter one quickly, verse one. The revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his service. So now you see that the meat and potatoes of that Really getting into that in chapter 4, verses 1 and 2, where Jesus Christ takes John into the throne room of God and be and gives him These visions, this revelation, that's the revelation of Jesus Christ, which God gave him to show his servants the things that must soon take place And so you get this parallel, chapter 4, verse 1. Jesus escorting John, as it were, into the throne room of God to show him what must take place after this. Some cross-references on the throne of God, and there are more, but this is a theme in Scripture, a way of picturing God's authority and glory in heaven over all things. It's a throne from which God sees everything and everyone. Psalm eleven four. The Lord is in his holy temple. The Lord's throne is in heaven. His eyes see, his eyelids test the children of men. You cannot escape the vision of God, the sight of God. From his throne he sees everything and everyone and everything about everyone and all of your thoughts All of your desires. It's a throne which renders everyone on earth accountable to him. Whoever's in charge at work, the boss, everyone else is accountable to him. Whoever's in charge at home, the parent, children are accountable to them. Everyone on earth is accountable before God. Psalm 103, 19. The Lord has established his throne in the heavens and his kingdom rules over all. He rules over all. Everyone's accountable to him. Everyone is accountable before God. And if he created everything, he has rights on everything If you're at the counter making a sandwich, you make the decisions and you have sovereign authority over these things. And they go where you put them. God sovereign authority and everyone is accountable to him. It's a throne that means he needs nothing from anyone. I hope you understand this in your heart God does not need anything from you. He doesn't need anything from us. Isaiah 66, 1 and 2. Thus says the Lord, Heaven is my throne, earth is my footstool. What is the house that you would build for me? What is the place of my rest? All these things my hand has made. So all these things came to be, declares the Lord. This is the one to whom I will look. In other words, this is the one I'm looking for. He who was humble A contrite in spirit and trembles at my word. God is looking to bring us low. We are the recipients. He does not need anything from us on his heavenly throne. And one more here. Boy, there are several of these. I'm going to look these up. His throne means he deserves nothing but the utmost respect and worship. His throne means he deserves nothing but respect and worship to the uttermost. Isaiah 6, 1 through 3. In the year King Uzziah died, I saw the Lord sitting upon a throne high and lifted up, and the train of his ro of his robe filled the temple. A picture of his sprawling authority, but any other authority, any other glory is is just derivative of his. Above him stood the seraphim, the highest order of angels, what most think. Each had six wings. With two he covered his face, and with two he covered his feet, and with two he flew. And one called to another and said, and you know this all Holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. The whole earth is full of his glory. So the throne of God is a glorious, glorious thing, the seat of his authority. And we should all be humbled before his throne. Because he's sovereign. He's the supreme authority over all things. Not only is he sovereign, but he's glorious. He's glorious. And here we're talking about not only God's beauty and the power that emanates from God, but that he is the source of of all other beauty and all other power. He's glorious, adorned in majesty. Revelation 4, looking now at verse 3 to 6. At least the first part of verse 6, 3 to 6. And he who sat there had the appearance of Jasper and Carnelian. We'll come back to that And around the throne was a rainbow that had the appearance of an emerald. We'll come back to this. But the description of God begins with metaphors, symbols. Around the throne were twenty-four thrones. And seated on the thrones were twenty-four elders. And I don't have time to work out the arguments for this. Lord willing. Some point in the relatively near future, I'll do some things on Wednesday night from Revelation and argue my point here from the scripture exegetically arguing that that that I believe these uh this is an angelic court. Not everyone believes that. For tonight I don't want to go through the different views, but just for now, angelic court. I've If you know, if it ever comes out on Wednesday, my arguments from that, from the Bible, I'll uh put you on to it so you can hear them, but just for tonight we're picturing uh angels Worshiping God. From the throne came flashes of lightning and rumblings and peals of thunder, and before the throne were burning seven torches of fire, which are the seven spirits of God. Before the throne there there was as it were a sea of glass like crystal. You know the uh the humbled state of glorious angels in the presence of God is shocking because if a if an angel was to be revealed right here in this room in the angel's full glory, we would be utterly shocked. We would be utterly humbled. we would fall on the ground, weeping or running out, terrified at the glory of an angel. But in God's throne room, angels are like that in the presence of Almighty God. Angels in the presence of God. They're worshiping Him and humbled before Him. And they'll do nothing unless He commands them to do it. And they'll do it gladly because they love God. All their power, all their beauty, all their might comes from him. He's glorious Now, Jasper and Cornelian, uh quickly, you know another thing that I don't we don't have time tonight to work out the uh biblical arguments for the The uh seven torches of fire and seven spirits of God is uh is a symbolic way of referring to the Holy Spirit. There are not seven Holy Spirits any more than God the Father has a body sitting on a literal throne. It's imagery to show God's sovereign authority and power. So d don't think of God with a literal body w uh that literally looks like Jasper and Carnelian sitting on a literal throne. These are earthly things. In the image in the vision of God to reveal something about God to John Anyway, so the seven spirits of God. This seven is the number of fullness. This is talking about the pervasive presence of God and authority and control of God and vision and sight of God in all of the earth, all of creation But what I wanted to go back to first was this um Where is it? Verse 3. Jasper and Carnelian. And then the rainbow. Appearance of an emerald, which probably is the brightness of the one seated on the throne, the glaring, glistening, radiant, jaspering, carnelian, beautiful one is probably reflecting off this crystal sea, giving the appearance of of a rainbow, of a glorious rainbow. Of course the rainbow should make us think about God as covenant Lord and his covenant of peace. after the the flood of Noah. But Jasper would have been, most scholars think, a a br a bright white stone, something maybe opaque like a quartz. Some say it was like an opal. But the symbolism here is most likely God's holiness and purity And the carnelian, this powerful red radiating, penetrating red symbolizing his power, radiating his authority and strength and might radiating from him. And you can see those two things. You know, the Mount Sinai experience is always a good illustration for when God reveals Himself in His holiness and His power and might I think you have the same things here. We do understand the power of imagery in describing someone's character. We're just so far removed from the of this ancient culture, it's just not part of Yeah, uh of the way we think. But if you were to tell uh a woman that her face i is like a rose and her eyes glisten like diamonds, like every one of us gets that right away what you're saying about that woman that she's beautiful that she's breathtaking just by those real quick hitting illustrations And if she were to say back, yes, but you to me are like a dog and your breath is like garbage, right away you get how she feels about you. With quick little illustrations, right? They're powerful. Illustrations and metaphors do communicate character. And here that's what we have. We're so far removed from it. It it's not piercing and just absolutely clear like a rose with diamonds or you know dog face and garbage breath But it's sh but the the meaning is the purity of this one and the power, the emanating, radiating, penetrating power of this one. You cannot escape it You cannot be in the presence of this one and be distracted to look somewhere else because of the glory of the one on this throne. We have no idea. We cannot comprehend It's so it's so intriguing to me. Two little words. Precious, precious stones, Jasper and Carnelian. Holiness and power. That's saying enough. He's holy and he's powerful beyond anything you could ever imagine. You'll never be in the presence of another one like this. He's sovereign and he's glorious. The crowns And these elders represent a delegated authority or delegated dominion. Laying the crowns down is admitting the fact That our power has come from you. That any dominion that you've given us is because of your power and your wisdom. So we recognize that. We lay these crowns down. This came from you. You have something again. This is all about authority, the sovereign authority of the Almighty Creator, who rules over all things. Who is glorious? He's the definition of beauty. He's the source of all beauty. He must be adored. He must be admired. He must be depended on because of his power and might Brothers and sisters, he must be loved. What's the greatest commandment of God? Love him, love this one, love him with all of your heart and all of your soul and all of your might Love him. He's worthy of our love. All these little things we chase out in the world. What are we doing? This is the one to love. This is the one to love As I was studying through this and trying to come up with illustrations, I thought about what would it be like if we had a uh A vision, a spiritual vision that represented who we are apart from Christ, who we are in and of ourselves. What if we had a spiritual vision that represented our Condition, our spiritual condition, in and of ourselves apart from Christ. It would be a rotting corpse with flies and a stench that we could not describe But this one has loved us. It is wonderful. God has loved us. The glorious sovereign creator has loved the spiritually dead rebels. He's loved us. The one who's worthy of all love, and yet we've not loved him, has loved us, the ones worthy of no love. Can we wrap our minds around the love of God? The love of God that is in Christ Jesus is incomparable Incomparable. Now that's chapter five of Revelation, which is one of the one of the arguments if if I were to flesh out my arguments for why I believe those elders is an angelic court, uh some people most most people well not most, but 'Cause I don't know the the statistics on this. But uh some people believe that um they are they represent the twelve tribes of Israel and the twelve apostles, so Israel church could be that's not my view, but in chapter five These uh this angelic court sings a new song, a song they hadn't been singing before. It's the song of redemption, but they're not included in the redeemed ones They're singing about God 's grace in through the Lamb for the redeemed. It's a new song for them. They've been singing this other song and in the context of Revelation and with the Old Testament background Looks like this is an angelic court to me. Anyway, I've got to move on to the third point. God is sovereign. God is glorious. Before the third point, which is God is holy, I'll just I'll just pause and ask us this. Friends, do you believe it? Do you believe it? Have you surrendered this illusion of control of your life? And humble yourself before God as the sovereign Lord. Do you believe that He's glorious? The definition of beauty His glory is what's worth living for, not trying to live out our own little glory stories. But he's also holy. He is holy. Verses 6B through 8. And around the throne, on each side of the throne, are four living creatures, full of eyes in front and behind And uh th I I I I'm pretty sure the overwhelming consensus is is that this definitely is angels. There's an old testament background there too, and that this would be the seraphim, the highest order of angels Again, not working through the uh the arguments from scripture on that, but I do want us to picture that this is a heavenly throne room, a place of angelic worship. And let me pause before I finish reading that uh verse. It's a good it's a good place to say what I'm about to say. So you have this uh glorious throne of God And he's being worshipped by glorious angels. And then the story of Revelation, which is also the story of world history, the story of the Bible, is God bringing sinners to join in this heavenly worship with the angels. forever and ever. And that happens as you go through the book of A through the book of Revelation. The sinners are brought up and they're given thrones. They're brought up to join in The worship in heaven around the throne of God and the Lamb of God is there, the great Redeemer, because if you only have God as Creator, but not God as Redeemer Sinners can't get there, but if you have the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world, saves sinners from their sin, brings us up into this heavenly worship, And then eventually what you have is this uh heavenly worship, the throne of God, angels, and all the redeemed, descending down to earth. And there's a final judgment and the world is remade that's summarizing a lot that happens. But so there is a trajectory here, but it all has to do with this The presence of God. It all has to do with this. The presence of God and the story of all things. Don't ever forget it. Don't ever doubt it. Don't get it twisted by the lies of the world. The story of all things is the great story of God's grace, whereby he brings sinners into his presence by the blood of Christ to dwell with him and enjoy him and worship him forever and ever and ever. This is what life is about This is the story of Scripture. This is the story of history. And so obviously it will be the story of Revelation. You have glorious angelic worship and then sinners brought to join in. Isn't that glorious? Could you come up with something better than that? Oh, the glory of God. He's holy. And I I know I was in the midst of reading 6B through 8. Let me just pick up on the Back in 6B. I'll try to discipline myself and read through it. Around the throne on each side of the throne are four living creatures full of eyes in front and behind. The first living creature like a lion The second living creature like an ox, the third living creature with the face of a man, and the fourth living creature like an eagle in flight, like an attacking a eagle Well picture that. And the four living creatures, each of them with six wings, are full of eyes all around and within Day and night and never cease to say, holy, holy, holy is the Lord God Almighty, who was and is and is to come. And I've heard this called the Antiphonal Song of Heaven. It's repeated. The four living creatures, this high order of angels, by the worship leaders, and it's centered on God's holiness. God is equal to all of his attributes. But uh one attribute that flavors all others is his holiness. Everything he thinks is a holy thoughts. Everything he says is a holy word. Everything he does is a holy action Everything about God is holy. His love is a holy love. His patience is a holy patience. It means he's utterly unique and infinitely superior. God's holiness does not first and foremost have to do with his moral purity. That's secondary. First and foremost, it's his highly exalted So far above everything else that being far above is not even a fitting metaphor. He's utterly distinct. He's utterly unique and infinitely superior. Utterly distinct from what? Infinitely superior to what? Everything. Everything. God is holy, holy, holy. who was and is and is to come. Yet uh you read about this God and it starts to become clear to us how How silly it is to think that outward religion by itself can please him. Do you think this being would be pleased? With superficial outward religion, it could never be. That is silly. Once we start to get a glimpse, once we start to see the veil pulled back, see his holiness We understand. God will only be pleased with holiness. God will only be pleased with holiness. With holiness in the heart. And then all anything, any outward religion must flow from that, or it's an abomination to God. That's really true. It's not like if you don't have holiness in the heart, but you have outward religion, it's not as if you've given God half of what he wants. No, you've just given him more sin to have judgment against. He only accepts that which is holy, and what a timely part to say something about the gospel of Jesus Christ. Christ. Because apart from him and his work for us and his work in us, we have we have no holiness at all. And we never there's no other source of holiness. You must go to Christ We must go to Jesus Christ for the forgiveness of sins, but for the true presence of holiness in our hearts, that we really would be pleasing to God. And you can be pleasing to God. When you're born again, you are truly pleasing to God by faith, because of his grace, but with the true presence of the Holy Spirit in our hearts, and by the presence of that Holy Spirit in our hearts. We can render a true obedience to God. Is this getting across at all this evening? Help me out. Nod, say amen, say something. You must have Jesus Christ. You must have the Holy Spirit. To be pleasing to God. This God is holy, holy, holy. And then um If I were to do a lecture on this right now, which I'm not going to, Jordan , that you can start to parse out some of the attributes of God. Number one, the word Lord And then I would say this, that means God he's the God of covenant. He's a covenant God. He's a covenant-making God. A covenant, so much you can say about a covenant, but it's basically what God uses to establish And then to govern relationships with people. He's our Lord God. He's the God of covenant. And then it says God Almighty God Almighty, He's a God of infinite power. When you think of God's ability to do things, when you think of God's power, His might, His strength uh we say uh omnipotent or he's unlimited in his power but don't think about that as if god just has uh a whole lot more power than what we have. Oh yes he does have a whole lot more power than we have, but here's the point. It's a different kind of power. It's a different kind of power. He has creative power. He has the power to sovereignly work on earth in the hearts of people. He puts kings and rulers in place and removes them. He sets the boundaries of nations for seasons and times. He's the one who, by the power of the gospel, gives us new hearts to love and cherish Jesus Christ. He has infinite power, a different kind of power. Here's what he said it's a holy power. It's utterly distinct and infinitely superior. And then you could see this Was, is, and is to come. Was is and is to come. So means he works all things to his purpose He was doing it, he is doing it, and in things to come, he'll still be doing it. Doing what? Working out his purpose It's not going to leave his throne. Never, ever. He was, he is, and he is to come. The foundation of hope. He always lives, and friends, he always reigns. Well he's sovereign, he's glorious, he's holy, and finally Because if it needs to be said, ver uh point four, he's worthy. What I mean by that is his praises must be sung. The Bible's not a suggestion, book. It's a covenant document by which he calls sinners into relationship with Him through Jesus Christ, based on Christ's life, death, and resurrection. And he shows us who he is. This is an imperative. We must sing the praises of God. And that should be our greatest delight. That should be our greatest delight. Verses nine through eleven. And whenever the living creatures give glory and honor and thanks to him who is seated on the throne, who lives forever and ever And so they're singing, they're praising, they're leading. But whenever they do that, the twenty-four elders fall down before him who is seated on the throne and worship him who lives forever and ever. And they cast their crowns before the throne, saying, worthy are you? They don't want there to be any confusion about who should be worshipped here. Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power. And don't misunderstand with the word receive means there. It's not the picture of God lacks glory and lacks honor and he needs to get it is the way of worshiping him that he is the only one worthy of wielding the glory and the honor and the power that he wields. And this we recognize that, God. You are glorious. You are powerful. You are to be honored. So that's what we've come to sing of you. He doesn't lack anything. But the reason here is given, for you created all things. By your will they existed and were created. He created all things. The creative power of God is unbelievable. You can picture uh if they were if they were to be started uh ten thousand world class Scientific research, research and development facilities, 10,000 facilities. And each facility had 10,000 research teams Seven people each. Now full. Every single one of them of the best and brightest minds ever. Ten thousand facilities with 10,000 teams each. Give them one directive. Create one molecule from nothing. And after 10,000 eternities, there'll still be but one result. Utter failure. We haven't made any progress. We can't bring matter into existence out of nothing. We can't bring energy into existence out of nothing. We've got nothing. We can do nothing. All we can do is manipulate things which God has made, and He's made those things by an infinite power that's beyond comprehension. By His will, by His Word, He created all things, and by His will that continue to exist. Now you just tell me whether he should be worshipped or the silly little trinkets of the world should be worshipped. Oh, we've lost sight of God. Oh, we've lost sight of God. His creative power. And then one more thing he says here. And then I do have some points of application. Hopefully the whole thing was application, but You never know if we get to cross or not. One more point here. He says twice, lives forever and ever. He goes out of his way to make sure that he says this twice. He lives forever and ever. And they know that he lives forever and ever The eternality of God that He's eternal. And it's not that He lives forever You and I we've been created and now we'll live forever. Whether we live forever in the presence of God or alienated from God in torment and destruction, that depends on whether we come to Christ and whether whether we're saved by grace through faith. But we have not lived and existed forever. That God is eternal. There was never a time where he didn't exist. He existed before time. He's outside of time. He's an eternal being. He's not constrained. by the things that created reality is constrained by. He never came into existence. And, and He never depends on anything outside himself for his continued existence. So even now, even now that we will exist forever in one way or another, we still every moment are dependent upon God for our existence. And he's given us some things, even in the created realm, in our in our physical existence, as an image of that, as a reminder of that, we need things outside of ourselves to continue to live. Air, water, food. We by nature are dependent creatures. God's the opposite. He's independent in ways we can never imagine. He needs nothing. He needs nothing. He has always existed. From eternity into eternity. He doesn't depend on anything else. for his continued existence. And he'll never change in his existence. He cannot get smarter. And he's not going to forget about something and become dumber. He's not going to forget about a promise he made. We do that all the time. We forget about promises that we made. Even promises that we we remember. We don't always do a good job in fulfilling that promise God's never going to change. He's never going to get weaker. He's never going to get tired. He's never going to change his purpose to redeem the people for himself in Christ. And so it makes perfect sense that angels, glorious angels, that we would pass out. I would pass that. I don't know what you would do. We can have some runners if an angel appeared I would be a fainter. I would faint. But you see, those beings, those beings are utterly humbled In the presence of God. It makes perfect sense. Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power, for you created all things. By your will, they existed and were created. Some points of application. First point will be this unity. Unity. You see, the one on this throne It 's glorious, sovereign, holy, worthy of worship. His praises must be sung. The one on this throne, friends, has given us something that's gonna blow your mind. A book. The Holy Scriptures. And this book from this glorious being is the foundation of our unity. We don't have the authority to teach anything else, preach anything else, um be driven. By anything else. We don't want them. We want God's word. We want what this one has said. Amen? What he says is true And reliable. This is the foundation of our unity. A book from this being on the heavenly throne. Must be. Secondly Jesus. Jesus. You see, the one on this throne has so purposed in his sublime wisdom and incomparable love. He's purposed to bring corrupt pathetic sinners like me and like you into a relationship with him to share in this glorious scene forever. But how has he done that? Jesus Jesus saved. Jesus brings sinners into the presence of God. Jesus brings sinners into the presence of God by a righteous life, by a sacrificial death, by a glorious resurrection. Then he ascended to heaven. And it's from heaven where he gives salvation to sinners as they hear the gospel with faith. It's a very, very simple picture. Jesus brings us to heaven. And it's the one on this throne throne who sent him. He sent Jesus to save us. He sent Jesus to save us. Uh so unity, Jesus, and next worship. Worship. It's always by faith. But it's still spiritual reality that when we gather for worship, we come into the presence of God by virtue of his word and by virtue of his spirit and the supper that we celebrated this morning. We as a body of Christ Come into the presence of God by faith. And that by a sight of Him we would not only be changed by Him, but we would uh respond to Him and give praise. It's a foretaste of eternity. It's a foretaste of glory forever. That's what Sunday morning is about. And we didn't map it out. You know, in our prayers and and and in each of our per in our preparations we know we're trying to dovetail these things. But Pastor John talked about this. Today also, why do we come? We come to see God. We come as one body. So unity, Jesus, worship. Next is he doesn't need anything from us He doesn't need us and he doesn't need anything from us. We should be thankful and humble. We are but unworthy servants. We've only done our duty You should be grateful, full of gratitude. God doesn't need us. You know, we never ever think we're doing God a favor. when we uh come to church, sign up for something in church. Yeah, at a human level, it it there's uh there's obedience there, there's there's a goodness there, a willingness, a serving heart, lots of good things there But we should never think of it as God lacks something and I'm doing him a favor, you know, helping him keep up the speed with everything that's going on. It's completely backwards. Completely backwards. Finally, this God, this God, she calls us to live in constant awe And reverent fear. Constant awe and reverent fear. Awe at his glory. Reverent fear because of his holiness. His majesty. That's not something we like turn on. A way of acting when we come together. Something in our hearts to be in awe of the one who made us and who sits on this throne even now Even now our hearts are beating, our blood is pumping because of the sovereign power of God to sustain our lives Worthy are you, our Lord and God, to receive glory and honor and power as you created all things. By your will they existed and were created. Do you believe it? Do you believe it? And will you live according to it? Let's pray. Father, we will spend a lifetime learning about you by your grace and by your spirit. And at the end of it, we'll enter into your presence and we'll be just getting started. And we're thankful that in this age, in this mortal flesh, Even though we cannot have a perfect knowledge of you, an exhausted knowledge of you, we thank you and we praise you that we do have a true knowledge of you, a sufficient knowledge of you, a knowledge of you through Jesus Christ. by whom you've brought us into a relationship with you that will never end. Nothing can separate us from you because of him. Father, we join our hearts And we worship you. In Jesus' name, Amen.