Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Okay. Our weekly gospel comes from Mark One. 21 through 28. This is our longest passage in our weekly gospel so far. Mark 1, 21. Through twenty-eight. If I were preaching on this, I wouldn't name the sermon The Shocking Power of Jesus Christ. It's where you get into his earthly ministry and right away you see his power that is astonishing. to people. There's never been a person like this on earth And Jesus, in his earthly ministry, was rejected. He did suffer greatly. Um the spiritual sufferings and temptations and torments and the persecutions and the hatred and the re the denial, the rejection, the betrayal. And of course his passion and climactically his death on the cross. He did suffer. He was a man of sorrows, to use words of scripture But make no mistake about it, his life was a life of astonishing power and authority, like has never been seen on this earth. He was not weak. This is unmatched power, supernatural power wrought on earth. And as the gospel be gospel of Mark began with John the Baptist, Preaching the word of the kingdom, and Jesus preaching the word of the kingdom that the kingdom has come, the miracles of Christ's ministry show that the kingdom has come. So the miracles work in tandem with the preaching, the preaching of the kingdom that it has come, and you must repent and believe the good news. And the miracles show and showcase and validate the kingdom. Mark 1 21 through 28 and they went into Capernaum and immediately on the Sabbath he entered the synagogue and was teaching. And they were astonished at his teaching. For he taught them as one who had authority, and not as the scribes. The key words are easy to pick out. Teach, teach, teach. Astonishing. Authority. And immediately verse 23, there was in their synagogue a man with an unclean spirit. And he cried out, What have you to do with us, Jesus of Nazareth? Have you come to destroy us? I know who you are, the Holy One of God. But Jesus rebuked him, saying, Be silent and come out of him And the unclean spirit, convulsing him, and crying out with a loud voice, came out of him, and they were all amazed. So that they questioned among themselves, saying, What is this? A new teaching with authority. He commands even the unclean spirits, and they obey him And at once his fame spread everywhere throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee. Authority over demons, a commanding authority over unclean spirits. Supernatural commanding authority where spirits obey him. This is shocking authority, astonishing, amazing authority and power that's on display So, of course, as verse 28 says, his fame spread everywhere and throughout all the surrounding region of Galilee. We begin to see in Jesus' ministry his teachings and his miracles. Again, the miracles show and verify that the kingdom has come. And the preaching, it gives the meaning of the kingdom and the nature of the kingdom, the preaching and the teaching. The two themes that will emerge most clearly is number one, his authority, his authority over A, B, C, D, E, F, G, all these different things we'll see as we go through. His authority and His compassion. Because you can have authority over people, but not have compassion for them. Jesus has both: a supernatural authority and a supernatural. Unbelievable compassion towards sinners. What I'd like to do is look at two Old Testament verses: Zechariah 13 2. Zechariah 13, 2 will be the first one. Everything that we see happening in the earthly ministry of Jesus is the fulfillment of prophecy. The prophecy, the promise from God that He's going to come and He's going to establish His kingdom, and He's going to do it through His Son. He's going to do it through His Christ. He's going to pour out the Spirit in a new way. And there are various blessings that are included in and attached to the coming of the kingdom. And so the miracles, this is how they show that the kingdom has come because they relate back to those promises, what God had promised. Zechariah 13, 2. And on that day, on that day, declares the Lord of hosts, I will cut off the names of the idols from the land. so that they shall be re remembered no more, and also I will remove from the land the prophets and the spirit of uncleanness. One of the things That one component of the hope of God's people was being cleansed from a spirit of uncleanness. The miracle, this miracle illustrates that. It shows that, not with a word illustration like we would use in a sermon, right? But an actual living supernatural illustration. teaching about the kingdom, that the kingdom has come. And there is a cleansing of spirit of uncleanness. And when he says that on that day, it refers back up to The section above it and a good verse to look at is 1210, Zechariah 12. 10. And I will pour out on the house of David and the inhabitants of Jerusalem a spirit of grace and please for mercy. So that when they look on me, on whom they have pierced, they shall mourn for him as one mourns for an only child, and weep bitterly over him as one weeps over a firstborn. A spirit is going to be poured out. A new spirit. A spirit of a new grace. A spirit of new pleas for mercy. And in that day, there'll be a cleansing And one more, Ezekiel thirty six twenty-five. A classic section here in Ezekiel. Just um picking out one I'm picking out two verses here, Ezekiel thirty six, twenty-five and twenty-six. I will sprinkle clean water on you, and you shall be clean from all your uncleanness. You see this? There's a sprinkling of clean water, and there's a cleansing And from all your idols I will cleanse you, and I will give you a new heart, and a new spirit I will put within you And I will remove remove the heart of stone, that was the heart that was uh hard and stubborn, like stone, from your flesh, and give you a heart of flesh, one that's soft and moldable and obedient. So again, the idea of cleansing. And if we as sinners are going to be cleansed from our sin, from inner corruption, it will take I hope you know this a divine work It will take supernatural power. It will take the authority of God and the compassion and mercy of God to cleanse us of our uncleanness. This miracle illustrates that and shows that. It's a work of great compassion for this man who had this spirit, great authority and victory over the demon, the spirit of uncle the unclean spirit. Compassion, authority, this is the work of the Son of God