Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. Our weekly gospel is from Mark I. I believe this is the last paragraph in Mark I. Whatever other Bible reading you're doing, there should be At least a weekly diet. I'd look at least a weekly diet Not at most. At least a weekly diet of the gospel narratives. Just something that you're going through, either m Matthew, Mark, Luke, or John to get the person and the work of Jesus Christ, keep that in the forefront of your mind. Always seeping into your mind who he is, what he did, his power, his compassion. The meaning of his coming, the meaning of his death, the meaning of his resurrection, and what that means for lowly sinners. A weekly diet, at least in the Gospels. Be a great staple. Mark 1 40 through 45. Did you double check me on that? Is that the last paragraph? Yes, it is. Jesus cleanses the unclean. Jesus cleanses the unclean. Verse 40 and the leper came to him, imploring him, and kneeling. Said to him, If you will, you can make me clean. Moved with pity, he stretched out his hand and touched him and said to him, I will Be clean. Same two things over and over again. Power and compassion. Power and authority and compassion and love. Verse 42, and immediately the leprosy left him, rendering him clean, and he was made clean. Verse forty three, and Jesus sternly charged him, and sent him away at once, and said to him, See that you say nothing to anyone, but go, show yourself to the priest, and offer for your cleansing what Moses commanded. For a proof to them. So he's in he's in commanding him, and encouraging him, commanding him to obey the law of Moses. Do this the right way. Verse 45, but he went out and began to talk freely about it. And to spread the news so that Jesus could no longer openly enter a town, but he was out in desolate places. And people were coming to him from every quarter. So people were still coming to him and finding him. Jesus cleanses the unclean. It's a complete rever reversal of what happened in the Old Testament. If you touch something that's unclean, like if you touch a leper, what happens? Does that does that person become clean because you were? No, you become unclean. Here it's the opposite Jesus is not made unclean by the leper. Rather, the leper is made clean by Jesus. There's a supernatural power here. So just as he healed the sick And casting out demons. He's cleansing the unclean. There's a good principle in verse 40 of the right way to come to Jesus. First of all, to come to him instead of avoid him, a leper came to him And then secondly, he says, imploring him, imploring him, begging him, pleading with him. It's proper to do that. It's proper to go to Jesus and implore Him for help. That's what Jesus wants to do. Help sinners. He delights to help. Comes it came to him imploring him and kneeling. Kneeling. So you see the reverence, but you see the desperation too. I think more so is the point in this story. Yes, there's a reverence. Yes, there's an understanding of the power. He believes, he has faith, Jesus can, if he's willing. There's a desperation. He just collapses, imploring Jesus. He has no other hope. He has no other hope. And we can let that be a parable for how we should come to Jesus for help in any situation. Essentially and you know, centrally spiritual needs. Jesus cleanses the unclean. Of course, this is his kingdom power. He's revealing who he is. He's revealing the kingdom of God in these different signs. Jesus, moved with pity, stirred with pity, with compassion, driven by compassion, stretched out his hand and touched him and said, I will be clean. And there would be more to say. There'll be more passages coming up where this thing happens where Jesus charges him to not tell anyone about it. uh the secrecy. There'll be more to say about that in weeks to come, but Jesus once Jesus is in charge of the message about him getting out. It's going to happen the way he wants on his timetable, and he has no need for the wrong kind of attention. He doesn't need in John it says he didn't need man's testimony about man, man's testimony about him. He doesn't need fame or applause in a worldly sense. He's not in it just for numbers. But he's doing things on his own timetable, and this secrecy theme will continue throughout the Gospel of Mark. So we'll see it. Here and again, but to emphasize, Jesus cleanses the unclean. Now there's a ceremonial aspect there. And in the Mosaic Covenant, that was to be a a teacher to teach us that we're all ceremonially unclean before God because of our sin. We all need to be cleansed. We all need to be washed to be able to come into the presence of God and be accepted. So we all need a cleansing, if not from leprosy, from the corruption of sin.