Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Our weekly gospel is Mark 1, 14 to 15. And you're going to have to hedge me in here and keep me accountable because I'll talk about this for 40 minutes. And these are supposed to be seven to eight minute devotions. And this is just uh two and a half lines in your scripture Mark 1, 14 and 15. Now, after John was arrested, Jesus came into Galilee proclaiming the gospel of God, preaching good news. Jesus was a preacher. of the gospel of God. Verse 15, we get the substance of that gospel summarized. The time is fulfilled And the kingdom of God is at hand. Repent and believe the gospel. The good news is that God had come to earth, and God was coming to earth to establish his kingdom, his kingdom of redemption, his kingdom of salvation. The time is fulfilled. It's the fullness of time, the fulfillment of the coming of the Christ, the fulfillment of the end times blessing of the Holy Spirit, the fulfillment of the messianic kingdom being established on earth. The kingdom of God is arriving. John the Baptist preached it. Jesus preached it. The good news of the kingdom. Repent and believe in the gospel. So the proclamation of the gospel must always be accompanied with the call of the gospel. We We're called by God to repent. We were called by God to believe. And now as his children, having been made his children by grace, amen. Not by works, not by human effort, not by that we were spiritual, that we were smarter than other people, or that we were we were better better people in some way. By God's grace, He's brought us into His kingdom. He's made us His children, and now we join Him in His work of preaching the gospel, proclaiming the gospel, and calling all sinners everywhere. to repent and believe, to put their trust in Christ and the promises that are in him. The time is fulfilled. The kingdom of God is at hand. Proclaiming. It says he proclaimed. He preached. It's literally the image, imagery of a town crier or a herald sent from a king to stand up in the town and with authority and boldness clearly proclaim the kingdom of God, and on the heels of that proclamation, make an indiscriminate call to repent and believe this good news. It's good news that God has established his kingdom. That's not bad news. That's good news. And uh Jesus preached it And we are to preach it also. We're very early in the Gospel of Mark. We're only fifteen verses in. But we s we have seen from the very beginning That the focus is the gospel, one one, the beginning of the gospel. It focuses on Jesus Christ the Son of God, that's also one-one. And that it has the good news Is about God coming to earth. Verse 3, prepare the way of the Lord, make his paths straight. God is coming, and he comes in the person of his son to establish his kingdom. And all who repent and all who believe will have a share in that