Welcome to a new ministry called the Weekly Gospel, and that's simply a reading and then some brief comments on a passage. We'll be going through the Gospel of Mark this year, 2022. This is week one for the weekly gospel, and that is Mark 1, 1 through 8, the good news of God's coming. Let's go ahead and read that together and then I'll make some comments on it The beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God, as it is written in Isaiah the Prophet Behold, I send my messenger before your face, who will prepare your way, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord, and make his path straight. John appeared, baptizing in the wilderness and proclaiming a baptism of repentance for the forgiveness of sins, and all the country of Judea and all Jerusalem were going out to him, and were being baptized by him in the river Jordan. confessing their sins. Now John was clothed with camel's hair, and wore a leather belt around his waist, and ate locusts and wild honey, and he preached, saying After me comes he who is mightier than I, the strap of whose sandals I am not worthy to stoop down and untie. I have baptized you with water. But he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. Referring, of course, to Christ, the one who will do his work of salvation perfectly. He'll suffer for the sins of his people. Die in their place, be risen to glory, and ascend on high, and from there he'll baptize with the Holy Spirit. Just a few comments on this. It is the good news of God's coming. If we uh if we don't get anything else about this first paragraph of the Gospel of Mark, we need to understand that The good news is about God's coming, but specifically it's personal, it's supernatural, and it's merciful. It's personal if you look in verse 1, again, the beginning of the gospel of Jesus Christ, the Son of God God sends a person. The gospel, the good news, centers on a person, Jesus Christ, the Son of God. Every page, every paragraph, we need to be seeing him, seeing his identity, seeing his power, seeing his compassion, seeing his purpose. seeing his obedience to his father, seeing his love for his people, his mercy, his grace, and on and on and on. You could probably keep that list going. But the good news, which is the good news of God's coming Which we'll get to that point in a second, is personal. It centers on a person, Jesus Christ, the Son of God. It's the gospel is also supernatural. That's we're getting to the idea of. It's God's coming. Look at verse 3. What uh what Mark is saying was written and prophesied in Isaiah, which he mentions in verse 2. Look at what he says in verse 3 and referencing The passage, the voice of one crying in the wilderness, prepare the way of the Lord. And make his paths straight. Who is coming? The Lord is coming. Prepare the way of the Lord. Prepare for the Lord's arrival. Prepare for the Lord's coming. God is coming. This is a story about a supernatural coming of God in the person of Jesus Christ. The good news is personal, it's supernatural, and it's merciful. Go all the way down to verse 8 where John the Baptist summarizes the benefit, the central benefit of Christ's work. He's summarizing it. He's not listing all the benefits to be found in Christ. But he says I baptize you with water, but he will baptize you with the Holy Spirit. Jesus is going to baptize sinners with the Holy Spirit. He's going to Cleanse them of their sin. He's going to give them new hearts. He's going to reconcile them to God. He's going to give the promised blessing. of the Holy Spirit. This is Mark 1, 1 through 8, the good news of God's coming. It's personal, it centers on a person, Jesus Christ. It's supernatural. It's God Himself coming, prepare the way of the Lord, and it's merciful. Jesus has come This summarizes a key blessing of his work. Doesn't say everything about it, but he's merciful. He's come to give the Holy Spirit. He's come to pour out the Holy Spirit into the hearts of sinners. He's come to save sinners, not to bring judgment. Personal, supernatural, merciful, the good news of God's coming. And uh that's the week one Weekly gospel for 2022. See ya next week