Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. Mark 421 I might have said thirty-one earlier, but it's Mark four twenty-one through thirty-four, thinking about the power of the kingdom of God. The power of the kingdom of God, which is an An invisible thing, but it is a real power sourced from Christ who lives in heaven as he works through the Holy Spirit, as he works through his word, the power of the kingdom of God, which is invisible But it has outward manifestations, it has an impact. So this is what we're meditating on as we read Mark four, twenty-one through thirty-four, the power of the kingdom of God. Verse twenty-one, and he said to them , Is a lamp brought in to be put under a basket or under a bed and not on a stand? So it's a rhetorical question, right? What's the answer? No of course not. A lamp is not meant to be covered. For nothing hit nothing is hidden except to be made master. Manifest, nor is anything secret except to come to light. Now we'll get back to that. That only makes sense in the context of what just came right before it. So we'll circle back to that. Let's keep reading for now. Verse twenty three. If anyone has ears to hear, let him hear. And he said to them, Pay attention to what you hear. Take care to what you hear. With the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and still more will be added to you. For to the one who has, more will be given, and from the one who has not, even what he has will be taken away. The point is the exercise of true faith leads to the increase of faith The exercise of receiving God's word with faith, exercising good stewardship, the exercise of true faith leads to the increase and the growth of faith. He who has, it will be it will uh more will be given. The one who has, more will be given. Right? With the measure you use, it will be measured to you, and then still more will be added to you. Right? So you see that principle. The exercise of faith that will lead to the increase of faith This is why apathy is such a dangerous, dangerous thing. Such a tragic trap to fall into the snare of apathy and laziness, because there will be stagnation. Verse 26, and he said, The kingdom of God is as if a man should scatter seed on the ground. He sleeps and rises night and day. The seed sprouts and grows. How. The power is beyond him. It's an invisible power. He knows not how, but still it grows. Verse 28: the earth produces by itself first the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear. But when the grain is ripe, it once he puts in the sickle, because the harvest has come. Talking about the nature of the growth of the kingdom. Gradual comes in stages. Verse 30, and he said, With what can we compare the kingdom of God? Or what parable should we use for it? It's like a grain of mustard seed, which when sown on the ground is the smallest of all seeds on the earth. Yet when it's sown it grows up and becomes larger than all the garden plants and puts out large With many such parables he spoke the word to them as they were able to hear it. not speak to them without a parable, but privately there's no disciples, he explained everything. You get little you actually get examples of that in the different places in the gospels. Jesus gives the interpretation of Jesus explained. Further, or gives the application of the parable, of a parable, or just parables in general. Look with me. Oh, and I didn't forget, we are going to circle back to Verse twenty two. I mean you're dying to hear something on that, verse twenty two. But there was something else I had it on my eye and then I lost it. I just have to find it on the page here that I wanted to talk about the mustard seed, verse 31. This is about the kingdom of God. What is it like? It's like a mustard seed. And eventually it grows. And it becomes very, very large. We will talk about the kingdom of God in our lesson tonight. But the point I want to highlight right here is that it is not as if you have this mustard seed And it's not the kingdom, but it grows and grows and grows and then it becomes the kingdom. No, the mustard seed is the kingdom in its earliest stage. And then it grows. It's still the kingdom in a later stage, a little bit bigger, and then it grows more. Still the kingdom, just in the later stage, it's growing a little bit bigger. And then finally it reaches its consummate form, full growth. It's it's one kingdom that comes in stages Right. First the blade, then the ear, then the full grain in the ear, and then after it's ripe, then it's harvested. So it comes in stages and it grows gradually The kingdom of God. But it's still the kingdom of God, the real power of heaven when it's in that early stages. Verse 22: nothing is hidden except to be made manifest, nor is anything Secret to come to light. Well, that comes at the end of the parable of the sower and the interpretation of the parable of the sower. And if you remember that, in the parable of the sower, the word of the kingdom was going out. And lots of people received it with joy immediately and received it favorably and believed it to one degree, or so they would say, but with different distractions, different temptations Their hearts were exposed for what they really were, and they fell away. And they deserted the kingdom and they gave up their confession. The truth was exposed. And In the end, when Christ returns at the harvest , right before the consummation of the kingdom, all hearts will be exposed. Everything will be laid bare. Everything hidden will be made manifest. And everything secret will come to light. In this age, um, where we do not have perfect vision or perfect insight into the Kingdom. One, but also the nature of the kingdom is veiled. The power of the kingdom is veiled. It's a heavenly power that's manifest on earth. And All secrets have not yet been made manifest, but they will be made manifest in the final judgment