Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. All right, Mark 1, 16 through 20, the call to discipleship. Passing alongside the Sea of Galilee, he, Jesus, saw Simon and Andrew, the brother of Simon, casting a net into the sea, for they were fishermen. And Jesus said to them, Follow me, Now we'll make you become fishers of men. And immediately they left their nets and followed him, and going a little farther, he saw James the son of Zebedee, and John his brother, who were in the boat mending their nets. And immediately he called them you can circle the word called and they left their father Zebedee in the boat with the hired servants and followed him. Now the call to discipleship, first of all, just notice the new characters in the gospel. Who are they? A couple of them show up in verse 16. You have Simon, who uh also is called later be called Peter, and his brother Andrew. So Simon and Andrew, and then later on you have Verse 19, James and his brother John. So two sets of brothers, okay, Simon and Andrew, James and John. Jesus' call. What is Jesus' call? Look at verse 17. Jesus said to them, Follow me and I will make you become fishers of men. That is the call to discipleship in a nutshell. Does it say everything about discipleship? No, of course, but this is the basic call to discipleship. Number one, follow. He says, follow me. One of the things you can notice is the personal aspect of discipleship. We are following a person We're not just doing religion. We're not just going through the motions. We're following a person. And for us now in our context, that person lives in heaven. But we're still following a person. But he says follow, which means come with. Come with, come after. And it's broader in the context of the gospels and in that culture of what something like this would have meant would have Meant to become his apprentice or his student. Learn from him. Become his disciple. Follow. Come with Jesus. This is the call. Then he says, I'll make. I'll make. Which I'm cutting that phrase off in the middle to point out this verb or the subject in the verb. The subject Jesus says is I'll. So Jesus is going to do something. He's going to make And when we get to the direct object, it's them. He's going to make them into something. So the work of Jesus in the disciples' life is going to be The foundation, the fountain of any true discipleship. It's not something we make ourselves into. It's something Jesus makes us into. He moves us along. He grows us in all the aspects of our Christian walk. If there's an increasing love in your heart toward God, that comes from Jesus. If there's an increasing burden in your heart for the lost, that comes from Jesus. through the Holy Spirit. If there's an increasing passion and hunger and thirst for the Word of God, that comes from Jesus through the Holy Spirit Follow him. He'll make. Finally, fishes of men. Now this is highlighting what's going to be the apostolic uh commission or the apostolic task, I believe is specifically alluded to here, fishers of men, evangelists. Heralds, messengers, ambassadors, those who go out with the good news of salvation to preach the good news of salvation, call all men everywhere to repent and believe in Christ for salvation, fishing for men. And again, specifically that's what that verb I'll make you is referring to. I took that broader and tried to give some practical application for us. But these four guys, Simon, Andrew, and James and John, if they're going to become fishers of men. Soul winners, fruitful evangelists, Jesus has to make them into that. It's not something they can do on their own. Jesus has to do that. This is the call of discipleship. Follow him. Follow him. And then answering the call, verse 18 and 20, first in verse 18, immediately they left their nets and followed him. Immediately They left and followed. You know, when you answer the call to follow Jesus, there's always old stuff you have to leave. This a this even wasn't just Sinful stuff. This is just their old life in general, their old job. They have a new full-time job. They would have been companions, appr full-time apprentices, students of Jesus. And then again in verse 20, immediately he called them, and they left their fathers, Zebedee in the boat, with the hired servants And followed him. So Jesus comes to them, calls them, they leave where they were to follow him. Great imagery there for when we answer the call from Jesus to be his follower. I love the immediate obedience. Immediate obedience. There's an urgency. That comes with the call to discipleship. We should have that urgency as individuals, the church as a whole, we should have that urgency with the message that we have. Notice that there's a change. There's something new. Well, something new. Everything's new for these men when they answer the call. There's no such thing as coming to Christ but still being the same person. There's no such thing as being a disciple of Jesus Christ and still living the same life you've always lived. There's a change. And not only is there a change, but there's sacrifice, giving up the old. And lots of things we give up, sinful things we give up. Sometimes it's not necessarily sinful things that we give up, just other other things. To give more of our time and effort and energy to following Jesus. Now think of this in the context of Mark. We saw from the very beginning that Mark is about the good news. That God is coming to save his people. It's the good news of God's coming. He comes in the person of Jesus Jesus is going to give the Holy Spirit, and all of this is in fulfillment of Old Testament prophecy. It's the good news of God's coming. He comes in Jesus. So, when Jesus calls us to follow him, it's God calling us to follow him. There's no greater call. There's no greater voice. There's no higher authority. There's no um grander. Is that a word? Dignity, the call to follow Jesus is a call from the voice of God. And we must answer that call with urgency and joy and passion and diligence to be followers of the Lord Jesus Christ.