Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Mark 2, 23 to 28 is the weekly gospel. And it has a subheading, Jesus is Lord. Of the Sabbath. Now in the passage it'll say the Son of Man is Lord of the Sabbath. Who does that refer to? Jesus, yeah, Son of Man is is the uh the human being who receives the kingdom of God from God the Father. But he receives that kingdom from God the Father on behalf of the people of God. That's Son of Man. Mark 2, 23. One Sabbath he was going through the grain fields, and as they made their way, his disciples began to pluck heads of grain. The Pharisees were saying to him, look, why are they doing what is not lawful on the Sabbath? So first of all, just see what the Pharisees are Upset about. See what they believe about the situation. They believe that Jesus and his disciples are violating God's law. It is not lawful on the Sabbath. And he said to them, Have you never read what David did when he was in need and was hungry? He and those who were with him. How he entered the house of God in the time of Abiathar, the high priest, and ate the bread of the presence, which is not lawful lawful for any but the priests to eat, and also gave it to those who were with him. And he said to them, The Sabbath was made for man, not man for the Sabbath So the Son of Man is Lord even of the Sabbath. Their strict and harsh legalistic approach to the day of rest exposes the fact that they don't understand the day of rest. They don't understand the purpose of why God gave man a day of rest from his work as a blessing to man. The Sabbath was made For man. It's meant to be a blessing. It's not a curse. It's good for us to set apart one day in a special sense to serve the Lord. And they didn't get that the the Pharisees didn't get that. So Jesus and his disciples plucking heads of grain It was not their work that they would have been doing for the rest of the week. And now they're, because they want more money, are also working on the Sabbath. No. Um they're eating which is a necessity. And it's perfectly right and good to do that. That's what the Sabbath is made for. It's made for man, not man to be a slave of the Sabbath to man's detriment. And the Pharisees and the leaders in Jesus' time continue to show that they don't understand God's law. They don't understand the nature of God's law. Remember, Jesus also healed a man with a withered hand. on the Sabbath. And they got upset with him for that too. And he asked them, Is it is it right for a man to do good or to do harm, to give life or not? And they didn't understand that it's always right to do works of mercy. It's always right to love others. It's always the time for helping those in need. That's so they didn't understand the Sabbath, they didn't understand the nature of God's law. Of course they didn't. They were they were legalists. And uh Um it's just over and over again in the gospels. You see, it's not only that they don't understand the nature of Christ's redemptive work in the gospel. Definitely they don't understand that, right? They don't understand that. They don't understand the nature of his um um of his work, the nature of his kingdom, the gospel. But they also they don't understand the law. So don't ever think that okay the Pharisees understand the law of God properly. They just don't get the gospel. No, they don't Legalism is the wrong approach to God's law