Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. Verse 29 begins our weekly gospel reading. And I have it in two versions here on my notepad. So I'm leaving myself Flexibility. I might go just up to verse 34 and look at this first little story. It's tough and marked because the stories are so quick-hitting. They're these little episodes. And And they go from one to another. But I might go all the way to verse 39 and get two episodes here. But we'll begin with 29 Through thirty-four, seeing that Jesus has not only authority over sickness, but compassion for the sick. Authority over sickness, but also compassion for the sick. Much like the last one we did. He has authority to cast out demons, but he has compassion for the demon possessed. Mark 1, 29. And immediately he left the synagogue and entered the house of Simon and Andrew with James and John. Now Simon's mother-in-law lay ill with a fever. And that may may not be a big deal to us. Most of the time, sometimes the fever is quite alarming and very dangerous, but in that age in that culture, it wasn't the age of modern medicine This is a big deal. And immediately they told him about her. Verse thirty one, and he came and took her by the hand and lifted her up, and the fever left her. And she began to Serve them. And he healed many who were sick with various diseases and cast out demons. And he would not permit the demons to speak because they knew him. Very important in the gospel narratives, Jesus Teaches about his identity, reveals uh about his mission, reveals about the nature of his kingdom on his timetable, not the demons' timetable. He has authority to cast them out and he has authority to shut them up Not interfere with his ministry. He would not permit the demons to speak. You miss it if you go too quick. That's a really big deal. He has supernatural authority to silence demons. Authority over sickness, compassion for the sick, in last week's, but you also see it this week too, authority over demons, but compassion For the demon-possessed. This is the kingdom power of the Lord Jesus Christ. The most powerful man to ever walk this earth. Verse 35 You see something about the inner workings of Jesus' ministry and won't it be shocking that the structure of the inner workings, the core of his ministry, are the same that they should be for Verse thirty-five. And rising very early in the morning, while it was still dark, he departed and went out to a desolate Place. And there he prayed. Secret prayer. Private prayer. Early morning prayer. Verse 36. And Simon and those who were with him searched for him. And they found him and said to him, Everyone is looking for you. That is why I came. Why did he come? To preach the good news of the kingdom of God, to preach the good news of God's kingdom of salvation. To preach. Preach to those who need to hear the truth of salvation, that I may preach there also, for that is why I came. And he went throughout all Galilee, preaching in their synagogues. And casting out demons. I'm not ashamed, and Jesus is not ashamed that he ministers in word and in deed. Miraculous deed. But the ministry of the word is primary. It's the ministries of supernatural deeds of miracles validate the ministry of the word. But it's the ministry of the word that's the message of salvation. The message of salvation Changes hearts. The message of salvation received by faith transfers sinners from the kingdom of darkness into the kingdom of Jesus Christ. It's the word of the gospel that is the life-giving power. Power of God. Jesus is not confused about it. And we shouldn't be either. The inner core of Jesus' ministry, the uh the underlying principles Secret prayer and a devotion to preaching. But he also ministers with compassion and kindness, helping people, serving people It's not just a ministry of the word. It's a ministry of word and deed. A ministry of word and deed. Preaching and helping. In his case, he Healing, casting out demons so far. There's more to come. There's more to come