Great news from a great book. So I want to talk about the great theme of Scripture. That'll be from the first favorite passage. uh that Nancy gave me. The great theme of Scripture, and then we'll talk about the great cry of Scripture. The Bible's a story. All of history is a story, so there's a theme to this story, but the Bible's more than a story. The Bible has the voice of God that cries out to us, to us personally. So the great theme of this great book, the great cry of this great book And then finally the great promise of this great book. The great promise that we'll see in the John 3 passage. First of all, the great theme of Scripture Is that God graciously forgives sinners. That's the theme. God's grace to sinners. If you're a recipient of that grace Praise the Lord. I mean, praise the Lord. This has saved us from the guilt of our sin. It saved us from the eternal punishment against our sin. Praise the Lord. It has saved us from the ruling power of sin within our hearts. If you've been a recipient of God's grace that comes through Jesus Christ, praise the Lord And if you're not, you can be a recipient today. If you would but see Christ, and by virtue of his sacrifice on a cross, believe in him, you'll be saved forever. The great theme of Scripture is that God graciously forgives sinners. This first verse is Isaiah 1. 18. Isaiah 1. 18. You don't need to flip there. It's just one verse. You can listen to it But it's written by the prophet Isaiah in Israel around 750 years before the coming of Christ. Isaiah 118. God says, Come now. Let us reason together, says the Lord. Though your sins are like scarlet, they shall be as white as snow. And though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. What a vivid image there. Such powerful imagery. Of this red crimson guilt stain of sin that God purifies and makes white as bright as wool. Praise God. The great theme of the story of this great book, the story of all history, of all things, is God's grace to sinners, the grace of forgiveness. He says, come now, let us reason together. It's very similar to what we would say if we're talking one to another. We say, okay, let's just be reasonable about this. Let's be reasonable about this. In light of God's mercy, though we're sinners, he'll forgive us. In light of God's grace, though we're sinners, he'll erase the guilt of our sin. Come now, let's be reasonable about this. Though your sins are like scarlet, they'll be as white as snow. Though they are red like crimson, they shall become like wool. That's the problem in the in the fallen culture around us and the pride that dwells within us. We don't think sin brings a stain. We don't think our sins and our hearts need to be purified, but they do. Our sins are hideous stains. Praise God for his grace. Where would we be without God's grace? What would we have to sing about without God's grace? Every story has one main theme. There are always lots of details and lots of subplots But every story is pretty much about one thing. You can think about the Lord of the Rings trilogy. It's about the battle between good and evil. Now there are lots of subplots and sub-themes, but it's about the battle between good and le evil. Evil desires power and control over the world at all costs. through violence, death, destruction, or through deception, enticements, trickery And good must not only fight against evil for the good of the world, but it must maintain its own integrity while doing things. You don't adopt the principles of wickedness in order to fight against wickedness. Good must not only fight against the evil that's out in the world. But also, if you've read those books or seen the movies, you know that good must always be resisting and fighting against evil inside. In the heart. And if you know the end of that story, Frodo did not win that battle. Something about the uh symbolism, the spiritual lessons you could get from That whole saga and the way that it ends is the uh the victory. Are you awake this morning? The victory lies outside of us. And there is a victory over evil. But it doesn't come from within the human heart. Every story is about something. Now the Bible, too, you could say, is a about a battle between good and evil, but there's a more basic Theme. That's not the ultimate theme. Why does this battle exist? Why it why is there a battle of good against evil? God against the devil Why? Because this whole thing is part of God's revelation of his grace. All of this exists as part of God's purpose to manifest his grace towards sinners so that sinners would then return praise to God for the grace that he's manifested. That's the theme of Scripture. Christianity, contrary to the popular misconception, is not about Be good, and if you're good, you'll go to heaven. That's not the essence of Christianity. That's not the theme. That's misleading. That's the road to the damnation that the brother spoke about. The theme of Scripture is, let's get this, let's be reasonable, we're not good. Come, let's reason together. We're not good Our goodness is off the table. Our making our way to God through our goodness is off the table. But let's be reasonable together. God is merciful, God is gracious, God is forgiving, so though our sins be like scarlet, we'll be white as snow. Though they be like crimson, we'll become like wool. I hope you remember that God is gracious to sinners. Jesus did not come to save the righteous But he came to save sinners. The healthy do not need a doctor. The sick need a doctor. The great theme of Scripture. Secondly, the great cry of Scripture. The great cry of Scripture is turn to God. The Bible's a story with the theme. But this is a living word, and it has a voice, and it calls out to all of us come to God, turn to God, turn away from the me life, turn to God The great cry, the great call, the great invitation of Scripture. Turn to God. This comes from the second favorite verse that I was given, Ezekiel 1832. Ezekiel eighteen thirty two. Now this was written by the prophet Ezekiel around six hundred years before the coming of Christ. But this was not written in Israel. This was written in the Babylonian Empire once Israel was exiled because of their sins Ezekiel is a prophet amidst the exiles in a foreign land. And here's what he writes in Ezekiel 1832. I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord. Therefore, turn and live. Three words that summarize God's call to each one of us. Turn and live. Live representing life in fellowship with God is the result of turning to God for that life. We don't figure out how to live for God first, and then we're brought into a relationship with Him. No, figuring out how to live for God is a result of Turning to God and living in relationship with God, and then he works out in our hearts, minds, words, and life, he works out how to live for him. But we receive it. We receive this life in fellowship with God as a free gift. I'm getting ahead of myself now onto this third point. We receive it as a free gift. When we turn to God, God gives us life. That's why he can say, turn and live. How can I turn and live? Well, because the one you're turning to, he gives life. Turn to God and live, says Ezekiel. It says uh he says, I had no pleasure in the death of anyone It is not a judge's inner joy and inner delight to dish out the death penalty. But because he's just, hopefully we're dealing with the just judge, for the illustration, we have a just judge. I know there's corrupt judges in the world. But in the illustration, it's a just judge. Just allow me that. He delights in justice. He delights in protecting the innocent. But he's not sadistic. It doesn't bring him pleasure to dish out the death penalty. No, no, no. The murderer's the sadistic one. The murderer is the one who finds joy and delight in killing. Not the judge. That's the picture here. God doesn't have pleasure in the death of anyone. It's not his inner delight and joy. His inner delight and joy, if you've been tuned in, is showing grace to sinners so that they would not die, so that we would not die as a result of our sin. Which should bring our minds directly to the cross of Jesus Christ because in his body, on the tree, his body broken, his blood shed. Why is he doing he didn't sin He can't be being punished for his sin. He didn't sin. He's there as a substitute. He's there, friends. He's there in our place. In his body on the tree, Jesus took our sin as his own. He took the penalty for our sin sin as his own. The death penalty for our sin he took as his own. The condemnation, the judgment against our sin, Jesus received in his body on the tree, so that we would never have to receive that judgment. That's why there's always an open door to heaven because Jesus died on the cross. And any one of us It doesn't matter how you've lived your life up to this very moment, now, today, this morning, you can turn and live. Because of the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ. This is not the stuff the world wants you to think about. This is not stuff that your inner pride wants to pursue in life. This is not the stuff that the popular culture says is important. But this is the self of life, of eternity. Human beings have souls. And that's what we're talking about. We're talking about the soul. We're talking about eternal destiny. We're talking about turn to God and live. You call out to someone when you want some kind of response. Think about a patient calling out for a nurse, needs help with something, they call out because they want a response. Think of a parent calling out for their child. I can think of a thousand illustrations right off the bat. You want some kind of response. Turn off the light. Go to bed. Come to dinner. Wash your hands. Call out because you want a response. Think of a teacher calling upon a student. Want some kind of response. Either stop goofing off in the black back of the classroom or just to answer a question. So why would God call out to us? Why would God call out to you in your heart? Because He wants the response. He takes no pleasure in the death of the wicked That's not his inner joy and his inner delight. He'll take pleasure in giving grace to the wicked to liberate us from the shackles of the sin I have no pleasure in the death of anyone, declares the Lord. Therefore, turn and live. The great story of Scripture is the story of God's grace to sinners. And as that story is being told, there's a voice that cries out. Like a town crier, not in the middle of a small village, but hovering over the whole world, a town crier, the voice of God that cries out, Turn and live. Oh, that you would do so. Finally, the great promise of Scripture. We've been alluding to it all morning in one way or another. The great promise of Scripture, eternal life through Jesus Christ. All these all these good attributes and ministries and all these different things you shared about Mike is the fruit of the eternal life that he had through Jesus Christ. The root was his relationship with Jesus. The fruit is everything we shared about. So that's why we honor him and remember him, and at the same time we're giving praise and thanks to God. Those two things are connected in the life of a child of God. The great promise of Scripture is eternal life through Jesus Christ. This is the John 3 John 3 16. Now I'm not sure about this. I haven't done the research, and I'm not sure you could do the research, but probably the most cherished And the most quoted sentence in the history of human language is John 3. 16. Wrap your mind around that For God so loved the world, he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. God so loved the world, he gave his only son, that's the gift. It's love that leads to a gift. And then we see a promise based on this. Here's the promise. Whoever believes in him should not perish. But have eternal life. Eternal life is something that will last forever, but that's not the essence of eternal life. Eternal life is a relationship with God is a kind of life. It's not just a length of life, it's a kind of life. It's life in communion with God. It's it's life of having been reconciled to God. And that will last forever. But that's eternal life. It's knowing God And it says, you'll not perish, have eternal life. Perishing is the opposite of being reconciled to God. It's remaining alienated From God. It's the opposite of enjoying God's favor. If you're being alienated from God, alienated from his favor, a recipient of the wrath that we do deserve for our sins. The fact that I can stand here before you, alive and breathing, is a testimony that God is merciful to sinners The fact that the world every morning continues to exist is like the shining neon light from the cosmos saying, God is merciful, that things continue, because the wages of sin is death. The wages of sin is death because where do our lives come from? Brothers, sisters, friends, life is a gift from God. When we rebel against God we forfeit the gift. Well how in the world are we going to get that gift back? Of a relation, a right relationship with God, living life reconciled to Him through Jesus Christ. The great promise of Scripture is eternal life through Jesus Christ. So the Bible is a story, and the main theme is God's grace to sinners, but the Bible also is a voice crying out an invitation: turn and live. But the Bible is a promise of a gift that's freely given. It's the promise of a gift that's freely given. I want to look at just a few more things in this John chapter 3. It's a classic passage. It has this um Amazing verse, John 3. 16, in the midst of a classic passage. Now Jesus would have spoken this most likely in the spring of year 30. It would have been his first trip to Jerusalem during his earthly ministry. Jesus' ministry on earth was only three and a half years. Can you imagine that? The impact, the legacy that he left, his ministry, not his life, his ministry, his public ministry was three and a half years From the fall of the year 29 to the spring of year 33. This we have, John 3. 16, is in the midst. Of an answer that he's giving to a man named Nicodemus. And uh he's teaching Nicodemus about how a person Can know God truly in his life. And uh many of you know the famous uh lesson that Jesus is giving at the beginning of John chapter 3. He says, You must be born again. You must be born again. There 's Nicodemus for a little bit of a loop. What do you mean by that? How could this possibly possibly be true? Look at John three verse nine, picking it up in the middle of that story, Nicodemus said to him, How can how can these things be? Jesus' answer goes from verse 10 all the way down to 21. Verse 10 all the way down to 21. There's a little paragraph break that most Bibles put in between verse uh four uh fifteen and sixteen. But that's still Jesus answering Nicodemus. And to close out, I want to read verses 14 through 21 with you. Verses 14 through 21, as Jesus is answering to Nicodemus, how it can be that someone can be born again, how it can be that someone can come to know God. Verse 14. Just as Moses lifted up the serpent in the wilderness, so must the Son of Man be lifted up that whoever believes in him may have eternal life. And he was lifted up. He was lifted up on a cross as a sacrifice for sinners so that we could know God and have our sins forgiven. He was lifted up so that we could have eternal life. And then you get to verse 16, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. God did not send His son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Now, whoever believes in him is not condemned But whoever does not believe is condemned already, because he has not believed in the name of the only Son of God. Now, this is the judgment, or this is the verdict. The light has come into the world. But if people love darkness rather than light, because their works are evil. For everyone who does wicked things hates the light and does not come to the light, lest his works would be exposed. But whoever does what is true comes to the light, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God. That last sentence reminds me of what we've done this morning. Works that have been carried out in God, so that it may be clearly seen. And his works have been carried out in God. You've shared about works that you've seen In Mike, works of faith, works of love, works of obedience, works of perseverance, so that it may be clearly seen that his works have been carried out in God Everything that we've said, glory to God, is the fruit of Mike being a recipient of the gift of eternal life through Jesus Christ. A great story from a great book. It follows a plot line about grace, sends out an invitation, turned to God, and it holds out a gift. Eternal life through Jesus Christ. Say one more thing about this gift, and then I'll wrap us up in prayer, and we have another hymn to sing It's accessible. It's accessible to anyone at any time who hears this message of free Forgiveness of eternal life through Christ based on his sacrifice on the cross. It's accessible. In other words, there's nothing that you have to do or can do in order to go out, prepare yourself beforehand, reform your life beforehand, do good works beforehand, and then come back, and then this gift will be accessible. No. Perish the thought. If that were the case, it would never be accessible to us. It's accessible to the lowly, unable sinner. God's gift of grace.