Let's take our Bibles and turn to Romans 8. Today we're looking at verses 31 through 39. I've been titled this message, He Will Give Us All Things. He will give us all things. My overarching goal this morning is to encourage you. But we have to understand that the Bible encourages us in a different way than the world wants to encourage us. The world wants to turn us back in on ourselves and tell us how good we are or how able we are, but the Bible wants to encourage us by turning us away from ourselves to look to God. to look to Christ, to look to the Holy Spirit to see how good He is, to see how able He is. And so I want to be an encouragement to you this morning, but it's a fundamentally different kind of encouragement. than the world tries to give to us. Romans 8, 31 through 39, he will give us all things. We'll begin with prayer and then look at the passage. Father, we join our hearts now in prayer. We ask that you would wake our hearts to your word and show us Christ. By sight we are in a building, but by faith we are before your throne. With Christ at your right hand, surrounded by angels, and host the souls of the righteous made perfect in your presence. And here is where we are, by faith, your servants, asking that you would bless us by your word and by your Holy Spirit. Show us your power afresh. Show us your grace and mercy in Christ. Like we've never seen before. Would you show us this morning? Promise in your word that in Christ you give your children all things. I ask that you would show us that truth this morning. In Jesus we pray. Amen. All right, let's read the passage. He uh Romans Romans eight thirty-one through thirty-nine. What then shall we say to these things? Which would be the things that come before verse 30. Things centered on God's incredible grace and salvation in Christ. What shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? Who shall bring any charge against God's elect It is God who justifies. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus is the one who died. More than that, who was raised, and who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Shall tribulation or distress Or persecution, or famine, or nakedness, or danger, or sword, as it is written, for your sake, we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. No. In all these things, we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I am sure that neither death nor life, nor angels nor rulers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers. Nor light, nor death, nor anything else in all creation will be able to separate us from the love of God in Christ Jesus our Lord. So far, the reading of God's word. He will give us all things A mother gives her baby all things needed for health and care. A doctor gives all things needed For healing or treatment. But mothers are limited, and doctors are limited. But God is not limited. Look at verse 32 He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? That's where my title comes from. He will give us all things. It's phrased as a question, but the obvious implication, the obvious answer to this question, how will he not also with him With Christ graciously give us all things, the obvious answer is He will graciously give us all things. All things. So the picture we should have in our minds is God in Christ as a generous, an extravagantly generous king. Who went out beyond the outskirts of his kingdom into the slums and found us poor, lowly beggars. But it's not just that we were poor, lowly beggars. It's the reason we got there is because we committed treason and were exiled from the presence of the king. And now, as treasonous beggars in the slums, we're constantly causing trouble and disruption. But King of Kings, Jesus is gracious beyond compare. And he comes out to us. He comes down to us. He comes to our level And brings us into his kingdom and says, I'm giving you all things. This is a picture of salvation. He will give us all things. Well, what things will he give? I have two points on this. First of all, all things God has promised in Christ He will give. All things promised in Christ He will give. If you think about the phrase, He will It's the issue of God's faithfulness. He will give. And so you could ask, will he give? Yes, he will give. It's an issue of God's faithfulness. And the other side of that coin of it's God's faithfulness to us is this, our trust in Him. He will, but then it also says give us. It's a matter of God's generosity. And if it's a matter of God's generosity, the other side of that coin from our perspective is it's a matter of gratitude It's a matter of gratitude. All things God has promised in Christ, He will give. The forgiveness of sins in Christ, He will give it. The promise and hope of eternal life in Christ, He will give it. A heavenly kingdom in Christ, He will give it. The Holy Spirit inside your heart. In Christ, He will give it. Victory over sin. In Christ, He will give it. Victory over death. In Christ, he will give it. Victory over Satan and all of his traps and all of his tricks. In Christ, he will give it. True peace. Inner joy, spiritual rest in Christ, He will give it. Jesus said, Come to me, I will give you rest. In Christ, you will find it. Yes, but I don't feel true peace, and I don't feel inner joy, and I don't feel spiritual rest. Well, that's why we need God's word, because we're not here to preach how we feel. We're here to preach the truth of God. And his faithfulness and his power and his truth in Christ, he will give it. Ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find. Knock and it will be opened to you. Matthew seven, seven. Do you believe it? Therefore, I tell you, whatever you ask in prayer, believe that you've received it, and it will be yours. In Mark 11, 24. Do you believe it? And what kind of dad would promise to take his daughter to the park? But never takes her. I'll take you next week. I'll take you next month. Never takes her to the park. What kind of husband promises to be faithful, but is unfaithful? And then he promises again, yes, well now I'll be faithful. And he's unfaithful. Good dads fulfill their promises. Faithful husbands keep their vows. All things God has promised in Christ, He will give. All things, all things He's promised in Christ. He will give to you. Do you believe it? Do you believe in the generosity and faithfulness of God? All things. Another way to think about all things that God gives us in Christ is this. All things that are true and lasting. All things of true and lasting value he will give in Christ. Psalm 34:10 Young lions suffer want and hunger. But those who seek the Lord lack no good thing. Psalm 84, 11. For the Lord God is a son and a shield. That means he provides light and protection. The Lord bestows favor and honor, and he withholds no good thing from those who walk in his ways. Money will not last. Cars and trucks will not last. A beautiful lawn will not last. Even if they could last and you could have them forever in infinite measure, they still could not meet your truest and deepest needs. All things of true and lasting value are yours in Christ. Please don't be so caught up in the temporal that you miss the eternal. Please don't be so entranced by earthly limited things that you miss true and lasting things in Christ. Each of us has one life. And one death, and then one eternity. How should we live that life, therefore We should live that one life in preparation for our one death, in light of our one eternity. And our plea as a church to each other and to the community is live that one life in Christ. Live your one life for Christ In order that you would die and go to be with Christ and spend your eternity with Christ for the glory of Christ forever. This is our message to each other and to the community. Christ is our anthem. We do not have earthly limited treasures to freely pass out without limit. But we have an infinite, eternal, heavenly treasure that we can. Jesus Christ. Verse 32, one time, one more time. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. How h how will he not also with him, that phrase is important, with him, because these blessings, these things, these all things from God cannot be ours apart from Christ. They're hours with him. They're hours in him. With him, graciously give us all things. He will give us all things. All things promised in Christ, he will Give all things of true and lasting value in Christ he will give. He's a generous, generous king. Now as we as this passage flushes out what that looks like in Christian experience. You see two things in this passage that will occupy the rest of our time together. What you see in this passage is profound, but it's basic, it's the basic Christian experience. What you see in this passage is great suffering. And great victory. You see both of those things. It mirrors the work of Christ, it mirrors the book of Acts. In this passage, we're going to see great suffering. And we're going to see a great victory. So the way forward, so okay, that was our introduction. Alright, are you still with me? What we're going to contemplate this morning working through this passage is spiritual victory in Christ. Just to get a mental picture of where we're going, you can picture a museum. And we're all walking up to a museum together, glorious structure. And it says spiritual victory in Christ. This is where we're going to explore the displays and contemplate what spiritual victory in Christ has God provided for us. And you can think of three different wings in this museum. It would have more than that, okay, but just in our passage. There's three wings, all right? The first wing is our confidence. Our confidence. The second wing will be the evidence. The evidence of this victory, what evidence is there that we can look to and say, yes, we do have victory in Christ? And so we'll explore our confidence. You could call it the confidence. of our victory in Christ. And then we're going to look at the evidence, the evidence of our victory in Christ. And then the final wing of this museum of spiritual victory in Christ will be the wing of Permanence. The permanence of our victory in Christ. Nothing in all of creation can take away from you what God has given you in Christ. Nothing. That's the exclamation point of this passage. So, our the confidence or the assurance of our victory, the evidence of that victory, that we can look at and say, yes And then finally the permanence of our victory. Number one, wing number one of our museum, our confidence of victory in Christ. Verses 31 and 32, and then also 37. What then shall we say to these things? If God is for us, who can be against us? My heart was captivated by that this week. If God is for us, who can be against us? And the obvious implication of this rhetorical question is this, since God is for us, therefore none can stand against us. It's not that none will try to stand against us. It's that they will not prevail against us. If God is for us, who can be against us? He who did not spare his own son but gave him up for us all, how will he not also with him graciously give us All things. Verse 37, no, in all these things we are more than conquerors through him who loved us. And so in verse thirty-seven you can circle the word him, him who loved us, because he is our confidence. And then in verse thirty-one If God is for us, you can circle God. God is our confidence. If God is for us, who can be against us? And the obvious implication is, since God is for us in Christ, therefore nothing and no one can stand against us. And so our picture of that generous king who went out in the slums to get us and bring us into his kingdom and give us all things, this picture of our king is expanding in a glorious way. Not only is he a generous king who gives treasonous, troublemaking beggars all things. But he's a conquering king. He is a mighty king who conquers all of our enemies for us. Let's share in the victory Well, he would need to do that for us if we are ever to taste true spiritual victory because we are weak. We are unable, and let's be honest, we are fearful, and let's be honest, we're lazy. But Christ is not. Christ is faithful. Christ is active. Christ is mighty. He's not apathetic. And he is not afraid of his enemies. We may get anxious about what we're seeing in the world around us. Christ is not anxious He reigns in heaven on a throne of glory with all authority in heaven and on earth. The benevolent, generous king is a conquering king for weak, fearful, lazy sinners. Nothing and no one can take from us what God has given to us. And nothing and no one can stop God from doing in us. And stop God from doing through us. From what he's purposed to do. Our assurance, our confidence, our confidence of victory is God. He's our rock. He's our foundation. Look no further. God is it. He's our only hope. He's our confidence. Yeah, there's countless aspects of victory in Christ, and so there's countless applications of this, and you can come up with some. As we're talking, I want to highlight one love. Love. Biblical local churches should be the most warm. Joyous, humility-filled, self-giving, loving places on earth. We should be a living illustration of victory over selfishness We should be a living illustration for those around us of victory over bitterness. We should be a living illustration of victory over arrogance and pride. We should be a living illustration of victory over the spirit of division and antagonism that's come to define the fallen culture and is even something that's gloried in. In the culture around us. The other people in church are not a necessary evil for us to tolerate on our way to heaven. They, like me and like you, are trophies of God's grace to be rejoiced in. Enjoy their fellowship. Seek out their fellowship. We are a people of celebration and rejoicing in the victory of God given to us in Christ. We should love each other. Jesus promised, by this all people will know that you are my disciples. If you have love for one another, John thirteen thirty-five. We are not Smart enough to look into the nooks and crannies of God's secret providence. And we cannot predict the future in detailed ways, but with all that's going on right now, I believe that in God's providence There are a lot of people in our society right now who are dying for a true connection, who are dying for a true community, who are dying for grace-based relationships. Not only because of this age of digital disconnection, and I think you know what I mean by that, we're so connected to digital things that we're disconnected from others, we're disconnected from real life, even ourselves. But also with the social and cultural upheaval right now, I believe in God's providence. I'm praying for this. I'm believing God's power for this. It's just where I am that there are people out there who are dying for true love and community. They may not even know what it is yet. But I believe in a God who works all things out in accordance with his purpose. Anyway, my point is the church is the hub of this true love, the source of this true love in the community where people should be able to come into our church and w and should sense and see a self giving love for each other where they think, what is wrong with these people? What are they so happy about? Why do they care for each other like this? Are we supposed to care for ourselves with all of our energy? And it should stand out. It should be peculiar. It should be odd to the fallen culture, how we love each other. My point is this is one aspect, just one aspect of spiritual victory in Christ. Victory over selfishness. How can you get in on it? How can you participate in that? First of all, prayer. Devote yourself to prayer A young child who really, really wants something or really, really needs something has no problem crying out. For help. Children of God should cry out for help, particularly crying out for the Holy Spirit. Pray for the filling of the Spirit every single day. Devote yourself to the Word. It's God's power through his word that will transform us into the likeness of Christ as a seed needs son and water to sprout and burst forth with life, so also the human heart needs the word of God and the Spirit of God to sprout forth and burst with spiritual life and spiritual fruit. Prayer, the word, a newfound number three, a newfound devotion to the kingdom of God. A newfound devotion to what God is doing in the local church. Be the opposite of the devil on this point. The devil works consistently and persistently against what God is doing in and through his church But children of God who are the opposite of the devil, we pour ourselves into and support and rejoice and believe in what God is doing in and through his local church. Your vision of your spiritual life must be bigger than you. God saves us from our sins and he brings us into a kingdom located in a kingdom outpost to a biblical local church. And that's our discipleship. There's no kind, there's no biblical idea, there's no biblical idea of discipleship apart from that. Prayer, the word, a newfound devotion to the kingdom. For belief. Belief. This undergirds all of them. Believe that God can do it Believe that God can change hearts. Believe that God can make me more loving and you more loving and us more loving. Believe that God can transform us to be that window into God's love that we're put here to be. Only God can do it. Fifth and finally, and then we'll move on. Again, we could go on and on and on of things we could do to grow spiritually. We won't. Fifth, repent of secret sin. Repent of secret sin. That lust It's a problem. That jealousy and bitterness and gossip, that materialism, it's a problem. Just because we don't know about it doesn't mean it's not a problem. Sometimes we wonder why we're not advancing in our spiritual growth. That secret sin is like a hundred-pound weight shackled on your foot. And you're trying to run the race for God. And you're wondering why you're not getting anywhere. Repent of those secret sins, little white lies that you have no problem with. Chronic and acute negativity, which is just unbelief in socially acceptable clothing. Repent. If we're zealous for God's glory, we will be zealous to love each other. And the possession of genuine self-giving love for each other is one of many spiritual victories in Christ. That main point, that was just one of the displays in this wing of Our confidence. The confidence of our victory is God Himself. If God is for us, who can be against us? If God is for us, who can be against us? All right. Wing number two. Are you ready? Are you ready? Alright The evidence, the evidence of victory in Christ, verse 32 and 34. Verse 32 and then 34. 32 you get a hint of it, you get one aspect, and 34 he gives the whole thing. He who did not spare his own son, but gave him up for us all. And now go down to verse 34. Who is to condemn? Christ Jesus, the one who died. More than that, who was raised, who is at the right hand of God, who indeed is interceding for us. Now quickly, I'm not expanding upon this uh in a particular way right here. Who is to condemn? And then he goes immediately into this uh answer. Christ Jesus is the one who died, and uh more than that was raised, and he's at the right hand who's inter interceding for us. The only one who has the actual authority to condemn us is the one who's interceding for us and will never condemn us. So that's the good news. That's the encouragement. So you see here that the evidence is Christ and his work. Christ and his work. You get that hint in verse 32, did not spare his own son, but gave him up. That's talking about The death of Christ. And then at verse 34, he talks about the death of Christ, the resurrection of Christ, the ascension of Christ, and the heavenly intercession of Christ. Now, the work of Christ in history for us is more than evidence. Of s of uh our confidence and salvation. It's the actual accomplishing of that salvation But the way Paul uses it here is as evidence that we can look back to and find um Rest in and security in. What's my rest and security that I'll have victory now? Well look back to what God did in Christ What's my rest and security that I'll have victory in the future? Well you look back to victory in Christ, to Christ and his work. And that's what he says. Uh look at the sentence Structure at verse 32. And remember the question that came before this : if God is for us, who can be against us? Now the way God is for us, we should all know this is, He's for us in Christ So, if God is for us, who can be against us? He's for us in Christ, and so he goes immediately to Christ and his work. As the historical evidence, the real-life evidence that God is for us, and therefore none can be against us. He who did not spare his son, but gave him up for us all. And then in verse 34 Christ Jesus is the one who died. And so four points on the evidence of Christ's of victory in Christ. First, Christ's Death. He did not spare his son. That's proof. He did not spare his son. The one who died. Verse 34. Christ 's death was a sacrificial death. He went in the place of sinners. He was a substitute for sinners. Because of our sin, because of our rebellion, because of our corruption, when we are apart from Christ, we have a storm cloud of judgment hovering over us. Now the world doesn't want us to believe that The world wants us to think oh everything's just fine, you're just fine, there's no problem, move on, nothing to see. Here, but that's not true. We should not think like that We've sinned against our Maker. And He's holy and He's just. And because of that, we have a storm cloud of judgment over us. Christ's death was a sacrificial death. He died, he offered himself as a substitute for his people, as a substitute for sinners, taking the storm cloud of judgment that was over us. unto himself, and taking it all, so that we could go free, so that we could be justified and not condemned, so that we could be innocent instead of guilty, so that we could be righteous instead of unrighteous. So that we can be accepted and welcomed into God's presence and not exiled and sent out to the slums. Christ's death. Christ's death. How do we know? How do we know we have victory? Christ died for us. Christ died for us. The question is, have you believed it? Have you believed it? Have you said in your heart, Christ died for me? Christ died for me. He is my savior. He is my Lord. Come to Christ. Come to Christ. Don't let another moment pass come to Christ In the Old Testament, God is the rock of his people. Deuteronomy 32, 3 and 4. For I will proclaim the name of the Lord. I will ascribe greatness to our God. The rock His work is perfect. All his ways are just. Psalm 18, 2. The Lord is my rock. My fortress, my deliverer, my God, my rock, in whom I take refuge, my shield and the horn of my salvation, my stronghold. 1 Peter 2. 6, moving to the New Testament, stands in Scripture, behold, I lay in Zion a stone. A cornerstone that's chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. Matthew seven twenty-four, you know it well. Everyone then who hears these words of mine, Jesus is saying this, everyone then who hears these words of mine and does them will be like a wise man who built his house upon the Rock. Christ's death is the first piece of evidence of our victory in Christ as we look back and look for assurance Secondly, Christ's resurrection, verse 34. Again, more than that, who was raised? Right? SmackDab in the middle of verse 34. More than that, who was raised? So much we could say about the significance of the resurrection. I'll just summarize one aspect of this. It's proof that Christ Sacrifice was accepted. It's proof that Christ's sacrifice was accepted. And therefore, those who come to Christ for forgiveness really are forgiven. In other words, it's the resurrection is proof that the sacrifice of Christ was accepted. It's also proof that those who come to Christ are actually forgiven based. On his death. We do not merely proclaim that Jesus is the rock of salvation. We do proclaim that. Do we proclaim that? We want to proclaim that Jesus can be your rock of salvation. Your rock of salvation. We're not just talking abstract philosophy here We're talking about real life. One life, one death, one eternity. Is he your rock? Is he your salvation? And salvation, what is salvation? It means being saved. Being saved from what? Being saved from a pack of wolves, being saved from drowning, being saved from poison, being saved from God's judgment against our sin. Very simple, being saved from God's judgment against our sin. Again, that's another thing the the world doesn't want us to believe, but they're hypocrites. On that. Because in every aspect of human life and society and existence, what you have is right, wrong, and consequences. Right, wrong, and consequences. There's nowhere you can go. Grocery store. You cannot go into the grocery store and do whatever you want and say whatever you say. Say whatever you want to say and there not be consequences. You can't drive down the road and make up your own law. There's right, there's wrong, there's consequences. Parents, you don't hopefully, God forbid, teach your children, in this house there's no right and there's no wrong and there's no consequences, have at it. If you're a coach, would you say that to your players? If you're a teacher, would you say that to your students? If you're a governor, would you say that to your estate? No. All of life, the public library, all of life. There's right and wrong and consequences. But then we get to the the most important and biggest scale of what human life is like, and we want to live under this Illusion that there's no right and no wrong and no consequences. Don't believe the devil's lie. He wants those consequences to fall upon you and crush you. Christ, Christ, His death and resurrection offers salvation, all for salvation. That's what salvation is, it's being spared, being saved from God's judgment. What makes it possible? The death and resurrection of Christ Also is the righteous life. Because we do need an obedience when we stand before God. We need an obedience. We need a righteousness. We need that to stand before God and to be acceptable. Jesus lived a righteous life and then he gives that to us as a gift and he clothes us in his righteousness. And that's in Christ. That's how we stand before God. Christ's ascension. The first piece of evidence is Christ's death. The second piece of evidence is Christ's resurrection. The third piece of evidence Christ's Ascension 34. Who is at the right hand of God? Who is at the right hand of God? Who is interceding for us? What is interceding? What is interceding? Ascension, who is at the right hand of God, and then again interceding for us His ascension is uh Christ returning to heaven as exalted King and the giver of eternal life. And so that's if you want eternal life, we must go to Christ. Is intercession. What is intercession? What is interceding? This means that Christ serves as priest representing his people before God My children come to me and ask for many things. For illustration purpose, I'll just say a cupcake. Dad, can I have one of those cupcakes? Dad will say, go ask your mother. And child and child, a c a keen child will say, Dad, can you talk to her for me? Dad I want to s can I stay out till ten o'clock? Go ask your mother. Can you ask her? Can you ask her? What does that child want? The child wants an intercessor. The child wants someone with more authority To intercede on their behalf. I would never go into court without a lawyer. And no one would would or should, regardless of if they know they're guilty or innocent. You're not going to go to court and try to represent yourself like you know what's going on in court. You need someone who knows what to do And who can properly intercede for you? Our confidence is God. Our confidence is God. When you lay your head on the pillow tonight, your only confidence is God. What's the evidence of that? How has he worked that out in history so that we can know for sure that God is for us and not against us? His work in Christ. His work in Christ. That's the gospel. The life, death, and resurrection of Christ. And the third wing is permanence. The permanence of this victory. Verse 37. Verse thirty-seven. Are y'all still with me this morning? All right. Verse thirty Seven. No, in all these things, and we will look at what that's referring to We're doing the punchline first and then we'll zoom out. No, in all these things we're more than conquerors Through him who loved us. More than conquerors, through him who loved us. If you are a circler You can circle that whole phrase, more than conquerors. We are more than conquerors. The Greek text is one verb. It's one verb. That means to be utterly victorious. To be pervasively victorious, to win an overwhelming victory where there's no question. That's what that verb means, translated, we're more than conquerors. That's why it says more than. I mean, it should be sufficient just to say we're conquerors. If you conquer, you conquer. You're a conqueror. We're more than conquerors. There's no question. There's no contest. It's not close. In Christ. We're utterly victorious. This is speaking to the permanence of our victory. So now our picture of this Benevolent king, have you remembered this illustration? He's gone to the slums and brought us into his kingdom and said, I'm giving you all things, who's also a conquering king who defeats all of our enemies. The picture is expanding even more because there are still enemies that attack the kingdom. And there 's store still more ground to win for the kingdom There 's still still more ground to advance upon for the kingdom, and enemies are attacking, and you're trying to advance the kingdom, and there's battle, and there's intense suffering for the child of God who is seeking first the kingdom of God. Intense suffering. So our confidence is God, our evidence is Christ and His work. And we have a permanent reward. Not because there's no battles, and not because there's no enemies, and not because there's no suffering, but in the midst of battle, in the midst of enemies, despite enemies, and despite great suffering. We have a permanent victory in Christ that cannot be taken away from us. First, victory over the condemning power of sin. Victory over the condemning power of sin. Verse 33 and 34. Who shall bring any charge against God's elect? Oh the devil would like to bring a charge against you. I'm sure he uses that temptation on you weekly, daily. Hey, God can never love you. You can't really be forgiven. You're not going to make it to heaven You're going to give up next week. Look at your life. Lots would like to bring a charge against God 's life. The devil would like to bring a charge against God 's life. But now here's the point. Here's the point. It's God who justifies. It doesn't matter what they say. God justification, it's God who justifies, is God declaring you his child, an irreversible legal declaration It cannot be changed. It cannot be taken away. It's God who justifies. It matters not what anyone says about your standing before God. It matters what God says about your standing before God. It's God who justifies. Brethren, brethren, it's God who justifies. It's God who justifies. This is the only way I'm able to sleep at night. Because I know where I come from. I have no delusions about my past. I have no delusions about my heart, naturally speaking. If God doesn't justify me in Christ, I have no hope at all. But beloved, it's God who justifies. It's God who justifies One of the central reasons we come here to celebrate every morning, every Sunday morning. We come to celebrate. We come to celebrate. We come to rejoice. To sing the anthem of Christ. Christ as Lord. Christ is Lord. God has reconciled us to Himself in Christ, and it's God who justified. What I'm saying is, if I can calm myself, is that in Christ we have victory over the condemning power of sin. We have victory over the condemning power of sin. The devil's lies. Uh boy, he's a weasel. He's a weasel. And when you're outside of Christ He wants you to believe that you do not have a storm cloud of judgment over you. Because if you don't see it, if you don't believe it, then you'll never see your need for a savior and you're never never come to Christ. But then when you're in Christ He wants you to believe that you still do have a storm cloud of judgment over you, so that you be so burdened with guilt you won't be fruitful in the kingdom of God. He's a weasel. He's a liar. Don't believe his lies. If you're lost and outside of Christ, there is a storm cloud of judgment over you. You must repent and believe and come to Christ and he'll wipe it away and toss it into the sea. But if you're in Christ, there's There never could be any judgment over you because on the cross Christ took it all. He bore your storm cloud for you so that you could go free and not be burdened down with guilt. This is the gospel. Brethren, this is the gospel. What good news. Victory over the condemning power of sin. That's how the chapter began, actually. Romans 8. 1. There is therefore now no condemnation for those who are in Christ Jesus. Second, victory over hatred, harm hardship and harm. Victory over hatred Victory over hardship, victory over harm. If you do a study on the original context of Romans, what had happened in the city there And what Paul had gone through in his ministry, persecution, suffering, hatred, being ostracized. This was the context. Victory, victory, victory over hatred, hardship, and harm is an important part of Christian life Verse 35 and 36. Who will separate us from the love of Christ? Now do you understand what's being asked there? When he says, Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? And what he's really asking there is this. Who shall separate us from the love of Christ? Who can separate us from the love of Christ? Tribulation, distress, persecution, famine, nakedness, uh being poor and having nothing, and and Danger, sword, as it's written, for your sake, we are being killed all the day long. We are regarded as sheep to be slaughtered. A cross-reference, just pointing out are high are emphasizing the point here that God's people will suffer. God's people will suffer. But the question is, can that separate us from the love of Christ? And the answer comes in verse 37, no. The answer comes in verse 37, no. In every war. We've been talking about this a little bit on Wednesdays, but don't equate suffering Or even death for the Christian, don't equate that as failing or losing. That's not biblical. In every war, people on both sides suffer and die. Experience loss and trauma like we can never imagine unless you've been in battle and been in war. But that does not mean that both sides are victorious One side suffers greatly unto victory, the side of Christ, the side of Christians. One side suffers greatly unto defeat. Don't equate suffering that will come your way as failing to do God's will. You might be failing to do God's will. I don't know. I'm just saying if if you're a believer and you're suffering, don't equate suffering with failing. Does that make sense? Brace yourself for the battle ahead. It very well may be Based on what just what we're seeing in society right now, you might be fined for something you say or do It very well may be that you are fired for something you say or do or believe or advocate. It's already happening. It may very well be, what did I say, fined, fired, imprisoned. Imprisoned for something you say or won't say, or do or won't do, or advocate or won't advocate. You may be forced to quit because of this, which is because of a matter of conscience. Were you in good conscience before the Lord on a biblical foundation The Holy Spirit has convicted you. I can't work there because I will not do this and dishonor my Lord. I don't know, but it may very well be coming You may be cut off for your family for something you say or do or advocate or believe or just a church you go to. Even if you don't Say something at the dinner table, they know you go there and they believe this, and they said this, you're not welcome here. It may happen. You may suffer greatly. You may suffer greatly. Matthew 5, verse 10. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. You see, suffering is does not mean failing. Matthew five verse eleven. Blessed are you and others revile you, persecute you, utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account, right on Jesus' account Verse 12, rejoice and be glad. What? Rejoice and be glad? For your reward is great in heaven. For also they persecuted the prophets who were before you. You're in good company suffering for the kingdom of God. You're in good company. Your Savior suffered for the kingdom. He suffered to establish the kingdom. We suffer as heirs and citizens of the the kingdom. Victory over the condemning power of sin. Check. Victory over hatred, hardship, harm. None of these things can separate you from Christ. Check. Third. Victory over anything and everything. I always get a kick out of the end of a glorious, wondrous, worshipful kick at the end of Romans 8, because it's almost as if Paul, there's nothing he can say There's no words, there's no phrases that he could come up with to say where he feels like, okay, yes, now I've been strong enough on this point that I want to be, or that I need to be. He just can't say enough. Victory over anything and everything, verses thirty-seven Through thirty-nine. No and all these things were more than conquerors through him who loved us. For I'm sure that neither death nor life, nor angels, nor rulers, Demonic powers, nor angels, nor rulers, demonic powers, nor things present, nor things to come, nor powers Again, invisible spiritual forces, nor height, nor death, nor anything else in all creation. And what he's done, the reason he says that last, anything else in all creation, is because he's been talking about things in the visible creation. And he's been talking about things in the invisible creation. Things in the visible realm that you can see. They can't separate you from God's love. Things in the invisible realm that you cannot see. They can't separate you from God's love. Things that are happening now, it can't separate you. Things that happen in the future, it can't separate you. Things below It can't separate you. Things above. It can't separate. Nothing can separate you from the love of God that's found in Jesus Christ. Nothing. Now that's not security, I do not know what is, but that's the message of this passage. Permanence, permanence, permanence of victory in Christ. Victory over the condemning power of sin. Victory over hatred, hardship, and harm, and victory over anything and everything. And my application point on this is simply don't give up. Do not give up. God is faithful. God will provide. God will keep you. Don't give up. Plant your feet on Christ and just settle it in your heart now. I stand on Christ and I will not be moved. The Spirit will sustain you, or you will not be sustained. That's just where we are, standing on the rock. Christ is a generous king. Christ is a conquering king. Will you submit to him as your king? We're going to do things a little bit differently. At the end of the service, we'll have two songs that are songs of a response, of rejoicing and celebrating. But if you need to respond to this message, follow up with me after the service. I'll be right up here or walking around someplace close to right up here. Or just contact me this week or contact me through the church office. Contact Pastor John later in this week. Let him be on his little vacation. Okay? And just say, I'm giving my life to Christ. Or say, I need to talk about Christ. I need to talk about salvation. Just say a little bit of something. We'll take it from there. We'll help you. We'll serve you. But don't pass up this opportunity of victory in Christ. Don't pass it up. Will you submit to him as your king for the forgiveness of sins? For eternal life. Victory over the condemning power of sin. Don't you want victory over that? Victory over hardship, harm, and hatred. Victory over anything and everything. Verse thirty two He who did not spare his own son But he gave him up for us all. How will he not also with him graciously give us all things? I proclaim to you this morning, on the authority of God's word, He will with him graciously give us all things. All things promised in Christ, God will give. All things of true and lasting value, God will give. Let's pray together. Father, we worship you, we give you thanks, we praise you for who you are. We thank you for Christ. We thank you for victory. Thank you for the Holy Spirit. Thank you for your word. I pray, I pray, dear Lord, that you've encouraged us. But more than that, from those who don't know you, I've prayed you've stirred them up. I've prayed you've helped them to see their sin and their guilt and given them a desire, a spirit. wrought desire for a savior. Show them Christ. Bring them to Christ we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen.