The words we'll examine tonight come from Psalm 136. Psalm one thirty six His steadfast love endures forever. I believe that once we read This song, you will know exactly why it's titled His Steadfast Love Endures Forever The reason I'm picking this psalm to examine and to study tonight is that I want us to leave here going into tomorrow, the celebration, the holiday, the tradition of Thanksgiving. Being reminded of who our praise and thanks belongs. It goes to God. It's to Him. But I'm also well aware that we live in a world that isn't all sunshine and butterflies all the time. There's plenty of things to be concerned about. There's plenty of times in our lives where we have sorrows and pains. There's hurts. The world may seem upside down at times. But what I want us to do tonight is to rest and to see that God is not changing. He hasn't changed. We'll see from the very beginning of history, of man's history of creation, till the future of which we do not know, God 's steadfast love endures. Forever. And so tomorrow and tonight and throughout the rest of your lives, when you're thinking of the praise of God and being thankful and rejoicing, tomorrow as you sit around tables with friends and families and You're supposed to be talking about what you're thankful for. But often we get together and we kind of gripe and complain and talk politics. But so Mars should be dedicated to being thankful. And I want you to recognize that all of your thanksgiving, all of your praise goes to God. And what I also want to do tonight is give you some categories, some areas of your life that you can help examine and look into to think about, oh yeah, I did I wasn't even thinking how great God was in this Oh, throughout the year, I I completely missed that God was active, and you can name a spot. Oh, even in this time, in the season of great pain this year, here was the presence of my Savior. And be able to look back on what the year has given you and how it has unfolded and still be able to praise God for all of his blessings. So join me as we read Psalm 136. Yes, it repeats itself, and yes, it's intentional that it repeats itself. But let us read Psalm 136 starting in verse 1. Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of gods. For his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord of Lords for His steadfast love endures forever. To him who alone does great wonders, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who by understanding made the heavens, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who spread out the heavens, excuse me Who spread out the earth above the waters, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who made the great lights. For his steadfast love endures forever. The sun to rule over the day. For his steadfast love endures forever. The moon and stars to rule over the night. For his steadfast love endures forever. To him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, for his steadfast love endures forever, and brought Israel out from among them. For his steadfast love endures forever. With a strong hand and an outstretched arm, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who divided the Red Sea in two For his steadfast love endures forever, and made Israel pass through the midst of it, for his steadfast love endures forever. But overthrew Pharaoh and his hosts in the Red Sea For his steadfast love endures forever. To him who led his people through the wilderness, for his steadfast love endures forever To him who struck down great kings, for steadfast love endures forever, and killed mighty kings. For his steadfast love endures forever. Shihan, king of the Amorites, for his steadfast love endures for ever. And Ah, king of Bashan, for his steadfast love endures for ever And gave the land as a heritage, for his steadfast love endures forever, a heritage to Israel, his servant. for his steadfast love endures forever. It is he who remembered us in our low estate For his steadfast love endures forever, and rescued us from our foes, for his steadfast love endures forever. He who gives food to all flesh for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of heaven for his steadfast love endures forever. So if someone asks you, what did I teach on tonight? What are you going to say? Alright, good job. You think, oh come on, this is just repetitive. It's it's just going over and over again. Yes, beloved. is because we need to be told over and over again, reminded of the love God has for his people. This psalm is often called the Great Psalm Praise. And historically it would have been a call and a response. Makes a lot of sense if you if you see it that way, that uh the pastor, the leader of the worship would give the call, give thanks to the Lord for he is good, and all the congregation would join together to say that Very good. That was a test. Very good. But the reason is is that the pastor, the one leading worship, would call out something that we should be Thinking about God or a characteristic of God or an accomplishment that God has done throughout history. And in that moment of recognition of who and what God has done, the congregation is reminded Of his steadfast love. And also notice what is being talked about: historical events. Historical events. Starting in verse 4, you start to talk about creation. Pretty long time ago, right? We have creation of the universe a long time ago, but even in that creation time , All the way back then, we're reminded that we're worshiping and praising the same God today. Talks about what he's done with Egypt and liberating Israel out of the hand of Egypt a long time ago. Right? Long time ago. But what are we to do? That historical event that happened a long time ago, today, even today, in 2025, we're reminded that the Lord Lord's steadfast love endures forever. Talks about destroying the kings after Israel was liberated from Egypt. And here yeah here we're reminded that his love is the same. as it was yesterday, a long time ago. God's not changing. Beloved, may this be an encouragement to us May this be an encouragement to us to be reminded that our God's love is not changing and it endures forever. It endures forever. There's no end to it. There's no waving in it that maybe maybe today he's not as happy. He didn't wake up on the right side of the bed, so he's not quite as loving as he was yesterday. No. The God that loved you so much that sent his son to die for you is the same God that loves you today, even in your sorrows, your pains. And your weaknesses. God 's love endures forever. May this ring on our ears and our minds. May we think about this Both in the good seasons and the bad. I think it's one of the most important things we can do as Christians is in the good seasons, we are rejoicing in God. We're praising God. We are excited for the blessings of God. For the moment that will come when we enter into the dark seasons of our lives. The dark seasons of our souls when it is just hard to wake up in the morning. When we just question everything that's happened around us, when we're mourning loss and pain in our lives, we must reflect back and be reminded of the good things God has done. So that in those sorrowful moments, in those times of mourning, in those times of pain, we are reminded that the same God is the same loving God today. In the pain, in the sorrow. May this be the echo and the cry of our lives, being reminded of God's goodness. So I want to break down five categories tonight, five categories of areas that the psalmist writes about, of the glory of God and reasons to give Give him thanks and praise. And then I want to add some practical ideas of maybe this will spur up a thought in your mind, maybe something that happened this year, you'll think about it, and it'll help you praise God and give thanks. Thanks to God rightly. The first area that the psalmist tells us to give thanks to the Lord is because he is God. He's God. Look there in verses 1, 2, and 3. Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good, to the God of gods, and to the Lord of Lords. Give thanks to the Lord, for He is good, a God of gods, and the Lord of Lords. What should we do with this? What are we to understand? There is no one greater than him. No one greater. There's no supremacy that's higher than God's supremacy. There's no Lord over God. There's no one that instructs God on what he should do and when he should do it. God is the supreme. He's the almighty. He's the all-powerful. Is there a reason to rejoice and thank God for this? Is there a reason to reflect and think about how great he is and that he is our God, and there is none like him? And that he is a good God. He is good and righteous, he is holy. There's no mistakes, there's no accidents, there's no imperfections, but he's good. He's the God of gods and the Lord of Lords. So what should we take from this? Let me help spur up some thoughts in your mind of maybe some something that's happened in your life this year and uh recent past that you can Just think about, and that tomorrow and throughout your life, you can give thanks to God for Him being the God of gods. Remember that He is in Control. Have you had a season in your life? Have you read a news article that's just made you feel like everything's out of control? There's complete chaos. Nothing is right. There's problems all around. But then he gives you another day, another breath in your lungs. He surrounded you with friends and family. He's he's given you a moment in life that just brings you peace. In all the chaos, in the most chaotic season of your life, there's this glimmer of peace and rest that you can find. And it doesn't make sense. It doesn't make sense. sense to the people around you, but you know that that's God, the one who's in control. So we look around the world and it feels as though it's completely out of out of kilter. It's all out of control. It's it's chaotic. Yet it's still there. It's still there. If the world was completely out of control, completely destroying itself, it would have done it a long time ago. But the fact that we wake up and we still see problems tells us that there is a God in control and not allowing it to go all the way out. The train's not completely off for the rails. It may be wobbly, it may be, it may feel like it's about to destroy, but it has not yet. Let us give thanks to our God because He Is God. He's the supreme. There's no one above him. The second category of praise and thanksgiving that the psalmist wants us to think about is the reality that God is the The Creator. Look in verses four through nine. To him who alone does great wonders, to him who by understanding made the heavens. To him who spread out the earth above the waters, to him who made the great lights, the sun to rule over the day, the moon and stars to rule over the night. Creator. The great creator that we have, the great God who has made everything, put everything into motion. That's the God that we worship. That's the God we praise, and that's the God that we are thankful for. Mistakenly one day asked the youth if any of them have ever put a moon into the sky. It's a risky thing to do with teenage boys. But think about it. Can we create anything like God? Has anyone ever just spoken in a tree formed? No. Has anyone brought together soil with your hands and made a tree that survived and lived? No. We plant some seeds and And we see a little glimmer of God's work in that that we are planting a seed, and then over time we see this plant, this tree grow into a beautiful plant or tree. But we don't just speak things into existence. Our God does. Our God created everything. So maybe tomorrow and throughout your life you're just thinking, what can I thank God for? This is a hard time. Go outside. And look at the creation God has given you. Go look at a flower. No, no, no, don't just look at it and say, oh, it's beautiful, it's a nice color. Go examine in detail that flower The complexity of a flower. The complexity and majesty and the beauty of that flower I had a season in my life, it was when Dorothy was very little, um, that I'd get up early, take Dorothy outside in Italy, and we could just sit out in our yard and it was a great time and I had a my intention was to just stare at the ground for like two Two, three minutes a day. Do that sometime. There's a whole world on on ants and bugs and critters, lizards. It has lizards running around. There's amazing stuff out there. One of Kenzie's favorite thing is the mountain. Go stare at mountains and not be in awe of what God has done. How else can we think about the greatness and The thanksgiving we should be giving to God, our Creator. The fact that you have a voice and a mind to think of Thanksgiving. The mind is so complex. We don't even understand it as humans. And we we have philosophy and we're thinking about how we exist and know how we exist. Yeah, the fact that we're doing that, the fact that we have debates, the fact that we are speaking And hearing and tasting the food tomorrow is all because we worship a God that is the creator of everything. He has given you your bodies, He has given you the breath in your lungs, and we should rejoice and thank Him. for that. God as the Creator is a good reminder of praise and thanksgiving we should give to the creator of the heavens and earth and us his blessed creatures. The third category that the psalmist wants us to think about God and give thanks to him for is that he is Savior. He is the Savior. Look at verses 10 through 16, to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, and brought Israel out from among them with a strong hand and an outstretched arm. to him who delivered divided the Red Sea in two, and made Israel pass through the midst of it, but overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea, to him who led his people through the wilderness. So the imagery that the psalmist is using here is the salvation, the redemption of Israel out of Egypt and towards the promised land. Alright, so we see this liberation out of the physical slavery, the physical slavery of Egypt into the promised land, into the wilderness and then into the promised land. The psalmist wants them to think about this, to be reminded how they once were a captive people under the slave master of Pharaoh. But God came and did miracles to liberate them. And we should we should go, oh wow, that's so cool, that's amazing. But that is only a shadow, it's only a glimpse of how he came And saved sinners like you and I. Oh, we were the slaves under a great slave master. Pharaoh 's nothing in comparison to sin. You're great slave master. Nothing. Yeah, we're amazed, oh wow, he did the the plagues. He sent the plagues and he divided the uh the sea and and Israel, the millions were able to walk through there and they were free. Yeah, bringing the dead to life, forgiving the sinner, and making them righteous is much more amazing than what he did in Edom. That was just a glimpse of the glory and the wonders of what he would do. Beloved, we have received the salvation. God sent his son Jesus to die on the cross for sinners like you and I. While we were slaves, he was doing miracles to bring us liberty, bring us freedom. He made us righteous in Christ. So what should we do? Beloved, I hope tomorrow you give thanks to God that you have been saved, that you have been made righteous. That your sins are forgiven. To see the work of Christ on the cross, to see what He has accomplished on your behalf. May we recognize that we are a free people when we are in Christ. And may we rejoice in it. May we give praise and honor and thanks. Thanks to God. For it is his work. It is God's work that he sent his son, truly God, truly man, to die, to live a perfect life, the life that we could not live. Obeyed the law, fulfilled the law, died on the cross, buried in the grave, rose from the grave three days later, and And then ascended into the heavens, taking dominion over heaven and earth as he sits at the right hand of the Father. Let us give praise to God. for this miraculous work. Let us see that we are liberated people. And as we give thanks tomorrow, the only reason we can do that is because we are a liberated people. Friends, if you're in here tonight and you're you don't recognize this, you haven't seen Christ as your Savior, you haven't recognized that you are liberated from your slave master's sin, I plead with you to turn to him. Come to him in faith. Believe in him. Believe that you are dead in your sins, but the only way of true and everlasting life is in Christ Jesus. Come to faith in him. And give thanks to the God that has saved you. The fourth category that the psalmist wants us to think about is to praise God that He is victorious. He is victorious. Look in verses 17 through 22 with me. For him who struck down great kings and killed mighty kings. Shahan king of the Amorites and Og king of Bashan, and gave their land as a heritage, a heritage to Israel, his servant. Using a historical event to draw a connection for us to think of the mighty works of God. Here he's talking about how God has struck down pagan kings, mighty kings. Kings that had all the power of the world in their time. Kings that appeared as though no one was greater than them. But they're gone. They were destroyed. And likewise, like we did in the previous section, we can see this passage, hear of the mighty works that God did in the past, and think about our lives today. If God is mighty enough to strike down a physical king, and he brought Jesus back to life, he's given us new life, is God mighty enough to To be victorious over our sin and temptation in our lives? Is he mighty enough to take victory over the pain and the agonies and the sorrows and the mourning that we have in our lives? Is God victorious enough to defeat our enemies that appear so great in our minds? Is there temptation in your life? That you have struggled with for years. But you can now see how God has brought you liberty and freedom from that temptation. He's given you the ability and the strength to fight against that temptation. Well, brothers and sisters, if that's you, praise God. Give him thanks for that. Is there an enemy in your life, there's someone you work with that you have just had tension with, and you've butted heads, but Miraculously over the last few months or last year, you kind of became friends. And you don't know what to do with that Give thanks to God. Has your boss just become nicer at times? Praise God. Thank Him for that. w sometimes what we do is we have these okay, he's destroyed great kings and and great physical enemies and we're only thinking about these really big, miraculous things that the whole world sees and that's what we're thinking about when we're saying What should we thank God for? When often it's really tiny things that are super miraculous in our lives. That you're just able to have a normal conversation with your sibling that you haven't talked with in months. Praise God. Give him thanks for that. That is the victorious God that we worship. Give thanks to the God that has victory over sin and death in your life. Make sure you thank God tomorrow for that. Lastly, the last compartment that the psalmist wants us to think about and to thank God is that He is a God that is compassionate to the weak. He is a God that is compassionate to the weak. Look in verse 23 with me. Says, It is He who remembered us in our low estate and rescued us from our foes. He who Gives food to all flesh. That first line there in 23, it is he who remembered us in our low estate. Paul tells us in Romans that Jesus came when we were weak. When we were weak. Beloved, do you ever feel weak Probably. Have you ever just felt like, oh man, I I know I'm a Christian and and I should be a lot better and I'm struggling with this I'm struggling with this temptation. I know I should be better. Do you feel weak in that moment? I hope so. I hope you do. And sort of wallowing in your weakness and and being, oh, woe is me, run to the cross of Christ. The cross of Christ. Thank him. Praise God that even in your weakest state Christ has died for you. Even when you were least deserving of any grace and any mercy, Christ came and died for a sinner like you. Even now that you've been a Christian 10, 20, 30, 40 years, and you're still struggling with sin and you still have doubts in your times, Christ died for you. Praise God that in our weakness He has compassion on us. That's the only state we really have before God is weakness. It's the only state we have. It's not like, oh, well, maybe I'll get better, I'll be strong, I'll be a little bit healthier and less sinful and then come to Christ. No. He came to us in our brokenness, in our weakness, when we are at our lowest level. Ephesians tells us that we were dead in our sins. Sins and trespasses. You can't get any lower. You can't get any weaker. That's when Christ came to redeem us. When we were dead in our sins and our trespasses. When we were enslaved to sin And our weakest state. So beloved, now as a Christian, when you're struggling, you feel weak You feel weak, you just don't. Ah, tomorrow's a good challenging day. God has compassion on you. For many, this is a reminder of just the loss we have in our lives. Remember that God has compassion on you. Whatever the state you find yourself in, God is compassionate. In all of this, the psalmist reminds us over and over and over again that his steadfast love endures forever. So for tomorrow for some, tomorrow will be a wonderful day. It's just a joyous time, and you'll celebrate. And it's a great time with friends and family. It's happiness all day. Be reminded that God's steadfast love endures forever and give thanks to God. And for those that tomorrow is painful at times. A reminder of loss. A reminder of just a void. Maybe a hard situation. This year just wasn't the way you wanted it. You miss a family member or friend. Remember this. You can still give thanks to God because his steadfast love endures forever. This is how the psalmist closes verse 26. He says, Give thanks to the God of heaven. Here he brings it all back. Throughout all of this you could have said give thanks and then started the verse. But here he he drops that for a while, but here he brings it back. Give thanks to the God of heaven. He reminds us of where God is in his righteous place up in the heavens, supreme, superior to all. And then he closes with that sweet reminder. Reminder, his steadfast love endures forever. Beloved, may you be strengthened tonight. May you have peace tonight. May you give thanks tonight because our God's steadfast love. endures forever. Let us go before him in prayer. Holy God, I thank you. I thank you that you are the same God who was yesterday, today, and forevermore. I thank you that the God that sent his son to die for sinners like us, is the same God with the same love for us today. I thank you that the God that created the universe is the same God that you are today. Lord, I thank you that you are the God that did miracles in the Old Testament, in the New Testament, and even today. I thank you that you are the God that saw sinners, broken and dead, rebels against you, that you sent your Son to die in our place, to raise from the dead, to give us an eternal hope. And that loving God is the same God today. Lord, I ask that tomorrow as we go into Thanksgiving, that you remind us of all your great deeds and acts Your character, all the reasons that we should be giving thanks to you. Remind us, give us words to express our love and thankfulness to you. Lord, I ask that in the times that we are hurt and in pain and in sorrow and mourning, when we're suffering, that you remind us that you are the same great God of times past. Give us a reason and a voice to cry out in our weakest state. Praise to you for your goodness, your mercy. And your grace. Give us a hope, a hope that one day we will be in your presence forever. And all the pains, all the sorrows, all the mourning, you will wipe away every tear that we have And for the rest of eternity, we will be giving praise and thanks to our great God whose love endures. Forever. We thank you, we praise you, we pray this in the name of Christ. Amen