So as you'll see on the handout, we're in the historical books, Second Kings to Second Chronicles What I'm not going to do today is do a review of everywhere we've been because the review is getting too long. We're into like week five or six of this. And the review is getting too long, but if you flip on the back, is essentially a review of everything that we've gone over. The only thing it doesn't have on there is that overarching story of scripture that we've been pretty much drawing on the whiteboard every week from creation to new creation with the work of Christ in the middle. Old covenant on top, new covenant on bottom. So for our guests today, what we've been doing is working through the Bible section by section. Book by book. And for every book, what we're doing is looking at the historical setting at the beginning of the book, the historical setting at the end of the book. And then the basic story of the book. So three things for every book, what's going on at the beginning, what's going on at the end. What's the basic story? And we'll put out some highlights and we'll look at some key verses, key passages for each book. And I don't know if you've been enjoying it, but I've really been enjoying. I've never done a survey, Sunday school class, Bible study like this before. But I find myself always doing this in my own personal study, so I figured, hey, this may be a good thing to do in the form of a class Book by book, historical setting, historical context, helping that story of the Bible really come alive so that the because these are not Random stories. These are not abstract principles and morals. The Bible's a story. It's a story of what God has done in history to accomplish his purpose and to apply his grace to our lives. Today we come to 2 Kings, all right? 2 Kings, let's start at where it says begins. But 853 BC. Alright, 853 BC. This is one of those that came last week when we got to the end of 1 Kings. And I said, this would be a great, the most obscure Bible trivia you would ever know. What date does the first does the book of first Kings end? 853 is the beginning of Ahaziah's reign. There you go. There's your Bible trivia. Well that's where Second Kings begins. 853, Ahaziah 's reign in Israel. Now Israel is what? The northern kingdom or the southern kingdom? Northern Kingdom. Vince is pointing up, so that means north. Right. The southern kingdom is called what? Judah. Right. So you have Judah, which is just the tribe of Judah, and the tribe of, there's one more, Benjamin. The other ten tribes make up Israel, the northern kingdom. This was the split right after Solomon's reign. Right after Solomon's reign. His son Rehoboam. Ruled and over initially over the whole kingdom, but immediately Rehoboam and the north, or Jeroboam, Jeroboam Oh, and the North split off and started their own thing. So eight fifty-three is where Second Kings begins. It's You know, you don't have to you're probably not going to remember Ahaziah's reign or Jehoshaphat 's reign in the north and south, but you can remember this. Second Kings begins, it's are you're already in the divided kingdom. You're already in the divided kingdom, which is different than 1 Kings. 1 Kings takes you from the monarchy to the divided kingdom. 2 Kings, you're already in the divided kingdom. And what it takes you to is to the exile. So that's actually pretty easy in the broad strokes of it. 1 Kings takes you from monarchy to the divided kingdom. 2 Kings takes you from the divided kingdom to both kingdoms being exiled. And the ending of 2 Kings actually ends Pan after the exile five sixty five sixty BC. So A couple centuries later. It ends in five sixty BC. We have a verse that tells us this, which will be the first verse we look at today. But the book of Second Kings ends In the 37th year of Jehoiachin's exile, now this there are multiple stages of the Babylonian exile, but the biggie Is 597. That's the conquering of Jerusalem. 597. That's when Jehoiachin is exiled. Others are exiled too. The temple wouldn't be destroyed until 11 years later, 586. But 597 is Jehoiachin's exile. 2 Kings ends 37 years after that. And just picture Jehoiachin, the former king of Judah, is in Babylonian exile, and he's imprisoned, but 37 years later, still in Babylon, he's released. Now he's kept on house arrest, but he's released and he's shown royal hospitality. So by the time you get to 2 Kings, the theological message By the time you get to the end of 2 Kings, the theological message is: even in exile, there's a glimmer of hope. There's a glimmer of favor to the heir of David. That's major Because the heir of David, Jehoiachin, who's been exiled, and is under Babylonian dominion, yet he's released and he's shown a special favor of royal hospitality even while in exile. And so the hope Hope lives because, only because of one reason, brothers and sisters, hope lives because God is faithful to his promises. And God promised that the Christ, the Messiah, will come from and within the line of David, and through that heir, that Christ, that Messiah, God would establish his eternal kingdom to bring salvation not only to the South But also to the north, and salvation not only to Israel, but also to the world, to the nations, the Savior of the world. So there's a glimmer of hope even in exile as you come to the end of 2 Kings. Let's turn to 2 Kings Twenty five verse twenty seven. Second Kings twenty five, starting in verse twenty seven Now I'm going to get rid of the stool. I'm not preaching the sermon today. We have a guest preacher, so I do not need to conserve my energy By means of a stool, which means you get extra crazy mat for Sunday school. That's the downside of that. He's not trying to portion out his adrenaline at all Here you go, 2 Kings 25, starting in verse 27. And in the 37th year of the exile of Jehoiachin , King of Judah. Alright, again, the year of that exile was 597. So that puts this in 560 BC. In the twelfth month On the twenty-seventh day of the month, evil Meredok, king of Babylon, in the year that he began to reign, graciously freed Jehoiashim, king of Judah, from prison And he spoke kindly to him and gave him a seat above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon. Can you imagine that? Did you see what that said? He has a place of honor in the kingdom. He gave him a seat. Above the seats of the kings who were with him in Babylon. So Jehoiachin put off his prison garments and every day of his life he dined regularly at the king's table And for his allowance, a regular allowance was given him by the king according to his daily needs as long as he lived. He's in a better situation than the citizens of Babylon. And most officials, governors, and judges of Babylon. And you see God's providential hand in this, as we see in all of Scripture. And that there's a glimmer of hope here, because this is Um th again thirty-seven years. Can you imagine being your your nation, your capital city? Is conquered, destroyed, is plundered, and slews of people are taken into exile, into captivity And for thirty-seven years you're in a foreign prison for thirty-seven years And heighten that to like imagine if you were not only a governor, not only an official. But the king of that nation, and now you're in a foreign prison, away from your home, away from your family, away from everything. You've lost everything. thirty seven years. And then in Providence God intervenes and he's freed. He's given a daily allowance. He's eating the best food probably the best food in the world at the time. At the king of uh Babylon's table, the most powerful prosperous empire in the world at the time. And he's eating at the king's table, giving a place of honor, a seat of honor at the king's table. This is not small stuff This is wild stuff. Both the negative, but then also the positive, giving a glimmer of hope. The story. Alright, the story of Second Kings. Already summarized in general. It's the transition from the divided kingdom to both kingdoms being exiled. But this so the story is the northern kingdom Israel conquered and exiled by Assyria Alright, that's number one. The northern kingdom Israel being conquered and exiled by Assyria. And the key date for that, does anybody know it? It's in the 700s. 722. That's a good day to memorize. 722. The northern kingdom of Israel is conquered. And exiled by Assyria, and they are never ever restored to the land. Never restored. When the southern kingdom is exiled, they'll be restored to the land, because that's the Davidic line. That's the covenant promises rest. Upon the southern kingdom. So the southern kingdom is restored, and the Messiah comes from that southern kingdom And the Messiah brings salvation to the South, salvation to the north, reunites the north and south under one head, Jesus Christ, and then brings salvation to the world. That's the story that the book of Acts tells. Anyway, 722, Israel conquered and exiled by Assyria for their wickedness. Well, it's not just random history either. I I mean that's part of the story that this exile and being conquered is God's judgment against them. This is divine judgment, historical judgment. God uses Assyria as his rod of anger. to conquer and exile in judgment of Israel, the northern kingdom. And then part of the story, this the other part of the story is Judah being conquered and exiled by, not Assyria, but by Babylon under King Nebuchadnezzar. Uh you have to put an asterisk near this, but five ninety-seven. Five ninety-seven. Is the major one. But there are other waves of exile. For example, Daniel was in the first wave of exiles in 605 BC. That's Daniel. But that's before Jerusalem was conquered and taken. There was just a battle and the taking of some exiles in a victory, but five ninety-seven is the victory. Five eighty six Eleven years later is the destruction of the temple, and then another wave of exiles, and then some years later, 582, I believe it is 582, which is many years later, there's another wave of exiles. But 597 is this first major it's the first major one, it's the taking. So Did I say 597? 597 is his first major victory. So, story of 2 Kings, Israel taken by Assyria as the judgment of God. Judah taken by Babylon as the judgment of God. Also, as part of the story, and as you start reading 2 Kings , The first several chapters, the major story centers on a prophet whose name starts with an E. Elisha. Right. In 1 Kings, you have the e the emergence of the prophetic office. It is a very important role. And that's represented in Elijah. But then the mantle passes to Elisha in 2 Kings. And Then you have this powerful miracle working predominant ministry of Elisha in 2 Kings. And you will also see in 2 Kings. No, nowhere close to what Elijah and Elisha receives, but you'll see mention of Jonah and Isaiah. Jonah and Isaiah. And that sort of is your 2 Kings, you sort of get this transition point into what will become the writing prophets. The writing prophets, obviously those are the prophets that wrote books. We have their books in our Bible. But before the writing prophets was the predominant ministries of Elijah and Elisha, just God exalting and intensifying really the role of the prophetic office in Israel really covenant prosecutors to proclaim Israel's sin and call Israel to repentance and Give warning of coming judgment and call hearts to the Lord. This is the role of the prophet. So you have story of 2 Kings. Israel taken by Assyria, Judah taken by Babylon, the ministry of Elisha, but you also see Preview of the writing prophets, Jonah and Isaiah. Let's look at a couple interesting passages here. Second Kings two, nine to twelve. Second Kings two nine to twelve. You'll see what this is about as I read it. This won't be difficult to see. When they had crossed, Elijah said to Elisha. Ask what I shall do for you, before I am taken from you. And Elisha said, Please let there be a double portion of your spirit on me. And he said, You have asked a hard thing. Yet if you see me as I am being taken from you, it shall be so for you. But if you do not see me, it shall not be so. And as they still went on and talked, behold, chariots of fire and horses of fire separated the two of them. And Elijah was taken up by a whirlwind into heaven. A whirlwind, a tempest, a storm. It's like storm theophany, like what covered Mount Sinai, or like when God appeared to Job out of the out of the whirlwind, out of the tempest. It's like a s like a localized storm appearance of God. And Elijah is taken up into heaven. And verse 12, Elisha saw it and he cried, My father, my father. The chariots of Israel and its horsemen, and he saw him no more. And there you have the formal passing the baton. Passing this prophetic mantle, this prophetic ministry, this office from Elijah to Elisha. And Elijah is taken right up to heaven. Which is part of God's revelation and part of God's teaching about the future hope that we have in heaven. There is a home beyond this world. Old Testament believers knew that Abraham knew that. He knew there was a heavenly city. He knew there was an inheritance beyond and better than this world And you see an illustration, a revelation, or a teaching of that as Elijah is supernaturally taken up into heaven. Could you imagine seeing that happen to someone? Or like the storm Theophany with chariots of fire and horses of fire descend from heaven and your partner in ministry is scooped up by them and taken back to heaven. But that was confirmation to Elisha of what Elijah had said. He'll receive a double portion of his spirit, of that prophetic spirit, that prophetic office. It shall be so for you. If you see me as I am being taken from you, it shall be so from you. So this is practically speaking confirmation for Elisha that now, for lack of a better phrase, he's the guy. He's the guy. He's going to have to speak against the sins of the people. He's going to have to speak against the sins of the king. He's going to have to warn the people of coming judgment He's going to set to speak the words of God The promises of God, the commands of God. Elisha is now the guy. Let me stop there. I do have some other passages I want to look at, but any questions or thoughts? On anything we've talked about Second Kings so far. Can you imagine watching all this? That'd be wild. No. You know, take this cloak and claim it to open the waters and all this stuff happening. Yeah. Yeah, I liked I like the fact you said uh this stuff in the plural Because go home and read this larger narrative. This is not the only miracle that happens. The dead are raised to life. I mean there this is amazing supernatural revelation. Yeah. It's breathtaking really. Yeah, Vince. Mm might be kind of a cryptic question or whatever, but who, one of your questions? Cryptic? I don't believe it. So is there always like First of all, Biss, you know one of the things I love one of the many things I love about you is before you ask a question you always tell me like what category that question fits into. Like not that this is off topic or anything, but Um so is there always like one is if there's a prophet like Elijah or Elijah kind of so called past mantle. Is there always one guy or like did Jonah get sent out by one of them? Like you know, we've got twelve apostles and there were people sent out, you know, you had Peter and there were sent out, you had Paul and you had guys Did the prophets have like assistance? Like was Jonah like the assistant of one of the prophets or was this he Oh that's a good question. Yeah, maybe, but not necessarily. Yeah, so the question is about so the calling of a prophet and then I think also you're thinking about maybe the training of a prophet by a mentor who then passes on the baton. Yeah, that's interesting. I have to look moral and to see if there are other examples of that. But it's definitely not necessary, but because you see prophets being individually called and individually commissioned. through uh through in some form or another. Like a vision or or a theophany or something like that. So I would say Yeah, at least we have precedent for it here in Elijah and Elisha. But the uh uh prophets weren't called in the same exact model as like the apostles. who you who you uh referred to because you have you had Christ incarnate who basically called and appointed the original twelve all at once And of course, Judah is the b uh Judas is the betrayer, and he's replaced uh by Matthias. in Acts, but that was through the church, through prayer and casting lots to to seek God's will in that. But, you know, just in general, zooming back from your question in in terms of the calling of the prophet That's extremely important in the Old Testament. You don't appoint yourself to be a prophet any more than you appoint yourself uh the pretension to appoint yourself as a pastor or preacher It's it's God who will call you. Now that looks different in the church age as God's working through the church and through the Spirit to identify and call. But you still you have the you needed the calling and the authority of God to be a prophet. Yeah, any other thoughts on just general topics or questions on Second Kings so far? Yes. There was the helper that was it Elisha had the helper who you know went back and got the clothes of the Gehazi. I I think Gehazi, Gehazi, something like that. Yeah, so yeah, they had helpers. And then you see also this other phrase in scripture, the sons of the prophets. So like you had these groups, these schools. Who would learn from the prophets and share in the work like Gehazi would be an example of a of a servant, uh like a right-hand man. Yeah. Alright, let's uh let's now go to chapter eight, second Kings eight sixteen to nineteen. In the fifth year of Jooram, the son of Ahab, king of Israel, when Jehoshaphat was king of Judah, Jehoram The son of Jehoshaphat, king of Judah, began to reign. He was thirty-two years old when he became king, and he reigned only eight years. in Jerusalem. So I know there's a lot of names and different things like there, but we're just, we're on Jehoram. Jehoram Beginning to reign in Jerusalem, so that's the southern kingdom. Verse 18. And he walked in the way of the kings of Israel. As the house of Ahab had done. Now do you think that's good or bad to walk in the ways of the kings of Israel? Thumbs down, as I'm seeing, multiple thumbs down. Yes. To walk in the ways of King of David of your f would be good, but to walk in the ways of the kings of Israel is the last things you want to do. For the daughter of Ahab was his wife, and he did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, yet the Lord was not willing to destroy Judah. For the sake of David his servant, since he promised to give him a lamp give a lamp to him and to his sons forever. We'll come back to that. That's the main reason I picked this paragraph was that Davidic promise And God's faithfulness to the Davidic promise and the hope that that would instill in believers living in this time But you see this evaluating of the king. He did what was evil in the sight of the Lord. And as you come through the stories of the divided kingdom, You see the kings evaluated. He he did what was evil or he did what was right in the eyes of God. He he walked in the ways of Jeroboam , which is idolatry and wickedness, or he walked in the ways of his father David, which you can only see that in the Southern Kingdom. The Southern Kingdom is the only kingdom that you had good kings. All of the twenty uh I get I get this mixed up 'cause one of the kingdoms had nineteen kings The other had twenty. But all of the kings of the north walked in evil and rebellion against God, and some of the kings of the south walked in the way that was right in the eyes of the of God. Not perfectly, but they walked in the ways of their father David. But not perfectly, there are different degrees of that But you see the kings evaluated, and it's a covenant evaluation, whether they were obedient to the Lord in his word or disobedient to the to the Lord and his word. But verse nineteen is so important. The Lord was not willing to destroy Judah. Now why is that? Is it because Judah is uh filled with righteous people? Is it because Judah is filled with good intentions? Is it because he has faith in Judah that they can pull themselves up by their bootstraps and bring revival and bring reformation and bring restoration and serve him properly? No, it's because God is faithful to his promise. God preserves Judah because he's faithful to his promise for the sake of David, his servant, since he promised to give a lamp to him and to his sons forever. So the line of David would live on. The promise of God holds true. There will come An heir of David who will establish God's eternal kingdom. That was the promise to David. That was the promise. From your throne, from your family will come one who will establish this kingdom forever. So this this hope, practical hope, based on God's promise, where there's preservation for the sake of God's purpose. And based on God's promise. It's not exactly the same thing, but there is a parallel here with God's covenant with Noah, where He saved Noah and his family, preserving mankind. That's for the sake of God's promise. Because God promised that He'll send a Savior to mankind. Now, had the Savior come yet? No. So, because He's faithful to His promise, He preserves mankind And then the covenant with after the covenant with Noah after the flood is that God will no longer h he'll he'll no more Will God destroy the world of sinful nations? That's what he did in the flood. He destroyed the world. He destroyed the world. Uh filled with corruption and sin. And God promised that He no longer would do that. He would no longer destroy the nations. He would preserve the nations. Again, why? Well part of God's promise is that Um, he'll bring salvation to mankind. You can't bring salvation to mankind if you don't have a mankind. God's original purpose in the Garden of Eden, do you remember what it was before the fall into sin? While Adam and Eve were righteous and innocent and holy, there was no sin, there was no death, they had already received their marching orders to be fruitful. Fill the earth, multiply, subdue the earth, rule over the earth and everything in it, basically to to spread mankind over all the earth. In the image of God. Now, they rebelled, but God 's plan to fill the earth with people who reflect his image, reflect his glory, and serve him properly, that's still God's plan. So preservation because of the promise keeps the story going. And that's what you have in the preservation of Judah. He was not willing to destroy Judah for the sake of David his servant, since he promised to give him a lamp to him and to his sons forever. That's why we know the church will not be stamped out in the world. Will not be stamped out in the world. The church will continue to grow and continue to increase and spread the kingdom of God. There are ups and downs in different locations. Right now in America, right now, it's on a downturn. Although recent research shows the younger generations are seeing an uptick in conversions and church attendance, more so than my generation, Gen X, more so than generation before me, the boot the boomers. So you can't it's not a straight line always up. There are ups and downs. But as you've had this downturn period in America, the opposite is happening in lots of places in the world. They're seeing up tur upticks and conversions like never before. Churches and worship like never before But two hundred years from now, America could be on another historic uptick and those areas could be on a historic downtick. You j you just can't But we know overall that the gates of hell, the gates of Hades, will not be able to stop Jesus Christ from building his church. He will build his church. So again, but why how can I say that? Very simply, God has promised it. God has promised this. And in the book of Revelation, when you see these visions of heavenly worship, what do you see? You see people from every nation, peoples, language, tribes. People from all over are brought into the kingdom of God. Well the only way that could happen is within history. There's no salvation after history. You've got to have that with achieved within history. People from every nation, tribe, language. brought into the kingdom. Alright. So I think that's enough on I'm really trying to drive that stake into our hearts. We have hope in the future because of God's promise. The people are preserved because of God's promise. History goes on because of God's promise. The church will succeed because of God's promise. You'll make it to heaven because of God's promise. You'll be sanctified and be made holy because of God's promise. You'll be risen. On the last day, because of God's promise. It's all because of God's promise. All right. Let me just give you some key chapters. We won't have time to read them or talk about them. Second Kings Seventeen, Second Kings seventeen is the northern exile. All right. Second Kings seventeen, the fall of Israel. It's verse 6, if you want to look at it. Verse 6. 2 Kings 17, 6. That's a major chapter, major event, 722, the defeat and exile of the North. And then Once you get to Chapter twenty four. Twenty-four and twenty-five deals with the the capture and exile of the South. So there's just the major thresholds of the story. Chapter 17, Northern Exile, 2425, Southern Exile. Let's go to 1 Chronicles. First Chronicles Now this is interesting. It's tough to talk about a beginning and ending of chronicles. Because it is it's historical in its nature, but the content of First and Second Chronicles is not strictly historical narrative. There are a lot of what's. If you've ever tried this in your devotions, there are a lot of what 's in first first chronicles that are notorious for being bored. The genealogies, right First Chronicles will tell the story from Adam to David's death. Now that's pretty simple. Now it's telling the story in a specific way for specific reasons, but just what it's doing is chronicling History from Adam to David's death. So from creation to 970 BC The reason it's doing that is it's chronicling Israel's story as the people of God from whom the Savior will come. Chronicling Israel's story as the people of God from whom the Savior will come. And that's why you have the genealogies. Because people don't determine from whom the Savior will come God determines from whom the Savior will come. We know that because of God's promises, but as God's promises are always given to certain people in a certain context through his covenants. So Chronicles tells First Chronicles tells from Adam to David's death, Israel's story, from Israel's story as being the people of God from whom the Savior will come. Now It does talk about things that happened after David's death. Alright, so this is what's tough about summarizing 1 and 2 Chronicles. Because the author is chronicling all of history that ultimately is going from Adam to The exile, the time of Babylonian exile. It encompasses all of that. The last thing you get in 2 Chronicles will be the decree of Cyrus. Now the This will be on the final exam, all right Neil? So if you're if you're leading up one of the study groups for the final five thirty-nine The decree of Cyrus, that's officially when Babylonian captivity came to an end. The Medes and Persians conquered the Babylonians. And with the decree of Cyrus, the restoration of Israel, the restoration of Judah to their land began. So I mean first and second chronicles is telling from history to the decree all the way up to the decree of Cyrus It's it's given genealogies and it also includes historical narratives. That's uh but that's what makes it tough. I said it two or three minutes ago, here's what makes it tough. Then I kind of went off on a little tangent. It may what makes it tough to summarize First and Second Chronicles is you have these two different kinds of writings. You have genealogies But then you also have historical narrative. So it's not a strict chronological narrative like what you would get in um in uh in like 1 and 2 Kings, for instance. But if uh if 1 Chronicles I'm sort of taking these two together, so we'll go back and forth between 1st and 2 Chronicles, if 1 Chronicles goes from Adam to David's death 2 Chronicles goes from Solomon to the decree of Cyrus. Solomon to the Decree of Cyrus. So 1 Chronicles takes you, it really tells all of history. from the standpoint of Israel and redemption. Adam to David's death, which is 970, and then Solomon to the decree of Cyrus. So this so 2 Chronicles is 970 to 539. And both are doing the same thing. They're chronicling Israel's story as the people of God from whom the Savior will come. And I'll put an asterisk near this in your notes, with a focus on something I've already made a big deal about today, with a focus on God's faithfulness to the Davidic covenant. Because brothers and sisters, that's their hope. From a practical standpoint, that's their hope, is that God is faithful to his promise that he will send to Christ, that he will bring salvation. Just like we have a future hope too of things God promised about our future, Christ will return. There will be a final judgment. There will be a resurrection. There will be a new heavens and new earth. We know this. We have a hope for the future. based on God's promise in the past. Well in their historical context, the culminative promise is the Davidic covenant. A Davidic covenant. That's why when you read the gospel narratives, why it's such a huge deal that Jesus is the son of David. And he's a legal heir to David. Otherwise, he wouldn't qualify to be the Messiah. Story, story of First Chronicles. You actually do in First Chronicles Within the book, in the middle of the book, you actually do get a genealogy A genealogy, it's so cool. From Adam all the way to the returned exiles from Babylon. So it's written compiled after the restoration. This is 9, 1 to 2. Well look at this first. This is really, really cool verse. 9, 1 to 2. 1 Chronicles 9, verses 1 to 2. And again, this is why I said some this is really difficult to summarize. What's going on because in the historical narrative portion it ends with David's death. But the genealogy that you get in the middle of the book The genealogy already takes you to the returned exiles. It's showing you who's the rightful people of God upon whom the covenant promises of God rest. Chapter 9, verse 1 and 2. So all Israel was recorded in genealogies. I just like to have that job. Take genealogies. Copy genealogies without a laptop and without AI Without voice command. Hey about this. Without pen. You use a quill pen or something? Anyway, so all Israel was recorded in the genealogies, and these are written in the book of the kings of Israel, and Judah was taken into exile in Babylon because of their breach of faith. Now the first to dwell again in their possessions in their cities were Israel, the priests, the Levites, and temple servants. And some of the people of Judah, Benjamin, Ephraim, and Manasseh lived in Jerusalem. There isn't mixed people. Judah and Benjamin, properly speaking, But you also have people from the tribe of Ephraim and Manasseh who are returning with them. And then there are already been there had already been a a mixture of some of the people from those tribes in the southern kingdom before the captivity. Because they they were not on board with Jeroboam, or so they came down south and lived in Judah. But so you know that this has to be written after the restoration. to Judah after the return to Jerusalem because it's saying the first to return from captivity and then starts listening and you get you start you get genealogies. That's the purpose of the genealogies. From it's given in the book from Adam all the way to the returned exiles. Another part of the story of 1 Chronicles is you do get the history of the monarchy. But the it's a r just a focus on Judah and the Davidic line in First and Second Chronicles There's no discussion about the northern kingdom and those wicked kings because that's not the Davidic line. The d the covenant of the coming Messiah, the covenant of of Their coming kingdom was not made with the northern kingdom. It was not made with the kings in the line of Jeroboam. It was made in the southern kingdom with Judah. It was made with the house of David. So in 1 and 2 Chronicles, that's what you're getting. You're getting this this the genealogy and the history of the promised Of of the promise of God, really. It's tracing out the promise of God. And that has to do with the Davidic line, the Davidic covenant in the house of Judah. The reason I'm making such a huge deal about that is because when we get into the prophetic literature , this return from exile It's such a big deal. Why is that such a big deal? Just apart from nobody wants to be a prisoner in exile. But the reason it's such a big deal is be is because God and the prophets ultimately there's I was just about to sit on the stool that's not there. That would have been great for the recording. Um There are lots of things you're promised in the prophets. But the two major promises that you have in the prophets is that Judah will be saved from Babylonian exile and restored to the land. That's number one. This provisional old covenant kingdom will be restored. That's the first major overarching promise in the prophets But the second major overarching promise is that the Savior will come and provide eternal salvation And of course, that goes all the way back to Genesis 3. 15. That's parallel to the Davidic covenant of an heir of David who established the eternal kingdom of God. So first the Southern kingdom will be restored to the land under the old covenant, but then out of that will come the Savior, and he'll bring eternal salvation and the eternal kingdom. And s and so this story of the Davidic line and the southern kingdom and them going into exile This is the story of the Old Testament. This is it. And the note that the Old Testament ends on is Judah restored to the land, but What's the big catch? Judah's restored to the land, but what's what's their situation in terms of well I don't know how to I don't know how to give a hint without giving away the answer Jesu Judah is under the land, but how is it different than the situation before the exile? Vince? Yeah, they're subservient to Persians. Yeah, the Medes and the Persians. The Medes and the Persians. Um so there remember In Daniel 2, the promise is you'll have four kingdoms, four earthly satanic kingdoms. You have uh Babylon and then who's next after Babylon? I just said it, yeah. I'm just seeing if you were paying attention. Greece, and then after Greece you have Rome. And in the days of Rome is where God will establish His eternal kingdom. Which is why you get the historical notes in the gospel narratives of that that this is the time of Rome. This is the time of the emperors. So That's tracked out. Then when the Old Testament ends, Judah has already been restored to the land, but they're under Persian dominion. So there's still time to pass before the Savior comes. I I want to end uh let's see 21 uh real quick on the story of 2 Chronicles. Uh just just some interesting tidbits about 2 Chronicles. You get the story of Solomon's reign and Solomon's temple, but there's no mention of Solomon's apostasy, which if you read first Kings You see , I think it's chapter eleven, twelve, you see just how important Solomon's apostasy was. When his older age he fell away from the Lord and fell into atrocious pagan worship, idolatry, and all kinds of adultery that's it's ridiculous. But And then, in case you weren't here last week, it's because of that God's judgment because of Solomon's apostasy is what splits the kingdom. That's there in Scripture in 1 Kings. It's because of Solomon's apostasy that the discipline will come, the judgment will come, and God takes away ten tribes from him. And that happens immediately after he dies. But in 2 Chronicles, because it's highlighting hope and it's highlighting the promise of God and the restoration of God, you don't have mention of his apostasy. The Davidic come the Davidic Kingdom is the ground of hope. I said that. Second Chronicles let's try to do some quick hitting highlights. Second Chronicles six Forty two O Lord God, do not turn away the face of your anointed one. Remember your steadfast love. For David your servant. See that? Steadfast love because of David your servant, which obviously is referring to the promise that he made to David. Next chapter. 718 2nd Chronicles 718 then I will establish your royal throne as I covenanted with David your father Saying, you shall not lack a man to rule in Israel. Now I remember when we looked at the Davidic covenant last week I said, in that passage, the word covenant is not used, but later in scripture it is called a covenant. This is one of those. I will establish a royal throne as I covenanted with David your father. saying you shall not lack a man to rule Israel. Then go to 217, 2 Chronicles 21 7. Yet the Lord was not willing to destroy the house of David because of the covenant that he had made with David. And since he had promised to give a lamp to him and his sons forever. And Not only God's faithfulness isn't is a nice little highlight, but there's something, Vince, you asked about this. I forget if it was Wednesday a while ago or if it was in here a while ago, and I've already alluded to it this morning. That there was a mixed community in Judah. It was not strictly and only people from the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. It was their allotment. So of course Predominantly it was the tribes of Judah and Benjamin. But turn to 2 Chronicles 15, 9. 2 Chronicles 15 This is during the reign of Asa. And just for lack of time, let me just read this verse. And he gathered all Judah and Benjamin. And those from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon who were residing with them, for great numbers had deserted to him from Israel when they saw that the Lord his God was with him. So that's pretty cool. Now that's your key verse. You guys you asked a while ago, uh is there a verse or a passage that talks about this? And there is when the return is being described, but also here you have during the divided kingdom, people from Ephraim, Manasseh, and Simeon And it says great numbers because they wanted to be where the faithful were. They wanted to be where God was honored. They did they so they left. They fled Jeroboam 's kingdom of wickedness, and that and that heritage and that legacy. But there's also another passage where I forget if it was before this, but you have uh Levites Levites uh also left the northern kingdom and came down to the southern kingdom. Why? Because Jeroboam started his own religion in the north. And so the faithful Levites fled to the south. So I'll have to get that one for you. We don't have any time for these, but I want to mention these other highlights as you come through the narrative sections. In the Chronicles, there's civil war between the North and South. Okay, there's civil war. Um there are good kings in the south. Now in the north there were 19 kings. None of them were good. In the south you had twenty kings. And let's see, one, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight of them, eight of them were good in differing degrees. And we know that because it's said of them, they did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh. And there's also another phrase that they walked in the ways of David. I think a few of them, they they did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, but not in in the ways of David or something like that. And some did what was right in the eyes of Yahweh, and they also walked in the ways of David. And there was also reform and restoration and the tearing down of the high places. and idols and things like that. So there are different degrees of goodness. But you have Asa, Jehoshaphat, Joash, Amaziah. Uzziah, Jotham, Hezekiah, and Josiah, 1, 2, 3, 4, 5, 6, 7, 8 kings of the 20 total in the south were good kings. That's the Davidic line. God is preserving that line because the Redeemer will come from that line. Last final highlight, this is chapter 33, Manasseh's treachery. Manasseh is interesting because at the end of his life, toward the end of his reign, there is some kind of repentance that goes on there. But the beginning of his reign is the worst. The beginning of Manasseh's reign, the evil is the worst. And it's in it's because of that where the judgment and the exile for Judah becomes fixed. And that's in the narrative. Manasseh's treachery treachery against God is what fixes that the exile is going to happen. And it's just from that point it's just inevitable. But because of God's promise, because of his faithfulness, they will be restored to the land. And then once the days of Rome come, the Christ will come from, will come from the restored kingdom. And when the Christ comes, he brings salvation to the south, salvation to the north. He unites them, and then he brings salvation to the world, which is the era we live in. Today is the day of salvation. Today is the day of Christ building his church to the ends of the earth. Today is the day of the kingdom of God. So it's a different historical context. We get to look back on all this and see what God had promised. They had to live looking forward to it based on what God had promised. Really cool stuff. All right, let's pray. Father, we thank you for your goodness. And we do thank you for your faithfulness, to your promises. We thank you, God, that you brought your promises into our lives. to give us salvation, to forgive our sins, to give us the Holy Spirit, to bring us into your church, to bring us into your kingdom, to give us hope. In this world of sin and darkness and death and violence, you give us hope and you give us peace. We pray this morning you'll continue to increase our devotion and love for your Son, the Lord Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Stop it.