Okay, we've been going through the series called Knowing Scripture Kind of a survey of the Bible, really trying to look at the overall story of the Bible, trying to look at the historical context of the major sections of the Bible, and then going within those sections, looking at book by book. the setting when that book started, the setting when that book ended, then the overall story. I'm going to slow down a bit. The Pentateuch and then when we started the historical books. Which are from Joshua to Esther. I was trying to cover five books a week I think we got to like three and a half. Maybe three books and then I had to rush through the fourth book. I've never taught this format before. I've never taught this course before. It's all new material I'm putting together. So I'm learning as I go. What I haven't really been able to do that I really, really wanted to do is After we look at the setting at the beginning, setting at the end, and the major storyline, I wanted to look at four to five key verses or key passages from each book. Which we've done that a little bit, but not to the extent that I want to So starting today, we're slowing down. My goal today is to look at three books. Alright, three books. 2 Samuel, 1 Kings, and 2 Kings. So we're still in historical books. We'll look at 2 Samuel 1 Kings and 2 Kings. Next time we'll be in Chronicles. That's assuming we get done these books. And also what I'm not going to do today is review everything. Each week we've been reviewing that drawing on the board that maps out the whole storyline of scripture. Creation to new creation. The center point is the work of Christ. And then the first half is the old covenant. Second half is the new covenant. And then I've been reviewing whatever's in red, the red letter, the red letter edition. The red is just a summary review of what we've already covered. So you can look at that on your own Today what I do want to want to do is launch right into 2 Samuel, but I have a correction to make. I have a correction to make. I caught this uh after the class last time. I gave Ruth as occurring around 1080s or 1070s BC. That's wrong. It should be in the 1100s. It's toward the end of the Judges era where the story of Ruth occurs. I get off track sometimes because the the dates before Christ are going backwards. And so when you're when I'm going through things, sometimes I go too quick. And when thinking of a portion of time that happens before something, I'll go earlier dates, like what we would do from our perspective. something happens before the year 2000, it was like the 80s or 90s. But in the BC framework you've got to you've got to add it, not subtract it. So Ruth, for those of you who care, you want to go back and correct your notes. Is not the 1080s or 1070s, that's the 1100s, late in the period of Judges, where the story of Ruth takes place All right. 2 Samuel. What year does it begin? 2 Samuel begins. The year ten ten. Alright. The year ten. Saul has died, or Saul dies. You have David's lament. For Saul and Jonathan. This is how 2 Samuel begins. Actually, the first phrase in 2 Samuel is after the death of Saul. Alright, so Saul has died. And the book of 2 Samuel begins with David's lament for Saul and Jonathan, and David being anointed the king of Judah. I said this last time. It's good to remember. 2 Samuel is essentially the book of David. It is the book of David. And this is how it begins. Saul has died. David laments for Saul and Jonathan, which shows you something about David's heart of compassion. And a genuine sorrow, sadness that God's King, God's anointed, had died and One of his best friends, if not his best friend, Jonathan, who is Saul's son. So you can see this starting to come together now. We're going to be in the book of David That's my title for it. 2 Samuel begins 1010, right after Saul's death. David laments for Saul and Jonathan, and David is anointed king of Judah. Now David will reign as king over Judah. For seven and a half years, and then he's anointed and appointed king over all of Israel You're not in the divided kingdom yet officially. You're still in the monarchy, but you still have regional things going on with authority and leadership. And the book works those details out. But just for our knowledge, seven and a half years David ruled as king over Judah And then for 33 years he'll reign over all of the nation of Israel. So that puts his rule 40 years is the way it's summarized in scripture. 40 years, 40 and a half years. But it all starts with David lamenting for Saul and Jonathan, that he's the first thing, first major thing, he's anointed king over Judah. The book of 1 Kings. Sorry. The book of 2 Samuel. I'm getting ahead already. We're not in 1 Kings yet. The book of Second Samuel ends in the nine seventies, just before David's death. Just before David's death, it'll which he dies in nine seventy. So there's a 40-year reign that ends in the 970s because it doesn't record his death. Um The story that 2 Samuel ends on is David's census, which just stored in the back of your mind, is Sinful in his mindset, sinful in his heart to take this census, and so there's a divine judgment. A supernatural historical judgment that will come because of David's census. But just for your notes, you can just put David's census and God's judgment. But then after that judgment, David builds an altar on Mount Moriah. And what was significant about Mount Moriah in Genesis? One of the most famous Isaac? Yes. This is where Abraham was called to offer up Isaac. And God intervened on Mount Moriah and provided a lamb as a substitute offering for Isaac. We learn later in Scripture that Abraham had the faith to sacrifice Isaac because he believed in the resurrection. He believed Because of God's power and because of God's faithfulness, that if he offered up Isaac, he believed God would raise Isaac from the dead and fulfill his promises. Just as he said. You learn that later in um in scripture that Abraham believes God would raise Isaac from the dead. Anyhow, At the end of 2 Samuel, David takes this sinful census. The judgment of God comes, and you'll see the story of how that judgment is turned back and how it comes, how it ceases. But a major part of it is got as David acquires this threshing floor from someone, and he builds an altar there. And he offers sacrifices there, and it ends up being the place of Mount Moriah where Abraham intended to offer Isaac. And also this is the place Where the most important building in Israel will be built, and that building would be the temple. So it's the same location, Mount Moriah, where Abraham was going to offer Isaac, and then David building this altar and offering sacrifices to God. And then this is where the temple is built. 2 Chronicles 3. 1, if you're wanting a proof text. Let me look that up for us. 2 Chronicles 3. 1. Then Solomon began to build the house of the Lord in Jerusalem. on Mount Moriah, where the Lord had appeared to David his father at the place that David had appointed on the threshing floor of Ornon the Jebusite So 2 Chronicles 3:1 is an important verse. It's an interesting verse because it links these events together at the same location. Mount Moriah, where Abram was going to offer Isaac. the threshing floor of Ornan where David built his altar and then where Solomon breaks ground to build the temple. Pretty important place, huh? I mean that's That's a very very important and interesting thing to remember. So 2 Samuel ends David is an old man, older man. He takes this census. Here comes the judgment of God. And then David will build this altar at the threshing floor of Ornan the Jebusite. And that's where the temple will be built. Now, the summary of the main story of 2 Samuel really is with David's reign. Alright, David's reign. If you want a two-word summary. 2 Samuel is all about David's reign, but I think it's good to point out some highlights too. You have in 2 Samuel what's called the Davidic Covenant. The Davidic covenant. You'll probably remember this where David wanted to build a temple. He wanted to build a house for the Lord. God Ends up speaking through the prophets, speaking to David, that's not going to happen. But God, in that context, He promises David that he'll build a house for David And part of God's promise to David, this Davidic covenant, is that from an heir of David, God will establish his eternal kingdom. God will establish his eternal kingdom from one of David's heirs. It's really the culminative promise. If you look at the Old Testament, how the gospel promise develops over time. So really scripture traces out where the Messiah will come from. It starts in Genesis 3. 15, the seed of the woman, and then you find out it will come uh within the lineage of Abraham, and then within that, the Savior will come from within the line of Shem and from from the tribe of Judah and it the gospel promise and tracing out the Messiah develops and develops and The culminative development is in the house of David. One will come from the house of David, which is why that's such a huge deal in the gospel narratives. That Jesus legally is from the house of David, proving that he is the Messiah. He has a legitimate claim to rule over God's eternal kingdom. So this Davidic covenant is a highlight. Another highlight in David's reign is Just the success and dominion that God gives David over his enemies. This is going to be the golden age For Israel is David's success and dominion, and then Solomon's success and dominion, where the kingdom is firmly established. And they conquer the surrounding nations and the surrounding and they occupy them. But even this is so amazing. Even the nation surrounding nations that Solomon and David don't conquer and occupy Those nations are paying tribute to Israel. So Israel, the golden age is David into Solomon And because we'll get into this today, because of Solomon's falling away from the Lord late in life, God takes that dominion away and splits the kingdom. But another highlight, in addition to the Davidic covenant, is the sheer success and dominion of David that God gives him over his enemies. It's not all butterflies and rainbows with David, is it? David is a man. David is a sinner. And the the highlight sin, one of the chief sins in David's life is the story of Bathsheba, which is chapter eleven. Where David commits adultery, then commits conspiracy. Well he's just a lie about it and cover it up. He commits conspiracy murder and God has to send him a prophet and by God's grace, not by David's goodness, by God's grace. David is restored. And David repents. That's the only way any of us will repent is by God's grace. We won't want to repent of anything If God's grace is not at work in our hearts. And if we fall into a habit of sin, or if we fall into a gross sin like David's. Restoration can come only by God's grace. So it's not all it's not all good with David because David is a man. He's a sinner just like me and just like you. But there is loss of good with David because God is gracious And God has a plan and God has a purpose and he's working it out in David's life just like he's working it out in our lives. Aren't we thankful about that? Amen. That we're not just uh molecules in motion, that we're not just buy uh random Biological organisms in an arbitrary world, but that God is working in our lives and in the world for a purpose. So, summing up again that story, the story of 2 Samuel quite simply, two words. 2 Samuel is David's reign. And then you have the Davidic covenant, where God promises that one of David's heirs will establish and reign over his kingdom forever. In Acts chapter 2, Peter Teaches that the fulfillment of this heir of David on David's throne is in Christ and his resurrection and ascension. Peter will use that language of David's throne and they'll speak of the fulfillment in Christ. But David's throne, David's earthly reign was not the real thing. It was a type and a shadow of the real thing. The real thing is Christ's reign at the right hand of God in heaven. The earthly throne, the earthly kingdom, is a type and shadow of the kingdom of God. It's a symbol. It's a living symbol. But it's all pointing forward to the fulfillment or the eschatological kingdom, which is Christ reigning. So anyway, Peter draws that out in Acts chapter 2 in his Sermon on the day of Pentecost, if you want to check that out. And Peter proves that from Scripture. He is exeguting Old Testament scripture and proving how Christ is the promised heir Who will establish the eternal kingdom and pour out the Holy Spirit and bring about and accomplish the forgiveness of sins. So we see how these things connect. Alright, before we get into representative passages on 2 Samuel, are there any questions? Anything I went too fast on? Anything that was a little bit confusing on just the beginning, the end, and the main story? What's the reason I Yeah, there's a lot going on there because there's passages too where I mean you see God Is in his providence moving or stirring up David to do this, but that said that that happened because of judgment and wickedness. So that it's The whole story , take the story as a whole, apart from all of the details that we don't don't know or won't understand, is a story of historical judgment for wickedness and rebellion for not trusting God. Um and and understanding all the exact minutiae of God's providence in that it's going to be beyond us. But I think from David's perspective, the answer to your question is why the question was, why was it simple? It's going to be his motives. It's going to be his motives of why he's doing it. Probably pride. Probably pride um and glorying in himself and what he had accomplished and um thinking too highly of himself So yeah, we can maybe later we can look at that look at one of those passages. But a similar thing is said about The kings of Assyria, especially the king of Babylon, Nebuchadnezzar, where in providence God uses them to bring about his purpose. And you would think, oh, that's good. That's a good thing. These are good guys. No, not necessarily. God is using Nebuchadnezzar to accomplish God's purpose. But that's not what's going on in Nebuchadnezzar's heart. Nebuchadnezzar's heart is just sinful pride. Right? So he ends up coming under judgment For doing the things that God was using him to do. So it really expands our minds and almost blows our minds when you think of the providence of God to use sinners to accomplish his purpose. But because of what's in their motives and their hearts, they too come under judgment. Alright, so first representative passage will be 2 Samuel 7, starting in verse 8. And this will be the chapter for the Divided Covenant is chapter seven. So can somebody read for us? Nice and loudly, and if you're watching the playback of this, you just have to read it on your own because I don't think the mic is going to pick up somebody reading this, but 2 Samuel 7, verses 8. To seventeen verses eight to seventeen. Any takers on this? Sure. Now therefore tell my servant David this. Yahweh of armies says, I took you from the sheep pen, from following the sheep, to be prince over my people, over Israel. I have been with you wherever you went, and have cut off all your enemies from before you. I will make you a great name like the name of the great ones who are in the earth. I will appoint a place for my people Israel and will plant them, that they may dwell in their own place and be moved no more. The children of wickedness will not afflict them anymore, as at the first. And as from the day that I commanded judges to be over my people Israel, I will cause you to rest from all your enemies. Moreover, Yahweh tells you that Yahweh will make you a house. When your days are fulfilled and you sleep with your fathers, I will set up your offspring after you, who proceed out of your body, and I will establish this kingdom He will build a house for my name, and I will establish the throne of his kingdom forever. I will be his father, and he will be my son. If he commits iniquity, I will chasten him with the rod of men, and with the stripes of the children of men. But my loving kindness will not depart from him, as I took it from Saul, whom I put away before you. Your house and your kingdom will be made sure forever before you. Your throne will be established forever. Nathan spoke to David all these words, and according to all this vision. Thank you. So first of all, you see this is going to happen after David dies. Verse 12, I'll raise up your offspring after you. Then you see phrases like this: establishing the kingdom, and then also establish the throne of his kingdom. forever. And then again in verse 16, your house and kingdom shall be made sure forever. Your throne shall be established forever It's an eternal kingdom that will be established forever. You have this father-son language and discipline language in verse 14. He shall be to me a son But when he commits iniquity, I will discipline him. So it's a promise to keep the Davidic line going. And later in Scripture This promise is referred back to as the reason why God does not utterly wipe out Judah. It's for the sake of David, for the sake of his promises to David, for the sake of their father David. God promised that through the Davidic line, God would establish through an heir of David, God would establish this eternal kingdom So it's a very important promise. It is called covenant later in Scripture. Even though it's not called covenant here, there are multiple times later in Scripture where this is called God's covenant with David. And you'll see the kings of Judah come from David's line. And when they sinned , They're disciplined and the nation is disciplined and they're chastised. But when that perfect son comes, when that ultimate son comes This is how the New Testament begins. The genealogy of Jesus Christ, the son of Abraham, the son of David. He's the heir of the promises to Abraham. He's the heir of the promises to David. He'll accomplish The things that God had promised through Abraham, and he'll accomplish the things that God had promised through David, the Christ, the Messiah, Jesus. And when he comes, and he's perfect, He does exactly what he's called to do. He accomplishes salvation. It's through him that God establishes this eternal kingdom, and that's the kingdom we're citizens of. That's what it means to be citizens of heaven, citizens of the kingdom of God. Because Christ suffered for our sins, he rose to imperishable life, he ascended to the right hand of God. And he has given us the Holy Spirit to bring us into this kingdom that he's established. And even though we are we presently possess the kingdom and have already been brought into the kingdom, The scripture also talks about the kingdom of God as a feature inheritance. Because we all know that the fullness of the kingdom is not yet. The fullness of the kingdom has not arrived. It's not been revealed. But one day it will be, and that's our inheritance. But it goes back to this culminative Covenant with David and it becomes very, very important in the rest of the Old Testament as God preserves this Davidic line, and even when they go into exile. In Babylon, there's a promise, there's a sure and certain hope that they'll be restored, and then from that restored kingdom will come this heir of David. to establish God's kingdom. Now turn to chapter 8, one chapter over You probably don't even have to turn there. Does anyone have a subtitle right at the beginning of chapter 8? David. David's triumphs, David's victories. This is going to be that success I mentioned earlier. The success, the dominion. Can somebody read chapter 8, verses 1 to 8? After this David defeated the Philistines and subdued them, and David took uh uh Metheg. Yeah, that guy. Out of the hand of the Philistines. There you go. And he defeated Moab and he measured them with a line, making them lie down on the ground. Two lines he measured. He put to be put to death, the one line to be speared. The Moabites became servants to David and brought tribute. David also defeated Hadad Ezar, the son of Rehab, king of Zoab, and he went to restore his power at the river Euphrates. And David They took him and took from him one thousand seven hundred horsemen and twenty thousand foot soldiers, and David Hamstrom all the chariot horses, but left enough for one hundred chariots. Did you say Um to eight? But but then also skip down and do thirteen to fifteen. Oh well thank you. Since you're on such a roll. Yeah. And when the uh uh when the Syrians of Damascus came Came to help Hadad Had Ezir, king of Zoab, David struck down twenty-two thousand men of the Syrians. Then David put garrisons in every Aaron of Damascus and the Syrians became servants to David and brought tribute. And the Lord gave victory to David. Wherever he went. And David took the shields of gold that carried uh that care that were carried by the servants of Adad Esau. Caesar and brought them to Jerusalem and from Beta, Beta, and from that place. Sidney of Hadad Ezer, King David took very much bronze. You said thirteen to fifteen, yeah. I mean uh Yes, thirteen to fifteen. It's kind of uh paragraph break in the middle there, but And David made a name for himself when he returned. From striking down eighteen thousand Edomites in the valley of Salt. Then he put garrisons in Edom. Garrisons, and all Edomites became David's servants. And David gave victory, and the Lord gave victory to David wherever he went. Which is the goal of good leaders. To administer justice and equity, fairness, righteousness, mercy, according to God's will. God gave David victory and success wherever he won, and this is The surrounding nations, and you see victory, you see plunder, you see dominion, you see tribute being brought, and this is um You see submission to David's authority and rule. This is the dominion of David. And then one more chapter 10, verse 18 and 19 And the Syrians fled before Israel. David killed of the Syrians the men of seven hundred chariots, forty thousand horsemen. And wounded Shobak, the commander of their army, and he died there. And when all the kings who were servants of Hadadzer Saw that they were they had been defeated by Israel, they made peace with Israel and became subject to them So the Syrians were afraid to save the Ammonites anymore. The Ammonites had helped the Syrians for help. And God, through David, just gives total victory. Huge military victory over the surrounding nations, receiving tribute from surrounding nations, servitude from the surrounding nations. This is a time of dominion. Is it going to be like that for the rest of the Old Testament? No. After Solomon's great falling away. Everything goes down. But this is this is really a great time for Israel. You have this You have David, a good king, a godly man, even though he sinned, he was a man after God's heart. He was a believer. Let's just say David was a believer. Alright, he knew he was a sinner. He knew he fell short, but he trusted God for grace. He trusted God for wisdom. He trusted God and according to God's perfect wisdom and plan, David followed and obeyed God, and God blessed him with success. And victory and a good reign. Let's go, just because it came up earlier, let's go to the end. Just look at something on this census. Uh chapter twenty-four. This is that verse that Is uh you know humbles us when when we read this to let us know we're not going to understand maybe everything, all the depths of God's wisdom here, but we can understand what's obvious We can understand what's clear that there's some kind of historical judgment going on against Israel. And God is God has the freedom and authority to exact that judgment however he wants to So chapter 24, 2 Samuel 24. Again, the anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. And he incited David against them, saying, Go, number Israel and Judah. So the king said to Joab, the commander of the army who was with him, go through all the tribes of Israel, from Dan to Beersheba, and number the people, that I may know the number of the people. With that kind of hints What's going on in David's heart, as far as David is thinking, he just wants to know how big his kingdom is So we're like this today with churches, the numbers. How big are you? How fast are you growing? How many people are coming? How exciting? How exciting is it? He wants to he is just worried about the size and glory of his own kingdom. But verse one is Like a lens to read the whole thing. It's this interpretive lens that God gives us before we read the story. The anger of the Lord was kindled against Israel. And he's the one who incited David to do this. So there's something going on there behind the scenes, very similar to, again, that Nebuchadnezzar example. God is using Nebuchadnezzar to bring historical judgment, to accomplish his purpose, but in Nebuchadnezzar's mind and his motives is only sin and pride and wickedness. Alright, now to speed up a little bit, let's go to 1 Kings. 1 Kings begins in 970. The year 970. Solomon is anointed king. Solomon is anointed king. And then you have David's death. So that's where 1 Kings begins. Solomon is going to be anointed king. You have a few events of David's, the end of David's life as that transition happens. But ultimately, we've moved on from David. Solomon is anointed the king. This is 970. There's a little drama connected with that, with one of David's other children trying to take the throne. That's the early chapters of 1 Kings. 1 Kings ends around the year 853 That's a Bible trivia question. I'm sure you'll never ever get what year does First Kings end? Well, in case you do. Playing uh Trivial Pursuit Bible edition. Trivial Pursuit Historical Books of the Old Testament edition. 853, just when Ahaziah begins to reign over Israel. Ahaziah begins to reign over Israel, which is the northern kingdom. So just for terminology And we'll talk about this in just a moment. After Solomon, Israel splits to the northern kingdom and the southern kingdom. So the northern kingdom is usually called Israel. Or sometimes it's called Samaria, because Samaria is the capital. And the southern kingdom is called Judah. And what's the capital of the southern kingdom? We all know this, we all should know this. Jerusalem. So that'll be after Solomon's reign, and that'll be discipline and judgment because of Solomon's sin actually. Scripture draws this out. God is the one who splits the kingdom. In judgment against Solomon's great apostasy at the end of his life. That'll be one of our key passages. So you have Ahaziah beginning to reign over Israel in the north 853 and then 2 Kings will pick up right from there The story of 1 Kings is the transition from the monarchy to the divided kingdom. I can't get it down to two words like 2 Samuel, David's reign, but we can get it down to one sentence The story of 1 Kings is the story of the transition from the monarchy to the divided kingdom. The monarchy is Saul, David, Solomon. Alright, Saul, David, Solomon. That's from ten fifty to nine thirty. 40 years of Saul, 40 years of David, 40 years of Solomon, and then right after Solomon's death is when the split occurs. And that's what 1 Kings tells the story of. 1 Kings also tells the story of why that happens. And it's what I just mentioned. It's judgment for Solomon's apostasy. The kingdom is split by God in judgment for Solomon's apostasy. Another major couple highlights That's the story, but you just give two highlights. Highlight number one, the building of the temple. The building of the temple is a major highlight of 1 Kings. The temple was constructed from 966 to 959. It took seven years. Seven years for the building of the temple. Which was the center of Israel's life, the center of Judah's life and worship. And then another major highlight from 1 Kings is the emergence of Elijah. This is the time in history where the office of the prophet becomes prominent. And they're almost like these covenant prosecutors. Who were sent to Israel to proclaim their guilt, to proclaim their violations of God's law, to tell them of, to warn of coming judgment, and to call the people to repentance and faith in God. And you have the emergence of Elijah is the problem. He's not the first prophet. He is not the first prophet, but he's the first major narratives where the prophetic office is prominent in the life of Israel. It's that's in First Kings, Elijah, and establishing the prominence and the importance of the prophetic office. And then we know that We know where that ends up heading. The last this huge major section of the Old Testament is what? The prophetic writings is the prophets. And in 2 Kings The transition will be from Elijah's ministry to whose ministry? Whose Elijah passed the baton to? Not a literal baton. Elisha, right, and then and the huge portion of the beginning of Second Kings is on Elisha. So That's a couple highlights from 1 Kings, the temple and Elijah and the prominence of the prophetic office. But the story is pretty simple. Just like 2 Samuel is pretty simple. It's David's reign, David's success. 1 Kings is pretty simple. It's a transition from the monarchy to the divided kingdom because of Solomon's apostasy. Now as for some representative verses Can somebody read 1 Kings chapter 2 1 to 4? 1 Kings chapter 2 1 to 4. When David's time to die drew near, he commanded Solomon and his sons, saying, I am about to go the way of all the earth. Be strong and show yourself And keep the charge of the Lord your God, walking in his ways, keeping his statutes, his commandments, his rules and his testaments, and it's written in the hall of it. That you may prosper in all that you do and wherever you turn, that the Lord may establish his word that he spoke concerning these things. If your sons pay close attention to their way, to walk before me in faithfulness with all their heart, with all their souls. You shall not lack a man on the throne of Israel. Thank you. The Solomon is called not just to be king, but he's called to be a godly king. He's called to be an obedient king. And remember, part of that Davidic covenant was this heir is going to come from you, this lie will be continued, but when that heir sins, he'll be disciplined. There is a call for obedience and there will be consequence for disobedience. That conditionality is there within the covenant as a whole, within the framework of the unconditional ultimate Messiah who will come, you have heirs of David who are on the hook for being disciplined for their sin. And this is important to understanding where the story goes. That's going to happen with Solomon, and it will affect the whole nation and their future. And then later on down the road, it happens with Manasseh. And then the judgment will come on all of Judah because of Manasseh's rebellion as well. Um next chapter, chapter three This is longer, five to fourteen, chapter three , five to fourteen. Rock's paper says it's part of it. And Gibeon the Lord appeared to Solomon in a dream by night. And God said, Ask, what shall I give you? Solomon said, You have shown great and steadfast love to your servant David, my father, because he walked before you in faithfulness, in righteousness. And in uprightness of heart towards you. And you have kept for him this great and steadfast love, and then given him a son to sit on his throne this day. And now, O my Lord God, you have made your king in place, or your servant king in place of David, my father But although I'm but a little child, I do not know how to go out or to come in. And your servant is in the midst of the people whom you have chosen, a great people Too many to be numbered or counted in multitude. Give your servant therefore an understanding mind to govern your people, that I may discern discern between good and evil, for who is able to govern this And God said to him, Because you have asked this and not have and not asked for yourself long life and riches or the life of your enemies, but have asked for yourself understanding to discern what is right. Behold, I now do according to your word. Behold, I give you a wise and discerning mind, so that none like you go as who has been before it, and none like you shall arise after you. I will give you also what you have not asked for, both riches and honors, so that no other king shall compare you with all your days And if you walk in my ways, keeping my statutes and commandments, as your father David walked, then I will lengthen your days. Thank you. So, one of the obvious application points for us is if we want wisdom, we must go to God. Now I don't advise you to just go to sleep every night and expect supernatural special revelation where God literally comes to you in a dream. But you don't have to worry about that because you can go to God in prayer anytime and ask God for wisdom. And you can go to God's Word anytime. With a humble heart seeking for wisdom. We can go to each other. And as far as we counsel each other according to the word and according to the Spirit, seeking wisdom from God, from the body of Christ. But the point is we all need wisdom. We all need practical wisdom and instruction and correction in our lives. unless you've already figured it all out and you've got all the answers and you never need God's intervention in your life, which we know that that's not true. Although practically we can live like that. We can slip into such a routine and going through the motions where we we can look back and like, wait, when's the last time I went to God for wisdom? And Solomon was granted wisdom by God and he ended up writing a A ton of the Proverbs in the book of Proverbs, a lot of wisdom instruction in Proverbs, and writing Ecclesiastes, writing the Song of Songs, which is The Song of Solomon, also called the Song of Songs, that are inscripturated words, that are special revelation. God gave uh and obviously in the narrative God gave Solomon wisdom for governing in justice, governing in mercy, governing in righteousness, which is the number one reason that a leader needs wisdom so that he can do his job and reign over Israel the way God's called him to do. I mean life is so difficult. The temptations we have to battle, the sins we have to battle, the sufferings and the trial and the loss and all and sickness and injuries, all kinds of issues in relationships and conflicts and dealing with all the the mess of the world around us. I mean, we need wisdom from God or we won't make it. We'll just fall into despair And we don't want that to happen. So we want to go to God for wisdom. Chapter 8, 9 to 11, just to go a little quicker. I'll read this. Chapter 8. 9 to 11. This is toward the end of the narrative where the temple is built and furnished. It's really this grand narrative. There was nothing in the ark except the two tablets of stone that Moses put there at Horeb, where the Lord made a covenant with the people of Israel. when they came out of the land of Egypt. So Mount Horab is another name for what mountain? Mount Sinai. And remember this was the second Set of the tablets of the Ten Commandments. The first set is written by the finger of God, but what happened with that first set? Yeah, it got broken. And uh double check me on this. I will gladly receive correction, but I'm ninety nine point five percent sure. The second set when Moses was back up the mountain He wrote in tablets of stone. This is that second set of stone with this covenant from Mount Sinai. Verse 10, chapter 8, verse 10. And when the priest came out of The holy place, a cloud filled the house of the Lord so that the priests could not stand To minister because of the cloud, for the glory of the Lord filled the house of the Lord. Theophany, a supernatural manifestation of the presence of God in the form of a cloud. In the book of Exodus, The cloud is God, basically. It's not God and His invisible essence and eternal being, but the cloud is God's self-revelation to save Israel, to guide Israel to be with Israel as their Savior and Lord. So when the glory of the Lord fills the temple this in this cloud Man, this is everything. If you're watching there, you're a believer, this is great. God is with us. God is here. God has made himself visibly manifest. And that happens. In 1 Kings at the completion and the complete furnishing of Solomon's temple. Now turn to 11, 1-13. 1 Kings. Chapter eleven is one of the top three most tragic chapters in the Bible. Which makes it one of the most tragic chapters ever in any any written document ever. I mean this is right up there with the crucifixion narratives where you have leaders of Israel. The people of Israel, the people of God, crying out to crucify their Savior, crying out for his blood in the street. This 1 Kings 11 is right up there What's your subheading at the end of first at the beginning of 1 Kings 11? Anybody? Solomon turns from God. Solomon turns from God. Solomon turns from the Lord Yeah, that's brethren, that's putting it mildly. That's not like a four-month Um season where you get real discouraged and you're not as consistent in church anymore. That's not what this is. Let's go ahead and read it. Now King Solomon loved many foreign women Along with the daughter of Pharaoh, Moabite, Ammonite, Edomite, Sidonian, and Hittite women, from the nations concerning which the Lord has said to the people of Israel, You shall not enter into marriage with them. Neither shall they with you, for surely they will turn away your heart after their gods. Solomon clung to these in love He had 700 wives, who were princesses, and 300 concubines, and his wives turned away his heart. For when Solomon was old, his wives turned away his heart after other gods. And his heart was not wholly true to the Lord his God, as was the heart of David his father. For Solomon went after Ashtareth, the goddess of the Sidonians, and after Milcom. The abomination of the Ammonites. So Solomon did what was evil in the sight of the Lord, and did not wholly follow the Lord as his father, as David his father had done. And then Are you with me in verse 7? Then Solomon built a high place that's a place of worship. For Kemosh, the abomination of Moab, and for Malek, the abomination of the Ammonites, on the mountain east of Jerusalem. And so he did for all his foreign wives who made offerings and sacrificed to their gods And the Lord was angry with Solomon, because his heart had turned away from the Lord, the God of Israel, who had appeared to him twice And had commanded him concerning this thing that he should not go after other gods, but he did not keep what the Lord commanded. Now that's an interesting insight. Because we have the scripture and we have preaching and we have each other to remind us. God literally appeared to Solomon twice. To remind him against these specific things. And yet Solomon falls into them. Verse 11: Therefore the Lord said to Solomon, Since this has been your practice, and you have not kept my covenant and my statutes that I have commanded you, I will surely tear the kingdom from you and will give it to your servant. And yet, for the sake of David, your father, right referring back to that Davidic covenant, that promise to David, for the sake of David, your father, I will not do it in your days, but I will tear it out of the hand of your son, which will be Rehoboam, and that's exactly what God does. He takes ten tribes away from Rehoboam Gives them to Jeroboam in the north. And that's how you get the split. It's in judgment and discipline against Solomon's apostasy Verse 13, however, I will not tear away all the kingdom, but I will give one tribe to your son for the sake of David my servant and for the sake of Jerusalem that I have chosen. So the southern kingdom is going to be the tribe of Judah and the tribe of Benjamin. And all everything else is torn away. From de from Solomon's lineage and given to Jeroboam, which would not be the Davidic line. The Davidic line is in Judah, in Jerusalem. That's where salvation will come. That's where salvation did come. Um all right, that's the thing I wanted to end on. Just showing you that important historical point because everything that's going to happen after Solomon Is it's gonna be a fulfillment of that. That's why the kingdom slips. And I guess I need to revise my plan again instead of going through three books to go through two books. Next time we'll start with 2 Kings 2 Kings, you're so in 1 Kings you get the split of the kingdom. So you have north and south. This is you get in in 2 Kings. 2 Kings you get The captivity of the North, and then you get the captivity of the South. They're both set into exile. Second Kings ends with all the whole nation into exile. It's the complete reversal of what God accomplished through David. It's all those victories, all that dominion, all that tribute from the surrounding nations. It's completely reversed. The northern kingdom is gone. The southern kingdom is gone, but not totally gone. Not totally gone. Because God has not abandoned this people. He's not abandoned this promise. And there ultimately will be a restoration. But that's not Second Kings. 2 Kings is not that. 2 Kings is the rebellion captivity of the North, rebellion captivity of the South. Alright, let's finish in prayer. God, thank you for your goodness. And for your faithfulness. And pray that you continue to work in our lives for your name, for your glory, for your kingdom. Sanctify us Strengthen us. Give us wisdom and endurance for our battle against the flesh, for our battle against the devil. For a battle against the powers and principalities and lies of this world and this culture. Strengthen us by the Spirit, we pray. In Christ's amen. Amen. All right, able-bodied men, help me with this stuff. And that gray lectern, that can go behind that door over there so that it's out of the way. Vince tell Marie, I'm sorry. I this is not