Okay, today is historical books, but specifically books of the Restoration. We will not look at all of them, but today the goal is to look at Ezra. And Mia Maya. Does everybody have the handout? This is the front. It has these three charts on it. Ezra and Nehemiah. What we're moving into is the post-exilic history. Alright, the post-exilic history. This is referring to Judah's restoration. To the region of Judah and to Jerusalem from the Babylonian captivity. So that's the Essence of what's going on in the post-exilic period, Judah's restoration to the land. Remember, that's just the southern kingdom now, territory of Judah and Benjamin with the capital of Jerusalem. Judah's restoration to the land from Babylonian captivity. But I want us to remember whose dominion this is happening under. Of course. Ultimate dominion of the universe, everything's always under God's dominion. But I mean from a geopolitical standpoint, from a historical earthly standpoint, this restoration is happening under Persian rule. Alright, the r sometimes that's the rules of the Medes and the Persians because that was the Medo-Persian Empire for short. You just say Persian Empire, Persian rule. So that's a brief introduction of what we're talking about, post-exilic history, Judah's restoration from Babylonian captivity under Persian rule. There's so much going on in the books of the Bible that are about this restoration. And it's a unique time in Israel's history. It's really central to the Bible because this is the era of history that the Old Testament ends on. So it really stands in the middle between the whole history of Israel, the whole history of the world on one hand, and then the coming of Christ and the New Testament and the church age on the other hand. this period of restoration. And I had so many times where I had wished that when I was first introduced To the post-exilic period, that someone would have given me just one page, one sheet to summarize and to crystallize What's going on in this period and what books of the Bible address this period? And that's what I've tried to do on this sheet with the three charts. And so the first chart is So small it's almost not even a chart because it's just two major blocks. When you look at the books of the Restoration, you're looking at three historical books and three prophetic books. Alright, Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther are the historical books. By the way, those are the three books that this Section of Old Testament history ends on. It ends on these three books: Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther. Although historically Esther happens in the middle, in between Ezra and Nehemiah. But you have Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther, and then the prophets. Haggai, Zechariah, and Malachi. So a word of practical application is when you're in your Bible devotions, when you're in your Bible readings. You can read these six books together. Read those historical books and then read those three prophetic books. And you'll see how they go together. So the last three books of the history are books of restoration, and the last three books of all the prophets are the books of the restoration. Now move down to that. Um second chart, where you have different aspects of restoration, because restoration is broad And when we say restoration, it includes specific historical aspects that are all different aspects of the restoration. Like if you're going to restore Uh a sixty year old Mustang that's completely rusted out Engine is is gone, it's done, transmission is is done. You have to restore all the different aspects and components of that Mustang. So restoration is broad, but there's different components, different aspects of it. In the book of Ezra, this is that first In the book of Ezra, you see the return to Judah. Of course, that's first, right? It's literally a restoration of people to the land. You see the return to Judah. Immediately they rebuild the altar and reinstitute the sacrifices. And that's before the temple is built. They'll lay the foundation of the temple almost immediately as well, but the temple's not built for some years After. So they return 539-538. The temple is completed in 516 So Ezra, you have the return to Judah, the reinstituting of the sacrifices, and then you have the rebuilding of the temple. But of course, if you're gonna have a restoration, you need to A rebuilding of the temple. That's the center of the nation. It's a nation that at its core identity is spiritual. It's supposed to be spiritual, covenantally bound to God. Worship is at the center. God is at the center. Sacrifice is at the center. So the people return and right away they build an altar, reinstitute the sacrifices, rebuild the temple. That's Ezra. Nehemiah is a rebuilding of the wall, and also you'll see this word, the city, right? The wall and its gates and the city lies in ruins. Those are the kinds of phrases you'll see in Nehemiah. And this occurs much later than Ezra. We'll get into the dates on the other side of this. But a rebuilding of the wall in the city, religious and social reforms. Religious and social reforms. God does not restore Judah to the land just so Judah can live however they want to, serve whatever God they choose to. Pursue whatever whatever moral and ethical principle they want to. No, they're restored to the land so that they might be his people and love and serve him So you'll have a rebuilding of the wall in the city, you'll have religious and social reforms, and you'll have a renewal of the covenant This is a major event in the Old Testament history, is the renewal of the covenant. And that's supposed to be the basis of the religious reform and the basis of the social reform. Just like how the Bible now should be the basis of how we treat our spouses and the basis of how we treat each other and the basis of how we act at work. And the basis of how we parent and teach our children, and on and on and on, we're supposed to be disciples, to represent God in all areas of life. The book of Esther, you'll see this reality of God 's true people remaining faithful under Persian dominion. Remaining faithful under Persian dominion. You'll see the remnant preserved and given victory. I don't know if you remember this, but this little plot this plot, not little. Against Israel, this plot against the Jewish people in Esther is not small. It's not a plot that's going to exterminate Jews in Susa the capital or the surrounding province or part of the kingdom. This was a universal plot by Haman to exterminate Jews in all of the empire. It's a huge deal. And yet God not only preserves a remnant, but he gives Israel victory, a kingdom-wide victory, and even when they're under Persian dominion to preserve his people. It's r it's an incredible story. And you'll see this. What you see in Esther, well you see it Ezra, Nehemiah, and Esther, all three of them, you see this. You see a renewed providential favor upon Israel. A renewed providential favor upon Israel because you saw the opposite is what happened to lead them into exile. What you saw that took the north into exile was historical judgment. And what was a removal of And then he saw that for the Southern Kingdom as well. A removal of the providential favor and a pouring out of historical judgment. But in the restoration, you see this renewal, this rekindled providential favor. This was the conditional aspect of the Mosaic Covenant. If they obey, they'll be blessed. If they obey, they'll enjoy life in the land. If they obey, they will prosper at the hand of God. But if not, if they violate his covenant, if they forsake him to serve other gods, they will be cursed and they will be exiled. And that's what happened. So if you behind all the details of the restoration, and you can look down that list again on the right side of that, the different aspects of restoration, behind all the details And all the different components of this restoration, what's going on is you have God's renewed providential favor for his for Israel, for the Southern Kingdom Judah, which at this point is a representative of Israel and steward of the promises to Israel Remember the context, the immediate Old Testament context. It's for the sake of his promise to David that he's going to restore Judah to the land. But also zooming out even more, it's for the sake of his promised Messiah that is restoring them to the land. Because the promised Messiah was promised and prophesied to come from the nation of Israel. In Jerusalem to r to bring salvation to Jerusalem and then to the ends ends of the earth. So you have the big picture that we keep in mind, the promised Christ. the Davidic covenant and in faithfulness God is renewing his providential favor. As after that pr um that prophesied 70-year period in captivity. Now they're being restored. Let's do this last chart, then I'll pause for any general questions on this before we flip it over and get into more of the specifics and more of the details The last chart is returns from exile. There's three waves. I should have made a chart just like this for the different waves of going into exile too, because there were four waves of going into exile. And so maybe I'll do that if I have time and just give it to you, you can have it. But here are the returns from exile. The first one's 539 Perhaps re uh not arriving until 538. But this is by the decree of Cyrus, who is the first Persian king. So when historically you have the shift from Babylonian dominion to Persian dominion immediately by the sovereign hand of God, immediately you have the decree of Cyrus for the Jews to return to Jerusalem and to the province uh to the the province of Judah. This is led by Zerubbabel. We also will accept Zerubbabel. I've heard it said both ways. Zerubbabel, he'll be the governor of Judah, and that's actually King David's grandson. King David's grandson, Zerubabel, will be the governor of Judah, the whole region of Judah, not just Jerusalem, but so you and uh so what you have is Again, a sign of hope, a glimmer of hope, a glimmer, a reminder of God's faithfulness that you have a ruling figure, a ruling authority in the line of David. God is, what is he doing? He's preserving His people. He's reminding his people of his promise and of his plan. This would have been almost 50,000 returnees. Hopefully we get to the passage that tells us that. The second wave, much later, 458. It's not so much a decree, but it's a commission. It's a commission by Artaxerxes, led by Ezra. Ezra was a priest, and Ezra also was a scribe. That means he was an heir of Aaron, right? Heir of Aaron, not of David, but he's also a scribe, which means he's an expert in the word of God. An expert in mosaic law. And there would have been around 2,000 returnees. So much later, much smaller. In the third wave, 445, also commissioned by Artaxerxes, led by Nehemiah, who was the cupbearer to the king. In Susa, in the capital of the Persian Empire, this is how Nehemiah begins. And We'll get to the details of how this happens on the other side of this, but ultimately he too is commissioned. He too is sent. To Judah, and he becomes the governor of Judah. And this is very small. It's not given to us. The number is not given to us in Scripture. It's unknown. What is given to us in Scripture is Artaxerxes. Sends with Nehemiah a small group of soldiers and servants and officials to make sure he gets there, is protected. And it's proven that he's traveling by the authority of Artaxerxes. And when he gets to Judah, he has the authority, the appointment of Artaxerxes on him. So you have these three waves. Any questions in general about any of these, anything on this side of the sheet or that overarching picture of the context of the Davidic covenant, the promise of the Christ? And how this fits in the history in general. I see that uh God usually is multifaceted. And I'm usually not. I'm usually like, oh, what answer? And then God has like this time industry all over. Piper said ten thousand reasons for every tragedy. Like God's doing like ten thousand things and he might show us three and we're like, wow that's incredible. Look at why he did that. That's like ten thousand things going on, high and low, like you said. I think that's it takes me off the hook. I don't have to worry about it. He's doing it. And then on the other hand, I might get a chance to see some Yeah. But I don't have to see the whole thing. Yeah. Yeah, that's a great I mean that's a great point of practical application that um What we need to do is try to cultivate trust in God despite all of the things that we don't know Right, if we take this intellectual approach, we have to know everything. We have to know all of God's reasons All of God's specific goals, all of the details, you know, it really would just cause not only confusion but bitterness. And angst and worry. So it is liberating to just step back and s and trust God with all that he's doing. Now and we can't get there on our own. I'm not saying that that's easy. That is spiritual warfare right there. And that's why we always need to be feeding on God's word and devoted in prayer and encouraging each other. Yeah that's it's a great point. Anybody else any other comments on this first side? I like what you said before, I'm sorry, that the Trinity and uh uh the other thing, uh predestination. It's kinda that was my big happiness when you said, Look, don't worry about predestination as uh as being a mystery. You're never gonna figure it out. Just you either believe it, you can read about it, believe it, trust That took me off that drain, you know what I mean? Like, don't worry about it. Yeah. That kinda you said it's like the Trinity. Do you believe that are you gonna figure the Trinity out? No, well you can't figure that out either. Right, the doctrine of predestination is not meant to confuse us and um make us like upset or something or it's meant to give us assurance. Our I mean our mind can take us in all kinds of different philosophical um rat maze. just all over the place. But the the center that I'll always take people back to when they're struggling having that kind of struggle, whether it's assurance or predestination or or whatever, is is look to Christ. He's the answer. Look to Christ. And the Bible clearly teaches if you believe in Christ, you're forgiven, you're saved, you're going to heaven, you can have assurance because of him. And that's the remedy, right? That gets us out of the head games. So then then we're free to say, okay, you know, I don't understand all of this, but my salvation is not based on my understanding. So yeah, Neil, what were you gonna say? I was just thinking of the the idea I don't have to worry, God's in control, but that At the same time providentially he's using us in in the plans. So we do act when led to. And I think these books are good examples. I don't remember the details But I'm thinking like Nehemiah, didn't he approach some you know, he yeah, he went. It wasn't like, Hey Nehemiah, why don't why don't you take these people back? He said, I'd like to take people back. We was that, you know, Esther had to be encouraged to go with the king. You know, hey, if you know, this could be the end of us all you need to do, you know. So it's not he could work outside of our actions But he doesn't choose that's not how we designed it though. It's a great point. I really hope that microphone picked you up because that is that was a really great summary. And yes, when we flip this over, the special providence of God is Huge theme in these books, in all books of the Bible, but it really shines out in these historical books. And it st has does it has faith that leads to action. Right. Well actually usually it's faith that leads to prayer. That leads to the action. And then through that God works out his his purpose and providence. We do not use the doctrine of providence to just wipe our hands clean, sit back. Escape from the world and trust, say that we trust, God is going to work everything out. He calls us to be active, to be his servants, and it's through his people that God accomplishes his purpose. And we know that in a personal life too, like you you get encouragement from other people encouraging you. Right? Other people can be helped by you helping other people. The church can function because the people of God give. People get saved because they hear the gospel that other people communicate and on and on and on. So God uses people. even if like when we do make mistakes, but dot can still use those mistakes for his good evening. Yeah, absolutely. In case you didn't hear, this the comment was: even when we make mistakes, even when we fall into sin, God still uses us. The only kind of people that God can use is sinful people who make mistakes. And we see that all throughout Scripture. We see that all throughout Scripture. And we need to remember that for ourselves so that we don't get discouraged, so that we don't think that God can't use us or that God is not using us. Now we also need to to be convicted and strive by grace to repent of sin, but we need to remember that God is still using us and not fall into despair. Um and all you know what that that point also applies in a different way of being gracious toward others It's real easy to look at others and to just see their mistakes and to just see their differences and to just see their sins and then our view of them goes way down. And we and we just we just can think of people were just like me, then the work of the kingdom would be thriving and flourishing. But we need to we need to put to death this kind of self righteous, harsh, critical spirit toward others. And just remember that we all fall short. We all make mistakes. We all sin and we're all different. Alright, let's flip over. I put these in a different order. I've been doing the beginning of a book, the end of a book. And then the story. I think what I'd like to start doing is just do the story first, right? Get the overview story first. So the story of Ezra. Return to Judah. Rebuilding of the temple. There's a lot of re 's today. Re this, read that, read this, read that, because it's the restoration. The return to Judah, rebuilding of the temple, and the renewing of covenantal obligations or covenantal duties before God, for example, the Passover in chapter 6. In fact, we can look at that. That'll be a nice glimpse into this era. One just one example, just one thing. But let's turn to Ezra 6, verse 19. On the fourteenth day of the first month, the returned exiles kept the Passover. For the priests and the Levites had purified themselves together. All of them were clean. And for themselves. From the uncleanness of the peoples of the land to worship the Lord the God of Israel. And they kept the feast of unleavened bread Seven days with joy, for the Lord had made them joyful, and had turned the Here's one of those providence verses. The Lord had made them joyful, and had turned the heart of the king of Assyria to them, so that he aided them in the work of the house of God, uh, the God of Israel. This is a unique Verse here it causes some people trouble, but where the king of the Medes and the Persians here is called the King of Assyria. We're not going to get into the weeds of all the different historical and literary reasons for that. But there's no question that this is long after the Assyrian dominion. The order went Assyrian dominion And then Babylonian dominion, and then the dominion of the Medes and the Persians. That's the era that we're in here. But the main point of this paragraph was You see a celebrating of the Passover, the sacrificing of the Passover land, and then right after Passover was always the feast of unleavened bread for seven days, and you see this importance of Being separated unto God, separating from the uncleanness of the peoples, being purified. Now this is covenantal separation, covenantal obligations to their God. And that's what you have. It's a physical return to the land. It's the physical rebuilding of the temple. But spiritually it's reviving covenantal obligations and duties before God. Not that they didn't have duties. To serve and honor God when they were in exile. But it's different in the promised land because the original promises, the original nation was in this land of Canaan with Jerusalem the capital and the the temple of God in the middle and God dwelling in their midst. So this is part so the land is connected to the covenant is what I'm trying to say. The land is connected to the covenant, the temple is connected to the covenant, and when you're in the land, and they haven't rebuilt the temple yet, but the and the temple is rebuilt ultimately. You can serve the Lord properly according to the covenant. To be out of the land signified that they were under judgment. To be in the land signified that they were under God's grace and blessing. That's the overview of Ezra. Again, remember Ezra is a priest and a scribe. He's a priest and a scribe. Where does the book of Ezra begin? Well, the Book of Ezra begins where 2 Chronicles ends. 539 BC. You 'll have the decree of Cyrus. You can look at uh Exodus, not Exodus, Ezra 11. Ezra 1 1 In the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, the word of the Lord, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled, the Lord stirred up the spirit. of Cyrus the king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing. Thus says Cyrus, King of Persia, The Lord the God of heaven has given me all the kingdoms of the earth, and he has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem. That's referring to the temple. which is in Judah. Whoever is among you of all his people, may his God be with them, and let him go up to Jerusalem, which is in Judah, and rebuild the house of the Lord, the God of Israel He is the God who is in Jerusalem. And let each survivor, in whatever place he sojourns, be assisted by the men of his place. with silver and gold, with goods and with beasts, besides free will offerings for the house of God that is in Jerusalem. So the first paragraph of Ezra puts the theme right before us in flashing neon lights There's a return to the land, and there's to be a rebuilding of the temple. This is by the decree of Cyrus, but the decree of Cyrus is by the hand of God. It's one of those providential Verses. Again, this doesn't show up just in these books. This is all over scripture. But since we're in these books, we will point it out. Um verse 1 right in the middle. This is how the book starts. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom and put it in writing. So it's God working Providentially. God just stirring up and directing Cyrus to accomplish God's will. It's ca it's not kind of the opposite. It's the opposite of how God used Nebuchadnezzar. God in his providence used Nebuchadnezzar as a vehicle of judgment against Israel, Judah the southern kingdom. But at this point, Judah and Israel is used interchangeably because the promises to Israel rest upon Judah. It was God's providential hand that used Nebuchadnezzar as a vehicle of judgment. Now it's God's providential hand to use Cyrus as a vehicle of restoration. It's really a beautiful picture. And even Part of that, even Cyrus understood, because what does he say in verse 2? The Lord, the God of heaven, has given me all the kingdoms of the earth. Isn't that interesting? Cyrus believed That God, God most high, the God of Israel, is the one responsible for giving him dominion over all the other kingdoms. It's pretty cool stuff. But we don't we don't rule over a kingdom and we don't rule over other kingdoms, but we own things Maybe it's property, maybe it's material goods, whatever it is, God has given it to us. We have family, God has given it to us. Whatever we have that's good is given to us by God. And whatever we have stewardship over is given to us by God. And then he even in this also in verse 2 is really cool, he says this about God. He has charged me to build him a house at Jerusalem. I just think this is so cool. God, in his special providence Commands Cyrus to build him a house, to rebuild the temple of God. So it's through this pagan king that God is working to restore his people. Pretty cool stuff. Chapter 2 verse 1. Now these were the people of the province who came up out of the captivity. Of those exiles whom Nebuchadnezzar the king of Babylon had carried captive to Babylonia, they returned to Jerusalem and Judah, each to his own town. They came with him, Zerubbabel, Jeshua. He's also called Joshua. Let's go through these. You have these key figures and these Books of the restoration, Zerubbabel, the governor, Jeshua or Joshua, the high priest , Nehemiah, who will be a governor. Saraya, Ralaia, Mordecai, Dilshan, Mispar, Bigvi, Rehum, and Bana I said, I don't think that's the same Nehemiah, because the other Nehemiah comes separately. Go to chapter two. Verse 64, just to get the number of the exiles. There uh is given a genealogy and a numbering in chapter two of the returnees. 64, the whole assembly together was 42,360, besides their male and female servants, of whom there were 7,337. They had 200 male and female singers, and then their horses were, you see the horses, mules, camels, donkeys. I'm not going to read all the numbers. So if you total up those 42,000 in change in verse 64, and the 7,000 in change in verse 65, you have about 50,000. returnees from the exile. That's pretty big, right? Fifty thousand returnees. It ends, so that's the beginning of Ezra five thirty-nine. It ends around four fifty-seven. I'll chart this up here briefly. This is Al Ezra one to six Is all about the first wave of returns and rebuilding the temple. And then it flashes forward. Chapter seven to ten is that second wave And this is led by Zerubable. This is led by Ezra. And then later you get one led by Nehemiah. So you have the first wave, chapters 1 to 6, and then the second wave, chapters 7 to 10. We can look at chapter 7, verses 1 to 10. This is the flash forward. All right. Flash forward. Now we're into the time of Ezra. Now, after this, in the reign of Artaxerxes, king of Persia, remember the first wave was under Cyrus. Now we're under Artaxerxes, king of Persia. Ezra The son of Sariah, son of Azariah, son of Hilkiah, son of Shalom, son of Zadek , the Bible really wants us to understand where where where Ezra comes from, son of Ahitub, son of Amariah, son of Azariah, son of Mariah, son of Zariah, or Zehariah, son of Uzi, son of Bukhi, son of Abishua. Son of Phineas, son of Eliezer, son of Aaron, the chief priest. Well, that was the whole point, to show that he comes from the line of Aaron, that he's a rightful priest. This Ezra went up from Babylonia. He was a scribe skilled in the law of Moses that the Lord the God of Israel had given. And the king granted him all that he had asked, all he asked. for the hand of the Lord his God was on him. That's a common refrain in Ezra to point out God's providence in all of this. The hand of the Lord was upon him, or the hand of the Lord his God was on him. So that we're always reminded that God is at work. God is the one doing this. He's the sovereign Lord. But you see he's a priest in the line of Aaron and it says he's the scribe skilled in the law of Moses. He's a scribe. He's an expert in the word of God. Now, if you have a people who are called to be a covenantal people, they're called to be set apart for the Lord. Called to obey the Lord and observe his commandments, you need people who understand his word and can teach the people his word. It teaches to apply his word. That's what a scribe was. This is what Ezra was. So it's in it's an important thing. Not only for them, but it's an important thing for us. And in the in the new covenant we have We have pastors, teachers, but in God's special providence for us, we have some things that the ancient Jews did not have. They didn't all have the written word of God in their homes. They d they didn't have the the full measure, the full blessing of the Holy Spirit like we have. But you can read the Bible any time that you want to. And they they didn't have that. So there's This this aspect of teaching and understanding and applying and propagating the Word of God Is a lot more intensified and widespread in the new covenant than it was in the old covenant. Now, they had leaders, we need leaders, but I mean there's a huge difference. I mean imagine if you didn't have access to the Word of God unless you traveled to the temple or traveled to the synagogue to hear it read or preached. But we'd still be thankful for that. But you just think of the technological differences. You can you can listen to a sermon wherever and whenever you want also. Because of technology. So just a lot of the way things have progressed in God's plan. He's made his word More accessible to everyone. So a little side note there. Something to be thankful for, something to not take for granted that we have the Word of God all over. Uh did the beginning, the decree of Cyrus 539 , that first wave, the rebuilding of the temple. Chapter 7, it flashes forward to Ezra's day, which is generally speaking the 460, 450. The book ends around 457 with covenantal reforms. The major covenantal reform that's dealt with in Ezra. Does anybody remember this? It's a pretty big, it's a pretty pretty big deal. It's the major reform that the book of Ezra ends on this story. It's a re f it's separating from their foreign wives. And if you remember back to the significance of that in the Old Testament history That's what led the men and the families in the nation into idolatry. They took pagan wives. And they took their gods, and they took their worship, they took their worldview, they took their morality, and the whole nation just went into the drain. So if you look, just repres this is this will be chapters nine and ten of Ezra Ezra 9, verse 1. After these things have been done, the officials approached me and said, The people of Israel and the priests and the Levites have not separated themselves from the peoples. Of the lands with their abominations. And that 's telling. They had not yet separated From the peoples of the lands with their abominations, from the Canaanites, Hittites, Perizzites, Jebusites, Ammonites, Moabites, Egyptians, and Amorites What's that telling you? The men and the women also, but the the emphasis is here is on the men marrying And building pagan families that worship false gods, that worship idols. Now that's a big deal. And they have not even the Levites. The priest and the Levites. The priest and the Levites. That's representative of what the population is doing, certainly. Um I don't want to read all of chapters nine and ten. Uh look at we can look at ten one While Ezra prayed and made confession, weeping and casting himself down before the house of God, a very great assembly of men, women, and children gathered to him out of Israel, for the people wept. Bitterly, and Shechaniah the son of Jael and the sons of Elam addressed Ezra, We have broken faith with our God and have married foreign women from the peoples of the land. But even now there is hope for Israel in spite of this. Therefore let us make a covenant with our God, to put away all these wives and their children, according to the counsel of my Lord And of those who tremble at the commandment of our God, and let it be done according to the law, arise, for it is your task, and we are with you. Be strong and do it. Then Ezra arose and made the leading priests and Levites and all Israel take an oath that they would do so as had been said, so they took the oath. You can read the full story. From it chapters nine and ten. But there needs to be the broad point is Reform and repentance based on the covenant, based on God's word to honor God Some highlights. The temple is completed and dedicated. That's chapter six. We won't look there, but if you want to read that, chapter six The temple is completed and dedicated in Ezra. Again, if you just remember, I know there's a lot of details here, but Ezra, we're thinking, return to the land, rebuilding of the temple. That's Ezra. And that would have been in the year 516, where the temple was completed and dedicated. A major theme, of course, is this word remnant. Remnant of God's people, which essentially means survivors, those who God preserved through the exile. It's the remnant. You see that word in verse in chapter 9 and chapter 10. It's a remnant preserved by grace, called to live for God. And then, of course, we've mentioned multiple times already, God's special providence. I'll say these verses, not that you'll memorize these, but if anyone watches the playback, they can look them up. Chapter 7, verse 6. Chapter seven verse nine, also chapter seven, verse twenty-eight, and then chapter eight, verse eighteen. Verse 22 and verse 31. And there are others. Those you'll see those have a common theme, a common phrase, the way things are said to point to God's Special providence. Alright, now let's push on because we are kind of running out of time. But Nehemiah Nehemiah is primarily the rebuilding of the wall and religious reform or social reform. When we think about society in the right way. Religious reform will lead to social reform and we'll always want social reform based on religious reform. You have the rebuilding of the wall and its gates. And you have covenantal reform, societal reform. And chapter five, just for an example, don't turn there, but chapter five, you'll see that there's corruption in the leadership. And that needs to be reformed. You'll see that there's an abusing and taking advantage of the poor, and that needs to be reformed. And you'll see you see toward the end of the book Other reforms as well. Still, there's intermarriage that needs to be reformed. Also, the Sabbath was not being observed. That needs to be reformed The priesthood is being desecrated. That needs to be reformed. So if Ezra were thinking returns of the land, rebuilding of the temple Nehemiah we're thinking rebuilding of the wall and covenantal reform, social reform, religious reform And with all this going on in both of these books and the overlap and all that, it's easier for me just to try to remember the the one main point or the two main points. So that's what it is for Ezra. For me that's easy to Grasped in my little brain. Ezra is returned to the land, rebuilding the temple. Nehemiah is a rebuilding of the wall and social reform. The main story of Nehemiah, I've just said it just to reiterate it and go through this. You have the rebuilding of Jerusalem's wall and the gates. You also see the word the city. So it's really a rebuilding of the city. And you'll see something come out that there was not a ton of people living in the city. They were living in Judah in the towns surrounding, but there was not a lot of people living in the city. With the rebuilding of the wall And starting to rebuild the city, now you can have more of a population come into the city for that true restoration of the capital. Um And the covenant renewal, chapters eight to ten. The renewal of the Mosaic covenant in the restored and rebuilt city. Begins in 445. Nehemiah begins in 445. Nehemiah is in Susa, the capital city. He's the cupbearer to the king. And he hears about the troubled state of Jerusalem. He hears about the troubled state of the returnees and how the wall is in shambles and the gates are in shambles. So essentially it is uninhabitable, it can't be defended, it can't function as a capital city So he cries out to God, he's trusting in God's providence, he pleases with the king, and the king commissions him to go back. And rebuild the city. Nehemiah, the book ends in around 4:30. Nehemiah became the governor. And looks like he functioned as governor to around 433 because in 433 he goes back to Sousa, back to the capital And then he comes back. Now it could be the case that he was still governor when he when he came back, but I don't I don't know. I don't think there's a text on this. But I think if you l if you leave I don't think you can't function as governor if you leave from Jerusalem to go back to the capital city, Susa. But it was just a visit, so we don't know how long that was, and maybe he re retained his governorship Anyway, Nehemiah was the governor. So we have Ezra, priest and scribe. Nehemiah was the governor after Zerubbabel. Zerubbabel was the governor first. And uh The book ends with reforms. You have chapters eight to ten , is the covenant renewal. And then you have reforms with leaders, reforms with the Sabbath, reforms with intermarriage, reforms with the priesthood. And what's the message? The message is God's people need to always be reforming, always be repenting to be obedient to God. If you just leave us To our own devices, we won't obey God. We'll we'll make up things to do. We can invent religion with the best of them. People have proven this We can invent outward religion that makes us feel good, that makes others feel good, that looks good, that's impressive, that's emotional, that's exciting, whatever you want it to be, mankind can invent a religion That suits that perceived need or that desired feeling. We always need to be coming back to the Word Always need to be going to God, that He would give us reform, that He would give us repentance, because obedience is the goal. Obedience for the glory of God is the goal. Bob. Um didn't Eli go to the governor and ask for a leave to go and see what the damage? He went to the king. Yeah, he went to the king. That's how the book starts. He go he was the cupbearer to the king. He goes to the king and asks Yeah, gave him materials, protection, authority, yep. And then when he came back he was he was granted life leave. Say that again? When he came back after his task was done, didn't he king relieve him? From his duty to the king, so he could go back to the city. Yeah, he would have had to, so he could go back because he yeah, he vi it's verse it's chapter thirteen verse six. Where Nehemiah goes back to visit Susa, probably to give a report, maybe to request more resources. Who knows? But he does say right after that, in verse seven, I believe, that he goes back to Jerusalem. He go or he goes back to Judah. I don't know if it was several years. We don't know how long that visit was. But the visit was in 433. The visit was about uh 13 is it 13 years after? You read the book, you'll see that those those timing those timelines are given. Okay So his initial stay in Jerusalem was from four forty-five to four thirty-three. And he visits Susa, but then he returns. The very next verse it says he returns Chapter 6, just some of the highlights here. Chapter 6 is where the walls and the gates are completed. Anyone remember how many days that took? Fifty-two days. Fifty-two days. And they saw resistance. There was resistance. And um at one point the people who are working on the wall had to be armed. Uh they had and then those who were not working on the wall but were transporting the rubble away and transporting materials to they had to be armed and then you had other Jews from the uh from the town surrounding towns come in And they weren't working on the wall and they weren't transporting rubble and materials, but they were just there stationed ready to fight and stand guard. So you had security force. Yeah, that's the basis for the church security. This is the biblical basis for church security. But everybody was armed. And and the but they got it done in fifty-two days. So that's chapter 6, the completion of that. Again, chapter 8 to chapter 10, you'll see this narrative of covenant renewal Really encourage you to read chapters 8 to 10 this week. You have chapter 8 is a reading of the law, and then you have after that the celebration of the Feast of Booths, this great Widespread national confession of sin in chapter 9. And after that confession of sin, you have covenant renewal, covenant renewal. And again, behind it all is the special providence of God. The special providence of God. Alright, let me go ahead and pray for us. God, thank you. Thank you for all that you continue to do in history. Let us believe that you're still at work. That you're still providentially working and in special providence working in your people through your people individually and to our families and also through our local churches for your name and glory. Give us a zeal for your kingdom in Christ we pray. Amen