Well, turning your Bibles to Romans 10, looking at Romans 10, 8 through 15 this morning. I've called this message Jesus is Lord. And I don't want you to get mess uh nervous or worried as we go through the message. Uh the points get progressively smaller as we go along. So if the first point is huge, don't worry. Then they'll get progressively smaller. We will get through it today. Paul is explaining why the nation of Israel did not attain righteousness. before God. Is this microphone on? Am I hearing myself the wrong way? It's good? Okay. Paul's explaining in this in this passage why the nation of Israel did not attain righteousness before God. And that's what we all need. We need to be able to stand before God as righteous. But the problem for Israel was that they sought this righteousness by religious works, not by faith. So this morning, in a general sense, I just want us to think about the difference. Because those are two different ways of seeking God's favor. One way to seek God's favor is to try and earn his favor through religious works or good deeds. Another way to seek God's favor is to receive it as a free gift by faith. So, in a general sense, just think about the difference between those two opposite those two opposing ways of seeking favor from God. If there's one underlying truth that I want to remind us of today, it is this. That Jesus is not just an idea. He's not an idea. He's not a concept. Jesus is a living being. He lives in heaven. He reigns in heaven. He is Lord and Savior. He exists Verse nine in our passage, we'll see it in in read the passage in just a moment here, but the highlight again, believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. Did Jesus die? Yes. And then God rose him from the dead. He lives. He reigns. Jesus is Lord. Let's read the passage. Romans eight, or Romans ten rather. Starting in verse eight, reading through verse fifteen. But what does it say? The word is near you. In your mouth and in your heart, that is the word of faith which we are preaching, or which we preached to you That if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. For with the heart a person believes, resulting in righteousness And with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. For the scripture says, whoever believes in him Will not be disappointed or will not be ashamed, you might have. For there's no distinction between Jew and Greek. Which covers everyone. For the same Lord is Lord of all, abounding in riches for all who call on him For whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. Just a timeout. You keep seeing this word Lord. It's a very important part of this equation. It's the Lord who has riches. It's the Lord you need to call on. It's the Lord who will save you. Verse 13, whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. Verse 14, how then Will they call on him in whom they have not believed? How will they believe in him whom they have not heard? And how will they hear without a preacher? How will they preach unless they are sent? Just as it is written, How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news of good things! Point number one, Jesus is Lord. Jesus is Lord. Particularly, he's the risen Lord. Look at verse nine. One more time. If you confess with your mouth, Jesus as Lord, or quite simply, confess with your mouth, Jesus is Lord. And believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Belief from the heart in the risen Lord We have a baptism later this morning. That is a public proclamation that says, among other things, it says this, Jesus is Lord. Jesus is Lord. We can also call this point the unparalleled authority of Christ. The unparalleled Authority of Christ. Jesus as the risen Lord has a unique, supreme, unparalleled authority. All of this passage, in fact, all of this book, all of Christianity is based on one fundamental truth about the world we live in. And that one truth about this world we live in No matter where you find yourself in the world, at the bottom of the Grand Canyon, or staring at the Great Pyramids, there's one fundamental truth that underlies it all. In this world, Jesus is Lord over it. Jesus is Lord. After his resurrection, Jesus said to his disciples All authority in heaven and on earth has been given to me. In Ephesians 1:10, Paul writes that God's ultimate purpose for all things is, quote, To unite all things in Christ, things in heaven and the things on earth. End a quote What does that mean to unite all things in Christ, to bring all things together in Christ? It means something very elementary. It means that God is going to make all things right. And Christ is going to rule over all of it. He's bringing all things together in Christ. That's God's ultimate purpose for all things. Christ to reign as Lord. And this Christ is an intriguing case of lordship because he took his throne not through military conquest. Not through murder, not through political manipulation, not through bribes, but by exercising love Toward his people, in fact, exercising love toward enemies who had sinned against him and his father He took his throne through coming to suffer with his people in this world. He took his throne by dying on a cross in the place of his people. He took his throne, which is a throne of grace. It's a throne. It's a place of kingship and supreme, unparalleled authority. defined by grace. And so you can come by faith confidently to that throne without fear of being squished by the omnipotent foot of the king because it's a throne of grace. And Jesus gladly receives sinners, not reluctantly, but gladly. He welcomes and embraces sinners who do not deserve his grace. He longs to give grace to undeserving sinners. Jesus is Lord. He has unparalleled authority. Jesus holds the highest office. But stoops down to help the lowliest of sinners. He has the highest honor, but he helps those with no honor. He has power over all things in heaven and on earth, and he helps the powerless He doesn't hoard his power for selfish purposes, which is exactly what I would do and you would do if we had this power in our sin nature. Praise God, Christ as Lord is not like us. He has the right to command obedience, and he has the power to produce obedience in us. Christ is Lord. He's a benevolent ruler. He has the right to make decisions in the world. He has the right to execute judgment in the world. Jesus' rights as Lord are unique and universal. And that simply means this. Jesus alone has these rights as Lord. Not me, not you, not the church as a whole, not all the churches put together. Christ alone is Lord. with these rights of lordship. But his lordship is also, his authority is also universal, which means that his lordship uh the exercising of these rights extends to the highest heaven, to the deepest depths and to every hidden crevice in between. So he's Lord when you're on the internet or your handheld device Looking at whatever it is you're looking at, there Christ is Lord. He's home when you're uh when you're at home interacting with your family and speaking. Doing things. Christ is there as Lord, even though the rest of us can't see you. You're probably doing things and saying things and speaking in a way that you never would do in church because you don't want anyone to see this But God sees it because Christ is there as Lord and He has eyes of fire that pierce through and see everything. He's there at work when you're interacting with coworkers. The way you speak to your boss, the way you speak about your boss. Christ is there as Lord. His authority is unique and universal. I would encourage you this morning to remember this. Wherever you go, Christ is there as Lord. Jesus is Lord. Told you this first point was going to be big. But it needs to be because of what it is Now, there are lesser authorities in the world: parents, governments, police, other armed forces. There are all kinds of authorities that work in the world. Small business owners, over their companies, coaches, over teams, principals, over schools, But nothing compares to this unparalleled authority of Christ. Do you remember what Pilate said to Jesus when Jesus was on trial? Pilate was a Roman governor. Here's what he says, John 19, verse 10 and 11. So Pilate said to him, said to Jesus, Will you not speak to me? Do you not know that I have authority to release you and authority to crucify you? He's saying that to Jesus. Anyway, Jesus answered him, verse 11. You would have no authority over me at all unless it had been given you from above. Therefore, he who delivered me over to you has the greater sin. What is Jesus saying? Jesus is saying For lack of a better phrase, God is sovereign. All true authority originates with God in heaven. All these other earthly authorities are derivative authorities. And no matter what they're doing, what they're saying, what decisions they're making, God, in mysterious ways, quite often is working through that as sovereign Lord. Pilate doesn't know what he's saying. He's a Roman governor. He's nothing. He's nothing speaking about his authority to the Lord Jesus Christ. Interesting point as we wind down this Jesus' Lord rant. The Bible never asks you to make Jesus Lord. Never. Never asks you to make Jesus Lord. Do you know why? Because Jesus is Lord. And nothing I can do about it will change it. The Bible proclaims the fact Jesus is Lord, and it explains to us what it means that he is Lord. And God commands us to recognize his Lordship. But don't just recognize it and admit it and check the box. Surrender to his lordship Submit yourself under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. That your life now would become a gradual, often painful process. Of slowly bringing all the areas of your life under the Lordship of Jesus Christ. That's what it means to be a Christian. You don't make him what he already is. He makes us something new, something that we are not, believers in Jesus Christ. Enter into the joy. Enter into the peace. Enter into the eternal glory of Christ as Lord. He's a king of vast riches. Look at the end of verse twelve. It's the same Lord as Lord of all. That just means He's Lord. He's Lord over you, He's Lord over me, He's Lord over them, He's Lord over them, over there. He's It's Lord over Abounding in riches for all who call on him. There's this popular idea In just the world in general, this is this is the way all of us think, you know, before we come under Christ. Lordship. There's this popular idea, this negative idea, that if I come to Jesus, God is going to make my life horrible. I'm going to lose all these good things. I'm going to be sad all the time. Anything I did have going for myself. Where did that narrative come from? God has nothing but good things to offer you in Christ. Christ, forgiveness of sin, eternal life, hope, a future beyond this life Inner joy and peace that we're chasing after all these silly little things to give us inner joy and peace. We know they cannot deliver. He abounds in riches. He's a king of vast riches who caused peasants to come and live in the castle with him. Not down in the dungeon, but right down the hall from the king. He makes peasants heirs of the kingdom. And in the banquet hall of the castle, he serves the meal to the outcasts. He gives sinners the seat of honor at his table. What kind of king is this? There's nothing like him in all the world. No other religion has any concept that comes even close to the living Christ and his throne of grace. There's all kinds of systems of religion that want you to earn favor of a God who might give you a reward in the end if you do enough, if you're good enough. I have no system of religion to run you through. I have Jesus Christ who lives and reigns, and if you come to him You'll be saved. By grace, can't earn it. You can't buy that. We need to know Today, and the world needs to know through our witness and through our words: Jesus is not an idea, He's not a philosophical concept To speculate on. And brethren, he's not a religious feeling that you come to a building and attend an event and experience a feeling. Now we'll experience feelings. Of course, in all our relationships we have feelings. Jesus is not a shallow, hollow, empty, contrived religious feeling. He's a living being. Jesus is Lord, believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead. A little bit of application. Brethren If Jesus is Lord and you are under his lordship, will you forgive your brother or sister? They live in the same castle that you live in. They were a peasant too once. They didn't have a seat at the banquet table once either. They live in the king's castle with you. Would you come out of your room and go down the hall of that castle of Christ who is Lord and forgive your brother or sister? If Jesus is Lord and you are under his Lordship, will you show grace? Would you be reconciled? Jesus is Lord and you are under his Lordship and living in his castle. Would you don't cause or encourage division in that castle? There's enough Warring coming against the castle. We don't need it inside the castle of the king. Jesus is worth it. I guess that's what I would encourage you with today. Jesus is worth it. He's worth forgiving. He's worth Reconciling. He's worth it. His lordship, his name, his honor in the church and in the community is worth it. Come in first place in showing mercy, and come in last place in harboring anger. Because Jesus is Lord. He's worth it. Well, our passage focuses on a specific aspect of his lordship. Jesus is Lord of salvation. Letter A. Faith in Jesus saves. Faith in Jesus saves. And to show you this point I just want to read verses 8 through 10, and you'll see that this comes directly from verses 8 through 10. Faith in Jesus saves. Not works for Jesus saves. That would be a totally different way. of of thinking about the Christian life. Faith in Jesus saves. Verse 8, what does it say? The word is near you. It's in your mouth. It's in your heart. That is the word of faith which we are preaching. So , you've seen it here first. The word of faith. Verse 9. That is, if you confess with your mouth, Jesus is Lord, and believe, here it is again, different word, believe. In your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. It's this powerful, vivid imagery of a confession of faith that begins in the heart that Christ is Lord and then it overflows and pours out of the mouth. Christ is Lord. It's the heart Erupting out of the mouth with a love for Christ. Verse 10, for with the heart a person believes. There it is again. So faith And believes and believes, resulting in righteousness. We heard that word somewhere. Oh yeah. The very first sentences I said, just think about the difference of two ways of trying to gain favor from God. Try to attain righteousness through religious works, or try to attain righteousness through faith in Jesus Christ. That's where I got that from. With the heart a person believes, resulting in righteousness, and with the mouth he confesses, resulting in salvation. Now, very quickly, what does salvation mean? What does saved mean? It means to be spared from divine judgment. I have sinned in so many ways in my life, in heart, motive, words, deed. We all have. We all have a universal need. We all need forgiveness. That's the only way to be attain to attain to righteousness is if first God washes our sins away and cleanses us of guilt. Otherwise, there's divine judgment just kind of hovering over us, hovering over us. Today is the day of salvation God has provided for an era in history to offer salvation and to through his gospel grant salvation to repentant Sinners. To be saved means to be spared from divine judgment. There's all different kinds of ways to say this. To be made right with God. To receive eternal life. There's different ways of saying it, but it means to be spared from the judgment that I deserve, that you deserve. Now there's something Strangely curious about this phrase, word of faith, that he mentions in verse 8. So look carefully with me, if you will, at verse 8 and see if you can find this. What does it say? The word is near you, it's in your mouth and in your heart. That is, comma, the word of faith which we are preaching, or which we preached to you. Any ideas what this strange and curious reality is when it comes to this word of faith? Oddly enough, the word of faith is simultaneously inside you and outside you. The word of faith is in your heart, but also the word of faith is a message that was preached to you So which is it? Is the word near you and in your mouth and in your heart? Or is it a word of faith that is preached, that you heard? Well, obviously the answer is yes. It's both. First of all, the word of faith is a message. The word word is synonymous with the word message. It's a message of faith. It's the word of faith. What that means is it's the message that faith in Jesus saves. Good works don't save. Good intentions don't save. Religion doesn't save. Nothing saves except faith in Jesus, who died for sins and was raised to eternal life, and now shares that eternal life with all who would come to him. That's the word of faith. That's the message of faith. Faith in Jesus saves. Now that's bad news to some, but great news for others. That was a message I despised. As long as I wanted to maintain my own supreme authority in my life. So if you want to hold on to something else as your security, trust something else with your soul. That's bad news. But it's good news when God, through this message, does something in the heart, which is Secondly, the word of faith is something inside you. It's something outside you. It's a message preached to you. It's something inside you. Here, faith is Trust in Christ as Savior. Trust in Christ alone as Savior. Trust that Christ is sufficient. as your savior, savior, that you don't need to supplement his saving work with little good works, little miniature saving works of your own. The change we need is not an external religious change that we can make but an internal heart change that only God can do through the message. And so the message is outside of you. It's the message of of faith that faith in Christ saves. And if that message hits your heart and changes your heart so that you believe it and receive it and proclaim Christ as Lord, that word of faith is now in your heart as well. Let it be. Faith happens in the heart. Well, that should be self-explanatory. Quickly, quickly, look at verses 8 through 10 again. What does it say? The word is near you. It's in your mouth and in your heart. That is the word of faith which we are preaching, that if you confess with your mouth Jesus says Lord, and believe in your heart. That God raised him from the dead, you will be saved for with the heart. Man, I'm telling you, when the Apostle Paul picks out a key word, he wants you to get it, he's just gonna keep repeating it. This isn't a system of religion. This isn't just intellectual knowledge. This is about the heart. Brothers and sisters, this is about hearts devoted to Jesus Christ as Lord. Faith happens in the heart. To be or not to be, that is not the question. That is not the question. Did you think I was going to say it was the question? It's not the question. That is a line in a play spoken by a prince who's on the brink of losing his mind, literally, because he's obsessed and fixated with revenge. And he's on the verge of becoming mad and he's contemplating suicide. Which is better, the darkness of existing as myself, or the darkness of eternal sleep? That's what he's contemplating. To be or not to be. That's a legitimate question in a world of sin, but that's not the question And here's why. Because without Jesus, it's irrelevant. Without Jesus, the mad prince who's fixated on revenge to the point where he's he he's losing a grip on things, um, he's kind of right. In a world of sin, either way, there's only despair. Either way there's darkness. In a world where there's no hope, no salvation No souls, no futures. That's what the pop culture wants us to believe, right? You have no soul, you have no future, there is no God, you have no responsibility, no accountability, just on and on and on and on. If that's true, The only option is one darkness or the other. To be or not to be. This darkness or that darkness. This existence with no hope. That existence with no hope. To be or not to be is not the question. Do you love Jesus and have Jesus? That's the question. Do you love Jesus and have Jesus? Do you love Jesus and have Jesus? That's the question. Do you believe in your heart? Will you confess with your mouth? Jesus is Lord, Christ is Lord, and I am his. He has brought me into the castle. I am the kingdom heir. Those are the questions Point two, Jesus saves all who call on him. He saves all who call on him First point was the unparalleled authority of Christ. This is the unwavering faithfulness of Christ. And I'm just going to read verses 11 through 13 and see if he can pick out the key words. I'll try to make it obvious. Verse 11, for the scripture says, whoever believes in him will not be disappointed. For there's no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, abounding in riches for all who call on him. For whoever whoever whoever will call on the name of the Lord will be saved. Jesus Saves all who call on him. If you come to him, he will save you. Not on how well you come to him, just on the basis of his promise. He will never turn away a repentant sinner, and he will never turn away from you once he receives you. We do that to each other. Jesus doesn't do that. Point number three, Jesus must be preached. He must be preached. We proclaim his unparalleled authority. We find confidence in his unwavering faithfulness. He must be priest. The unqualified need for Christ. The unqualified need for Christ. And again, I'll just read verses 14 through 15. He'll ask a question and then he'll answer it within another question. You'll see the flow. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? That's a great question. How will they call on Christ as Lord? How will they believe in him whom they have not heard? Ah, we have a clue. They have to hear. They have to hear. And how will they hear without a preacher? Someone needs to speak it. They're going to call if they believe. They won't believe unless they hear. They won't hear unless someone speaks it. How will they preach unless they are sent? Now we're getting somewhere. Someone has to be sent to do the speaking, so there can be a hearing and a believing and a calling. For salvation in Christ as Lord. How beautiful are the feet of those who bring good news of good things. Ha! Now we need feet We need feet who will go and be sent and speak, so there will be a hearing and a believing and a calling upon Christ as Lord, and at the end of all that, God gets the glory. The highlight at the end there is descending and defeat. And I want us to understand this. We are the sent ones. We are the feet. You were the sent ones. You are the feet at home. You are the sent one. You have the feet. At work, you are the sent one. You have the feet. And you have the mouth to speak. In the neighborhood, wherever you are, Christ is there as Lord. And he has sent you, he has given you feet, so that you would speak, so there be a hearing and a believing and a calling upon Christ as Lord. My goal for the discipleship ministry here is that every single one of us would be personally involved and personally invested in world missions and in local evangelism. That's my goal. I believe that's a biblical goal Because God has called us to be His ambassadors. Christ is Lord. He's giving us He's given us feet. He has sent us into the world that we might speak, so there'd be a hearing. And a believing and a calling. Let's pray. Father, we worship you. We worship Christ as Lord. We depend on your Spirit for any good thing that will come out of our lives. It's in Christ's name we pray. Amen. If you would um if you have any spiritual need you feel needs to be addressed, if you Would give your life and submit your life under the Lordship of Christ, not to come and make Him Lord, but surrender to His Lordship. I would invite you to come as we stand and sing. Won't you stand with me as we sing today? We face the task unfinished that drives us to our knees. A need that condemned. Rain and rebukes our slothful ease. We will rejoice