Let's go ahead and take our Bibles and turn to Matthew chapter 16. I'm taking one more week to do a standalone message, and then we'll get back to our series in 1 John. But we took one week last week to do uh a special Easter message from the book of Hebrews, and since we took that pause, I'm going to jump on this opportunity and Do another message on Christian living. Really, last week's message was for all intents and purposes, how to become a Christian. and what that means, I thought a good follow up would be, you know, what does it look like to live for Christ after we are saved by Christ? Matthew sixteen, twenty four through twenty six. So I'm calling this message How to follow Jesus. And um isn't this what we want? Isn't this what we want for ourselves? And Isn't this what we want for our loved ones and for anyone else? And it isn't this Isn't this what God deserves? God is worthy that we would live for Him. He's worthy to be praised. He's worthy to be followed. And let me give you one more on this. Not only is this what we need, and not only is this what uh what God deserves. It's the biggest need of the world in general. This is what we want for for you and for others. It's what God deserves and it's what the world needs. Followers of Christ. Matthew 16, 24 through 26. Then Jesus told his disciples: anyone will come after me, let him deny himself. And take up his cross and follow me. For whoever would save his life will lose it. But whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the entire world but forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? Let's pray together. Father, we ask that you would open our hearts and minds to your word, to your grace. That you have for us. And um it's not lost on me, and hopefully it's not lost on any of us that your word cannot be preached without your presence and without your working. Nor could it be heard properly without your working, without your presence. And so, Father, we trust and fully expect that you would overcome the weaknesses and shortcomings of the preacher. And also those of the listeners, I pray that you would deepen our affection for Jesus Christ this morning. And we're completely dependent before you, God. It's in Jesus we're asking these things. Amen. How to follow Jesus. So just to be really clear about this distinction this morning, we're not talking about how to be saved. We're talking about how do saved people live. And there's a com there's uh just an absolute distinction here That we need to maintain. We're not talking about how to come to Christ. We're talking about how we live for Christ after we come to him in faith. You you don't need fuel just to get a fire started. The fire continues to need fuel, and if it runs out of fuel, it will no longer be a fire. So we're not talking about starting a fire. We're just talking about the nature of that burning fire that continues to need fuel. You can also think about a tree We're not talking about how the seed springs to life. We're talking about the nature of the tree, the nature of the fruit that it bears We're not talking about how to come to Christ. We're talking about how to live for Him once you come to Him. Here's why this is such an important distinction to maintain. If we lose sight of that distinction, we'll give the impression, or you'll have the impression, that you uh can obey Christ and live for him and then be saved. And you'll have the impression that you can be saved by your works. You'll have the impression that you can be saved by obedience. This is not Christianity. We're saved a hundred percent by grace, through faith, and then we obey. Salvation first, and then obedience, not obedience, and then salvation This is the Christian gospel. So we're talking about how to follow Jesus, but make sure you keep this distinction rooted in your heart like an anchor for everything that's said. Not talking about how to be saved, but how a saved person lives. So let me map out the message for you. I have one grand point. And then three small ones. So when this first point is longer than most first points, don't get nervous, like we're going to be here till one o'clock or two o'clock. We have one grand point and then three small points. Those three small points rest upon an understanding of this first grand point. That's why it's the big. That's why it's major. Everything else rests on this first point, how to follow Jesus. The way you follow Jesus is by looking to him in faith. And being changed by Him. This is the paradigm for Christian living. We continue to look to Jesus by faith and are changed by Him. Christian obedience is always first an inward reality. And that's something that Jesus produces in us. We look to him in faith, he produces obedience in our hearts, and then anything else we do outwardly or say outwardly that would be true obedience is just that inward obedience manifesting itself in our lives. How do we follow Christ? How do we live for him? We look to him in faith and are changed by him. You see, there's an active role, looking to Jesus by faith. And then there's a passive role, which means he's the one doing the work. He's the one changing us. It's a sight of Jesus Christ and of his amazing grace. that transforms the human heart. This is true Christian obedience. First inward that's produced by Christ, and then outward that comes as a result. Are you with me, church? This is the grand point. So this first grand point we're just going to Open this up. Open up open the door really to this this point. Look at some different aspects of it. You'll see in the verse 24 Three well one's a word and the other other two are phrases. But three key words or three key phrases. The first one at the very beginning of verse 24 Disciples. Then Jesus told his disciples. The word could be translated students. This means followers. You guess you could say apprentice is would be acceptable, but really a disciple is just a follower, just a student of a master. Then he says, if anyone would come after me. And then the very last phrase of verse 24, follow me. So you see this said in three different ways in one Verse. What is this about? It's about being a follower of Jesus. It's about coming after Jesus. He's going there. I'm following him. He's living this way. We're following him. Following Jesus. Now on earth at that time that would have you know outwardly you would have literally followed him and to hear him preach and to see his ministry and serve with him. Serve him in different ways. Now Jesus is in heaven, but living for God, living for God through faith in Jesus is still the same dynamic. Of following Jesus, being a student of Jesus. He's the master. We're the students. And we'll we're to learn from him if you were to do a study on what this means. The two main ideas that would emerge of what discipleship is would be learning and imitation. Learning from Jesus and imitation of Jesus. He's our master. So he's the model. He's the one who teaches us. Here's how you live, here's how you don't live, here's what's true, here's what's a lie, here's what's moral, here's what's Small small Jesus is the teacher. We're to learn from him, to live for God in all spheres of life. And we're to imitate him. The point I'm bringing out is the point of enablement. What's the enablement that we're that we're able to live for him? To learn from him, to imitate him. Does that enablement, does that power come from within us? No. This is the point I want to bring out as the grand point. That comes from Jesus. Obedience is a gift from Him that He works in our hearts to learn from Him, to learn how to live for Christ in all spheres of life. Which I think is a really good reminder for us on what Christianity is. Christianity, what God's will for us is not just to fill our lives with external formal religion. That is the part of our discipleship. What we're doing right now is external and formal. We make no apologies for that. We're not ashamed of that. We gather publicly, formally, to externally express our faith, sing songs to God, preach the word. But that's just one part of discipleship. The church and the body life of the church and the ministries of the word of the church are meant to equal Equip us to go live for God in all areas of life. To encourage us to go live for God in all areas of life. Home first, home Then as a citizen, to be Christian citizens at work or at school or at play with your hobbies, wherever we are, to live for God in all spheres of human life. That's discipleship. And shame on me if I just fill my life up with the external formal religion, but forget about the other spheres of life. That's not biblical discipleship. So learning and imitation and then enablement. Turn with me to 2 Corinthians 3. 18. 2 Corinthians 3. 18, I want to show you a really, really vivid Bible verse that teaches this understanding or this framework for Christian living. That we look to Christ in faith and are changed by Him. Second Corinthians three, eighteen So Christianity is not uh where changed In our hearts, we're saved by faith, and then Jesus gives us a list of rules to do, and then we just go off and do the rules. That's not Christianity. Jesus is always with us. We're always looking to Him to be changed by Him in our hearts. 2 Corinthians 3. 18 There's a symbol in the first phrase of this verse. There's a symbol. I've got to talk about that symbol before we get to the main point of it. It says, we all with unveiled face. Alright, so that's the symbol we've got to talk about. So the the veil over a face is just a covering, right? It's a covering that keeps you from seeing something. And in the passage, that veil symbolizes that you're not seeing the glory of God in the gospel. That's what the veil symbolizes. You've not seen the glory of God that He's revealed in the gospel. When we come to Christ, that veil is removed. So with unveiled face means we see the glory of God in the gospel. So he says, we all with unveiled face, that's believers, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image. From one degree of glory to another, and this comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit. So you can underline the word beholding. Some of you might have reflecting there. But the only reason you would be reflecting is because you're beholding. It just means looking at. You're looking at. You're seeing. You're watching. You're beholding The glory of the Lord that's been revealed in the gospel. And then it says, are being transformed. So you're doing something and something is being done to you. You're beholding God's glory as revealed in Christ. And as you behold his glory, That glory transforms you. This is Christian living. To be transformed into the image of Christ by the Spirit of Christ. He says, beholding, that's number one, as we're beholding, we're being transformed, number two. Then he details the nature of that transformation. Into the same image from one degree of glory to another. What's the same image? It's the image of the one we're beholding. It's the image of Christ, the character of Christ produced in us as we look to him in faith in the gospel. This is the paradigm or the model for a Christian living. We look to Christ in faith, and he changes us. You still have sin in your life. But the only way to battle that sin or to repent from that sin is to look to Christ in faith and be changed by Him. We still have weakness in our life Weaknesses and shortcomings in in our in our lives. And the only way to overcome those, and the only way to persevere through those according to God's will, is to look to Christ in faith and to be strengthened by Him, to be preserved by Him. Christ is the one doing the work in us, or there will be no work done in us, just outward religion done by us So we're beholding the glory of the Lord. We're being transformed into the image of the Lord, and none of that can happen apart from this last verse, or the last part of the verse rather. Tells us the source, tells us how this happens. This comes from the Lord, who is the Spirit, or who is spirit. You might have it worded differently. The risen Christ, who reigns in heaven at the right hand of God, is doing this work in us by the power of the Holy Spirit. By the power of the Holy Spirit. It's not like Jesus just gives us the right information and then we put it into action. It could never be. It's the power of the Holy Spirit within us that Achieves this transformation. The gospel produces obedience, basically, what is what I'm saying. The gospel carries us forth in obedience Almost every time I've made a big deal about this point, or even just talked about this point, that this is what Christian living is A lot of times I'll get a look of bewilderment, like this is uh like this is too theoretical. How does that happen? I thought I thought we already had the Holy Spirit, and now we're able to live for God. And so just tell us what to do. We love this, right? We love lists of things to do. Just tell me seven things I can do to live for God. Tell me five keys to holy living, and let me go and do it. It won't work. If you divorce that from daily, moment by moment, looking to Christ in faith, there'll be no true spiritual change. So if this sounds too theoretical, let me Let me talk about a few things. First of all, just a practical day-to-day. Nuts to bolts, rubber meets the road, practical day-to-day, what does this look like? Well, do you still face temptation every day? Alright, are you going to look inwardly for the strength to overcome that temptation, or are you are you going to look? At the glory of God through the gospel, are you going to look to Christ through faith for the strength to endure and overcome? Obviously. So this is not theoretical. Do you still have sin in your life? Now, if you're not grieved by the sin in your life, you need to come to the Word of God Study about what sin is, study about God's holiness, and pray that God would bring you to the conviction of sin. Now, if you are grieved by the sin in your life and you want to repent of the sin in your life, Are you going to look inward for the strength and for the spiritual fortitude to do that? Or are you going to look to Christ for the strength to do that? For the gift of repentance, look to Christ So this is not theoretical. This is day-to-day dealing with temptation, dealing with sin. Heaven forbid If it depended on our wisdom and our strength to break with the power of sin in our hearts, it would never happen. Sin, if you know anything about sin. About your own sin, you know that sin does not self-correct. We need help from the outside. We need God to intervene. We need the Holy Spirit To turn us. Weakness, frailty. Where are we going to look for the strength to persevere through difficulties, through trials, through trauma? Through intense sadness and some of the some of the hardships we go through in life and some of the stress and the anxiety. Where are we going to look for help? Where are we going to plant our feet for a hope in this difficult world, this sin-cursed world? We look to Christ. We look to God's provision in Christ. That's the gospel. I'll give you one more on this, on the practical rubber meets the road day-to-day application of this. What about doubts that you experience? Doubts in your faith? That doesn't make you a skeptic. Just about every Christian has doubts or goes through a season of doubt or a season of of guilt where the devil's really trying to get a foothold and build a stronghold in your mind to to hinder you and your discipleship. the the crippling effect of guilt or of shame or of doubt. Now if we want to get out of that or mature f Mature through that, mature out of that, do we look inwardly or do we look to Christ in faith? Obviously, we look to Christ in faith. But this is such a big deal because on a practical level we so often forget this. It's so easy just to get into the routine and to go through the motions. And to go through the motions of the outward and the external and the formal, but we're not fighting the fight of faith to become more like Christ. Now, if it's still too theoretical, I want to take another, I want to dig down a little bit deeper to how this happens How does this happen? Christian obedience. True Christian obedience. All true Christian obedience. Every Single molecule of true obedience in your life can only come from one thing in the heart. Well, I mean two things. Two things in the heart. Love and gratitude. That's it. Love and gratitude. It's a really a grateful love. Is the only thing in the human heart That can produce any kind of true obedience in the rest of life. And you already know this. I'm not telling you something you don't know. We just often have a hard time connecting the dots. What's the greatest commandment? Love. Love God. Not know more things about God. Not do do more things for God. Right. Love God in the heart. Love God most. Love God with all that you are. In all of your life. Above all things, love God most. Love God as God. This is where any other obedience comes from. It's a grateful love. You know, you know, you can obey someone and despise that person. You know you can despise a teacher and yet still obey the rules in the classroom. Tell me if I'm making this up. Just because you don't want to get in trouble. You know you can despise a coach, but still obey the rules of the coach because you want to get playing time. Can you despise a boss but still follow the rules at work because you want to keep your job? You know you can put together an outward obedience. You can hate the government, you can hate you can hate the Constitution, but still obey the law because you don't want to go to jail. But true Christian obedience is not like that. It always springs from a grateful love, love to God. Luke 7 47, the one who's forgiven much loves much. The one who's forgiven much is so grateful, so thankful for that forgiveness that it produces love. And then that love is manifest in outward devotion. John 14, 15, Jesus says, if you love me, you will, you know it, say it, keep my commandments. Love first, gratitude first, and then it's expressed in obedience So if this is the case, and friends, it is the case, that any true obedience springs from gratitude and love in the heart. Really, the question comes down to this: what is it that produces gratitude and love in the heart for God? It's the gospel It's God's incredible forgiveness for for our sins, an infinite debt. You realize our sin debt was an infinite debt? That Christ paid an in the infinite price, the infinite worth of the Son of God to pay our debt. That should make us grateful beyond imagination and love God and love Christ who died for our sins. It's that gratitude and love that comes from seeing God's grace and the gospel. So when we say that Christian living is always, always, always looking to Christ in faith and being changed by him. This is what we're saying Love and obedience, love and gratitude in the heart that comes from seeing Christ. Any other obedience in our lives comes from that. Alright, if uh if a sermon is to be preached, it's to be an obedient, faithful sermon, truly obedient, not just a show of obedience. If it is, it has to come from love and gratitude. You signing up for a ministry to help in a ministry. True if that's going to be true obedience and not just outward obedience, a show of obedience, it must come from love and gratitude in the heart. Teaching a Sunday school class, having people over your home for a Bible study, giving money to missions, anything, anything, reforming in your language so that you're no longer gossiping on people. slandering on people. Any outward obedience, if it's true obedience, it's it springs forth from love and gratitude in the heart. Brothers and sisters, Christianity is about loving God and living out a life of gratitude toward God. It is not outward first. It's always, always, always inward. This is the grand point. It's the most important point of Christian living. We don't want to be externalists. But people who are always looking to Christ, always looking to Christ, to be transformed by Him. Now the three smaller points. Hopefully that was enough Of ranting on this grand point. How to live for Jesus, we are looking to him in faith and being changed by him. Now, the uh the three small points. First of all, I'll give them to you together. What does this look like in our lives as we live this out? As we live this out, looking to Jesus being changed by him. First of all, It means uh we leave something behind us. That's first. We leave something behind us. Secondly, it means we carry something with us. Alright, you memorize those two. We leave something behind us. We carry something with us, and we look forward to receiving something in the future. Alright, so this is what the Christian life looks like We're leaving something behind. We're carrying something with us, and we're looking forward to receiving something. If you're still in 2 Corinthians, you can turn all the way back to Matthew 16. Matthew sixteen, back to our verse, and I'll point these three things out, and then we'll come to a close. First of all, verse twenty four. Deny himself. Self-denial. Are you telling me if this runs completely against the grain of the message of the culture? It's the complete opposite of the world's message for us. Deny himself. Then skip down to verse 25. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. Key phrase: loses his life. For Jesus' sake. Verse 24, deny yourself. Verse 25, lose your life for the sake of Christ. That's leaving something behind us. What is it that we leave behind? We leave behind a life that's all about me. We leave behind a life where I'm in charge. We leave behind a life that's living for the approval of others. We leave behind A life where we're blinded to our sin and therefore blind to God's grace in the gospel. We leave behind the self centered life. We leave behind this delusion that we can be self-sufficient and self-sustaining in life. We leave it behind. We deny ourselves. We deny our base. passions in order to live for God. We are not on the throne. We never were on the throne, but when we're lost, we pretend like we're on the throne. But we leave that behind. Living for Jesus in terms of what it looks like is we leave something behind. The me life. The me, myself, and I life. The I'm in charge life. We leave it behind. Deny himself, verse twenty four, verse twenty five, loses his life This at the end of the day is the main obstacle of receiving the gospel. This is the cost of discipleship. You talk about the the uh the gift of coming to Jesus of the greatest gifts in the world. The gift of forgiveness, the gift of eternal life, eternal fellowship with God. These are great, great gifts. But at what cost? You're no longer in charge. You don't belong to yourself anymore. You belong to God. You belong to Christ. So you have to leave something behind. And now we know, again, hopefully we know, hopefully, we're seeing why that first point. Is so important that uh Christian living is being changed by God. Because what we just said right there, leaving all those things behind, that's not natural. That's the opposite of us in our natural state. Naturally, we live for ourselves and we're in rebellion against God. And naturally we embrace lies and reject the truth. So if God is not the one doing this work in us, enabling us to deny self and to lose our lives, to leave it behind, to leave behind the me life, if Christ isn't working that in us, that work won't get done. So something we leave behind. We deny ourselves and we lose our lives for the sake of Christ. Secondly Secondly, living for Christ is something you carry with you. Look at verse 24 again. Then Jesus told his disciples, If anyone would come after me, let him deny himself. And Take up his cross and follow me. Take up means pick up. We take up a cross. Hopefully, you see this is symbolic language here Don't go out and make a cross out of timbers for yourself. This is symbolic about one aspect of Christian living, carrying a cross. A cross was an instrument of public execution Specifically designed to bring upon the criminal maximum public shame and maximal and drawn out excruciating physical pain and anguish. This now becomes a symbol, a symbol of living for Christ. So we leave behind, but we also pick up something to carry with us. This is speaking to not just general difficulties in life. This is specifically one aspect of living for Christ. It's a burden that we carry. It's uh a duty that we have. And what that is specifically is we lay down our lives for the glory of God and for the good of others. You can put that'll be on the test, okay? Put write that down. We this is what the crow carrying a cross symbolizes. We're dying to ourselves, even though it brings a shame, public shame and public mocking and public hatred from the world. To lay down our lives for the glory of God and for the good of others. That's what Jesus' cross was. This is the cross of Jesus Christ. to obey his father, to glorify his father by accomplishing the work of redemption. The cross is a manifestation of God's love The cross is a manifestation of God's righteousness. The cross is the central historical manifestation of God's glory, the glory of God and the gospel. The shed blood of Jesus Christ. The cross of Christ was Jesus laying down his life for the glory of God, and you have to have the other aspect. The good of others. Not one or the other. Never want to pit these two things against each other. Is it for God's glory or is it for man's good? The answer is yes. It's to reconcile sinners to God. It's to erase sins, to erase the guilt of sins. Is that good or bad? No, no, I need more conviction than that. Come on, wake up, wake up. Is that good or bad? Listen, church, this is our message. Good news, gospel, sins erased. This is the thing of all things. When you go outside today and you see the ground, the dirt, this is why the dirt exists. So God can work out this plan of redemption. When you wake up in the morning now, these birds are getting an early start and you hear these birds chirping. Why do these birds exist? Because of God's bird plan of redemption. Everything exists for God's plan of redemption. And the center of that is the cross of Jesus Christ, where he laid down his life. For the glory of his father and for the good of man. Let me just make it personal. For your good, for your good, for your benefit, Jesus laid down his life. So this becomes the paradigm for Christian living. We no longer live for ourselves, but we've taken up our cross and we're following Jesus for the glory of God, for the good of others. There can be no self-centeredness in the church. There should be no sense of entitlement in the church. No sense of territorialism. In the church, this is about God's glory and the good of others. And we're we're messengers, we're ambassadors, we're representatives in this great kingdom of redemption. It's something that we carry with us. Discipleship is something we leave behind. If I say I'm following Jesus, but still on that me life. There's something wrong. There's a problem. If I say I'm following Jesus, but I but I've not embraced this burden to lay down my life for the glory of God or for the good of others, there's something wrong. Finally, third, living for Jesus, following Jesus is not only something we leave behind, it's not only something we carry with us, but it's also something we look forward to. Look at verse 25 again. For whoever would save his life, now that's the one who wants to maintain the me life. You feel like you need to keep this me life. Whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For let's go into verse 26. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? So at the end of verse 25, you can underline this phrase, find it. Find it. And you see in that verse it's talking about life. Finding life will find it. And then in verse 26, he talks about the same thing, but he uses the word soul. You can either keep your soul or forfeit your soul. If you lose your soul, what will you give to pay God back to get your soul back? So finding life Keeping your soul instead of forfeiting it, what does that represent? It represents something simple. Simple. It represents the inheritance of eternal life. That's what that means. It means when When the day of judgment comes, and friends, the final day of judgment for all men everywhere is coming. When that final day of judgment comes, you'll not receive condemnation, but you'll enter into the glory of God. You'll have the gifts of eternal life in the presence of God forever. That's finding your life. That's keeping your soul. Some intriguing questions in verse 26. What will it profit a man or benefit? What will it benefit a man or If he gains the whole world and yet forfeits his soul. Don't answer out loud, but please answer that in your heart. Okay, so this is a man he gains the whole world. The most power in the world, the most money in the world, is the best reputation In the world. Everybody loves him. But he rejects the gospel. What has he gained? What has he gained? He's gained a f he's gained nothing. That's right. Nothing. Eternal because there's more to life than the here and now. Everything here is part of the old creation. It's It's wasting away. It'll all be gone one day. And then he says, Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? So this picture of the same man. Richest man, most powerful man, most beloved man from the culture. He Dies and he goes to stand before the Lord. He's forfeited his soul. That's just his condition. The gavel comes down. Is there something he can give to God to reverse that verdict? Absolutely not. He's nothing you can give to God to reverse that verdict. And brothers and sisters This is why we must have an urgency for the gospel. If churches don't have an urgency for the gospel, who in human society will have an urgency for the gospel? If we want people to be saved, if we want people to know God, if we want people to have confidence for the day of judgment, not terror, we must preach and teach and share the gospel and pray that God would use it. Something we look forward to, a joyful expectation of entering the glory of God forever. Now, why do we gather? Why do we gather on Sunday mornings? For encouragement, yes. To sing songs, yes. To hear the word, yes, but but deeper. For why are we doing all those things? To look to Christ, to see Christ by faith, and to be transformed by a sight of Him. If we ever lose That spiritual foundation, that behind the scenes working of seeing Christ by faith and being changed by him, will just be externalists, and that's not what we want to be. That's not what you want to be. Why do we gather to see Christ by faith? This is what worship is: to worship a living Christ. So, how do you live for Jesus? How do you follow Him? You must continually, day by day, week by week, look to him in faith for him to change you, for him to change you, to produce love, to produce gratitude. And then from those things. To produce other aspects of obedience. Well, that's not quite clear enough. That's too theoretical. So give me give me three smaller points to supplement that. You've got to leave something behind you. You've got to forsake the me life. Now, for those of you who've been walking with the Lord for some time, does that happen in one year? Does that happen in one decade? This is a lifelong project of looking to Christ in faith and being changed by him to forsake the me life. And none of us have arrived. None of us have a rod. And also, you've got to carry something with you. If you don't want to carry the cross with you, this calls for repentance. This very morning, it calls for repentance. to take up your cross and to embrace a life where where you're laying down your life, though it brings suffering and though it brings shame Don't bring scorn from the world around you. You're laying down your life for the glory of God and the good of others. Then this will keep us focused. These are the things that will keep us focused. That's the gift something to keep me something to get me off of the me life. That is just the other 's life. The God life and the other's life. And you must have a hope. You must have a joyful expectation of the hope that awaits you. This'll keep us grounded. This will keep us that we're not just a sad mopey people. Christians should be a happy people. Should Christians should be a joyful people Doesn't mean we don't get sad. Doesn't it doesn't mean we don't have difficulties. I'm not saying that. This is mean underneath there's a joy that carries us through life because we know that the sufferings of this life are not forever There's a coming glory, a future glory that far outweighs the present sufferings. How to live for Christ. Look to him in faith. And trust that he will change you. Because brothers and sisters, friends, guests, anyone, if Christ doesn't change us spiritually, there will be no change. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for your word. I thank you for the privilege and the joy of being in your kingdom. Thank you for your grace Thank you for your power. Thank you for your mercy. Thank you for your love. Thank you for sustaining us through difficult times. Thank you for helping us to keep perspective during during easier times so that we don't grow complacent. Father, we pray, we pray that you would use this word planted in our hearts to give us joy, to give us love, to give us gratitude that springs forth in uh in obedience to you. Happy obedience to you. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.