Well, good evening to you that are here for a special uh evening. We've missed our our Sunday evening service. We're glad for those who are who have gathered, those who are gathering. online and uh we're gonna sing some. So those here have song sheets. What a friend we have in Jesus. I selected three uh simple hymns that have to do with prayer as we go to the Lord's Prayer in Matthew chapter 6 in just a little bit. What a friend we have in Jesus. What a friend we have in Jesus, all our sins and griefs to bear. What a prison. Give a litch to every Everything to God in prayer. Oh what peace we often hold. Oh what needless pain we bear all because we do not care. Everything to God in prayer. Are we weak and heavy latest? With a load of care , precious Savior still I read. prayer to thy prince despised forsake thee take it to the Lord in prayer In his arms he'll take ancient. Thou will find a solace there. Father, we thank you for this evening. We thank you for songs to sing, voices to sing with. We thank you, Father, for the the unity and community of the assembly, the saints, and we pray that you'd bless our time together this evening in Jesus' name Amen. Sweet hour of prayer. Sing two verses of this. Sweet hour of prayer. Sweet hour of prayer. That calls me from a world of care and bids me at my father 's throne may call my wall. Sandwish is known in seasons of distress and grief, my soul has often found. Really, and aught escaped the tempest mare by my return, sweet outbreak. Sweet hour of prayer, sweet hour of prayer, thy we shall my petition bear to hear Whose true and faithfulness engage the waiting soul to bless and send people. We seek his face , believe his word, and trust his grace. I'll cast on him my every We care and wait for the sweet hour of prayer near to the heart of God There is a place of quiet rest, near to the heart of God, a place where sin. Cannot molest here to the heart of God O Jesus blessed send from From the heart of God hold us away before thee, near to the heart of God. Is a place of comfort sweet, near to the heart of God, a place where we our savior meet. Near to the heart of God Oh Jesus blessed Redeemer send from the heart of God All us who wait before thee near to the heart of God There is a place of Oh release near to the heart of God, a place where all is joy and peace, near to the heart of God. Of God O Jesus blessed Redeemer sent from the heart of God. Made me for me near to the heart of God All right. Pastor Matt and I are going to join you up here. Well, we're going to speak from up here. You can stay where you are. This is kind of nice. So in the study with Pastor John and Pastor Matt, just a word of thankfulness to the Lord, going back to What day would it have been? 15th, the twenty March the twenty-second, if I if I'm right, calendar-wise, was the first time that we did this together. We changed the seating arrangement, didn't we? I was on that side. But anyway, that's gonna throw us off completely tonight. But I don't know what happened. I just came out here and set up here. I guess because I'm right-handed, I took this seat Yeah, sorry about that. But anyway, um on the twenty second of March um we just, you know, had had to do something for the fellowship and um And began with that and and I'm thankful that God used it in a uh a way of encouragement to the fellowship. Um It was new to us, it was different, awkward, but it came across well, and we're thankful for that. And so tonight Uh y you know, I've just been wanting to meet on Sunday night. It's it's you know, I I make use of the time. I I continue to work, to read, to pray, and to relax uh on a Sunday, but uh I'm just um I'm a pastor who's always had a Sunday evening service, so it's been a little uncomfortable. So I talked to Pastor Matt. You know, we we want to get back to that. This was an open Sunday, and so we decided we would do this. So you are here, thank you, and you are here online. We would greatly appreciate that. We'd We can't see your names. We don't have a computer up here to know who's online, but we'll find out later. Oh, you do. Okay, so I know who's on there. Okay. Very good. I'm glad you do. And if I need to learn anything from a comment or something, I'm sure that you will do that. So let's turn. To Matthew chapter six, the Lord's Prayer as we know of it. Some would say it'd be better to call it a model prayer, because the Lord's Prayer we probably should think of Places like John chapter 17 where the Lord prays or the Garden of Gethsemane or John chapter 12 as I referenced this morning. when he when we are invited into his secret place with the Lord. But I call it the Lord's Prayer, and I think it's fine to do so. It is the prayer that the Lord teaches us. So I wanted to start with something I did not touch on this morning, and that is what if anything Is the significance of this prayer being taught to us in the plural? That is, our Father who is in heaven. Give us this day. Forgive us our debts. I think that Jesus, we know in in John chapter 17, in his prayer, before the Father prays for unity in a very strong way in John chapter 17 20 through through 23. And Romans 12, 15 teaches us to rejoice with those who rejoice and weep with those who weep. So I I don't think that Jesus is saying you have to be with other people to pray this prayer. I think he is saying We should have in mind that the hour is designating a specific group of people that are set apart from the world and that is believers, followers, disciples of the Lord Jesus Christ. This is a prayer that He is teaching to the twelve, other followers, and yes there was a crowd How many of them became disciples, we don't know, but it is a prayer for his disciples. So first thing I would say about the hour, who is the hour? It is his disciples. And then what's the significance of it? Well, I think when when we pray we should always be thinking of more than just ourselves. Um certainly there are times when we come and pray about things that are very personal. And those prayers are all throughout Scripture. So it's not like we don't use I in prayer. But I do think Jesus is uh saying something significant and that um that maybe Our spiritual identity needs to be thought of in terms of the body of Christ. And so our Father and give us. And I I I think there's significance in that. I would never want to be one who simply prayed about my own needs, or maybe just about my family needs. but always about uh the body of Christ. So who is the hour? It is disciples. What's the significance? Well I think I need to have regard for my brothers and sisters and I think my spiritual identity, w whereas I do have an individual identity before the Lord as a follower, as a Christian, uh as a as a a as a child of God A fundamental spiritual identity is we, always we. That's why the assembly is so important. That's why as soon as we could we came back and assembled together So the hour I think is is important in both of those aspects. Anything there, Pastor Matt? It can help you Think about what's going on when you pray and you're with others. Y you're not there to communicate everything that's going on in your life to the people who you're with, but rather you're representing the people that you're with and together you're crying out to God. And so it can understand you can it can help us understand our role. that we are praying together. We're praying as one voice, as one body. Okay. Yeah, good. So a couple of topics from tonight. I wanted to start with that because I didn't cover it, but uh things I kind of covered but want to go deeper in. And I have them under two words, attitude, well three words, attitude, agenda, and needs. I'm showing you I'm not a slave to alliteration. Attitude, agenda, and needs. So first of all, attitude. Look at the word father I asked myself the question, what is the significance of Jesus telling us to address God as Father? Look if you would at Matthew chapter 7, because he brings up this same language there, Matthew 7, verse 7. Where he's teaching again about prayer, ask and it will be given to you. Seek and you will find, knock, and it will be opened to you. For everyone who asks receives. and he who seeks finds, and to him who knocks it will be opened. Or what man is there among you who, when his son asks for a loaf, will give him a stone? Or if he asks for a fish, he will not give him a snake, will he? If you then being evil know how to give good gifts to your children, how much more will your father who is in heaven give what is good to those who ask him. I think Jesus in context bringing that truth that God is a God of goodness Back to chapter six, we can trust that God is a father who is good. A father who will uh who does love us, a father who will act in a loving way, in the best way, just as if you're a parent or have been a parent. you acted for the best interest, if you were any kind of a mom or a dad, acted in the best interest of your child. And maybe you didn't always give them exactly what they asked for, but you didn't give them a snake, okay? You gave them something that was good for them. So that's one thing I think about when I think of Father, that he's good. And Jesus illustrates that in Matthew chapter seven. I also think a gospel thought that I'm adopted in Christ. He is my heavenly father. How come? Well, 1 Corinthians chapter 8 and verse 6 and we we do have cross-references, so you know feel free to let me hear the pages or the uh the scrolling of your device. And um 1 Corinthians 8, 6 says There is but one God, the Father, from whom are all things, and we exist for Him. So He's designated as Father through His inspiration inspires Paul to Label him as such, we exist for him in one Lord Jesus Christ, by whom are all things, and we exist through him. Well, we know that we are sons by adoption. That's a theme of the gospel in Scripture. And so Father should make us think of that, that we are recipients of God's grace. Our ability to come into God's presence in prayer is real, it is spiritual. We're not actually walking into a physical throne room, but we are spiritually in Christ at the throne of God. our ability to come anywhere near that as humans ended in Genesis three, the fall of man, because of our sinfulness. So we receive that ability, we become sons who are welcomed there only in Christ. So when I think of the word Father, I think of his goodness, his love, and I think of his grace, his grace to us in Christ. Should I go on or you want to say anything about Father? Oh, I'll say something about Father. Yeah. I think there's a general principle here of being God-centered in our prayer. Yeah. And um this really gets to the foundation of prayer. And so just for one example, yes, we do pray for needs, but that's not the foundation of prayer. That's one subcategory. God is where we start. So just for an illustration, imagine if a a couple, a married couple went into a counselor and the counselor said to the husband, Okay, tell me what's beautiful about your wife. Tell me what you love about your wife. And he didn't have anything to say. What kind of husband would that be? He he should be able to identify what is beautiful to him, what he adores in her, things about her character, things about her appearance, and on and on. He should be able to do that if he knows her, if he loves her. And so, as children of God, if if if if me or if you and God went into a counselor, and the counselor said to us , Tell me what's beautiful about your God. Tell me what's uh worshipful, uh, what's worthy of worship in your God. We should be able To say things about God. He's my creator. He's my redeemer. He's infinite. He's eternal He's holy, he's just. And so what does that look like in prayer? Father, we worship you for your holiness. We worship you for your mercy. Your faithfulness is beyond understanding. Your goodness to us. Prayer should start with adoration, but you can't adore what you don't know or what you don't have close fellowship with. And so we have to know who God is and cultivate a love and adoration for God, that's where prayer starts. Everything else will flow from that fountain of love for God, which is as it is, the greatest commandment. Love God. So two things in response to that. Father the the the truth that Jesus would choose that word shows us that God desires uh that closeness, that relationship, so that we do come to know him and come to know all of those things that you just mentioned. The the second thing is not nearly as important, but I do want to say that one beautiful thing about my wife is the meatloaf that she makes. And it's it's it's amazing. It it's known all around for being the best, but that's one small thing. But I didn't want to miss that detail this evening. So uh let's move on to the next word that I wanted to focus on, and that is Heaven, our Father who art in heaven. Look if you would at Colossians chapter 3. I just want to us to think about the the privilege of prayer the uh and how um how this should uh encourage us in our attitude as we come before the Lord. Colossians. And I'm talking and not turning so let me get there. Colossians chapter 3, verses 1 and 2. Therefore, if you have been raised up with Christ, we talked about the gospel, who we are in Christ, and we have Keep seeking the things above where Christ is, seated at the right hand of God. Remember our Father who art in heaven, Jesus, seated at the right hand of God. Set your minds or your mind on the things above, not on the things that are on earth. Prayer is a natural A natural uh application of verse two. Set your mind on the things above. As we do that, we're going to pray. But but my thought is In mentioning this tonight is simply realizing that when we pray , we really are at the throne Of God, and we uh are able to speak to the God of the universe Because of Christ, we're able to speak, and we are taught to think of heaven as being this place that should shape our minds and this privileged place that we can be spiritually. And I think it just it shows me just how great um how great God is and that he is not us. He is apart from us. He is, um, what did I write down? Let me read it. Um He is distinct from his creation. And yet we yes, he is. Right now I'm in a physical state. I can't be with him. But Our Father who is in heaven, we're taught in Scripture, we should be thinking heavenly thoughts, we should be thinking, seeking the things above. And so prayer is an application of that. Our Father who is in heaven, we can touch these heavenly places with our requests. We can think uh more and more with the mind of Christ, knowing the will of God in Scripture, we can think The way heaven thinks. We can have a more we'll come to kingdom in a minute, but a kingdom perspective. The other thing about heaven It reminds me of who God is and where we go, and that helps me to be God-centered in my prayer. But just the humility of this, the humility that We're not just sending out little words here and we hope God picks them up. No, we're we're invited to to come to his throne to speak. So remember the picture of Esther this morning that his scepter is toward us, which means we can come, we can approach him. There's humility in that. Solomon in Ecclesiastes 5. 2 says, God is in heaven and you are on earth. Let your words be views. So there's there's humility in that and yet there's there's great grace and and joy in knowing that. So the word heaven makes me think of a lot of things. And then the word hallowed, should I go on to that or it is a good word. It's it's a biblical word here, uh at least our translation. But it reminds me of Isaiah 6. 3, holy, holy, holy is the Lord of hosts. So what are we praying when we pray, hallowed be your name? Well we're praying that God's glory would be recognized and honored in our life, but remember the hour in the church of the Lord Jesus Christ and in the world. I forget which week it was, but in one of the prophets, Ezekiel comes to mind , there there there was this phrase over and over again So they will know that I am the Lord. Well, ultimately, all are going to know that Jesus is Lord to the glory of God. the Father. But one thing that we are praying when we pray, hallowed be your name, is that more and more uh people that um that are on this earth would recognize the sovereignty and holiness of God and revere Him. So it is a a prayer request for the world. Because it goes on to say, well now I'm in Colossians, let me go back to Matthew and read it. Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. So connecting that to the idea of hallowed be your name, we are praying that uh that on earth there would be recognition, more recognition, just as there is in heaven. Remember this morning the text from Revelation, they are singing. speaking holy, holy, holy, just as Isaiah saw in in the vision. So may your glory be recognized, may it be honored in my life, in the church, and in the world. What would you add to thoughts about our attitude as we come before God? The just a reminder that God's name re that represents who God is, and so for his name to be hollowed is is for God to be set apart and treated differently than anything else, to be honored above everything else. So you see this in um Children. Well adults too I guess. With uh toys if they have a favorite toy. It's set apart. It's it's treated differently than other toys. Maybe that one is one they don't take over the friend's house or they leave in the bedroom or just all kinds of things. And adults we're like that with certain things too. We set it apart and treat it differently. God should be treated differently than anything in everything because he's God he should be worshipped and so hallowed be his name and he we need to esteem not just esteem God But esteem God above all things. He should be the most important way, although I think it's pretty simple, of saying God should be most important in our lives. Yeah, set apart as most important, like that toy, but I understand that's just an example. And it's interesting that the word there, hallowed, is the word that we have, same root word as sanctified, which is set apart unto holiness. We set him apart in that way. Alright, let's go to our agenda. Which is uh your kingdom come. The kingdom. What is the kingdom? The sovereign reign of God in the in the most general sense. And in that sense, God's kingdom is eternal, past, uh, present, and future So before time as we know it, as we mark history, God's kingdom existed, and in that authority he creates the world. And so that's a part of past. Well present. He is king today and future. He will continue to be king. I would say his kingdom is especially manifest in Christ. Christ's earthly ministry, think about that. His power over nature, his power over disease, his power over demons show that he is king, he is lord of all things. His resurrection His ascension to the right hand of God, his building with authority, the church, his return uh and all judgment being given to him shows that God is especially manifesting uh his kingdom through King Jesus And so there's a sense in which we need to think of the kingdom as something that is already here and always has been here, the reign of God, the reign of Christ. But there is a sense in which we know a special manifestation of that, whether special is the right way to say that, a future manifestation of that is coming. when Christ returns, and we look forward to that. So a phrase that you might read, a phrase that you might hear is the already, not yet aspect to God's kingdom, and both are true of it. So, what are some examples? Here's the question I wanted to ask about kingdom and the phrase, your kingdom come. What does that lead us to pray for? What are some examples? of kingdom come prayers. And I've got a couple, and Pastor Matt, maybe you'll think of others. Or maybe someone out here will raise their hand and demand attention and we'll get another another good encouragement. Um, by the way, I don't know if they can hear it on the microphones, but it's become a very blustery day outside. And I'm very thankful for that because That's going to blow the rest of those leaves down the road. I don't know where they go, but it blows them down the road. We're thankful for that, some of us. his power in action when we see the wind reminds us of many. I said that to somebody the other day. I said that to somebody the other day and they said, well somebody somewhere is probably Talking about you 'cause you didn't get 'em uh raked up in time and the wind blew 'em down to there. No, I don't think so. I think they disappear somehow in the wind. That's gonna be what I believe. I'm joking Okay, what are some examples of kingdom come prayers? Here's one. To pray for the advance of the gospel. Uh Colossians 4. 3 talks about open doors for the Word as Paul i is talking about his mission. pray for us that God would open a door for the word and that I would speak boldly as I should speak. Second Thessalonians chapter three and verse one is another great prayer for the rapid spread of the Word. So for the advance of the gospel, how might we pray specifically? We might pray for religious liberty where there is no religious liberty, so so there could be freedom, more freedom, more opportunities for the Word. We could pray for unreached people groups, as our sending agency, the International Mission Board, years ago. began to identify unreached people groups and have specific people praying for them as we uh prayed for for one in the Middle East But to pray for a specific unreached people group would be another example of praying for the advance of the gospel, which is a kingdom prayer Another kingdom prayer, an obvious one from Matthew, I'm sorry, from Revelation chapter 22 and verse 20, the prayer Maranatha, Lord. Come or come Lord Jesus, that we are praying for the return of Christ and His kingdom manifest in this world, the new heaven, the new earth, uh where righteousness dwells, the perfection of uh of God's will on this new earth and new heaven. And so we look forward to that I have a book here and then I'm going to send it your way, Pastor Matt, but this is a book called The Prayer That Turns the World Upside Down by Albert Moller, written a few years back. And here's some things that he said regarding my second point, my second example, the return of Christ. He says we are praying that history would be brought to a close. We are praying to see all the nations rejoice in the glory. We are praying to see Christ honored as King in every human heart. We are praying to see Satan bound, evil vanquished Death no more. We are praying to see the mercy of God demonstrated in the full justification and acquittal of sinners through the shed blood of the crucified and resurrected Christ. We are praying to see the wrath of God poured out upon sin. We are praying to see every knee bow. and every tongue confess, Philippians 2, that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. We are praying to see a new Jerusalem, a new heaven, and a new earth, a new creation. Kingdom come. Pastor Matt? Yeah, I'd have uh some specific kingdom prayers too, but a few just a few thoughts first. Um I've seen some confusion, maybe some anxiety too, with all the turmoil that's going on politically with the COVID nineteen crisis. There's uh there's some angst, some confusion out there as to how can I have an impact in all of this? How can I have an impact for God in all of this? Um But we shouldn't be confused about that because God has clearly revealed how the kingdom advances in the world. And uh The church is the front lines of that. And you already mentioned the advance of the gospel. Well, that's the ministry of the church, is where that's centered. And so For all of us, we've got to make the is it okay to say leap? I don't want I don't want it to sound subjective here. We've we've got to make the the growth move From wanting the kingdom to advance. You like the word commitment? Commitment. Yes. We work together. Well, m maybe. We'll see. Maybe we work together or maybe commitment. Maybe commitment. Okay. Shout out something better. We've got to move from Really, really wanting the kingdom to advance to laying down our lives for the kingdom to advance. That's what Christ has called us to. The metaphor for discipleship, for following Jesus is picking up a cross daily and following him. That is dying to self. It's not something that happens once and then we move on, but it's a way of living where we are laying down our lives. for God and for his kingdom. And the kingdom of God is not a side thing. This is the thing. This is his eternal purpose. He's bringing together in Christ To have a part in it uh i is a is an unbelievable grace of God. And so to lay down our lives, pouring ourselves into the church, because that's This the church is God's chosen instrument for advancing his kingdom, for spreading the gospel. And so we shouldn't be confused about how to have an impact. We should lay down our lives, commit ourselves, commitment. Yeah, that's good. make a commitment, this is where God's called me, this is how God's kingdom advances, this is how the gospel advances, this is how people get saved. And so I I'll get to those specific prayers. Um we can pray for the health. of our of the local church. The spiritual health, the spiritual purity, the spiritual strength and conviction of our local church. We can pray for conversions. You can pray for the conversions of specific people, or you can even just pray for conversions. God, pray, please save people through our ministries. Um, we can pray for opportunities. God, please provide opportunities for me to bear witness to Christ. And his gospel. We can pray for courage. God, in the midst of those opportunities, please give me courage to speak. Please give me kindness and compassion and clarity as I speak. Give me words. There's all kinds of things We can pray for the kingdom to come in specific ways. And as we do that, I believe God will grow us. um in uh how we live out and in making that commitment to lay down our lives for him and for his kingdom. There's n there's nothing greater that's going on that like could be more exciting. than what God is doing in this kingdom. Well that's true and yet we get so distracted and I think this prayer pulls us back to that uh should we say fervent commitment, uh whatever, but it it's the commitment Jesus called for, which includes death to self, as he puts it very clearly in the Gospels. Your will be done on earth As it is in heaven. I want to read a quote from J. I. Packer. Some of you know him from his probably most famous work, Knowing God. Here, more clearly than anywhere, the purpose of prayer becomes plain. Not to make God do my will. which is practicing magic. Those are his words. Think about it though. Not to make God do my will, which is practicing magic, but bring my will into line with his Which is what it means to practice true religion. I think of Romans chapter 8, verses 28 and 29, all things work together for good. to those who are to those who love God and are called according to his purpose. And then to go on into verse 29 where Paul talks about God's good God's will and what God does that is good is conforming us to the image of his Son. So your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. might mean God is using painful things, uncomfortable things, but making us more like like Jesus. And I think that we need to come humbly and understand that Uh it it is his agenda. So your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. I bring my life to you, Lord, this day, and I might have an agenda for me on a three by five card, however you kind of think of your schedule, but I put things on there. But I would try to remind myself I don't do it with the same fervency every day to remind myself that this is the track I'm going to start running on, but Lord, your will be done in my life. But it is centering our perspective to take it off of me and mine and what I think I need to do and realigning it day by day. I believe this is a daily prayer because we ask for daily bread. So realigning day by day our will with his. Your will be done. In that we imitate Jesus in the Garden of Gethsemane. Not my will, but yours be done. Now, I want to ask some general questions just briefly about this, because I think when we think of God's will being done on earth as it is in heaven, we we could say rightly that God's will is going to be accomplished. He's going to sovereignly accomplish his will. Why prayer? Pastor Matt, why do we even pray? If God is a sovereign God who is going to accomplish his will in history What is prayer for? I can answer it. I've got some things on the paper as you see, but I just thought I'd want to. You go ahead. Okay. He 's purposed to accomplish his will through different things, and one of those things is prayer. Yeah. Right? And so we don't want to um come up uh it's because of philosophical reasons disagree with that. Exactly. Right. So if I need to confess something to my wife, I know she's going to forgive me. But that doesn't make me say, Oh, you know what, I don't need to say I'm sorry. Right? Because there's a certain way that things happen and a certain way that things progress in real relationships So there's a sub point there too. We pray because it's a real relationship we have with God. If I I know if I ask my children to do something um for us, do this chore or whatever, I know they're going to do it That doesn't make me say, I don't really need to ask them. No, the asking is how it happens. That's the means. That's the way you get there. And so God is purposed. in his infinite wisdom, that he's going to accomplish his purposes, which is humbling beyond the imagination. Yeah. Through our prayers. Yeah, and we see that in Moses ' life. God burdening Moses and using Moses to preserve Israel. But we know that God is going to preserve Israel because he talks about the future of Israel already in the Scripture. We see that in Nehemiah, as Nehemiah gets burdened at the report and goes to prayer and fasting, and God uses, answers that prayer. We see it in the book of Acts as the gospel goes forward, as they are told to stay in Jerusalem till power comes, and they pray, and God answers that prayer. So, yes, it is God's choice to ask his people to pray. And to accomplish his will through that means. Why would he do it that way? Well the answer is always going to come down to he is glorified through that. He is glorified through that. And at the same time it teaches us dependence. He is glorified through our dependence on him. So isn't God's will going to be accomplished? Why prayer? His glory. It's his chosen will to a chosen way to accomplish his will. And another answer would be our dependence on him, which he desires as our Heavenly Father. So then the second follow-up question, just briefly, does prayer change things? How many of you would say yes out in the audience? How many would say no? Okay, I wouldn't say no either. Yes Because, here's why prayer changes things, because God has ordained such for his glory and for our good. So don't become someone who becomes fatalistic just because you believe in God's sovereignty, and I certainly do, in the most detailed ways that Scripture shows me to Every throw of the dice or lot, he knows. And yet I know he uses prayer to accomplish his purpose. That should excite us. he desires and we see the example of that in the three examples I gave. Do I get another comment on this? No, that's it. No, you can you can go again. So uh one of the things that I think if we're honest we all struggle with is seeing prayer as a productive use of time in the pragmatic society that we live in. Go, go, go. Um We see so many other things as an efficient use of time as a productive use of time. Often we don't see prayer that way, and I think that's one of the reasons we don't prioritize it as much as as we do, but when you think about what you're missing out on, it you're missing out on active personal participation, right , in the creator of all things bringing about his purposes. What better use of time could there be? Right, and so that's why that's central to our calling, the ministry of the word And the ministry of prayer. Those two things. This is how God advances his kingdom. Yeah, definitely. I I think of that verse in Acts six often as I go about ministry week by week. All right. heading I had was needs, and we'll cover some of this, maybe not get to all of the the words that are in this prayer. I I want to say something first that I think is i i is what I want you to leave home go home with concerning needs, and it's this. Sanctification, continued growth, being more and more like Christ brings to you and I a growing dependence on God. The more we grow, the more we see him and see ourselves and know our needs. And the more we the more we pray. So sanctification brings a growing dependence on God. Well Jesus outlines some of the ways. First of all Uh just the f the words give us, we are asking God for answers And I think of James 1. 17, where every good and perfect gift comes from him. Remember, we come to a Father who is good, and we're praying for him to give to us. This day. Give us this day. You know, the the Israelites had to go out and gather manna. How often? Daily, well, except for the Sabbath where they rested, but it was a day-by -day thing, and each day they had enough What did that teach them? It taught them the goodness of God, the daily goodness of God, the daily dependence upon God for his goodness. And I think that's what Jesus is getting at here. Give us this day. our daily bread. Proverbs thirty verse eight says, Give me neither poverty poverty nor riches. So The idea of praying to be wealthy I I I think is is wayward in Scripture. Uh the idea of praying for wealth for some good cause, that's not, but but just so that I can be a a wealthy person. I think the principle of Scripture is if we have food and shelter, well not the principle, the direct directive of Scripture, if we have food and shelter with these we should be So give us this day our daily bread. And by the way, let me say something about the daily nature of this prayer, because that is a daily prayer, daily bread. So I think Jesus did intend this to be a model for day-by-day prayer because I think he is teaching us daily dependence upon upon God. And I want to give you just two other examples of that in Scripture. One is easy to think about. The the uh second or 1 Thessalonians chapter 5, 17, which teaches us to pray without what? without ceasing. And so obviously day-by-day prayer. It's not we come together and can just pray here as a congregation. That's special. But no, daily prayer. W pray without ceasing. So not only daily dependence, really what we are growing toward is moment by moment, uh dependence on God. The other thing in scripture that I see that that always um I'm it's easy for me 'cause I like the morning, I like to wake up early and so forth. But there are a lot of psalms and other passages That specifically mention the morning. There are passages that mention evening prayer, so I don't want to leave out you night owls that can stay awake while I'm falling asleep at nine o'clock in the evening. But but morning by morning O Lord, you will hear my voice. Isaiah 50, verse 4, a prophecy of Christ. He awakens me morning by morning, awakens my ear to listen as a disciple. And in the early morning while it was still dark, Jesus got up, left the house, went away to a secluded place. So just some thoughts there about needing our our understanding of our need for God daily, which would mean praying daily to the Father. Forgive us our debts. I think to realize that sin separates In our fellowship we would think of that. We don't lose our salvation. We understand that doctrinally from the Scripture. But there is separation that takes place, so it's not like the wall of sin. Uh the illustration, God, me, it's not the wall of sin anymore. That's been covered in Christ, but but there can be some distance. And and you know, I I I think those were the illustrations I was given this morning from from David. Isaiah 59 talks about your sins have separated you from God, have made a separation between you and God. And then 1 John 1. 9, if we confess our sins, he's faithful and righteous to forgive us our sins. We're not being saved over and over again, but confession is to be a daily part of our prayers because we're not perfect. And listen, sometimes when you don't know what sin you've committed, I I I will say that you did not live the day before perfectly unto God. And so I think we come humbly and say, God, keep showing me, keep helping me to grow in that. As we've forgiven our debtors, we talked about that that this morning, but To not be a forgiving person is to not honor the gospel. And if we are saved, we we will be. We will be growing in forgiveness of others. I'm going through these briefly just to to list them for you. These are the needs that we have. Do not lead us into temptation because the flesh is weak. We know that. Jesus said that to the disciples. And so we need that help. And I shared this morning, I believe God has answered that prayer often. If you pray it, then I believe He's answered it often in your life and kept you from those situations where your flesh would have been weak. Do not lead us into temptation. Deliver us from evil. That phrase, let me just say, reminds us of the spiritual battle. And I do want to read Ephesians chapter 6 and verse 12. and then entertain a question that was asked from this morning's invitation. And then Pastor Matt, I'll give you the floor. Yeah, there we go. Ephesians chapter 6, 12. We need to always remember this and another reason for our prayers. Our struggle is not against flesh and blood. But against the rulers, against the powers, against the world forces of this darkness, against the spiritual forces of wickedness in the heavenly places. And so we come asking God to deliver us from the schemes of the evil one. The question was asked, if God knows our needs, why are we encouraged to pray in specifics? One thing I said this morning is that we don't have to Outline everything that's going on because God knows. And and it could be that that's a part of what was misunderstood. It's it's not that we don't bring specifics specific needs to God, we certainly do. It just means that He are I was trying to say that He already knows we don't have to spend minutes explaining to God the situation. He knows our needs before we ask. But we are to ask. Why are we to ask? Because He wants us to be dependent upon him. He wanted Israel to be dependent day by day upon him. And that is an illustration of what daily prayer is to be, dependent upon him. for our needs. So that's maybe a final word from me, I'm not sure, but because I might have something to say about what you say. Well let's go to you. You have the uh the three enemies Oh yeah, do you want me to say that right now? Well I'll I have something to say after that. No, you you have to lead on that. I wanted to say something about this idea. Well before that. Oh okay. I want to go back to the idea of Daily. Daily. And um specifically daily prayer. But I don't think we think about days the right way. So the world is structured. And how we move through the world as structures. Days, weeks. Each week has the Lord's Day, seasons and years. And those things are meant to structure our discipleship. Our goal should be structure our lives in devotion to Jesus Christ. That should be our goal. Our life is yours. And so we work to structure our lives in devotion to Christ. And the most basic building block of that is the day. Give the day to the Lord. This is the day the Lord has made. Rejoice and be glad in it. And that's how we live each day. And the Lord's day is both the culmination of your week of discipleship, coming together with the church to find rest in Christ, to hear the gospel and to find rest and peace in that, and also to be edified and built up to send you back out into the world. to start your next week of discipleship. And so each morning we wake up, we should see this as a day of discipleship, a day for the Lord. And I think we can we can start there. And also days, weeks, seasons, years. But you can only do one day at a time. And that's the focus here. That's the manna principle that you brought up. We're not promised tomorrow, but we do have today. And so we give that to the Lord. Amen. Another reason for our need is to think of it this way. We have three enemies that don't go away, and we face them. every day. Uh one of them is our own flesh, um, and we know the weaknesses there. Another is the world that we live in, the evil that is there, and the temptations that are there, and of course the third we read about in Ephesians 6 is the devil. And he does not want to see God glorified in your life or in the church. And prayer is an essential way of And we we we see this, prayer and the word of God, I would say, we see in Christ's life an essential way of battling these enemies. And uh just want to leave it there that our needs are great. Those enemies, you're gonna have them tomorrow. You're not gonna get a day off. And so uh yes, going back to what Pastor Matt said about structuring Uh in Scripture the the day is important and and seeing each day as an as a day to uh once again be dependent on the Lord And as you go through the day, yeah, we know it could be minute by minute. It could be things going well, and then a challenge comes in the evening, so we come back. to the Lord. All right. We're gonna wrap it up. Anything else? You good? Sorry about the word need that it didn't start with the letter A, but I didn't force it. Well I looked up to see if I could find a synonym for need. But no. So be a little off uh off bounce there. But no, I think that's a good place to end. But Well we didn't uh flesh these out ahead of time and then share notes, but I went to the same place with battle. Make sure you're battling in prayer and in the word and the fellowship of the church and and um Those three enemies are not going to stop their assault. Peter says in 1 Peter 2 um the passions of the flesh which wage war against our soul. And so you have three different kind of enemies. This was the last thing I had on the on those three enemies. The w the world, which is a visible enemy, and it's external to us , so that's one fight. Then you have the flesh, which is invisible, and that's internal to us, completely different kind of enemy. Then you have the devil who's invisible but external to us. Another different kind of enemy, and so we've got To fight with faith dealing with invisible things and action dealing with visible things. Don't go to that place Don't look at that movie. Right. Right. There's so there's faith and there's action. There's we're fighting a battle on three fronts simultaneously, and so we must avail ourselves of the Word of God, the fellowship of the believers. The Lord's Supper, prayer, those kinds of things to be edified. Spiritual growth does not happen on accident. So that's my last comment. And prayer is essential to that battle, and Jesus is teaching us that here in this in this model prayer. Well let's conclude with prayer. Pastor Matt, would you lead us? Father, we worship you. We give you thanks. We praise you for who you are, for all that you've done and continue to do, your power. is uh incomparable. So we thank you. Thank you for the Holy Spirit. Thank you for Jesus Christ and his perfect life, his sacrificial death, his glorious, unbelievably glorious resurrection and ascension into heaven Father, we thank you. I pray that you would build us up, build us up in our faith, strengthen us for the battle ahead, Father, for your name and for your glory Let your kingdom come, let your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. And let that happen in our lives and use our church to advance your kingdom. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Amen. Thank you for joining us here, and thank you for those who joined us online. God bless you.