Well we come to The book of Ephesians, I want to pray one more time and then we will dive in. Father, thank you. Thank you for your revealed word. And thank you for those who are here, those who are joining us online, those who will watch later. I thank you for the worship that we've experienced and now the ministry of the word. We pray your blessing on it. In Jesus' name. Amen. Ephesians is one of the Apostle Paul's letters to the churches. In this case, of course, the church at Ephesus, which was near the west coast of what is termed, what Paul knew in the Bible as Asia, what is now today Turkey. Paul's letters from Romans to Philemon are, you may know, gathered together in the New Testament. So if you come to Galatians or Colossians or the Corinthians, you're close to Ephesians. Hopefully you have found it. A simple way if you're in Colossians or uh If Galatians, I learned the acrostic and maybe you did too, go eat popcorn or General Electric Power Company. But it is helpful if you forget exactly the order of these. to find your way. By the way, in Boys Bible Club on Wednesday night, one of the things we want to teach is how to find your way around the Bible. And I was encouraged by that on Wednesday. So Ephesians. I want you to see three things with me in these first two voice verses, and this will introduce this book to us and we'll go more swiftly. Well maybe not, but we get into the meat of Paul's uh word to this church next week. But this is a common greeting. First of all we see we want to see and talk about Paul the Apostle. He writes, Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus. An apostle, by definition, is a person given a commission. Now, general definition. an authority to act by someone in charge. The principal use of the word in the New Testament is in reference to that select group of men who had a special and direct commissioned from Christ and who went forth teaching and ministering in his name, in his power, in his authority. Paul, in saying that he is an apostle, is asserting his right to address his readers. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus. Almost all of his letters begin this way. It's only a couple that do not. He's declaring that his teaching carries divine authority. And what it means for you and me is that as we read Ephesians, we acknowledge that this is God's truth, this is the will of Christ Jesus. for his church. And so we read Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus, and we recognize a chosen instrument, servant of Christ, and like some, well, maybe what he says is true, maybe not. That's not our thought. No, it's a part of the word of God. We see him asserting his authority, but the very fact that it's a part of God's word asserts its authority. So for those two reasons. That Paul is an apostle chosen by Christ, and because it's part of the canon of Scripture, we need to pay attention to what he has to say. Notice he says by the will of God. This phrase emphasizes the divine origin of his apostleship. Because we know he wasn't one of the twelve. chosen by Jesus, so how could he claim the same authority as they? The phrase by the will of God shows it was not something he arrogantly claimed for himself or came to a point in his service, well I'm just like them. Uh let me call myself. Well no, he was chosen by God. You remember, Jesus manifested himself from heaven in bright blinding light spoke to Paul and said to Ananias, who becomes a witness of God's call, he said, God did to Ananias, he is a chosen instrument of mine to bear my name before the Gentiles and kings and the sons of Israel. Paul's place as an apostle After being a persecutor of the church, you remember, perhaps, was a choice. and act of God. God chose him. And God acted to call him In Galatians 1, verse 1, Paul puts it this way, Paul, an apostle, not sent from men, nor through the agency of man, but through Jesus Christ and God the Father who raised him from the dead. I would imagine that whenever Paul pinned the word apostle or dictated it to someone writing for him, He thought back to the Damascus Road. Don't you think he did? Don't you think he thought back to that blinding light and the instruction given to him? You will be a messenger to the Gentiles So Paul is not being prideful here. He is stating the facts so that those to whom he wrote and we today who read what he wrote would recognize that his letter carried God's authority. So, church It should shape, this book should shape your thinking and should shape your behavior. Okay? Don't say I've read it before. You have read it before, many of you. But as we come to it, as we study it, It should shape our thinking, renew our thinking, revive our thinking, should shape, renew, and revive our behavior. Secondly, the church at Ephesus. Let's think about that. To the saints who are at Ephesus and who are faithful in Christ Jesus. I want you to notice. Three things about the church. First of all, in this verse, they are saints. That's how they are referred to here. The New Testament uses several names for the people of God: believers, disciples, followers of the way, brethren. Christians, one of the most popular names is saints that we find here. The root root meaning of the word i is separation or consecration. The idea being that Christians are people whom God has separated apart, set apart for Himself. In the biblical use of the word, all Christians are saints. Now hear that. If you are a Christian, If you have come to that place of realizing you have sin against God and believe that his answer to that sin is not your goodness or good work , But it is his Savior that he sent, his son that he sent to be savior by dying for that sin on the cross, rising again. If you've come to that place and have received Jesus as Lord and Savior, you are a saint. It is not a title reserved for just a few who attain to a certain level of obedience. It's not for those who perform a miracle as some believe. If you are a Christian, you are a saint. You are set apart. You are consecrated unto the Lord God. Second thing we see, they are at Ephesus. Now that's obvious, but I want us to go to the book of Acts and read a little bit about the forming. of this church. Paul first went to Ephesus briefly on his second missionary journey, reasoning with the Jews in the synagogue, but then moving on. It's on his third missionary journey where he stays for a time. So if you would take your scripture and turn to the book of Acts chapter 19. Let's just get a little background. I think it's helpful to us. Acts chapter 19 and verse 8 is where we will start. As Paul often did in ministry, it says there, Acts 19, verse 8, He entered the synagogue and continued speaking out boldly for three months. Reasoning and persuading them about the kingdom of God. Now the point about the kingdom of God was that it had drawn near, it had uh come to earth in Jesus in his time on earth, we know that it will come in its fullness when he returns. And Jesus, through his miracles, through his teaching. And especially through his resurrection, show that he was God the Son, Lord of all, Lord of true Israel, his church. Four things we see about Paul's proclamation in verse 8 there. They're examples for us. We note him speaking out boldly. In his ministry in this town, he didn't hold anything back, even though he knew from experience on his missionary journeys that it would confront their current way of thinking and might bring rejection, certainly it would, but also might bring and did hostility. He called them to repent. To believe in Jesus as their Savior and Lord, speaking out boldly and reasoning. Paul responded to their questions and challenges, showing how Old Testament scripture pointed to Jesus. That was very likely the reasoning that he did. And persuading, he was convincing in his teaching. He was gifted by Christ to go and to proclaim and to teach and to persuade. And the fourth thing we notice is seen in verses 9 and then verse 10. He continued. He was continuing. Verse 9, when some were becoming hardened and disobedient , Speaking evil of the way of Christians before the people, he withdrew from them and took away the disciples, reasoning daily in the school of Tyrannus. Paul's opponents here began an aggressive public campaign slandering him before the people. The attempt was to destroy Paul's influence in their town. Nothing was to be gained by confronting that uh uh uh Paul ascertains and and he withdrew from the synagogue. Nothing to be gained from continuing to try to teach there is my point. And he took, it says, new believers with him and continued proclaiming Jesus' Lordship. So he comes to this point of opposition, and he cannot do it the way he had been doing it for three months. But he doesn't quit in this case. He doesn't go to another town. It's not that kind of opposition, apparently. He is able to take the believers and to go to the school. The door was open to use it The school of Tyrannus, pro probably uh in hours when uh nothing else was going on there. They opened the building or whatever it was. whatever structure it was to him. Verse 10 we read this took place for two years. Now if you know the missionary journeys of Paul, you know that's unusual for him to stay in any place that long But this took place for two years, so that all who lived in Asia heard the word of the Lord, both Jews and Greeks. This became a point of ministry from which teaching went forth, from which the gospel went forth. It doesn't mean verse 10 that everyone came to the school, but being a public setting, it offered the opportunity to reach Greeks as well as Jews. Many did come and listen to Paul, but probably many more heard the word, were converted, and went out and preached and witnessed and lived for Jesus F. F. Bruce points out in his commentary that it was during these years that churches at Colossae, Eropolis, Laodicea were founded, and perhaps others mentioned in Revelation 2 and 3. The province was intensively evangelized and became one of the leading centers of Christianity for centuries afterwards. Paul continued in ministry there. While he was proclaiming the message, God was confirming the truth of Paul's message about Jesus through miracles. Verse 11. In chapter 19 of Acts, God was performing extraordinary miracles by the hands of Paul. In the absence of a written New Testament. By which to measure someone's teaching, that's what we do today, God used signs and wonders in Paul's day to authenticate the message This is the same way that Jesus was confirmed by God. Remember Peter's words that we looked at just last week. Men of Israel, listen to these words. Jesus the Nazarene, a man attested to you by God with miracles and wonders and signs which God performed through him in your midst. So that same confirmation is done for Paul. By working miracles through Paul, God was confirming the Lordship of Jesus. whom Paul preached, and God was confirming that this was his servant, and confirming the authority of his ministry and his teaching as an apostle of Christ. Notice the summary In verse 20. So the word of the Lord was growing mightily and prevailing. Isn't that encouraging? You know, that is still happening today. We see ebbs and flows in any one church, but across the world, the Word of God is growing mightily. And prevailing, and souls are coming to Christ. The kingdom work continues and will continue until Christ returns God bless the growth in the ministry of this church. And Paul is writing to a church with a good track record, firmly established on authoritative teaching or as we would say today on biblical teaching on the Word of God. And as Paul was completing his third uh missionary journey. It's interesting that he called the elders of this church. Didn't have time to go to Ephesus. Didn't want to spend time there, but he calls the elders of this church to meet with him as he's completing the journey, as he's hurrying to Jr Jerusalem. And he warns them, and it gives us some context to the letter that will come later. He warned them saying, Be on guard, savage wolves will come in among you. From among your own selves men will arise speaking perverse things to draw away disciples after them, be on the alert. And he encouraged them in this meeting with them. I commend you, chapter 20, verse 32. I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up. and to give you the inheritance among all who are sanctified. So I want to say to you that this letter that we are studying was God's word to build them up, and it will build us up as we Well. Back to chapter 1, verse 1 of Ephesians. The third thing to notice about the readers, we've noticed they are saints. They are at Ephesus. That's where we were looking at the background of the start of this church. But notice also that they are faithful in Christ Jesus. Be a great epitaph for a life, would it not? And a great epitaph for uh or a great word concerning this church, faithful in Christ Jesus. They had put their whole trust in Jesus as Son of God, Lord, and Savior. The words in Christ Jesus suggest not only that he was the object of their faith, but that they enjoyed a living union with him. Geographically then they are in an area of the world, an area of Asia, as it was called at that time. Ephesus, but spiritually they were in Christ Jesus. They had, as every Christian has , a citizenship in heaven that influenced every aspect of their life on earth. Did you hear that? You need to remember that. Our citizenship is in heaven. We are above and uh what we deal with is more important uh hear this correctly than all the things that are going on in our in and around us right now, in our world, in our earthly citizenship. Those things are important. But we stand above them in our prayer life, above them in our wisdom, and we see them in context of what God is doing. So they were faithful in Christ Jesus. Let us not lose that point of reference. We are his. We are a part of his kingdom. He is working. And yes, that puts us in touch with real people and real issues on the ground. But remember that we represent the gospel, we represent the character. of Christ and not a little battle here, a little battle there. That's not what it's all about. Thirdly, in this introduction, divine blessing. Look at verse 2. Divine blessing. Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Grace is God's free favor toward the undeserving. You've heard the phrase perhaps unmerited Favor, favor, uh something we don't earn because of who we are or what we do, unmerited favor, something uh given by someone else. So God's free favor or blessing toward the undeserving. And It is grace is his enabling power to the weak. We see it used that way often in Scripture. I think that's Uh an essential way that Paul means it here, grace to you from God. You you need this in the setting that you're in God's enabling power. In Hebrews chapter 4, verse 16, remember that we are invited to draw near with confidence to the throne of grace, so that we may receive mercy and find mercy. Here's the phrase, grace to help in time of need. We may find mercy. We we sin against him. We need To bring our sins, confess them, repent of them. We find mercy in God in Christ, but grace to help in time of need. You and I cannot live as God wants us to Without that daily grace. So, yes, we think of grace with regard to God sending his son, grace with regard to drawing me to the place where I understand salvation. And receive Jesus as my Lord and Savior. But grace doesn't stop. That's why Paul over and over and other letter writers in the New Testament say, Grace to you, Grace to you. Yes, it reminds us of our salvation, but it reminds us also of our daily need. And then peace. Grace to you and peace. This is often in Paul's uh in the beginning of his letters. Peace is the result of God's forgiveness of our sins. We have Peace with God. Our Judge, God the Father, is satisfied with Jesus' death and we are forgiven. And I remind those of you who have not received Jesus, God is not satisfied. With your sin. They will be punished. But if you've trusted Jesus, you know you have peace with God. He is satisfied that the debt is paid on the cross. And once enemies, we are friends with God. Peace. But again, there's more to peace than simply our salvation. Peace in this blessing is not simply the absence of strife. And it is, but not only a right relationship with God. It is an inner tranquility, a calmness in the midst of life. Undisturbed by external circumstances. And maybe that's not the right way to say it. We are disturbed by uh external circumstances, but peace Enables us to live victoriously in the midst of them. It is the love of God shed abroad in our heart reminding us of who we are. It is It is a word about how God sovereignly works through our trials to make us more like Jesus, to put us in a place to represent Him. It is all of the things you read in Scripture that helps you to understand. That even though it looks like a mess, God works through messes, right? He does. And that can give you peace. So grace. and peace. Jesus said this about peace. John fourteen twenty seven. Peace I leave with you. My peace I give to you. Not as the world gives do I give to you. Do not let your heart be troubled, nor let it be fearful. So I want to emphasize to you that Paul is saying more to the Ephesians than have a nice day. He is saying, he is praying for them, grace and peace to you. Paul writes this letter from prison in Rome, inspired by God, with a message emphasizing God's will for the church, the body of Christ. And we find in this letter just a simple outline of the letter. In chapters 1 through 3, we are people called by God. Chapters 4 through 6, we are people who walk worthy. Of our calling. And so we are to be thinking as God wants us to think about our call. We are to be living as God wants us to live, representing that call. Tonight in the evening service, we are going to read the book in its entirety, pointing out major themes, and I will have a pad with me to note any questions, any interests, any things you think ought to be explained well from the the book of Ephesians because I want it to be helpful to you. So we will do that tonight. Read it chapter by chapter. And Pastor Matt and I will give some input, but we want to hear from you as well. Let's go to some implications. You thought we were done. I'm sorry. Nope. Lunch won't be quite that early. Implications. Number one, let's see how many I have. Don't worry, it's not that many. It's just two. One short one, one long one. Number one is the short one. We need the truth of this letter. What Paul wrote to this church. Listen, this is a simple point, but an important point. What Paul wrote to this church is intended for every local church And here's the proof of that. In other words, it's intended for us, but for every local church in every age until Christ returns. The proof of that is that by God's preservation Working through the church, it is and has been included in the books of the New Testament. The 27 books of the New Testament, recognized as authoritative. So we as North Harford Baptist Church commit ourselves to understanding the Scripture, and this is a part of the Scripture, so we want to understand these truths. By renewing our minds through these truths, we honor God, and by coming humbly before our God in the light of His Word, week by week, to Revive us, to teach us, to awaken us through the message of this book. I'm saying we need the truth of this letter. Now I could say that beginning every sermon series, but I am emphasizing it again. It's a part of Scripture. We need to know what it says Because God has chosen this letter to be put into what we call the Bible, the canon. The authoritative books that God has preserved for us. His word to us, inspiring Paul to write it. Alright, number two. We need the truth of this letter. We need the truth of this letter along with a growing love for Christ and his church. Jesus would say to this church, and you may want to turn to this or just jot down the reference, but Revelation chapter 2, verses 2 through 4. This was a solid church. Jesus would say to this church in one of his letters to the churches there in Revelation 2, I know your deeds. and your toil and your perseverance, and that you cannot tolerate evil men, and you put to the test those who call themselves apostles, and they are not. And you found them to be false. Remember, Paul warned the elders that this would happen, and they dealt with it well. And you have perseverance, and have endured for my name's sake, and have not grown weary. And Jesus says, but this I have against you, you have left your first love. Well, we don't want to be that. No. Like Martha in the account of Mary and Martha, a church or a Christian may become so engrossed in religious work. that it neglects, as Jesus put it, the one thing needed in that passage with Mary and Martha. No amount of orthodoxy, labor, or loyalty can make up for a deficit in Christian love toward Christ, toward one another Paul writes this in 1 Corinthians 13, 2 and 3. If I have the gift of prophecy and know all mysteries and all knowledge, and if I have all faith so as to remove mountains, but do not have love. I am nothing. Connect that to what Jesus said to the church. You've left your first love. And if I give all my possessions to feed the poor, And if I surrender my body to be burned, but do not have love, it profits me nothing. Deeds should arise out of devotion. Works should arise out of worship. This is what Paul is saying in another chapter, another letter, 2 Corinthians 5, verse 14 and 15. The love of Christ controls us. Having concluded this, that one died for all, therefore all died. And he died for all, so that they who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him. For him who died and rose again for on their behalf. So the question becomes, who or what are you living for? For whom or for what are you active in church? A church or an individual Christian can appear mechanically sound. You can be where you're supposed to be. You can do what you're supposed to do, and so can I. And yet we might not be devotionally sound. You and I can fail to serve for him, who died and rose again on our behalf. Kind of an outlandish question, but I'm gonna ask it. Could a robot replace you? In what you do with regard to your Christianity and the church. Could a robot replace you? Could they show up? Could they be programmed to teach, to sing, to pray? Listen, a robot can't love Jesus or his church. That's the difference. This church left its first love. We want to study this book. We don't want that testimony. And so I think we put alongside something about Ephesus, the church at Ephesus, that it that was true as Christ. gives that word to John. That would have come later in the history of the church. When you love Jesus The have-to 's become the want-to 's. You want to come to church. And you've already talked with the Lord by the time you get to church most days, most Sundays. You want to give an offering. You think about what you're singing, and it makes you glad. You care about others. You volunteer for service because to do for others is to do for Jesus. Let us study the book of Ephesians because we love Jesus and let us grow in our first love as we study it. And for any who are not Christians, May God use the truth to show you your need of a Savior, your need of God's grace. To forgive your sin, your need of peace with God who punishes every sin. Let's pray together. Well, Father, we thank you for The book of Ephesians, help me as I study it. Help us as we receive the teaching and learn from it. So that this aspect of our discipleship, this Sunday morning, Sunday evening worship would indeed uh not just make us people with better head knowledge, but Father would make us a people who love you more and love one another more. And it's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen. God bless you. Have a wonderful afternoon. Hope to see you tonight.