Alright, keep a marker there in Luke 7. Turn to 1 Peter 2, 24. How do we see God's grace? We see God's grace in Jesus, the sin bearer. First Peter two, twenty four. He himself bore Our sins in his body on the tree, way of talking about the cross, that we might die to sin and live to righteousness. Alright, he himself Bore our sins in his body on the tree. He's the sin-bearer. He bore sins. Now, bearer is very simple to understand, right? Simple gospel. It means to carry something. It means to carry something. Um you remember what David was before he in addition to being a musician, before he fought Goliath, he was the king's Armor bearer. And also in David and Goliath's story, Goliath came out to battle He had with him, and maybe in front of him, I forget exactly how it's written, he had a shield bearer. So David as a Saul's armor bearer Carried the armor. Goliath 's shield bearer carried the shield. Have you ever heard someone walk into a room and uh say, I come bearing gifts They're carrying with them gifts. Have you ever said to someone, I hate to be the bearer of bad news. I'm sorry that I'm carrying with me news that's going to upset you. Often in a parade and uh especially a military procession, you'll have a flag bearer, the people who carry the flag. Jesus the sin bearer, he carries the sin of other people upon his body to the cross. He carries the sin of others to the cross. He carries the guilt of that sin, the sin of others, the sin of others, the guilt of others. He carries it in his body on the tree to the cross. And carrying the sin of others, carrying the guilt of others, he receives God's judgment against that sin and against that guilt. He's the sin bearer. And so Jesus, the sin bearer, is the window, is the embodiment of God's grace to sinners He takes the punishment that we deserve so that we could go free. And if we would come to Jesus Christ in faith, which we'll talk about later. We do go free. And that judgment will never fall upon us. We see God's grace in Jesus, the one who carried sin to the cross, so that you wouldn't have to.