So turn if you would, if you haven't already, to John chapter 5. We'll be looking at verses 1 through 30, Lord willing, this morning. John chapter 5. And there's an outline and bulletin that will help you see where we're going and where we have been as we go through this together. In today's passage in John 5, we're going to see the compassion of Jesus and his healing power. bearing witness that he is the Son of God. And we should be encouraged by this miracle It points, I think, points out ways that God is at work today. We'll talk about that. And then we need to understand the significance of the miracle through the dialogue. that we'll begin looking at this morning. Jesus assertion of his deity, indeed, his equality with God The truth of John, uh the truth of this comes out, especially in this passage. Uh it begins though really in John 1. We saw it there, and the beginning was The Word and the Word was with God and class the Word what? Was God, yes. The assertion of Jesus deity there Sometimes liberal theologians have said, well, Jesus never claimed to be God. Well, they fail to look at John chapter 5, his clear assertions. The Jews understood what he was saying. We need to understand it as well. But first, the encouragement of the miracle. God is at work today. Verses 1 through 4, let's look at those. After these things there was a feast of the Jews, and Jesus went up to Jerusalem. Now there is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate, which would have been a, it was the northeast gate where sheep were brought in for sacrifice. There is in Jerusalem by the sheep gate a pool which is called in Hebrew Bethesda or House of Mercy. Having five porticos. A portico, not a word I use very often, or at all, unless I'm reading this passage, but it's a covered porch. So five of those. And in these lay a multitude of those who were sick. So in your mind's eye, you were picturing covered porches, and now you see them covered with people. who are sick, blind, lame, and withered. And the end of verse 3 and verse 4 is likely supplied. Most agree that this was not part of the original text. It's a word of explanation about why these were congregating there. They were waiting for the moving of the waters. For an angel of the Lord went down at certain seasons into the pool and stirred up the water. Whoever then first, after the stirring up of the water, stepped in, was made well from whatever disease with which he was Afflicted. Now, we don't know what really what to make of this. There's no reference to this kind of healing and Scripture, Jesus doesn't comment on on it one way or another. So I take it simply as an explanation of why these people were there. And maybe something had happened somewhere along the line that made them think in this way, obviously, because That thought is here for us as an explanation of why they are there. But the scene is sad. That part we know for sure. A multitude of people in need of physical healing And in their minds, apparently, their hope is: oh, can I get to the water before anyone else? Jesus focused his attention on one person. I find that interesting. Verse 5 and 6. A man was there who had been ill for 38 years. That's a long time. When Jesus saw him lying there and knew that he had already been a long time in that condition, he said to him, Do you wish to get well? I want you to notice Jesus chose one to offer healing to. Why didn't he raise his voice and offer it to all who were there? Mark records that all at Peter's house, who were brought to Peter's house earlier in his ministry, were healed, all. But not in this passage. If we look down further to verse 19, just gaze down to verse 19. I think we have the answer in the text. The son can do nothing of himself unless it is something that he sees his father doing. For for whatever the father does, these things the son also does. in like manner. So God was choosing this one, God the Father, choosing this one to extend his compassion to, and in perfect fellowship with God Jesus. chooses this one to offer compassion to. Let me encourage you that God is still choosing and having mercy and compassion. I I remember uh the day that I was saved, receiving Jesus as my personal Lord and Savior, and and and the fact that I can remember where I was in the day, that's not important to my salvation. But I just happen to remember that, so I use it as an illustration to say this. Not every lost child in the room that day was saved. But God worked in my heart, convicted me of my sin and my need of forgiveness. The Bible tells us God is the one who opens people And I want to say God is still doing that today. What he did for Lydia in Acts 16, listen to it. On the Sabbath day, Paul went outside to a gate. Outside the gate to a riverside, and where they were supposing there would be a place of prayer, and we sat down and began speaking to the women who had assembled. A woman named Lydia from the city of Thyatira, a seller of purple fabrics, a worshipper of God, was listening. And the Lord opened her heart to respond to the things spoken by Paul He chooses to bless, to open hearts in that way all around the world. Today, people will be saved. And others in the room, others in the field, whatever. won't be saved. God is still choosing to bless with salvation. He chooses people to serve him in special ways like Paul. Acts 13 verse 2 It says, while they were ministering to the Lord and fasting, the Holy Spirit said, Set apart for me Barnabas and Saul for the work to which I have called them. He chooses to open people's hearts. He chooses people to serve him. He chose through Christ on this day to heal this man who had been sick for 38 years. Verse 6, look at it. When Jesus saw him lying there, knew he had already been a long time in that condition, he said to him, Do you wish to get well? Praise God that on this day grace is extended to this one by God's choice. And I want you to be encouraged. God is still doing that today, saving souls, calling people into special service. And giving special blessing, as we see here. Verse 7. The sick man answered him, Sir, I have no man to put me into the pool when the water is stirred up. But while I am coming, another steps down before me. His answer to Jesus, by the way, notice, doesn't indicate that he had any faith in Jesus to heal him, which is interesting. We'll see that he didn't even know who Jesus was at this point. But God was choosing to be merciful to him. Praise God. Jesus, obeying God's instructions, exercises authority as God the Son in verse 8 and said to him. Get up, pick up your pallet, and walk. Verse 9, immediately the man became well, picked up his palate, and began to walk. What a precious work of mercy. And I want you to know that God still works in that way today. God is merciful today. God is choosing today. God is merciful today. He is still merciful to heal. I love the illustration that Paul gives to us in Philippians chapter 2, 25 and following. He writes to the Philippians, I thought it necessary. to send to you Epaphroditus, my brother and fellow worker and fellow soldier, who is also your messenger and minister to my need, because he was longing for you. And was distressed because you had heard that he was sick. Indeed, he was sick to the point of death. Listen to the next words. But God had mercy on him. Isn't that what we pray many times for others? God Be merciful. And not only on him, but also on me, Paul says, so that I would not have sorrow upon sorrow. The most precious example of mercy is not to heal the physical body, as wonderful as that is, but to make one alive who is dead in sin. So listen to this passage as we think of God still being merciful to Jesus We're seeing that in the healing of this one who had been sick for thirty-eight years. But think about it spiritually today. You were dead in your trespasses and sins. Ephesians 2, 1 and following, in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air. So we have the world, the devil, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them We too, all formerly lived in the lusts of our flesh. There's our third enemy, our own sin nature, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and we're by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. So dead in sin, and the world, the devil, and our own flesh working against us. But God, Paul writes, Being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive together with Christ. By grace, you have been saved. If you think your testimony is not that exciting, let me tell you, that's your testimony. And it's exciting. By grace, you've been saved because God is rich in mercy. And he's merciful today. We see that illustrated. in our passage in this one 38 years in illness. The passage of time Doesn't limit the passage of time of this illness, doesn't limit the strength or effectiveness of God's mercy. So notice in verse 9. the the comment because it's going to be important later. Now it was the Sabbath on that day. Think about that. The Sabbath, a day of rest, we know for the Jewish people, prescribed by God. The Sabbath had been given as a day of rest from one's labor. The Pharisees, in defining labor, had made it a legalistic day of idleness. And so God prescribed it as a day of rest. You remember the first part of that? The first test of that is don't go out and gather manna on that day. You'll have enough from Fridays to last through the Sabbath, Saturday. But the Pharisees added all sorts of rules that they thought helped people to understand what it meant to rest. And their legalistic definition of obedience caused them on this day to miss completely the glory of this healing event. Look at it in verse 10. So the Jews, the religious leaders, were saying to the man who was cured, It is the Sabbath, and it is not permissible for you to carry your pallet. Now, if any of them knew this man, he's 38 years uh lame and now he's carrying his pallet, that's not the first thing you say to him. You rejoice that he's better, but they don't And by the way, there wasn't written anything written in God's law through Moses about carrying his pallet on this day. This was part of the Pharisees' legalistic definition of rest. He answered them, verse 11. He who made me well was the one who said to me, pick up your palate and walk. And by the way, if you or I were made well and the one who made us well said, pick up your palate and walk, I think we'd pick up the pallet Verse 12. They asked him, Who is the man who said to you, Pick up your pallet and walk? In other words, who would rival our law? We're the Pharisees. But the man who was healed, and this is interesting, did not know who it was. For Jesus had slipped away while there was a crowd in that place. So just an object of God's mercy this day, didn't know anything about Jesus and who he was as the Son of God. Verse 14. Afterward, Jesus found him in the temple and said to him, Behold, you have become well. Do not sin anymore, so that nothing worse happens to you Now that's an interesting verse. This man's sin may have caused his 38-year sickness. A lot of people take this verse and say all sickness is from sin. No, we can't say that. We can't even be sure that's why this man was sick. We do know with certainty, though, that not all sickness is due to personal sin. We know that from John chapter 9. We'll get there, Lord willing, one day. But the man born blind, remember, was born for the glory of God, that is his his he would be healed to the glory of God, not because of any sin. Jesus' point was that this man should repent of his sin lest even though he's healed physically he receives something worse upon his life The eternal consequences of sin. So not just 38 years, but eternity of torment in a fiery hell. This is the third way that God is still working, that we are reminded of in this passage. God is still warning today And as a pastor, I give the warnings of God. Galatians 6, 7. They're like road signs. By the way, there's road work going on on 146 going down toward Towson. And you know that's a hilly road in some stretches. You want to see the warning sign, slow down before you get to the road work. They're helpful to us. There are warning signs in Scripture. Galatians 6 7 is one of them. Do not be deceived. God is not mocked, for whatever a man sows, this he will also reap Luke 24, 46. In other words, there are consequences for actions in life if you are disobeying God. He's not going to be mocked. Luke twenty-four forty-six. For forgiveness of sins would be proclaimed in his name to all the nations, beginning from Jerusalem. So a warning, repent. Be right with God, trust Jesus Christ as the way. And we should take Jesus' warnings, the warnings of Scripture, to heart. Sin brings consequences, both in life, Galatians 6:7, and eternally, Luke 24, 46. Galatians 6:8, the following verse says, For the one who sows to his own flesh will from the flesh reap corruption, but the one who sows to the spirit will from the spirit reap eternal. Life. So the warning that Jesus gives and the warning that we give today, repent of no sin, of known sin, and with the Holy Spirit's help. Believers, battle the tendencies of your flesh. The warning is get right with God and be encouraged this morning that uh God graciously has chosen to be merciful by sending a Savior. And He is still exercising mercy. He is still giving warnings, thankfully, until Jesus returns. And so there's opportunity to believe today, to trust Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. Well, the significance of the miracle The encouragement of it is these things we see about God. He's choosing, he's still merciful, he's still warning today. Those things are not done. The significance of the miracle is that Jesus is equal with God, and that's why John has it here. That's why he chose it as the third sign to speak about in a special way in his gospel. Verse 15, the man went away, and told the Jews that it was Jesus who had made him well Uh he goes back to the Pharisees, maybe out of fear, but he goes back to them because they had asked who it was, and he goes back and tells them it was Jesus. For this reason, the Jews were persecuting Jesus because he was doing these things on the Sabbath. So think about it. His breaking of their man-made regulations becomes the focus of their hatred of him. In other words, their made-up rules are why they hate the Son of God. Their understanding of God's law and their made-up definitions of right and wrong Were the embodiment of their pride. They were the leaders. They had religious power in the land. And their writings, their definitions, their traditions of right and wrong embodied their pridefulness. Well, Jesus was the embodiment of God, but they were blind to that And in his interactions with them, he would assert his deity and he would expose their pride. By the way, pride should have no place in the heart of the Lord's servants. Then shouldn't have and now it should not have. I I think one of the most vital questions that we can ask ourselves concerning what we do as we live out our faith is the question why? So why am I a pastor? Why do I seek to lead? Why do you teach? Why do we do this or that in the church? And the right answer is for the glory of God. But when we do it in any way for self, we're we're becoming similar to the Pharisees who embodied Their pride was embodied in the way they thought of Jesus. Let not self get intermixed with the motive of glorifying God. Verse 17, he answered them Why are you doing this on the Sabbath was the question. He answered them verse 17, My Father is working until now, and I myself am working. Now let's just stop and think about the phrase, my Father is working until now. We know that God created in six days, and on the seventh day he rested. Listen, he rested from creation. He did not rest from being God. He is still exercising his providence and his power. He is being God on this Sabbath day as we read about it. And he is being God today. And so Jesus says, my Father is working until now, and I myself am working. Now, the way that sentence, the way the words are constructed, it was obvious that Jesus is claiming equality with God. It may not be obvious to English readers. But it should be when we read verse 18. That's what Jesus was saying. He's saying something true about the Father, but then he is saying, I myself am working. As the Son of God, as the second person of the Trinity, as equal with God. And his assertion is not lost on the Jews. Look at it in verse 18. For this reason, therefore, the Jews were seeking all the more to kill him, because he not only was breaking the Sabbath, but also was calling God his own father. They understood what he was saying. So, to the liberals who say Jesus never claimed to be God, well, yes, he did. The Jews understood that. He was making himself, verse 18, equal with God. As we come to verse 18, this is either a wicked blasphemy or a glorious truth. We've got to come down on one side or the other. Their wrong understanding of the Sabbath gave them the false assurance that could dismiss Jesus' claim and think that he was blaspheming God. But that what they think is blasphemous we should receive as truth. That's the side we need to be on. And the healing indicates that indeed it is truth. For the rest of chapter 5, Jesus substantiated his claim of equality with God the Father. We're going to start looking through that. We're going to hear Jesus' testimony. And then next week we'll we'll hear the others that testify of him. But he challenged these Jewish leaders that the purpose of his signs, his miracles would was not that they would find ways to dismiss them on technicalities breaking Sabbath laws, in other words, but that they would marvel And be amazed and have to ponder who is this in our midst? So let's hear Jesus' testimony. I've outlined it in the outline. First of all, the Son does not act independently of the Father. Verse 19. Therefore, Jesus answered and was saying to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, the Son can do nothing of himself. Unless it is something he sees the Father doing. Now notice the word sees. The Father's will is clear to Jesus And Jesus is saying, what you are accusing me of, you must also apply to God the Father. Jesus described the relationship in the Trinity, Father and Son, always, verse 19, working in harmony. And so his implication is. When they were opposing him, they were opposing God. Because God healed this man on the Sabbath The Son can do nothing unless it is something he sees the Father doing. The Father is healing this man. The Son is healing this man, working in harmony with the Father. You're accusing God because the Son does not act independently of the Father. Then we also see, equally true to say, the Father does not act independently of the Son. There's perfect harmony in the Trinity. Verse 19 continues, for whatever the Father does, these things the Son also does in like manner. For the Father loves the Son, and shows him all things that he himself is doing, and the Father will show him greater works than these, so that you will marvel The point is the Father and the Son do not act independently in anything. Remember the prologue back in John chapter 1, verses 2 and 3. Jesus, he was the word, was in the beginning with God. All things came into being through him. Did you catch that? All things created came into being through him, through the word Jesus. But yet, Genesis 1, God created. Yes, together. They created. All things came into being through him, and apart from him, nothing came into being that has come into being. Jesus asserted that the miracles thus far, notice in verse 20, will be eclipsed by what was to come, greater works. And notice that the purpose of these works is that people would marvel, so that, purpose clause, so that you will marvel. That is, be amazed and have to ponder who Jesus is. John the gospel writer, the apostle, understood that. That's why he's writing this gospel so that in talking about these seven signs that he includes, people will be believing in Jesus, that he was the Son of God. Jesus then mentions two of the greater works. The Son gives life, verse 21. Life, just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life. Now right here the Jews hearing that would have thought of the widow's uh son that God raised from the dead. In answer to Elijah's prayer, 1 Kings 17, 21, he stretched himself upon the child three times and called to the Lord and said, O Lord, my God, I pray you let this child's life return to him. God answers that prayer. The Jews would have thought also of the Shunammite's son. that God raised in answer to Elisha's prayer. With these thoughts in mind, I want you and I to hear as they heard what Jesus is saying. For just as the Father raises the dead and gives them life, Even so, the Son also gives life to whom he wishes. So, just as the Father, so the Son. And Jesus is saying, you will see me do the same thing you've known the Father to do. And indeed, they did see that. The widow's son in Luke chapter 7 was raised from the dead. The synagogue official's daughter in Matthew chapter 9 raised from the dead. And the one we tend to remember, John chapter Chapter eleven, Lazarus raised from the dead. Ponder that. Only God can live give life. He created the heaven, heavens and the earth. He gives life and breath to all things, Paul prays in the book of Acts. Notice that Jesus is putting himself not in the place of the prophet like Elijah or Elisha who prayed to God to restore life, but in the place of God, sovereign God, giving life. To whom he wishes equality with God. The Son gives life But more than that, Jesus testifies in verse 22 and 23: the Son carries out judgment. Who can carry out judgment? God the Father. We answered to Him. Well, the Jews were hearing, the Pharisees were hearing, that the Son claims to carry out judgment. For not even the Father judges anyone But he has given all judgment to the Son. So Jesus is saying, I am the implementer of judgment, and I will carry out God's judgment upon sin. So let me say to all of us: if we enter into judgment for our sin, we will face Jesus, and he will carry out our judgment. Verse 23. So that all will honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. All will acknowledge him properly. We know that's true if we know our Bible. Philippians chapter 2, verses 10 and 11. At the name of Jesus, every knee will bow. Of those who are in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue will confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. Father. All will acknowledge him. So verse 23. All will honor the Son, even as they honor the Father. He who does not honor the Son does not honor the Father who sent him. Well there's there's the key thing that We believe, most of us in this room, but the Pharisees were not accepting that God had sent Jesus, that God's blessing is upon Jesus' ministry. And not only sent him as he might raise up a prophet, but sent him from heaven to the womb of Mary to be born as the God. Man. Jesus is drawing a clear line in the sand, is he not? To dishonor me by not believing me and opposing me is to dishonor the Father. And the line in the sand is one that the Pharisees were on the other side of because they were not believing him. And they were opposing him. And those who took pride in their understanding of God's will were opposed to Jesus. The Son carries out judgment. Fifthly, we see faith in the Son is necessary for eternal life. There's no way to get to heaven on the other side of that line in the sand, in other words. You must come to Jesus. Truly, truly, I say to you, verse 24. He who hears my word and believes him who sent me, Jesus emphasizes the sending. God the Father sent him, has eternal life, and does not come into judgment, but has passed out of death into life. I want you to notice in verse 24 that death is the default state of existence. Okay, take all the people in the world. The default state of existence is spiritual death. Instead of communion with God, separation because of unforgiven sin. Instead of assurance from God, there's guilt. Instead of a thankful heart, a troubled heart. Death, separation. And if one dies in this state, the separation is is permanent. A good verse. To remember on that is 2 Thessalonians 1. 9. These will pay, these who are dead in their sins, will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord, from the glory of his Power, eternal destruction. The separation becomes permanent at death. And so and so instead of Eternal life that Jesus spoke of in John 3, eternal death. Instead of heaven, hell. Instead of peace with God, punishment from God. Instead of forgiveness, the fires of hell, torment, punishment forever I think in verse 25 we we we come to some implications of what Jesus is saying to the Pharisees. And the implication is he gives life and exercises judgment. That's what he's just said. I give life, physical life, but he's also telling me that's spiritual life here, and I judge, just as God gives life, physical and spiritual life. and judges. Verse 25. Truly, truly I say to you, an hour is coming, and now is, I'll explain that, or my my understanding of that. When the dead will hear the voice of the Son of God, and those who hear will live. Now I know that this, an hour is coming now, is when the dead will hear. I know this will happen physically. at the return of Christ. But I do believe, Ephesians 2, it is now happening spiritually as people are being. Born again, as Jesus said to Nicodemus in chapter 3, as people receive, chapter 4, the living water that Jesus offered through faith in him as the Son of God. As the royal official and his household believed. In chapter 4, the end, verse 53. So when it says an hour and coming and now is, I I think he's talking about that spiritual life from the dead. But there will also be a physical resurrection of life when he returns. Chapter 5, verse 26. For just as the Father has life in himself, God certainly breathed life into man when he formed man. Even so he gave to the Son also to have life in himself. Jesus shares with God the power to give life both physically and spiritually. Verse 27, and he, God, gave him Jesus authority to execute judgment Because he is the Son of Man. Interesting. The Messiah is what the Son of Man is a reference to, the one promised by God. As a Savior King, the one identified in Daniel as the Son of Man. The Messiah comes to give life and to judge. Verse 28 Do not marvel at this, that I, the Son of God, will bring judgment. In other words, don't marvel at this, for an hour is coming in which all who are in the tombs will hear his voice. And will come forth those who did the good deeds to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil deeds to a resurrection of judgment. Do not marvel at this. We might marvel at the thought of that. I do marvel at the thought of what will take place when I stand at a cemetery, in a cemetery, conducting a funeral, and I look out upon all the tombstones. of the dead who will hear the voice of the Son of God. Notice in verse 29 It seems very clear here, and indeed it is true , but don't stop listening to me after I say the first thing. Judgment here is on the basis of works. Look at that. Read it again. Those who did the good to a resurrection of life, those who committed the evil to a resurrection of judgment. But don't let this verse confuse you, because all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God. So if we all stood on our own merits, we would all be those who had committed the evil. and be consigned to a resurrection of judgment. In salvation, praise God, our sin is put upon Christ. He pays the penalty for it. But something else takes place. His righteous works, his righteous life, that Adam failed, that Moses failed, Israel failed, everyone has failed to live that righteous life. He didn't fail. He obeyed The law of God, not the Pharisaical law, but the law of God perfectly, that is placed upon us. And so we stand in judgment as those in Christ who did the good. Do you see that? Yes, judgment is on the basis of works, but oh the grace of God, that it is Christ's work that we do. Trust in. Christ's life. Christ's death upon the cross. Verse 30. I can do nothing on my own initiative. Back to his relationship with God. I do not, I cannot act independently from the Father. We note the unity in the Godhead here, the Trinity I mean, people go to this passage just to think about and meditate upon the harmony and unity between God the Son and God the Father. Notice it. As I hear, I judge. And my judgment is just, because I do not seek my own will, but the will of him who seeks Sent me. He is saying, I exercise the righteous will of God. Now If these words are true, this is why this is the implication, if these words are true, then to be right with God is to be right with Jesus. There is no other way. There are no other paths to God. There's not a Pharisaic path where you obey. Enough to go to heaven. And there's not any other world religion path. One way. That's the implication. To be right with God is to be right with Jesus. And someone might say, Well, these are Jesus' words. Thinking Jesus was a man, claiming to be connected with God in these ways, they might say, people of Made false claims in the name of religion throughout history. And so Jesus goes on and says There is another who testifies of me. Or verse 31, I should have read. If I alone testify about myself, my testimony is not true. But there are others. You know, in their day, they were always looking for two witnesses before anything could be done legally. Jesus gives not just two, but several more witnesses, and we'll look at those next week. We'll look at the supporting testimony in the rest of the chapter. John the Baptist. The works, the miracles of Jesus, God the Father, his testimony, and the scripture itself. But today we've seen encouragement in the miracle itself, and we've seen understanding of who Jesus is. And if you've not come to Him as God the Son who died for your sin, let us help you with that. It's our longing that we be a part of seeing God's grace and mercy come to bear. in a heart. You don't have to speak to us to be saved. I don't mean it that way. No, you simply admit your sin to God and believe that Jesus died for you. So that when you stand in judgment, it's not your merits alone, but no, it is not that at all. It is Christ's merits that you are judged upon. thus you are saved. Let's pray together. Well Father, we thank you. We thank you for this Passage of Scripture. We thank you that it causes us to believe in Jesus and to understand The relationship, the unity between the Father and the Son. And we thank you that we see some of the nature of unbelief and the pride involved there. Lord, I pray that we would be a humble people before you, seeking to understand you from the objective truth of Scripture in no other way. Help us to understand Christ and help us to honor you in the way we live our lives. We pray. Particularly, I would pray for any who are. Without forgiveness of their sin, that you would help them to understand why you sent Jesus. To show certainly righteousness, but then to pay the penalty for unrighteousness. That we could be saved. I pray, Father, that you would draw souls through your Spirit's work of convicting of sin, righteousness, and judgment. Draw them to Christ. Lift him up as the Savior. We pray. In Jesus' name, Amen.