We're going to be in Matthew chapter 2 verses 1 through 12. Matthew 2, 1 through 12, joy to the world, the Lord is come. There's this classic Christmas scene we just sung about, the shepherds, Jewish shepherds of lowly estate. The angels manifest themselves. But in our story, the wise men or the magi, these are uh not Jewish shepherds of lowly estate. These are Gentile elite class. of high estate, either kings or high-ranking advisors of kings, king makers, if you will, the magi. Jesus came for everyone. It's not just poor people who need a Savior. It's rich people who need a Savior. And those of lowly estate and those of highest state, we all need our hearts to be changed by the Savior, Jesus Christ. And it's a really uh really interesting and really important episode in Matthew 2 of the wise men because it represents it embodies the nations coming to the Savior because the Savior came for the nations. We'll read the passage and then we'll pray together before we get into the message. Matthew 2. 1 through 12. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men, literally Magi. From the east came to Jerusalem, saying, Where is he who has been born king of the Jews? For we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. When Herod the king heard this, he was troubled, and all Jerusalem with him. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. They told him in Bethlehem of Judea, for so it is written by the prophet And you, O Bethlehem, in the land of Judah, are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For From you, from you, Bethlehem, shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. Then Herod summoned the wise men secretly and ascertained from them what time the star had appeared. And he sent them to Bethlehem, saying, Go and search diligently for the child. And when you have found him, bring me word that I too may come and worship him. After listening to the king they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place. where the child was. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. Going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, And they fell down and worshipped him. Then, opening their treasures, they offered him gifts. Gold. And frankincense, and of myrrh. Being warned in a dream not to return to Herod, they departed to their own country by another way Very, very quickly, the beginning of verse 11, just so you know that the wise man uh where this is where the setting is, okay, we're not in the stable anymore. And going into the house. So this is something that happens a little bit further along, and there's historical debates about just how much further along this occurs. But it's not the manger scene. It's uh going into a house. Matthew two one through twelve There's so many things we could uh kick out of this passage. I really want to zero in on the idea of joy. The idea of joy Look at verse 10. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy Around Christmas time we always sing more about joy. And we always sing more about rejoicing. But having a joy within our hearts. And being a people who rejoice should be a steady diet for the Christian. And I have to fight for joy. There are many Christians who really have to fight and struggle with believing the promises of God. There are many Christians who really struggle and have to fight for a consistent devotion in their prayer lives, in the Word. I have to fight for joy. And there's many of you out there that have to fight for joy. We all have different strengths, different weaknesses. Here's what I would say to every single one of us. Make sure you're in the fight. Do not give up. Strive into prayer. Cry out for God's help. He's the only one who can help us to grow. And as we grow, he keeps us depending on him. He keeps us mindful of our weakness. He keeps us mindful of our sins. But we strive and strain and press forward and we fight. We fight for joy. We fight to be strengthened in faith. We fight to have zeal and affections and devotion. to Christ because these are truly meaningful things. When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. They covered a great distance. It was not an easy journey But they came to Jesus, were filled with joy, and rejoiced. And I would just take that as a parallel and as a paradigm for any of us if we're going to find a joy. Or to grow in joy, it's going to be the same paradigm, going to Jesus. Traveling a distance, whatever we need to do, get to Jesus, come before Jesus And in Jesus find joy and find rejoicing. This will be a true and lasting joy. There's many different things we can find joy in in our lives, but I'm talking about ultimate joy, a joy that you can never lose. I have joy in my wife, in my children, in my extended family. I have joy in you in the church. I have joy in my studies. Joy and devotion, but all of these things can be taken away. But the joy we have in Christ can never be taken away. Your salvation is a personal thing. Your salvation is a relationship with Jesus. You've been united to Jesus Christ that can never be taken away. You have a relationship with God Almighty, a fountain of joy, a fountain of living water I do not have an endless river and fountain stream of positive spiritual energy and joy within me, and neither do you. So we must always be going back to God, to Phyllis. They were Filled with the great joy, and they rejoiced exceedingly. Under this theme of joy Really want to talk about three things through this passage. Number one, in Jesus, the Savior has come. Amen In Jesus the Savior has come. This is the point of points of point of points of all bullet points in Christianity. In Jesus Brothers and sisters, the Savior has come. Secondly, he's come for the world. He's come for the world. He's come to save men and women and children from all nations, all tribes, all families, all tongues, all cultures. The Savior has come. He's come for the world. And number three, this calls for much joy. This requires much joy, exceeding joy and rejoicing. The Savior has come. He's come for the world. And this calls for a great joy. Number one, in Jesus, the promised Savior, has come. Look at verses 1 and 2. I'll highlight for you the key words and phrases. Now after Jesus was born in Bethlehem of Judea, in the days of Herod the king, behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem saying, Where is he who has been born? King of the Jews. There's your first key phrase. King of the Jews. Ruler of the Jews. Continuing on, for we saw his star when it rose and have come to worship him. Worship him as a king of the Jews. But this is a unique king. He's worthy of worship. In the Bible, who is worthy of worship? God alone. It's not a trick question. Only God In Jesus, God's promised Savior had come. In Jesus, God had come. God is the Savior. The story of the Bible doesn't change when you move from Old Testament to New Testament. It comes to its fruition, it comes to its fulfillment, but the story throughout the Bible is God is the merciful Savior. God is the gracious Savior. Now He's come to earth. Look at verse 4. And assembling all the chief priests and scribes of the people, he inquired of them where the Christ was to be born. There's your second key word: Christ. The Christ. It means Messiah. It means anointed one. This is the anointed king. The unique Anointed king and savior of God's people, King of the Jews, ruler of the Jews, who is to be worshipped, he is the Christ. The promised and prophesied anointed king who will save God's people. Then in verse six Also verse 6, you O Bethlehem in the land of Judah are by no means least among the rulers of Judah. For from you shall come a ruler. From you shall come a ruler who will shepherd my people Israel. A king, the Christ, a ruler, a shepherd. This is Jesus. In Jesus, God's promised Savior had come, and he's to be worshipped. Now God promised that He would come and forgive sins and defeat The enemies of God's people, forgive their sins, defeat their enemies, and then he would dwell with them forever. This is what God would do when he would come and prove himself to be the Savior of His people, to be the Savior. He would come and blot out their sins for all eternity. He would forgive them. He would deliver them from their enemies. And he would dwell with them forever. And God is with us today by virtue of the Holy Spirit of God, the third person of the Trinity, the Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is God. The Father is God. Jesus the Son is God. And the Holy Spirit that fills your heart and leads you day to day and fills the church. And binds the church together in the faith, is God. The Holy Spirit is God. And it's by the Holy Spirit that God dwells with us. And He'll be with us forever. He'll forgive sins. He'll defeat enemies. Now I've got to be quick on this so it doesn't turn into a sort of an egghead lecture, but in understanding the enemies of God, we've got to understand different layers. The ultimate enemies of the people of God is sin. The curse of sin. We need to be saved from sin. And the consequences of sin, God's judgment against our sin, the ruling power of sin in our minds and hearts, we need to be saved from sin and death. These are the ultimate enemies. But there's another layer to the enemies of God in the Bible story. If you read the Bible story, if you devote yourself to this in 2023, just start from the beginning and Read through. You'll see very quickly that the enemies of God are rulers and nations and peoples who set themselves against God 's purpose. This is the other layer of enemies of God. Evil as manifest on earth through people and peoples and kings and nations. And when Jesus sets up his kingdom on earth, his kingdom is not of this world, but his kingdom is alive in this world. It's his spiritual kingdom. It's about saving souls, not killing people, not oppressing people. It's not a sprawling kingdom of wickedness like you see in the Old Testament with Assyria. And uh the Babylonians and the Medes and the Persians, and then later on in history, the Greek Empire and the Roman Empire, in the days of the Roman Empire God sent his son to set up his kingdom. It's a kingdom of redemption. It's a kingdom of salvation. And it has been the sprawling, dominant power on earth ever since. There's churches all over the world. There's churches still advancing to unreached peoples, still advancing, still saving people, still changing hearts. But this is the way God Through his son and the power of the Holy Spirit defeats his enemies on the earth. Not by slaying everyone, but by saving people and establishing local churches. How important are local churches? Well, this is how God organizes and advances his kingdom and builds up his people. Local churches All that on enemies. Didn't I tell you I was going to be careful on that point not to not to go too far? Well, it is important to understand that the different Layers of enemies. The ultimate enemies, sin and death, but then also understanding the conquest of Christ through his church, through his gospel. on earth to save people all over the earth and to establish his reign and his his kingdom in all the earth. This is what Christ is doing. Now, this is at the Great Commission. Go and make disciples of all nations and keep going and keep going and keep preaching and keep praying and keep serving and keep going and keep training and keep setting Send missionaries everywhere. This is the kingdom of Christ, the kingdom of redemption. It's all because This man, this this baby who would grow up to be a man who would do the work of salvation. In Jesus, God's promised Savior had come. What is our focus as a church? Our focus must always be Jesus, and it must be on the fact that Jesus came to save sinners. Our focus must be souls. Our focus must be eternal matters. Our focus must be Spiritual matters. We're not here to just give religious themed entertainment to the community. We're here to preach the truth, the gospel truth, so the souls can be saved. So that souls can come into a relationship with God for all eternity. This is what we must be focused on: spiritual things, eternal things, things that center on Christ and His name and His glory. A Savior has come and number two, he's come for the world. He's come for the world. And if he's come for the world, that also means he's come for Maryland. And that also means he's come for Jarrett's Bill. That also means he's come for you to save you. You're not beyond saving. Your past is not beyond forgiveness. God has enough mercy. Trust me. From me to you, God's mercy and God's grace far extends much further than your sin and guilt and shame. God is able to do this, to save you, to save any sinner who would come and believe, believe in Jesus Christ. For the forgiveness of sins and a relationship with God that nothing, nothing can take away from you. He's come for the world. This is why the wise men come. This is why the wise men are so, to put it in modern language, excited. This is why the wise men come because they recognize the fulfillment of Scripture that God has sent his Savior and they know that that Savior is not just for Israel, that Savior is for the world. The wise men understood biblical prophecy that God was going to come and be the savior of the world. Verse 1, they came from the east. Behold, wise men from the east came to Jerusalem. There was a A Jewish presence in the scattered in the known world because of the exile of first the northern kingdom of Israel By Assyria, and then a little bit later 722 BC, and then later on, 605 BC, and then in the years following, the exile of the southern kingdom of Judah The Babylonian exile. Well, there was a return from that one, but not from the northern kingdom. There would there was just a scattering of synagogues. And there would have been converts. Jewish people were evangelistic. They worked for converts, in other words. So there was a a scattering of God fearers and of Judaism throughout the known world. Here you have Gentile Magi coming because they understood Prophecy. By the way, magi are not always good guys. They magi show up in the book of Acts two different times, use the word magician there, not wise men. You'll see magicians in the book of Acts, and they uh They had used the so there were sometimes they're God fears, wise men, sometimes they're magicians messing around with the dark arts, swidling people out of money, that kind of thing. So Here you have where their heart is in the right place. Um They understood prophecy is why they come. The star The star is a really big deal in this passage, right? Verse 2, we saw his star go all the way down to uh verse 9. Behold the star that they seen when it rose went before them. Until it came to rest over the place where the child was. And then again in verse 10, the star, when they saw the star. So there's a supernatural sign. That God sent to accompany the arrival of the Savior. They understand this. The star, it looks like the star moves. It rose and went before them until it came to rest. It's a peculiar miracle, but it really happened And this is the fulfillment of a prophecy that you find in the book of Numbers. It's pretty obscure, but it's there. Numbers 24, 17. I see him, but now, I behold him, uh no, I see him, but not now, I behold him, but not near. A star shall come out of Jacob, and a scepter shall rise out of Israel. It shall crush the forehead of Moab and break down all the sons of Sheff. Which is a a way of talking about God's victory over his enemies. And the prophecy and the promise, the vision is, I see this ruler Rising up out of Jacob, rising up out of Israel, but not near, and a star shall come out of Jacob. So it's the coming of the ruler accompanied by the coming of a star. The wise men recognized this star. They must have known Daniel chapter 2. In Daniel 2, it's prophesied that the Redeemer will come in the days of the Roman Empire. Herod hears this and he's troubled and he calls the chief priests, verse 3, verse 4, and the scribes, and he is buying it He believes what they're saying. He wants verification. So he says, verse 4, he wants confirmation on where the Christ would be born. They give more prophecy. They give prophecy from Micah 5 to Bethlehem in the land of Judah. It's from Bethlehem That this ruler shall rise, and he will shepherd the people Israel. I want to expand on this idea of the promise God's promise throughout his throughout world history and throughout the Old Testament, God promised that when he would come as Savior, he would become a savior for the world. world. Let me rip through some of these for you. Actually I'm going to ask you to turn to two of them, but that's a pretty good ratio because I have like ten of them. Okay? So that's fair. Genesis 12, 3, this is the God's promise to Abraham. I will bless those who bless you, and him who dishonors you, I will curse But in you all the families of the earth shall be blessed. Brothers and sisters, that's the world. A blessing to the world through the seed of Abraham. A nation was promised to Abraham as well. Well, here's the point. The Redeemer is going to come from the nation. The nation is a means to the Redeemer. He'll make Abraham into a great nation. It's from that nation that the Redeemer will come, and when that Redeemer comes, he'll be a Redeemer, not just for the nation he came from, but for the world he came for. Now here's one I'd like you to turn to Psalm two, Psalm chapter two, verse seven. One of the royal psalms, which means it just has a focus on the Christ, the kingship of the Son of God. I will tell of the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. And we know from the New Testament that that refers To Jesus, most specifically referring to Jesus as he is seated at the right hand of God in heaven and his kingship in heaven Verse 8, ask of me, and I will make the nations your heritage, and the ends of the earth your possession When the Son comes, the Son comes for the nations. He comes for the ends of the earth. Skim down to verse 10. Now therefore, O kings, be wise. Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear, rejoice with trembling, kiss the son, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way. For his wrath is quickly kindled. But blessed are all who take refuge in him When Jesus comes, he comes for the world, and therefore there's a call that goes out to the world, including kings and rulers and judges, to repent and turn to Jesus as Lord. The only other one I'm going to ask you to turn to is Isaiah 60. Isaiah 60 verse 1. Not 16. 60. Isaiah 60. In the royal psalms, we see that when the Son comes to rule, he comes for the world, to rule over the world. In Isaiah 60, verse 1 through 3, we see that when the light of salvation comes, this comes for the world Arise, shine, for your light has come, and the glory of the Lord has risen upon you. For behold, darkness shall cover the earth and thick darkness the peoples. But the Lord will arise upon you, and his glory will be seen upon you, and nations shall come to your light, and kings to the brightness of your rising When God comes to be the light of the world, when God is going to be the light of the world, it's going to be a light for the nations, and nations will come to that light, and kings to the brightness of his rising. He came for the world. Not just a piece and portion of it, but he came for the world. And Jesus the Savior has come and he has come for the world. We often don't think about the difference in the world before the coming of Christ. And after the coming of Christ, the world was covered in darkness, in idolatry, in unhinged violence and murderousness and sexual immorality and ignorance, this was the world before the coming of Christ. And since the coming of Christ now where salvation and righteousness and true worship has been spreading gradually, like from a mustard seed to a great tree, and like leaven slowly working itself through a whole loaf, the kingdom has been spreading. The light of the world shined and it's now its impacts, its ripple effect on the world has been working itself out through history. But the world before the coming of Christ was not like this. There weren't biblical churches worshiping the one true God scattered all over the world before Christ came. But he's the light of the world. He's building his church in the world. The world is his. The world belongs to God. Now, here are the ones I'm going to not ask you to turn to, just listen to for New Testament fulfillment. New Testament fulfillment. Luke 2, 30 through 32. My eyes have seen your salvation that you have prepared in the presence of all peoples. A light for revelation to the Gentiles and for glory to your people Israel. It's both and. John 12, 32. Jesus says When I am lifted up from the earth, I will draw all people to myself. Now he said this to show by what kind of death he was going to die. He's going to die a death where he's lifted up. That's talking about his death on the cross. Taking our punishment, bearing the guilt of our sins so that we could be forgiven. But it's also a death that's going to draw all people to him as Savior. John four forty-two. We know that this indeed is the Savior of the world. And we have seen and testified that the Father sent his son to be the Savior of the world. 1 Timothy 4. 10. We have our hopes set on the living God, who is the savior of all people. Uh John 3, 16-17, for God so loved the world that he gave his only son that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. It's a consistent witness of Scripture. I'd say the central teaching of Scripture is God's grace to the world through Christ. John 8 12. Finally, John 8. 12, you know it well, even if it doesn't come to mind when I say that verse, soon as I begin to read it. It'll come to mind. Again, Jesus spoke to them saying, I am the light of the world. Right, told you. I'm the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. This is why we must be A preaching church and a teaching church and a sharing church and an inviting church and a welcoming church and an embracing church because we want people to know the Savior of the world. We want people to have the forgiveness of sins, to be delivered from eternal death, to know God, to have a relationship with God. We must be a church full of joy, a church with a clear message of hope, a positive message of hope, the possibility of salvation. And this also is why we must be a praying church. Praying church. Because saving souls is not something I can do. Saving souls is not something you can do. It's not something we can do in our collective energies and wisdoms. God help the world if we are the hope of the world. We are not the hope of the world God, through Christ, is the hope of the world. We must be a praying people. When our goal is a supernatural goal, we must be a praying people. If we just have natural goals, we don't need to pray. But if we have a supernatural thing that needs to take place, the changing of human hearts to love God and worship Him That requires the power of Almighty God. We must be a praying people. We must be a praying people captivated by the power of prayer. Trusting in the power of prayer and the power of God's word through preaching and teaching and sharing and studies and your personal witness and all of those things. The communication, but the prayer The prayer must be there. God sent a savior. He's the savior of the world. And then the last point, number three, this calls for great joy. And great rejoicing. Verses 9 through 12. Back in Matthew 2, really honing in on verses 9 through 12 now. After listening to the king, they went on their way, and behold, the star that they had seen when it rose went before them until it came to rest over the place where the child was When they saw the star, they rejoiced exceedingly with great joy. And going into the house, they saw the child with Mary, his mother, and they fell down and worshipped him. Then opening their treasures, they offered him gifts. Gold and frankincense and myrrh. That doesn't mean there's just three of them. That's just listing three of the gifts, okay? It might have been three of them. If I get to heaven and find out there were three of them, I'm not gonna be upset at all. Just wanna let you know that we don't know. It could have been a caravan, a company of wise men with various attendants and whatnot. Could have been two of them. We just don't know. And uh they gave the gifts. They're paying Royal tribute to the king of the world. That's what you do for the king. You bring tribute. You honor the authority. You pledge your allegiance. That's what they're doing. They're recognizing that God has sent his Savior, His King, who's going to rule over the world. So they're doing what's supposed to happen. They come and honor Him. and worship him. And they're not doing it begrudgingly. They're they're really, really happy about doing this. They're full of joy and rejoicing. True joy is not just an idea. It can never just be a feeling. It's like love. It must be lived out. True joy must be pursued. It must be lived out. It must be expressed. If you if you want to just take them as Some example for us, you see that it involves the sacrifice for them, the traveling and all that it entailed. We must have a heart to pursue joy, to pray for joy, and to fight for joy. True joy not only involves sacrifice, but true joy will involve faith Here's why true joy can only come with faith. It's a very simple reason. Because Jesus is invisible. Right? Because God is invisible. And the spiritual reality of being united to Jesus, that's invisible. We're talking about spiritual things here. We're talking about eternity. Invisible things, things that transcend our present experience, but things that give true meaning to our present experience It involves sacrifice. It'll involve faith. True joy involves expressing that joy. It involves rejoicing. This is why when your child or our children do something like a great accomplishment, uh it can it could be a home run, it could be straight A's. It could be a baby. This is why we don't keep our joy inside of us, but rather we let it out. We exp Express how happy we are. The expressing of the joy is part of the joy, and I would argue even increases the experience of the joy. This is why God's people through the ages have been a people who get together and worship God. We need a way to express Express our joy. We don't want to keep it bottled up inside of us. We want to sing the praises of God who saved us, who made us, who's promised us eternity in glory. We want to sing and express. So whatever else we do in pursuing joy, studying about it, uh praying for it, pursuing it in different ways, we're not going to get too far unless we Discipline ourselves to express our joy through rejoicing, and the centerpiece of that for the gathered church will be congregational worship. True Christian worship is is also an invisible thing. True Christian worship is something that happens in the heart as God fills our heart with joy and gladness and pleasure and delight in him. And then c what we call congregational worship is where we get together and just express that as a group and seek to grow in that as a group. But the worship, we worship in spirit and in truth. That's within our hearts. True joy must be lived out. Fight for joy. It will involve sacrifice. It will involve faith. It must involve outwardly expressing it. And it will involve Probably for you, unless you're just so far ahead in walking in joy, I would just ask you to have patience and grace toward the rest of us. But it probably will involve Disciplined practical devotion. It probably will involve spiritual growth doesn't happen on accident. Right uh Growing in sin next happens that's the default position. That'll happen on accident. Sin doesn't self-correct. Sin is its own giant growing snowball down the hill. But we need to be disciplined in our spiritual devotions if we're going to grow in spiritual things. So devote yourself to the reading of God's word, the study of God's word. Be disciplined in prayer. Be disciplined in your service in the church. Be disciplined. Spiritual discipline is not a bad thing. It's not punishment. It's not punishment. It's just the way God will help us grow in grace, which is a good thing. Will you seek true and lasting joy? Will you seek to get it or seek to grow in it Talk about it, sing about it, pray for it. Whatever you do, fight for it. I stand before you as one By God's grace, pledge not to stop fighting for true and lasting joy. Fight for your joy. The way you fight for it is going to God for it. Don't ever forget that. We go to God for things we cannot provide for ourselves. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for the salvation that He's given to us freely. Father, we thank you for the joy that is found in Him. And I pray for each one of us in the coming year, you will help us to grow in our joy, to grow in seeking it, to wanting it Striving for it, praying for it, learning about it, and expressing it, expressing it in our own lives and expressing it together as a church. And it's in Christ that we ask. Amen.