Alright, justification by faith. Let's begin in Romans 3. 20, just to set the context. And then I'm gonna do some introduction introductory? Is it should I say introduction or introductory explanation. Anyway, some words of introduction, okay? And then we will really start working through starting in Romans 3. 21. But let to get started, let's go Romans 3. 20 This should set the context for us. For by works of the law, no human being, so you can circle no. Which is this this disqualifies how many human beings? Disqualifies all of them, because no human being, by works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight. Since through the law comes the knowledge of sin. So the law here, generally, in a general sense, is the law of God. Okay? It's God's commandments. God 's moral law, however you want to parse it out in the details. Here's what it's saying: by your obedience to God's law, by your adherence to his commandments. By your keeping of his law, you cannot be justified before God. You cannot stand before God based on your obedience and be declared right before him. And that's what it means that by works of the law no human being will be justified in his sight. In other words, you cannot work your way into God's favor. Cannot be done Since through the law comes knowledge of sin. That's a summary way of saying the purpose of the law is to expose our sin to us. The law of God is holy, and it reveals God's holy character, and so to speak, shines the flashlight of God's holiness upon us. And shows us by way of contrast that we are unholy. We are unlike God. We are sinners. We have disobeyed His commandments. And as we see how different we are from God's holy law, we see how far we have fallen. out of out of favor with God. And so we need to be justified, but it's something that we cannot do. So that's that's the context. Because that in and of itself, if If that's the end of the story, we all are under God's judgment with no escape. It's not the end of the story. But if law is the end of the story The only thing that awaits us is judgment and condemnation. So, justification by faith is the remedy, and it is the way God has purposed And his infinite wisdom to make sinners righteous in his eyes. And don't just gloss over that and think that that's something that we've heard for a long time, if you've been a Christian a long time or you've been in church a long time and we gloss over it like it's no big deal. This is the biggest deal God makes the way for sinners to be right before him. This is unbelievable. This is the doctrine that God used to transform the world in the Reformation. And um he's been saving souls ever since the church age, but in God's providence through the way history shaped out in a in a unique way, perhaps, in the Reformation. So justification by faith is the way God has chosen to make sinners right in his eyes. Let me just define it, although I think I've already done this, but I put it in my notes to make sure that I that I did this carefully, okay? Definition to be justified by faith means to be declared righteous in God's eyes That's the justification part, to be declared righteous in God's eyes. And there's another part of that definition, but I want to stop on that first. It's a declaration. It's a legal declaration in the uh biggest, well I guess that that's a metaphor, right? In the biggest court imaginable, and the most important Legal case of your existence, which is how do you stand before your holy God and infinite creator as your judge? How do you stand before him? Justification is you're declared righteous in God's eyes. And you're declared righteous in God's eyes. By God. So there's no higher authority that can swoop in and take this away from you or overturn this verdict. Justification is being declared righteous in God's eyes by God Himself in God's courtroom. Justification by faith. And what by faith means is through faith in Jesus Christ. Through faith in Jesus Christ. It is the simplest and the most advanced and deepest Christian doctrine there is. Come to Jesus Christ by faith in him and be declared righteous in God's eyes An irreversible legal declaration from heaven about you and your standing with God. It's a legal verdict that is irreversible, brought down. The gavel brought down by God Himself. An illustration for justification by faith, trying to understand faith as that which receives. You can think of a hand that receives a gift, not a hand that accomplishes a work. So when we say justified by faith, faith in the equation is not a work that we do. to earn or accomplish salvation. It's the hand that reaches out. That's an illustration, right? Because faith is something that happens in the heart It 's a hand that reaches out, receiving a free gift from God. So that's what justification by faith is. It's being declared righteous in God's eyes by God Himself. Through faith in Christ Jesus. And that with that preposition through is very important. This is how God gives it to us. It's through faith. Now, let's look at some representative Verses in this section. Show of hands, is that okay? Yes 5 -1. We're going to work backwards. 5-1. Romans 5-1. Representative verses Therefore, is how chapter five begins. And so what he's doing is he's going to summarize the central points Of what the previous section just taught. Therefore, since we have been justified by Faith. There it is. Shh, straight from the text. Since we have been justified by faith, we have peace with God through our Lord Jesus Christ. And so All of the previous section, the end of three into four, is actual teaching of the doctrine, you are justified by faith. And then in chapter five, he transitions and says, okay, now since we have been justified by faith So it's a transition verse, but in this transition verse he summarizes in the most nutshell version that he can come up with what he just Taught, and that is we've been justified by faith. So another representative uh verse or passage, because it's two verses, is chapter four. Three and four. Ac actually um three through five. Three through five. Chapter four, three through five For what does the scripture say? It's a good place to start if you want if you're confused about a doctrine, if you want to know if this is true or that is true on a specific issue, what does the scripture say? Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. So Paul now teaching justification by faith is using Scripture to prove his point. Always a good practice. Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness or credited to him as righteousness. Think of if there were was money credited to your bank account, it's credited to you, you didn't work for it, it was just counted unto you. Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Now, to the one who works, his wages are not, you can circle the word not, not counted as a gift. Of course they're not. They're counted as his due. We also would have accepted wage. We also would have accepted paycheck. I think you get the drift. You work for it, it's not a gift. You have earned it. You deserve it. It is coming to you. Now, as sinners, we have earned something. We do have something coming to us. But not righteousness. Let's move on. Chapter 4, still, verse 5. And to the one who does not work But believes in him who justifies the ungodly, his faith is counted as righteousness, counted as righteousness, credited as righteousness. The righteousness that comes from somewhere else, and we'll talk about where it comes from, it just cannot appear out of thin air. This righteousness that's credited to sinners by faith has to exist. It has to come from somewhere. His faith is counted to him as righteousness. But you could you could um in chapter four verse five is uh Maybe the most important if you not that you have to do this, pick out one verse that's the most important verse here in this in this section, but Four or five on the issue of justification by faith might be the one to the one who does not work, right? Not work, but rather believes in him who justifies the ungodly. This is for the ungodly. This is for vile, wicked sinners, this is for the unrighteous. This is for the sick. This is for rebels. And God, in his infinite wisdom and grace, toward that crowd Makes a way for them to be right, for us to be right before Him. It's not that we have to work our way to it, but it's received. By grace through faith. One more representative verse. I'll make this one quicker Chapter 3, verse 28. How's this for a thesis statement? What's a thesis statement? Is that a nerdy thing to ask? What is it? Yeah, it's a claim. It's a claim that you make, and you've got to prove it or disprove it. And so here's a thesis statement. 328, we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. So it is not, this is so important, it is not Faith in Christ plus good works that justifies us before God It is three twenty uh three twenty uh eight. We hold that one is justified by faith apart Not plus, not along with, apart from works of the law. Now those who are justified by faith The fruit of that will be obedience to God's law. Not perfect obedience to God's law until we get to heaven. So the fruit. of justification, one of the fruits of justification will be works. But works does not contribute to justification. Does that make sense? Head nods? Head shakes Just to point out in context, Paul is dealing with Gentile issues, so apart from works of the law, but also things in the fact that they don't have to learn the law in order to receive Christ. Judea was a very important shape. Not only do I have to avail the law, there's somebody who wasn't brought up in the law. Yeah. Yeah. Not just counting off wall for that can help. I'm just saying I think Paul is also the same here. Apart from Yeah, and he deals with that in chapter two into chapter three. point being that uh for those who were not under the law of Moses given to Israel, they're still under l the law written on their hearts, revealed through conscience. And so all are under uh here uh verse um Verse 19, the end of it. Every mouth may be stopped, and the whole world may be held accountable to God. And he says this In verse 9, are Jews any better off, any better off than Gentiles? No, not at all. We've already charged that all, both Jews and Greeks, are under sin. Jews and Greeks are under sin, both lawbreakers, just um a different outward manifestation of it. But yeah, um they don't need to receive the law of Moses and become uh and become converts to Judaism first and then after that become converts to Christianity. They do not have to do that. Yeah. Yeah. It's good. Any other any other comments or insights or questions? All right. Chapter 3, verse 21. Now we're going to plow through here and see how far we can get. And I do reserve the right to finish this lesson next week. Only because this is a big section. And boy, I would just hate to do half of it. And leave you hanging and not finish the rest. Chapter 321. But now the righteousness of God has been manifested or has been revealed. Apart from the law, apart from the law. Although the law and the prophets bear witness to it. So there's a righteousness of God. That's manifested. That's made known. That's revealed. And it is revealed apart from the law. Now, the law was a manifestation of God's righteousness. But not in such a way that could save you from your sin. So God's law, his commandments Show us our sin, and it is a revelation of God's righteousness in one sense, but not in such a way that it can take away your sins, for example. The law cannot reconcile sinners to God. But there is a righteousness of God that has been revealed that's apart from the law. Verse 22, the righteous, and he's going to tell us what that is specifically. It's the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ. For all who believe. So now you have a righteousness of God that's manifested or it's made known that's apart from the law And it it's it's manifested through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. So the righteousness that is revealed in the gospel, which is what he's talking about here. Is a righteousness that is provided for you. That's the new aspect. That's what the law could not do. Did the law reveal the righteousness of God? Yes. Did it provide a righteousness for sinners that was not their own? No. That's the revelation of righteousness that comes to us in the gospel. Go back to Romans 1, starting in verse 16. And these two verses, sixteen and seventeen, frame the rest of the book. Everything else is about this. I am not ashamed of the gospel. For it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. God's commandments, God's laws are not. But the gospel is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, also to the Greek. For in it, in it, in the gospel, the righteousness of God is revealed from faith for faith, or from faith unto faith, as it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. So, the gospel is the power of God for salvation to all who believe. How so? For in it the righteousness of God is revealed, from faith unto faith. It's the power of God unto salvation because it provides a righteousness for you. That there's nowhere else in the universe you could go to get this righteousness. This is the only place you can go, Jesus Christ. And the all and in going to Jesus Christ, the only way you can receive this righteousness is by faith in him. So back to three. 322, the righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ for all who believe. Pretty clear there, right? For there is no distinction, for all have sinned and fall short of the glory of God, and are justified. by his grace as a gift through the redemption that is in Christ Jesus, whom God put forward as a propitiation by his blood. That's an atonement. That's the atoning sacrifice the atoning blood sacrifice of Christ on the cross, a propitiation by his blood, a blood sacrifice that turns away wrath, a blood sacrifice that absorbs wrath on our behalf. So that that wrath against our sin exists no longer. And this is the message that the world needs to hear. That God has made a way for them to be right before Him. And it's only here, centered here, in the blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ the propitiation by his blood. And then after he says blood, there's a comment and then it says this, to be received by faith. To be received by faith. Now, put a marker there. We're going to talk about the next two verses, but we've got to take a breath before we get there. I want to draw a few things on the board, uh make a few summary points about this paragraph and then see if you have any questions or comments. I want to talk about uh why exactly Faith saves, or why exactly through faith, faith is credited to us as righteousness. Because that's a s that's a summary statement of what's going on here spiritually. And so uh I will draw a crown and the crown as you've been to any of my classes you know that that Symbolically just represents Christ who currently lives and reigns in heaven, and then here is a sinner And that's his heart. He hears of Christ in the gospel and hearing with faith By the power of the Spirit, righteousness is credited to him. That's I'm not going to write the entire word righteousness out, but that's what that is. And this person now is justified by faith in Christ. the object of our faith. So we're justified by faith in Christ because faith unites us to Christ Faith unites us to Christ. And when we are spiritually united to Christ, what is his is ours. And tonight what we're talking about is this: His righteousness. becomes our righteousness. It's credited to us. It's counted to us. It's reckoned to us. Think of that bank account illustration. He has righteousness in his bank account, just an illustration. And um do we have any in ours? No. But by faith being united to him By a spirit wrought faith, his righteousness is now our righteousness Faith unites to Christ, and therefore we can say we're justified by faith, because we're justified by a living Christ. It's um The reversal of what happened on the cross. So here's a cross And you should know what that symbolizes, right? It's not a stretch. So here's Jesus dying on a cross, and here is a sinner. And through faith in the living Christ Our sin is put upon him, and along with that, there's many aspects of this. Our guilt is put upon him. What was the phrase in here? Propitiation by his blood. But it's not just that. It's not just that. Sin and guilt, sin and guilt, has hovering over it the righteous judgment of God Okay? Divine judgment. Wrath. Now, if our sin and our guilt is taken away from us by Christ And he, as Peter says it in 1 Peter 2. 24, bore our sins in his body on the tree. If our sin and guilt comes over here, what happens to the wrath that was directed at our sin and guilt? It goes over there too. Yep. So we'll we'll just redirect the whole thing. And now this is this is propitiation. Christ, this is what we mean when we say Jesus died for us. If we're believers, Jesus died for us. And the wrath that was ours rightly. I mean this should not be controversial that a holy God would have wrath And judgment against sinners who rebel against him in heart, mind, soul, mouths, ears, eyes, hands, feet every day Shouldn't be controversial. It is because we live in a fallen world. But all of that wrath comes upon Jesus in the cross. That's to be received by faith, that reality. And so Christianity is not just believing the fact like it's a bullet point on a On a PowerPoint presentation. It's not just believing the fact that Jesus died for sins, it's having a heart that's transformed by the Spirit of God. That you believe with all of your heart that you are a filthy sinner before God and that Jesus died for your sin. And it's me believing that I am a wretched sinner with no hope before God, but that Jesus died for my sins. That's saving faith. Holy trusting in Jesus Christ alone for salvation. He bore my wrath. You can't believe that he bore your wrath if you don't think that you deserve wrath. And you can't think that you deserve wrath if you don't believe you're a sinner. We're talking about heart realities, not checking boxes. So we are justified by faith because we're united to Christ, the living Christ, and this living Christ is one who in history made propitiation by his blood, but that's to be received by faith. And so when we have a we when we have the gospel we must have The death of Christ and the resurrection of Christ. And the object of our faith is a living Christ. This is not philosophy. And this is not religious theory. These are real things. These are concrete realities. That Christ is alive in heaven, and you can be saved by looking to him in faith through the gospel. It is not faith plus works that save. It is not faith plus sacraments that save or ordinances, Lord's Supper and Baptism. It is not faith plus religion that saves. It's not faith plus your personal holiness that saves. It's faith that saves. Because because Christ is sufficient unto salvation. If you have Christ, brothers and sisters, you have a perfect righteousness. What in the world else could you need to stand before God And be declared righteous in his sight. Nothing. The merit of Christ. The righteousness of Christ is all we need. That's why people died for this doctrine And we should be ready to die for it too if it comes to that. We don't ever, ever, ever want to say that you need something in addition to the righteousness of Christ in order to be right before God. Heavens, heaven forbid Questions, comments? It's only seven forty one. I thought it was like seven three or something already. Only points, not kind of points. Uh so then in Hebrews eleven, all these people uh you who are ancestors by it are ancestors were to by faith, right? And but yet Okay, on the one hand, we're justified by faith uh by receiving Christ's giving. On the other hand, God says that Christ does this and that. And it's not worth as far as law. It's like Well it says that to us too. Yep, go over here, go over there, serve in the church, love this guy, next to this guy, and we say, okay in it's an approval of source ideas, but it's obviously not an approval thing. We don't he doesn't say, Oh, you're gonna we're at the white drone and you're justified to thank for witness. But you know Does God approve of our good works? No. I guess I don't know. Is that what you're asking? Nope. I have friends that say something. Oh, yeah. Obviously it's not uh Salvation is evidenced by works. Salvation is evidenced by works. In Hebrews, they were commended by God for the good works done in faith. God does commend our good works done in faith. Absolutely. But those good works are um the fruit of his grace and his holy spirit and his purpose and his plan. It's it's not works done in the flesh. that we offer and those good works, not only are they done in faith through the power of the Spirit, so God gets the credit for that, but they're given through Christ. They come to God through the the intercession of the Son So we don't want to ever isolate our good works apart from the work of redemption that God is doing. That's a part of being saved, is having the gift of good works. Maria Well, I wouldn't make a strict distinction between I mean there are different There are different commands to obey different parts of Christian duty. Um they would all we would want them all to flow out of faith. Um so there's maybe benevolence and good deeds done toward others. Right, and we see that in the church. one to another and uh in relation to the world. And then there's the devotional aspects of our relationship with God , praying, reading scripture, things like that. So um yeah I think there's maybe some distinction there, but I wouldn't put them in two different two different categories altogether. Um In all of that, we want to be doing everything in faith. We want to be doing everything in faith. Alright, let's push on here. Chapter 3, 21 through 26. I forgot to give you my heading for that. The heading for that, we already went through that paragraph, was um The death of Christ makes this possible. The death of Christ makes this possible. Makes it possible that we can be justified by faith. And now here's how I have it written down: the ground of justification. the ground that everything else here rests on. Or maybe the ground that everything else grows up out of. Whichever illustration works better in your mind. On the basis of Where I asked earlier, where does this righteousness come from? It cannot just appear from nowhere or from out of nowhere. It comes from God. It's the righteousness of God. The righteousness of God. Uh oh, we did forget to read. No, you didn't forget. And apparently I didn't forget either, because I'm saying it right now. The end of verse 25 and then verse 26. And this is so important. And what we're going to do is finish this paragraph, look at three cross-references, and then we're going to call it a night, okay? And I will Take next week and what Paul talks about after this is the fruit of justification and what it leads to in our lives. That's so important. It should lead to two things. And then the prime example of this, Abraham. Abraham. And he gives Abraham and his experience as a model for Christians and how to understand our experience. Two very important things. But anyway, right now, the end of 25. Okay. This was to show God's righteousness. And what it was the this means is God putting Christ forward as a propitiation by his blood, by the death of Christ. He's talking about the cross of Christ. This was to show God's righteousness Because in his divine forbearance he had passed over former sins. It was to show his righteousness at the present time So that he might be two things here, two things, just and The justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. So now remember how the paragraph started. You could just skim up to it. This is about God Um manifesting is righteousness. The righteousness of God is manifested in a way that's apart from the law, but the law and prophets did bear witness to it. The righteousness of God through faith in Jesus Christ to all who believe. It's about God showing his righteousness. Here at the end of verse 25 and into 26. We see the two ways God's righteousness is revealed in the gospel. Okay? Two ways it's revealed in the gospel. First way, this was to show God's righteousness because in his divine forbearance he passed over former sins. Now, God is holy. He cannot ignore sin. That would contradict his holy nature. But he passed over sins And which means he withheld his judgment against those sins. Okay, he withheld his judgment against those sins. But God is holy, so he's not going to do that forever. He's going to pay for the sins of his people. If he does not deal with sin, he is not Just. If he does not deal with sin, he is not righteous. On the cross is where he deals with the sins of his people that he had passed over. And in that way, the cross is a manifestation of God's righteousness And in that way he's fulfilling the law because part of Christ fulfilling the law is receiving the penalties of Laws that have been violated by God's people. Right? To fulfill the law, he must obey all of the law's commands. And also he must receive all of the laws, penalties, and punishments for violating it. And In fulfilling the law also, in doing both of those things, he receives the reward of life that the law promised. Remember that? The law? Do these things, it'll be life unto you. If you do not, it'll be death. Do these things, it'll be a blessing. If you do not, it'll be a curse. And different ways of saying that. So the death of Christ, the cross of Christ is is ultimate revelation of God's righteousness, of his justice, because here he deals with sin. He punishes sin that formerly he had passed over. And as a side note, 1 John 4 talks about the cross and talks about propitiation and Well, love is in view here also. Grace, gift, mercy, it's all implied. In 1 John, the theme is more exp 1 John 4, the theme is more explicitly love. He talks about the death of Christ as the ultimate manifestation of God's redeeming love. Here cross is the ultimate manifestation of God's righteousness. But listen, that's only one of the ways that God's righteousness is revealed in the gospel or made known in the gospel. It was to show his righteousness at the present time so that he might be just, which is What I was just rambling on about for the last eight minutes. He's just, he's righteous, he deals with sin, he punishes sin, he doesn't ignore it. Please don't ever think that God forgiving sin is God acting like your sin doesn't exist or like he doesn't care or he chooses not to care about it. That's not the forgiveness that comes to us in the gospel. It's that Jesus takes our sin. Jesus takes our guilt. Jesus takes our wrath. That's how our sins are forgiven. Just and the justifier He's also the justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. And he's the justifier in that he makes others righteous. It's a manifestation of righteousness in one sense. He's dealing with sin. And he's also the justifier. He's making others righteous simultaneously. He's making sinners righteous. Jesus makes sinners righteous in God's eyes. Justifier of the one who has faith in Jesus. So he's revealing the righteousness of God. In fulfillment of the law, and he's revealing and making available justification by faith. The death of Christ, the propitiation by his blood, is a wondrous diamond with so many wonderful truths. Facets, the immeasurable riches of Christ. So the death of Christ does reveal God's righteousness, his holiness Is justice and it also makes righteousness available to any sinner who would come. By faith and repentance, trusting in Christ alone. Alright, now there's cross-references. 2 Corinthians 5, 21 2 Corinthians 5 21 and these are cross-references that I'm hoping uh supplement and buttress These truths, where does that righteousness come from? The righteousness of God. It's the righteousness of Christ that's credited to us. Second Corinthians five twenty-one for our sake he made him to be sin who knew no sin. Made him to be sin who knew no sin. That means he was sinless, but he was treated as a sinner. So that in him we might become the righteousness of God. That phrase, hopefully that sounds familiar to you, right? The righteousness of God Made him to be sin who knew no sin, so that in him, in him, by faith, you might become the righteousness of God. Very simple. It's the paradigm of the substitute. Oh, my mic went off on that wonderful phrase. It's the paradigm of the substitute. And uh first Corinthians one thirty. First Corinthians one thirty And because of him, God, you are in Christ Jesus. That means united to Christ by faith. You are in Christ Jesus, who has become to us the wisdom from God. It's a wisdom that uh It's totally different than the world's idea of wisdom. But then he explains how. He's become to us wisdom from God. That is Righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption. So that as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. Well, amen to that. He's our only boast. We should not be ashamed to say that. Christ is our only boast. Christ is our only way. Christ is our only hope. Christ is our only righteousness. Therefore, we're justified by faith in Christ alone, not by faith plus works, plus church, plus Bible reading, plus prayer. He's our righteousness. That's a legal declaration. We're righteous in God's eyes in Christ. And he's our sanctification. That's talking about our spiritual condition. That's giving us a new nature, giving us the Holy Spirit, and our redemption, which I believe has in view our final glorification. But Christ is all that for us. He is our righteousness. So when we say righteousness is credited to us, it's not some mystical, unknown spiritual principle. It's the actual righteousness of Christ that's counted to us because we are united with him spiritually. And the final one we already looked at, Romans 1, 16 and 17. But these are the verses Um that uh really were a springboard for Martin Luther And really delivering him from despair Honestly, this was not just some uh detached ivory tower um scholar. And I'm not thinking of anyone in particular when I say that. I just want you to know that he was despairing in his sin. with regards to how can all of this religion and all of these things make me right in God's eyes because he had he knew how sinful he was. Anyway, this was what set him free. I I'm not ashamed of the gospel. It's the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes, to the Jew first, and also to the Greek. Well, how so? How's how's the gospel bring salvation? To sinners, to sinners before God. For in it the righteousness of God is revealed for faith From faith for faith, or from faith under faith. There's different ways that phrase is translated. It's trying to emphasize that you get this righteousness by faith, and you live by faith. And as one who's living by faith, it's Proof that you are made righteous. As it is written, the righteous shall live by faith. By faith shall the righteous live. So Justification by faith. Believe it. Love it. Understand that it's a big deal. Glory in it. Be thankful for it. Be humble. Be humbled by it. Just kind of gave away my first point for next week Alright, well we've got uh about two or three minutes. Any closing comments or kind of comments or questions? Could you speak to modern day um compromise. Oh yikes. Well we know what Mark Luther was well if we agree about it, we know what he was doing. What might be things Today that we should do. Yes, I think there's always a lot of people. The tendency to want to find security in tangible expressions of faith To find security in religion, to find security in um, I go to church, I read my Bible, and therefore God accepts me. I I so coming up with some specifics, I think off the top of my head, the general the general thing I would say is we all have this tendency to want to point to something in addition to Christ as the basis for our security before God. And um and that's a dangerous, dangerous thing. And so um Assurance and security is extended. Yeah, yeah. Uh it 's dangerous because we can coast for years, decades, uh with a false assurance thinking we're totally fine um because we're doing this or we're doing that. I'm part of this group. We c we judge by feelings a lot. Um if I feel like I'm saved, I must be saved. No, that's a problem. Because justification, ah, I'm stuck on the chair. I guess I won't leave the chair for this last point. We in our man centeredness, a radical, unabashed man centeredness today, we act as if What we say about ourselves determines our fate, determines who we are. And so if I feel like I'm saved , If I say that I'm forgiven, then I'm saved and I'm forgiven. Justification is a declaration by God. It's only if God declares you righteous Are you actually righteous? But so much of pop Christianity, which just means the popular expression of Christianity today Please forgive me, guys, this is a generality, okay? This is a generality, um a generalization. So much of pop Christianity is based based on feelings and emotions. So if your emotions are stoked and you feel spiritual and you feel like God loves you, that then You think that you're saved. And um and that's wrong. And please, I'm going to end on this note. Please make a careful note if you're taking notes that I said, based on Emotions and feelings. That's not what faith should be based on or what our security should be based on. That is not saying that feelings and emotions uh will not be a part of your faith experience or your expression of your faith. Because when you're saved, the whole person is saved It's not like all of you is saved and restored and renewed by the Spirit, but not your feelings and emotions. No, no, no, no, no. We're just saying that your faith, your salvation is not, what's the phrase, based on those things. You can think of those things. Maybe similarly to good works, right? Good works. Affections and feelings and emotions should be oriented toward God Right, but that's the fruit of salvation. That's the fruit of salvation. And um you know if you sh if you strip that apart from the context of the gospel and true conversion and true faith and true repentance, they mean nothing. It's just a religious delusion. And false teachers and false preachers and false churches pray on this and they're becoming millionaires. I've got to be quiet before I get in trouble. All right, let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus Christ. All we have to plead is his blood. And we thank you. Thank you for making a way. Thank you for making us righteous in your eyes. We could never be so on our own. So we worship you and we thank you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.