There Justification by Faith Part two Romans five one Therefore Since we have been justified by any guesses? Faith. Romans four For what the scriptures say, Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness. Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift, but as is due. To the one who does not work, but believes in him, who justifies the ungodly, his Faith is counted as righteousness. Romans three twenty-eight For we hold that one is justified by everyone say it faith Apart from works of the law. So so very important. Not faith In addition to works of the law, not faith contingent upon works of the law, justified by faith apart from works of the law. Justification by faith. Part two. Let's pray together. Father, we ask that you would bless us tonight, encourage us. We need your power. We need you to open our minds to your truth. We need you to turn our hearts to love your truth, to love you, to love the things of Christ. Help us to grow. So we ask you tonight, give us spiritual growth by your word and by your spirit. We confess The world is in your hands. The nations are in your hands. The United States is in your hands. This election is in your hands. This COVID crisis is in your hands. Our lives are in your hands. Our jobs are in your hands. Our hearts are in your hands, Lord. You are God. We come to you for help this evening. And you are good, and you are faithful, and you are mighty, and you are merciful, and we're so very thankful. We throw ourselves before you this evening, God, asking for your help in Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Alright, let's review. Okay? And I'll do this quickly. We'll get into our new material. The definition of justification by faith. Justification is being declared righteous in God's eyes. God Himself brings down the gavel of justice and declares you innocent and righteous in his eyes A legal verdict in heaven that cannot be reversed, declared righteous in God's eyes. That's justification. But it's justification through faith That means through faith in Jesus Christ. And so that's why I have these arrows underneath. Justification by faith, because that's a summary, but we want to get some detail. We want to get some meat on these bones. Justification by faith. In Christ. We should think of justification by faith As a benefit or as a blessing, right? Which means a good thing, it's a benefit that is found in Christ He is the prime blessing of salvation. He is salvation. But it manifests in different blessings and benefits, and one of those is being justified by faith. So justification by faith in Christ based on his death. And We called this last week the ground of justification based on his death. Where he took our guilt, he took our sin, he took the wrath we deserved upon himself on the cross. Based on that, propitiation by his blood, which uh propitiation is an atoning sacrifice. It's a sacrifice that absorbs God's wrath and turns away God's wrath. Justification by faith in Christ, who is living and reigning, based on his death, which is given to us as a Gift, or you could even say this, as a grace. This is a gift of grace. It is not something to be earned. It is not something we could ever deserve. It is not something we could work for or be good enough for. But praise the Lord God in heaven, He's justified us. By faith in Christ, based on Christ's death as a gift, as a free gift, the free gift of righteousness, you'll see in Romans. And finally Justification by faith in Christ, based on his death as a gift. And then we'll just put this word here, alone. Alone, and then we'll put a period. And what we're getting at there is this is all that we need to be made right with God. Christ is all that we need. He is sufficient. His blood sacrifice was sufficient to atone for our sins. But his righteousness, that he clothes us in his righteousness, And clothed in the righteousness of Christ is how we stand before God. What we're saying here when we say alone is this. That is all that we need. It's not Christ plus dot dot dot plus good works, plus personal holiness, plus the sacraments. Whatever, it's Christ alone that is sufficient for salvation. Therefore, justification by faith in Christ. based on his death as a gift, as a grace gift from God alone, is what we're talking about. And um I put in my notes here, in a circle with an arrow on it and then a star So somebody must have thought this was important. Contrast with sanctification. And I think what I'm wanting to do quickly is to contrast The blessing of justification with the blessing of sanctification. In some circles, you'll get those two blessings mixed together. Justification, which is a legal declaration. God declares you righteous in his eyes. Sanctification is the gift of holiness inside of your heart, and then progressing in that holiness. As you go along in faith, if you merge those two blessings together, you'll inevitably you'll end up with Your justification is somehow based on your progression in holiness. So that's what we want to avoid. Justification is a legal declaration. You are innocent before God. You are righteous before God. Think about this. Think about the sins that we've committed in heart, mind, words, actions Think about it, that we would be declared righteous and acceptable before God. That's justification. Sanctification is actually being made holy. And being conformed to the image of God, being conformed to the image of Christ. But our forgiveness is not based on that. And so that's a contrast, just the nature of what justification is. Versus the nature of what sanctification is. Two blessings that are inseparably joined, both found in Christ, both gifts of grace. But they're distinct. They're distinct blessings. I think that deserved a star and an arrow and a circle. And by the way, the arrow is in red, the star is in blue. The circle is in pencil. Yes, I should do that. Don't tempt me, because I do have blue and red and green and black markers. Okay, so we uh we talked about the death of Christ up there based on his death. We call this the ground of justification. Uh we talked about last week It's a gift received by faith. That's up there. And now we come to the fruit of justification. the fruit of justification, and that is and what that's getting at is what does it lead to in the lives of believers? How does it manifest? What are what is the here's a good phrase, what is the spiritual impact An outward manifestation of being justified by faith in Christ. So let me erase all of this What did I call this? The The manifestation. What what was the the F word? The fruit. I knew I said it too quickly. That's why I stopped to uh the fruit And when we say the fruit of justification, we're including in this Everything else I just said about what that actually is and the nature of it. It's a grace gift and it's found in Christ. All of that's included there. So let's turn to Romans 3. Verse 27. And um no cliffhangers here. Let's just write it up here. Humility And a love for holiness And there's different ways you could say that second one. There's humility is a prime fruit. And love for holiness is a prime fruit of those who have been justified. In Christ. Coming to understand the nature of what that means. And so Romans 3, 27, and let's read 27 through 31 and see if see if they can stand out to you this gift of humility and love for holiness. Then what becomes of our boasting? Now that's the question he's starting with, right? So if if you're one to do it, you could circle boasting. It's asking a question about boasting. What's another word for boasting? In other words this starts with B. Bragging What becomes of being proud of yourself? What becomes of your taking credit? What becomes of her boasting? It's a good question. And then what does he say? It's is excluded. What's another word for excluded? Or phrase. If something's excluded, it's It's eliminated. It's off the table. There's no room for it. It's gone. There's no room for boasting in self for those who've been justified. In Christ. What happens of our boasting? It's excluded. By what kind of law? Or by what kind of principle? By a law of works No, but by a law of faith. Well, of course, if we were justified based on our works, we would have something to boast about. That what would we have to boast about? It was my works. That would be the ground, right? That would be the ground instead of the cross of Christ. Verse 28. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Right now I've read that last week and I read that this week. That's the reason he's giving for why boasting is eliminated, right? That's the reason he's giving for why boasting is eliminated. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. Therefore, what do what's with boasting? It's gone. It's eliminated. Humility, humility. There should be a sweet gentleness A gospel humility in the church. Verse twenty nine Or is God the God of Jews only? Is he not the God of Gentiles also? Yes, of Gentiles also. So there you uh If you want to know more about why he's saying that, you'll have to go back and read Romans the uh from well you can say Romans 1, 2, and 3, but specifically uh 2 and the first half of three. There was some kind of conflict, some kind of trouble between the Jewish Christians and the Gentile Christians in Rome, and there was some boasting going on. Jew over Gentile, because they had the law, and this was this is a major issue in the New Testament in this early church age. But But the Jews, if they're justified before God, and the Gentiles, if they're justified by God, they're justified the exact Same way. And what way is that? Faith in Christ, apart from works of the law. And so Gentile has no room for boasting over Jew. Jew has no room for boasting over Gentile. This is a pastoral issue. This is a practical ministry issue. This is a body life of the church issue. You have no room to boast over against anyone. Okay. Verse thirty Since God is one who will justify the circumcised by faith and the uncircumcised through faith. There you go. That's another way of Saying the uh those who are ethnic Jews, those who are not. God justifies both the same way through faith. Of course that takes you know that's a summary way of saying well he had already been he's already explained what that means in detail, faith in Christ based on Christ's death. So that's humility. That's humility. Let me uh read verse thirty-one uh and then I'll backtrack and we'll talk about Some practical application on the humility and then some practical application on love for holiness. Now, the humility is easy to see there in verse 27 through 30. Yes or no? Yes. Verse thirty-one. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? In other words, do we not worry about obeying the law? In other words, isn't the law irrelevant for us? Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? Since this is the way some people reasoned, this is the way some people still reason today. If We're justified by faith, apart from works of the law, dot dot dot, and you insert human logic, therefore we do not need to worry about obeying the law. Do we then overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. Heaven forbid, in other words. You shouldn't be thinking like that. The born-again heart does not look for loopholes to minimize God's commandments or to get out from under God's command to be holy. Do we overthrow the law by this faith? By no means. On the contrary, we uphold the law. So we're not justified by works of the law, but we uphold the law. Now the law is God's commandments. The law is a reflection of God's character. God is holy, and he reveals to us what holiness is by way of commandments, by way of his law. So the law is holy, the law is spiritual, the law is good. And those who've been justified by faith in Christ, who've been born again, who've been given new hearts, they've been sanctified, and are being progressively sanctified Do not despise holiness. They do not ignore holiness. They have a love for holiness. You cannot love God. But also despise his defining trait, which is holiness. That would be a blatant contradiction to say, if I were to say I love God, but you know what? I do not care about holiness. Cannot be true. Now, of course, we're not perfected in our love for holiness, amen. But for those who are born again, we have at least the seed of a true love for holiness. You have the Spirit of the Infinite, Almighty, Holy God living within you. you'll have a at least the seed of a true love for holiness. Now that will be perfected when our bodies die and our souls depart and go to be with the Lord, and our souls are made righteous and made perfectly holy. Right now we have been declared righteous, but there's still work in us to do. And so we have a humility Before God that should manifest as a humility toward others, our brothers and sisters in Christ, specifically in this context, is what he's talking about There's no boasting, there's no bragging, there's no self-superiority in the church, and there's a love for holiness that cherishes God's law. Now we're on we cannot get off on this. Please keep me in line here, uh, class, please. Um We are no longer under the condemnation of the law. But God uses the law as fatherly discipline for us. It is a guide for how we are to live. It teaches us what holiness is. It teaches us what holiness looks like. It does not have the power to make us holy. But it can stir up and motivate us to holiness. God is doing that. Only the gospel has the power. to make us holy. It's the gospel through which we see Christ as Redeemer. Anyway, let me hedge myself in there. So the law is not irrelevant for the Christ for Christian living. It's not irrelevant for Christian living. It's just um not a part of what justifies you. Your obedience to the law does not justify you. Your obedience to God's moral law, whatever way it looks, is um is a result of you being sanctified. It's not a cause of you being justified. Does that make does that make sense? So that's why I wanted to um that's probably why I put the star and the arrow and the circle around, talk about sanctification at the beginning. Um okay. Now I am going to we could we could each, if we have the time to pray and think and meditate and discuss this, come up with a list of specific applications for humility, specific applications uh on the love for holiness, and I I would like to hear from you something of that tonight as you're letting the wheels turn and formulating Uh questions or insights on that, let me give you three on each. How humility would manifest In the heart and in the life of the believer. Number one, we have a low view of self. You have a low view of self. Those who are justified by faith in Christ have seen their sin. And to one degree or another They're horrified at what they see. And they cry out, Woe is me before the Lord. Depart from me, Lord, for I am a sinner. We have a low view of self. It's the opposite of what the world tells us to think of ourselves, that we are just so wonderful and so awesome, and of course God loves you. Nobody else sees your value, but God sees your value. God does see our true value. As those made in his image, yes, that's part of it. And so that's why we have dignity. in God's eyes because we're made by him. We are we are a creation of God, made in his image. But he also sees our value as sinners As corrupt, rebellious, God-hating, selfish sinners. So we have a low view of self. Now that's not the human impulse to have a high view of self and a low view of others. But not for those who are justified. Number two, we give a hundred percent credit to God. For our salvation. A hundred percent credit. And our language should be saturated with this idea We did not decide to have faith in Christ because we were smart where others were foolish. We were not more powerful where others were weak. We were not stronger. Wiser, or better, and therefore we came to Christ and were saved. We were nothing, we were undeserving Sinners who God in infinite sovereign mercy saved us. He intervened in our lives. He brought us the gospel. He changed our hearts. We give 100% credit to God for our salvation. It's not 99. 9 credit to God and then point one for me because I'm the one who made that leap. Never in a million years. Obviously that can't be true because the of the sin nature, the sinner's heart does not want God. The heart has to be restored. By the Spirit to desire the things of the Spirit. Number three, so loathe yourself. 100% credit we give to God. And number three, we have a gracious eye toward others. We have a gracious eye toward others. We've been gospel humbled, and we know that God is the source and the reason for any of these spiritual blessings that have come to us. And one of the ways that should manifest is a gracious eye toward others. How easy is that? Is that easy or difficult? Are you still growing in that? Let's be fighting that battle. Let's be on our knees praying that we grow in that. It is the uh culturally acceptable Norm to almost be vicious toward others these days. And to show grace would be a sign of weakness. Or lack of conviction. Well, we don't want to lack conviction. Um, but listen, we don't want to lack grace either And so we have a gracious eye toward others. And again, the context here is in the local church. There should be no kind of uh judgmental spirit. That doesn't mean anything goes But we should have a gracious eye toward others. Assume the best, not the worst. Those kinds of things. Alright, and then three, and I'll go I'll go quickly more quickly on Three points on love for holiness. Well, number one, it would entail an active pursuit of holiness. Does uh holiness just show up in your life? Randomly, without you thinking about it? Do you have to teach children to be selfish or do you have to teach children to share? Do you have to be taught? To be impatient, or do you have to be taught and disciplined to be patient? Right, so you have to pursue holiness. Romans 8:13. Put to death, therefore, the deeds of the flesh By the Spirit. So pursue holiness. Are you pursuing holiness? Are you praying for holiness? Are you striving for holiness? And listen in specific things. Not just in you you've got to get out of the realm of the theoretical, of the general principle, down to the nuts and bolts of your life and your sins Just like I need to get down to the nuts and bolts of my life and my sins and my weaknesses so that I might pursue holiness. Number two, pursue holiness and number two, despise sin. Despise sin. So we should be by prayer And the word cultivating holiness, and also by prayer and the word and the Spirit's power, putting to death sin. But if you're indifferent to sin, you won't care about putting it to death. If you're indifferent to it, then you don't despise it. If you don't despise it, you won't you won't Be bothered at your own sin, and if you're not bothered by it, why would you repent of it? So we pursue holiness, we despise sin. And number three, we cherish God's discipline. We cherish his commands. We cherish his commands because his commands reflect his character. His c his laws, his moral laws, his commands reflect his character, and we should cherish his discipline as he um Conforms us through trials and through sufferings. The fire of sanctification. We should cherish that. Painful at times, difficult, but he keeps us depending on him. That's what the part of what the difficulties are for. To keep us humble, to keep us low, to keep us on our knees, to keep us trusting in Him, not ourselves. It's a continual walk in grace Any thoughts on these two fruit of justification? They're not the only two, they're just the two that Paul talks about here. Humility and love for others. Questions on it or application, practical application. And all of Scripture is meant to proclaim Christ as Redeemer, and that is revealed progressively throughout Scripture. But all of Scripture is meant ultimately to put before us Christ, the Lamb of God, who takes away the sin of the world. In different aspects and different details and throughout history in different ways, right? Moving from seed form of promise through the history of Israel and then coming to fulfillment in Christ But it but it's always been about Christ. It's always been about the Redeemer. God this is God's eternal purpose. He's d he's not making this up as he goes along. And this is um this re this redemption that all of Scripture is about. Is simultaneously God's revelation of Himself. Now that's important. We don't talk about that too often, but the way God has chosen to reveal Himself is through redemption in Christ. And so as we see Christ as Redeemer, we are seeing the triune God, Father, Son, Holy Spirit. And so you think about the fulfillment of redemption in Christ. What happened? The Father sent the Son. It's a revelation of the Son, which is simultaneously a revelation of the Father, and Jesus taught a lot about his Father. And then the pouring out of the Spirit, the giving of the Spirit. So the fullness of redemption is also the fullness of God's self-revelation of of Himself as Father, Son, Spirit. So um This is a lot of syllables, okay? Trinitarian redemption. That's what the Bible is about, because it's about God redeeming sinners for his own glory. to put his own glories on display for all eternity and to be worshipped for it. But he's also re revealing himself and making himself known as he really is as Father, Son, Holy Spirit from all eternity. It's a wondrous thing. Anyway So the an it's I'm so long-winded, I apologize. But it's so important because what you're asking about basically is how do we grow spiritually? And what I'm saying is by faith in Christ, seeing him in the gospel. And that when we do that, we're seeing God Okay, let's push on. The fruit of justification. What he talks about here is humility and love for God's law. Now we're going to look at, and I'm not going to write this on the board because I just want to plow through here. Now we're moving on to the prime example of justification. The prime example of justification Paul now is going to give scriptural argument, scriptural basis for what he's teaching about justification for Christians. The prime example of justification, it's an important biblical character. The name starts with A. Any guesses? Abraham. Romans 4, verse 1. I'm still in 2 Corinthians. What then shall we say was gained by Abraham? Or in other words, what did Abraham learn about this? What then shall we say was gained by Abraham, our forefather, according to the flesh? That's a good question now, right? So he's asking, well, what did Abraham know about these things? What did he think about these things? For if Abraham is justified by works, he has something to boast about, which implies what? He was not Justified by works, and he has nothing to boast about. But not before God. And that's just hypothetical. If if he were justified by works, he would have something to boast about uh to you or to me, but still not before God. Uh verse three, what does the scripture say? What does the scripture say? And he answers the question. Abraham believed God and it was counted to him as righteousness. Abraham believed God, Genesis 15 6, he's quoting here. Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness, credited to his account, imputed is what you'll hear. Uh in a sermon about this, or if you're reading about this, imputed. It was it was accredited to him. What was? His b his believing God. Abraham believed God, and it was counted to him as righteousness. Verse 4. Now to the one who works, his wages are not counted as a gift, but as his due. To the one who does not work, but believes in him who justifies the ungodly, justifies the ungodly. His faith is counted as righteousness One of the prerequisites to uh to experiencing this joy of forgiveness in Christ is admitting that you are ungodly. Knowing that you're ungodly, and being grieved in your heart at your sin and ungodliness, aka repentance. That's repentance. Sometimes we when we think of repentance, we go first to the outward works of repentance. I stopped doing this, I stopped doing that. That's the fruit of repentance. What did John the Baptist say? Bear fruit in keeping with repentance. So there's the fruit of repentance that you see on the outside, but repentance itself is a change of mind and it's just grieving in the heart. Anyway, th We must see that we're ungodly and flee to Christ to be forgiven of our sins. His faith is counted as righteous end of verse 5, into verse 6 Just as David also speaks of the blessing, see this uh pastor, we didn't uh come up with this practice of using cross references. But he's now bringing in another scriptural reference, another cross reference to prove his point. He already talked about Abraham. Abraham lived and experienced and received and believed justification by faith, just as David also speaks the blessing of the one to whom God counts righteous Counts righteousness apart from works. There it is again. David David also speaks about justification by faith. He also speaks about the one to whom God counts righteousness apart from works. Verse 7 Blessed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven, whose sins are covered. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin. Blessed indeed. Blessed indeed are those whose lawless deeds are forgiven. Blessed indeed are those whose sins are covered. forgiven, based on the blood of Christ, clothed in the righteousness of Christ, and blessed is the man against whom the Lord will not count his sin. Because for those who believed, where has their sin been counted, or against whom has their sin been counted? Christ on the cross. Okay? Verse 9. Is this blessing then only for the circumcised, only for ethnic Jews, or also for the uncircumcised? For we say that faith was counted to Abraham as righteousness. How then was it counted to him? Now this is an interesting question. He's asking, in what way was it counted to him? In what manner was it counted to him? How did he receive it? Now he has an even more specific question here, and it's related to circumcision, which was the outward sign of the covenant. Okay? Was it before or after he had been circumcised? So pretty simple question. Pretty simple question. Was it before he received the outward sign of the covenant circumcision? Or was it after he received the outward sign of the covenant circumcision? In other words, was the blessing contingent upon the outward sign? That's the question. He received the sign of circumcision as a seal of the righteousness that he had by faith while he was still uncircumcised. Right? Is that clear? I don't think I can make that any clearer. He believed in bul uh Abraham believed in uh believers circumcision Okay? You're a believer. This is this is the model. This is the paradigm. This is the ideal. He was a believer Abraham was, he was a believer, and then he was circumcised. So in the fulfillment of these covenant promises We are heirs of Abraham, we practice believers baptism. We're believers, this is the paradigm, this is the model, this is the ideal. We're believers, and then we receive baptism as an outward sign of the covenant. And then we celebrate Lord's Supper as an outward sign of the covenant. The purpose, middle of verse 11. The purpose was to make him the father of all who believe. That would be a good name for a sermon. The father of all who believe. Without being circumcised, so that righteousness would be counted to them as well, and to make him the father of the circumcised. Who are not merely circumcised. Okay , don't miss that. Not merely circumcised, but who also walk in the footsteps of the faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. Obviously, if you read any of the Old Testament and the history of Israel, you you know there were countless Israelites who would have been uh circumcised, but did not walk in the footsteps of the faith of their father Abraham. But uh again he says there at the very end of twelve The faith that our father Abraham had before he was circumcised. Before he was circumcised. And so again, he's putting on equal ground. The way to God. Equal ground. He's putting on equal ground, Jew and Gentile. What they need to be right with God. What they need to do to be right with God. Trust in Christ. Christ is all you need. Christ is all we need. Highlight a few things. He's already said, he's already contrasted the grace principle. The faith principle with the works principle. He's pointed out that this is for the ungodly Includes forgiveness of sin. He's pointed that out. He's pointed out that this is for all people everywhere, being justified by faith in Christ. He's pointed out that the blessing comes before the outward sign. In fact, the outward sign is just going to be a s a symbol, a visible symbol of that invisible reality that you've come to share in your heart. And the fulfillment, it's the fulfillment of God's promise of grace. And that picks up in verse 13. Verse thirteen for the promise to Abraham and his offspring That he would be heir of the world did not come through the law, but through the righteousness of faith. The promise that came to Abraham came to him through the righteousness of faith. What is the righteousness of faith? It's the righteousness that is counted to him. By his by faith. Verse 14, for if it is the adherents of the law who are to be the heirs, faith is null and the promise is void, which means faith is irrelevant. uh those who keep the law, faith is null and the promise is void, for the law brings wrath. But where there is no law, there is no transgression. In other words, if there's not a law, you can't break the law. But the law brings wrath. The law brings condemnation. The law cannot justify. The law can only condemn sinners. We need the gospel. We need Christ to justify us. And verse 16, that's exactly what he says. That is why it depends on faith. But this is why it depends on faith, because the law brings wrath. The law brings condemnation. That's why it depends on faith. In order that the promise may rest on grace, the promise may rest on grace and be guaranteed to all his offspring, not only to the adherent of the law, but also to the one who shares the faith of Abraham, who is father of us all. He's father of us all, of all believers. As it is written, I have made you the father of many nations, in the presence of the God in whom he believed, who gives life to the dead, calls into existence things that do not exist. In hope, he, Abraham, believed against hope. In other words, when everything in the world would say there's no hope here and even everything in his own flesh would say there's no hope here. He believed against hope. He believed. He believed in the promise of God that he should become the father of many nations as he has been told, so shall your offspring be. He did not weaken in faith when he considered his own body, which was as good as dead, since he was about a hundred years old, or when he considered the barrenness of Sarah's womb. No unbelief made him waver concerning the promise of God, concerning the promise of God. But he grew strong in his faith as he gave glory to God, fully convinced that God was able to do what he had promised. That is why faith was counted to him as righteousness. But the words, it was counted to him, were not written for his own sake alone, for his sake alone, but for ours also. Think about what he's saying. It was counted to him. Was not written just for him. It was written for us. It will be counted to us who believe in him who raised from the dead, Jesus our Lord, who is delivered up for our trespasses. and raised for our justification. It could not be clearer. Being saved by faith alone Being justified by faith in Christ alone is not only one of the clearest teachings in the Bible, it's one of the clearest Um most well articulated things in any book on any topic We're saved by grace through faith in Christ alone, not by works, not by outward signs. Um not that works are bad. We're not saying works are bad. We're not saying you don't need to worry about works, which is Paul was accused of saying that too. And we're not saying that uh for instance baptism is unimportant or Lord's Supper is unimportant or circumcision is unimportant. They're important. They don't help save you. They don't j help justify you before God. But it it couldn't be clearer. I want to say one more thing. This would be quick, although this is uh a lot could be said here. Verse 25, Jesus was delivered up for our trespasses and raised for our justification. Delivered up for our trespasses. We've already talked about that a bunch. Uh his uh sacrificial death on the cross, bearing our sin, bearing our guilt. the the uh atoning sacrifice that he made there that's the ground of our justification. And then he says this, raised for our justification. So now when we preach the gospel, it's the uh the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. And so here he's bringing the resurrection into view. He was delivered up for our trespasses. crucifixion and he was raised for our justification. What does that mean? Well Think about this. If he dies on a cross, and then he's buried, he's laid in the tomb, and the stones rolled there, and he remains there. And he doesn't come back to life, and he doesn't ascend into heaven. If that doesn't happen, how in the world can he pour the Spirit into your heart? How can he share with you something that he himself does not have? The resurrection glory, namely. Resur resurrection glory, the spirit of new creation. So he's raised for our justification, in that he's raised from the dead, and he ascends on high, and from there he justifies us before God. It's a work that he does. from heaven. He becomes the living source of eternal life. And one of the blessings of that is justification. He is uh Paul says in 1 Corinthians 15 , life-giving spirit. That's because he is alive. He is the possessor of resurrection glory. And one of my professors used to say he's the conveyor of resurrection glory. He's the fountain source of resurrection glory. He's the one who justifies us before the Father based on his crucifixion, but as the risen Lord. So we serve a risen Savior. We serve a risen Savior who's alive and active from heaven, but on earth. Let's pray. Father