The title of the sermon is Kingdom Matters. Kingdom Matters. And it comes from Acts 1, 1 through 11. I'm going to read again verse 3. And verse 6, where the idea of the kingdom comes out, and you'll see that Jesus is teaching about the kingdom. And the apostles are wondering about the restoration of the kingdom. So, verse three in Acts chapter one, he He presented himself alive to them after his suffering. Now his suffering is just a summary way to talk about um his arrest, his being beaten and tortured, and all the way up through his death on the cross. That's his suffering, the suffering that is in the place of his people to atone for our sins. So he presented himself alive to them After his suffering, so obviously it's implied the resurrection, so the risen Christ is there by many proofs. You remember that includes at the end of Luke. He ate with them, he drank with them, he presented his body to them, they could touch it, and and he proved to them that he had risen from the dead in Glory, supernatural glory. He was not just a phantom or some sort of apparition to them. It was a real Body, not like our bodies of this fallen order, but it was a body of resurrection glory. He proved that to them in their presence. Now, that's the context. He presented himself alive to them after his suffering by many proofs, appearing to them forty days and speaking about what The kingdom of God. So Jesus during his life taught The good news of the kingdom. And he preached the good news of the kingdom. And then he suffers and dies for the sin of his people. And then he's risen in glory. And then he goes right back to teaching about the kingdom. And then also look at verse 6. So when they had come together, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom? To Israel. And when they say at this time, the time they're referring to is um when they will be baptized by the Holy Spirit. We'll get to that later. But in verse 5. Jesus says you'll be baptized with the Holy Spirit, not many days from now. In fact, that's going to be ten days. So their first question is, oh, okay. So will that be the time when you restore the kingdom to Israel? We'll get to that later, the details of what that means and what they what they're asking and how Jesus responds. But for now, just see that Jesus is teaching them out the kingdom. And the disciples are wondering about the restoration of the kingdom. The kingdom of God is the central concern in the book of Acts. It's the central concern in one sense of the whole Bible. Um why Jesus came, what he did, and how we understood understand ourselves as his people, how we understand ourselves as his church. Let me just give you some cross-references Um to show you just a l how big of a deal the kingdom is. Acts 28, 3. This is how the um The book of Acts ends. I have that typed out incorrectly. It should not be verse 3. It should be 31. Acts 28, 31 is talking about Paul. He uh is proclaiming the kingdom of God and teaching about the Lord Jesus Christ with all boldness. And without hindrance. So the book of Acts begins with Jesus teaching about the kingdom. Then you have the the growth and spread and ministry of the church. And then the book of Acts ends with Paul, the Apostle Paul, teaching About the kingdom. Luke 1, 32 and 33. Here now is the angel speaking to Mary. And the angel says, He will be great. And he will be called son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give to him the throne of his father David. And he will reign over the house of Jacob forever, and his kingdom will have no end. It's the angel talking to Mary about Jesus. Luke 4, 43. He said to them, I must preach the good news of the kingdom to the other towns as well, for I was sent for this purpose. That's Jesus describing the purpose of his own ministry. to go all around and preach the good news of the kingdom. And finally, one more from John 3. 3 Jesus answered him. Jesus was talking to Nicodemus. Truly, truly I say to you, unless one is born again, he cannot see The kingdom of God. Cannot see. You won't be able to experience it. You won't be able to recognize it unless you're born again. Kingdom matters. I'm using this idea of kingdom matters in two ways. Okay? One way is the idea that God's kingdom is what matters most. God's kingdom is what matters most. The other way I'm using this idea of kingdom matters is this What is it that matters most within God's kingdom? So God's kingdom just as a whole, it is what matters most. And then what matters most Within God's kingdom. What are the characteristics of God's kingdom? Put it another way, just as another question. If we are going to be kingdom people What should matter most to us? And in a general sense, let me offer you an encouragement this morning. That which matters most to God should matter most to us. That which matters most to God should matter most. to us. If you just go out in the world, watch the news, just anywhere out in the world, there's lots of different opinions on what matters most. And lots of different voices in your life Trying to convince you of what should matter most. Be encouraged this morning, church. That which matters most to God should matter most to us. Matthew six, thirty-one through thirty-three, Jesus says, Therefore do not be anxious Saying, What shall we eat, or what shall we drink, or what shall we wear? For the Gentiles seek after all these things. And your heavenly Father knows that you need them all But seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. Seek God's kingdom first, and God will take care of the rest. Why should we not be anxious about what we shall eat or what we shall drink or what shall we where? Why would we not be anxious about these things? Why would we seek God's righteousness first. Why would we seek God's kingdom first? Simple, I've already said it. Because that which matters most to God should matter most to us. So much of parenting is helping children understand what matters, what doesn't matter, what matters most Being selfish happens when things matter more to you than people. That's for children and that's for adults. Lying happens when? When the truth doesn't matter to you the way it should It's for children and for adults. Our priorities in life can get so Out of whack, they can get so out of order. It's a question of what matters most to us. And that's why this passage is so important. What are the central matters of the kingdom of God? Now, on your outline, points number one, two, and three we're going to take together. The kingdom of God, this is point one, two, and three, the kingdom of God is a matter of global Regional and local missions The kingdom of God is a matter of global, regional, and local missions. We're going to read verses 6 through 8. That's where this comes from. And before we read it, I want you to think of a few issues , and you'll see them come out of the text. One is the issue of when. It's the issue of time. When? And then there are two other issues. How? How is this going to happen? And what? What are we supposed to do about it? How do we get in on it? So now you'll see in the apostles' question they're concerned with when Jesus' answer is going to be concerned with How and what. So, verses 6 through 8. So when they had come together, they asked him, Lord, will you at this time restore the kingdom to Israel? What are they thinking about? When right now Jesus does not rebuke them, but he answers in his own Way. He said to them, It is not for you to know times or reasons that the Father has fixed by his own authority. He wants to change their focus, for lack of a better phrase. Don't be preoccupied with the when. It's not for you to know. But, verse 8, but How? How will God begin to restore the kingdom? You will receive power when the Holy Spirit has come upon you. Right? That's what they need to be occupied. Don't be preoccupied with the when, be occupied, faithfully occupied with the how. Going to receive power and the Holy Spirit has come upon you, and what will happen? What? You will be my witnesses in Jerusalem, for them that would have been what kind of missions? Local missions. And in all Judea and Samaria. For them that would have been the larger region, not too far, but the regional missions. And to the end of the earth, global missions. The kingdom of God is a matter of local And regional and global missions. You don't have to do all three, but you can do one of those. And you can be a faithful, active member serving in a church that's doing all three of those. So this is for everyone in one way or another. Now uh verse eight You want to study this in your own devotions. Verse 8 summarizes the entire book of Acts. And it also outlines the entire book of Acts. He says, You'll be my witnesses in Jerusalem. And then in Judea and Samaria, and then to the ends of the world. And the rest of the book just shows that happening. Chapters one through seven. There are his witnesses in Jerusalem, chapters eight through twelve, there's witnesses in all Judea and Samaria, and chapters thirteen through twenty-eight, the witnessing goes to the ends. of the earth. Now I have three subpoints here under global, regional, and local missions. Number one, this has to do with God's plan and promises to redeem Israel and to redeem the nations. God's plan God's promises, God's purposes were to redeem Israel. He had promised restoration to Israel. and to redeem the nations. He promised that he would bless the nations through whose offspring. Abraham's offspring. God's kingdom is going to be the fulfillment of those plans and purposes. Now This has already begun to happen, but it will not happen fully, finally, till the end. Christ returns. Jesus tells them how this restoration will happen. It will happen through Local, regional, and global witnessing for Christ. Now witnesses comes from Isaiah forty-three, primarily. Isaiah forty-three 5 through 7, in the context of God promising to restore his people. Fear not, for I am with you. And I will bring your offspring from the east and from the west. I will gather you. That's why so many of the parables, when Jesus talks about the kingdom and he talks about ministry, has to do with gathering. Right? I'll make you fishers of men. Right? And he talks about planting and sowing seeds and gathering the harvest. Pray to the Lord of harvest to send out workers. Um it comes from this these promises. Verse six in Isaiah forty-three I will say to the north Give up and to the south, do not withhold. Bring my sons from afar, and my daughters from the ends of the earth. Same phrase that's in Acts 1. Everyone who is called by my name, whom I created for my glory, whom I formed and I Made. It's just a great promise from God to his people through Isaiah that God is going to send out witnesses. And bring back his people from the north, south, east, and west. Second subpoint under this idea of local local, regional, and global missions is it this would be a quick point, but I think it's important to highlight that it matters Very little, perhaps not at all, if I want to seek God's kingdom first, but I don't know what his kingdom is. What is God's kingdom? So let me just give you a this is as short as I can make it. Of course there'll be other ways to express this, but I'll I like short definitions that are easy to remember What is God's kingdom? It is God's reign of redemption in Jesus Christ. Isn't that an easy definition It's an easy definition. What is God's kingdom? It's God's reign of redemption in Jesus Christ. As I said before, it's here in part Now it will not be here fully until the end. You could say it has been inaugurated by his first coming. It will be consummated at his second coming. And I can just give you an easy illustration. Hopefully this will be easy for you to remember of this, that the kingdom is here already, but it's not here fully yet. The way you can uh if you're in Christ, the way you can remember that, just conceptualize that, is think about yourself. The inner man has already been risen and united to Christ. The kingdom is in you already But not yet in the outer man. That's why Paul will say that outwardly we are wasting away. Inwardly we are being renewed day by day. The kingdom is here already, but not fully yet. And the final subpoint here under global, regional, and local missions is that the apostles are representative leaders. So, this idea of being witnesses applied to them uniquely, but not exclusively, they're representative. Representative leaders of the church. Now that is a very important point of interpretation. Because if you think this is only for the apostles , You have no call upon your life. We have no call upon our lives for local, regional, global missions. So it's given to them uniquely, but not exclusively. It would almost be like captains of a football team or something. The coach gives them the charge. It's given to them uniquely As captains, but what's their duty? He gives to tell the rest of the team, get the rest of the team in line It's the same kind of thing. If we want to have kingdom hearts, if we want to have a kingdom focus, if we want to live kingdom lives We want to seek kingdom matters and seek the kingdom first. We must have strong devotion to global, regional, and local missions We will not, we should not be preoccupied with the times and dates with the when, but we must be passionately, fervently, and faithfully occupied with the how Holy Spirit's power. And the what? Witnessing. Which we now go to. Number four. Remember, I gave you one, two, and three altogether. So if you're Did you think that was the first point? Well that was a long point. We're gonna be here forever. No. That was three points in one. That's why it was a mega point. This is a great point. Very big, very important. Number four, you still with me, Church? The kingdom of God is a matter of witnessing for and about Christ. It's a matter of witnessing for and about Christ. And I said earlier that came from Isaiah. We're going to see the rest of that passage. We already saw how God is going to do this work of restoration, gathering his people from every direction. Verse 8, in Acts 1, you will receive power and the Holy Spirit comes upon you, and you will be my witnesses Okay now if if you have to see the connection there. If they don't get the power they need, they won't be able to do the witnessing they need to do. Same's true for us. We need the Holy Spirit. And I do want you to notice, and we'll return to this. He's not giving them a command. Now, there are other passages, and commands absolutely are part of the Great Commission. But he's Jesus right here is stating what will happen. And you have to just picture yourself picture God declaring what will happen. You will be my witnesses. The power of God's declaration of reality. Let there be light. There was light. Now, in the general sense, to be a witness means this: they're going to testify to the truth. Now they were our witnesses. We are not eyewitnesses, we are faith witnesses, but the role is still the same. The witnessing court takes the stand, and his job is to testify to what's true, at least in his own eyes. And he's authorized to do so. That's the other aspect. You're testifying to the truth, but you're authorized to do so. Isaiah 43 Verse ten You are my witnesses, declares the Lord, and my servant whom I have chosen, that you may know and believe me and understand that I am He. Before me no God was formed, nor shall there be any after me. I, I am the Lord, and besides me there is no Savior. I declared and saved and proclaimed when there was no strange God among you, and you are my witnesses, declares the Lord. And I am God. Now he'll go on. This is a huge portion of Isaiah. This is in the same context. It comes right after The other passage about God gathering his people from north, south, east, and west, bring his sons, bring his daughters from afar. Then he goes down to this is how he's going to do it. He's going to send his witnesses. And how this is being fulfilled in the Apostles, through the Apostles, and then ongoing through the church. Now you don't have to write these down, but real quickly I'm going to run through just The five purposes of being a witness, number one, it expresses loyalty to God. So if you want to express your loyalty to God, be a witness. for and about Jesus Christ. Number two, it proclaims the truth of God. If if you want to proclaim the truth of God in in the midst of a culture of lies Witness to Jesus Christ. Number three, it spreads the worship of God. If you want to have a part in The worship of God spreading locally, regionally, globally, be a witness for and about Jesus Christ. Number four, it displays the mercy and power of God because it's through witnessing to Christ, it's through the preaching of the gospel that God changes hearts and reconciles sinners to himself. Faith cometh by hearing, hearing through the Word of Christ. Expresses loyalty, it proclaims truth, it spreads the worship, displays God's mercy and power. And number five, and this is actually the main point in terms of the Old Testament prophecy and then the fulfillment in Acts. It brings about the purposes of God. At this time, will you restore the kingdom? Don't we be worried about the when, be worried about the how. You'll receive power. And you be my witnesses. This is a mechanism for God bringing about his purposes. And their charge, here's another encouragement. The Apostles charge back then, and our charge in 2018 In Maryland is the same to witness for and about Jesus Christ. What I want to do is focus on this word for. We witness for him. That means we are witnessing For his name and reputation, not for our own. We represent we we are um witnessing for him to receive glory Not for us to receive glory. We're witnessing for his purposes, not our own selfish Purposes. This is the motivation. If you're taking notes, you can just write down motivation. This is the motivation of our witnessing. It's not for ourselves, it's for Him. Now we also will be motivated by a desire for the lost to be saved. If we're God's people, the desire of our hearts is for sinners to be reconciled to God through Jesus Christ. But ultimately, it's for Jesus Christ to be glorified, to be worshipped, to be known. This is the four of witnessing. This is the motivation. But we witness for him. We witness about him. You might think Duh, obviously we witness about him, but do not take this for granted that the sum and substance and the content of our message must always be focused on Jesus Christ. We're not messengers simply of morals. Are morals going to be a teaching from the Bible and in our churches? Of course. But if you if you take morals And you just sever them from Christ and his work. That's not Christianity. That's moralism. That may be self-effort to try and twist God's arm to love you if you could just be good enough. But that's not the gospel. The sum and substance of our witnessing is Jesus, who He is and will ever be what he did in the past, what he's doing in the present, what he'll do in the future You can witness about his love. You can witness about his kindness. You can start a Bible study reading one of the gospel narratives and look at the miracles and witness about his power and authority. His compassion. You can witness about his divine nature, how he is God. You can witness about his human nature, how he is truly man. You can witness about his obedient sonship to the Father. You can witness about his unstoppable kingship over all things. You can witness about his gentleness as our brother You could witness about his sufficiency as our Savior. We must be motivated to witness for him And we must have the prompter proper content and substance to witness about him. That's why Bible studies are so important. That's why your personal devotions are so important. That's why staying plugged in at church, coming to Bible class, that's why it's so important. Because truth comes from here. It doesn't come from here. It doesn't come from here. It doesn't come from out there in the culture. Truth comes from the Word of God. We must be in the Word of God. We cannot pour something out that we've never been filled with. That 'd be a great prank to play on your family. Just start putting empty pitchers in the refrigerator. And um what's this empty pitcher doing here? Is there nothing coming out of it? Well of course there's nothing coming out of it because there's nothing was put into it It's funny. You can laugh. You're not the laugh in church. Well that's how silly it would be if we would say we desire to be witnesses for and about Christ, and yet we're n we don't have a steady diet of the word in our lives. It's just as funny , ironic, sad, however you want to say it. So a little plug for personal devotions and Bible study and being here with the body The kingdom of God is a matter of witnessing for and about Christ. And I'm going to witness for and about him in our midst this morning. Still with me, church? His name is Jesus. Matthew 1 21, the angel said to Joseph, and you will name him Jesus. For he shall save his people from their sins. His name means the Lord saves. He is the Lord And he saves. He's the Lord, but he's also a man, because that passage is talking about a human baby. He's the Lord who is a man. Comes as a man, and he saves his people from their sins. Who are his people? All who repent and believe in him All who repent and believe in him will have a share, will have an inheritance in his kingdom. John 1, 12 and 13. But to all who did receive him , Who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God, born of God. Would you receive him? Would you believe in him? That means will your heart trust in him alone to be saved from your sin. You will be his. Acts sixteen, thirty-one Believe in the Lord Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. John 11, 25, Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. Whoever believes in me, though he die, yet he shall live. What does save mean, Matthew 1. 21? It's so interesting. The angel does not just say he will forgive his people of their sins. So he will save their people from their sins. Now, forgiveness is a part of salvation. But salvation is bigger, it's uh broader than Forgiveness. Imagine this. Imagine if what God did for you, for us, was He just took away our sins. That's it. Anyway, he just took away our sins. Now, guess what you have? You have a blank slate You have a blank slate. You don't have the Holy Spirit. You don't have the righteousness of Christ given to you. And you can stand in judgment and have the righteousness of Christ. All she does is take away your sins. Now you have a blank slate. Now you can go out again with a clean slate. It's a fresh start in every way. You're 100% innocent. You haven't committed one sin. You have a blank slate. Now go out and obey God. Now try to obey God's law. You're no better. So forgiveness is important, but forgiveness has to be kept in the context of something bigger: salvation. Being united to God through Jesus Christ. We can talk about that forever. I mean, this is all of Christianity, but but um let me just give you some illustrations and then I'll summarize what it means to be saved. If you're not saved today, I want you to know, I'm not going to rush through this. It's not terribly long, but I want you to hear this. I want you to hear somebody witnessing for and about Christ this morning before you go. And by the way, church, this is how we can be edified and built up and grow in our own evangelism and be sanctified. So this applies for everyone. Let me just give you some illustrations. Getting to Rest a little bit and have some downtime is a benefit. But the vacation as a whole is the central gift. Right, having your bills paid and getting out of debt may be a benefit, but the million dollars that some Friend gave you is the central gift. So there's an eye there's a difference between the central gift and just benefits that come from that gift. Children Uh for a birthday, um, have lots of fun, lots of enjoyment. That's a benefit, but the central gift for children would be toys. Maybe for men you're thinking out there, power tools. I'm not sure what it is for you. But there's essential gift and there's different benefits. Now, forgiveness is a benefit of salvation. But God Himself is the gift. You see, when you come to Christ, that's what you get. You get the greatest thing that could possibly be. You get God, you're reconciled to God. You have communion with God forever. That's salvation. Part of that is being forgiven of sin. John 1 29 John the Baptist preaching, behold the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. Now, real quickly, Lamb should make you think of a sacrifice. Okay, something that is sacrificed. He's the Lamb of God. Jesus is a sacrifice offered. To God, and it's a sacrifice offered by God He is a worthy sacrifice, and it will be accepted by God. He 's the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He takes away sin. Now, take notes on this, if you please. He takes away the guilt of your sin. He'll take away I can think back as you think back in your own life, the sin in your life. That God would freely, gladly forgive, take away the guilt of all that sin. He didn't have to twist his arm to do it. He already did it. Um he already sent Christ. He didn't call committee meetings, you know, and at the end he was outroted, so he begrudgingly, Alright, I'll send Jesus. No, he decided to. This is love. Not that we love God, but that he loved us and sent his son to be an atoning sacrifice for our sin. He takes away the guilt of sin. Number two, he takes away the blinding and binding power of sin. He takes away sin 's rule and reign over your life. So as Christians, when we're united to Christ, do we still sin? Yes. Here's the difference: we're not slaves to sin. We're not blinded by sin. We don't love sin and pursue it. We love God and pursue Him. He takes away the guilt of sin. He takes away the blinding and binding power of sin. Number three, he takes away the eternal consequences of sin. He takes away the eternal consequences of sin. I said earlier that the gift of salvation, the central gift, is God Himself. Well, the wages or the eternal consequences of not having salvation is the opposite of that. It's just It 's not having God. It's not having communion with God. It's being separated from God. Utter darkness. Torment. That's what it's like to not have God and to be under his judgment. And Jesus says this over and over and over again in the Gospel of Matthew. In that place there w there will be weeping and gnashing of teeth just as a way to summarize the torment of not having God forever There's a threefold problem that requires a threefold solution. He erases sin 's guilt. That means he will justify you. If you want to have sin's guilt gone, believe in Jesus Christ. Would you believe in him this morning? He eradicates sin 's rule. Do you want to have sins rule eradicated in your life? Believe in Jesus Christ. Receive Him. He eliminates sins wages. Do you want to have the wages of sin, the eternal consequences of sin? Do you want to have that eliminated from your future? Believe in Jesus Christ and receive Him. He says you'll be my witnesses. He's not giving a command. He's stating what will happen. Let me give you points five and six quickly and together. Points five. The kingdom of God is a matter of the Holy Spirit's power. Verses 1 and 2, verses 4 and 8. We must be utterly dependent on God's power in the Spirit. Point 6. The kingdom of God is a matter of working and waiting. The time, the exact time, is not important, but knowing that there will be a time when he comes back and fully restores the kingdom is utterly important. So we work with a goal in mind, waiting for the return of our King. Paul writes in 2 Corinthians 6, 2, Today is the day of salvation. If you've not tasted that salvation, I would invite you to To do so this morning. Believe in Jesus Christ. Receive Jesus Christ. And by virtue of his death and resurrection, to take away your sin, he'll save you. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for Jesus. I've been praying and others have been praying in these moments, and I continue to pray now. Someone is here and is alienated from you, outside of Christ. Would you save them through the gospel? Would you save them through the Holy Spirit? That the Holy Spirit would empower them and encourage them to believe. And receive him to repent of the old self. It's in Jesus' name I pray. Amen.