All right, all right. Becky and the crew Welcome. We've been doing a mini-series on prayer. First we did learning to pray, and then we did living in prayer. Prayer as a Normal part of everyday life, and today we're talking about lasting prayer. The first passage we'll be in is James 5. How's everyone doing? Very well? Got a thumbs up? Got some nods? Lasting prayer. First passage five First passage, James 5. And we're not talking about the length of an individual prayer. We're talking about building a prayer life that will be lasting in your life. And growing in a prayer life is just like every other area of spiritual growth. It is not straight line upward like this. There's going to be bumps in the road. There'll be highs, lows, you'll be in season, out of season, so to speak. You'll stumble, fall backward, and uh but over the long haul You can you can have a growing lasting prayer life, a prayer life that lasts. And that's what that's where we want to be. That's What we're talking about tonight. Striving toward a lasting prayer life. Okay, let's begin with the prayer. Father, we enter into your presence by faith, by faith in Christ, as those We've been recipients of your Holy Spirit. We worship you. We ask that you would teach us tonight by your word, encourage us. And either create within us or cultivate within us a deeper longing for prayer, a desire to pray. We would not give up on it. And when things get tough, we would see that as one more opportunity to be strengthened and to lean on you, deepen our relationship with you. Father, in trials, I pray we would go to you for support. In things we celebrate. And things that bring us joy, I pray we would go to you in thanksgiving and deep gratitude. Times of difficulty and Shame, I pray we would go to you for grace and for mercy. On and on and on, I pray we would be a people who go to you. In Christ. And it's in his name we lift this prayer to you. Amen. Okay. So lasting prayer, we're talking about building a healthy, lasting, and fruitful. prayer life. Healthy, which means it would be a prayer life in line with the teachings of Scripture, not um an idea of prayer that we make up on our own. according to principles of the world or personal opinions or worldly desires, earthly treasures, but a healthy prayer life. Bible-based, spirit-filled prayer life, a lasting prayer life, and a fruitful prayer life. One that Yields spiritual fruit, seeing God work in our hearts and work in our lives, work in our words and the way we speak. As an answer to prayer and seeing God work through our prayers and the His providences. So building a healthy, biblically healthy, spiritually healthy, and lasting And fruitful. Another way to say that would be effective prayer life. Prayer thrives and bears fruit. In the context of a life given to and lived for Jesus as Lord and Savior And so the overarching point if you just want to think about it on a conceptual level, the overarching point today is not just uh a prayer life that lasts, although that's I do want that to be the emphasis for practical application. But on a conceptual level, I would want us to think of prayer life or prayer as One component of a spiritual life. It has to be that way, or else it will not grow, it will not thrive, it will not bear fruit, it will not last. Building a prayer life must be connected to and in the context of a spiritual walk, the the life of a disciple And we'll get there at the end of this class principles, principles of prayer, principles for prayer, supplemental principles, and maybe the main one is A steady diet of Scripture, a steady diet of reading and learning and hearing and meditating on Scripture, absolutely necessary. To build a fruitful and thriving and lasting prayer life. So prayer, trying to cultivate a heart for prayer in isolation from living for Christ. is futile. So that does that make sense? Just the the a lasting prayer life is what we want, but The main principle that I'm saying for that to take place is we have to see prayer as just one component in a larger spiritual walk. Okay, James 5, 13. And we will read down through 18, and of course, yes, I will be making some comments on it. Is anyone among you suffering? Let him pray. Pop quiz. What should you what should you you do if someone is suffering? What should the suffering person do Pray, among other things, right? Not only pray, but we should pray in our suffering. It's not the time that's A strong temptation to give up on prayer and to spiral inwardly into despair and become absorbed and self-absorbed with the suffering. Try to get other people to join in that with us. No, if you're suffering, pray. Is anyone cheerful? Let him sing praise. Is anyone among you sick? Let him call for the elders of the church and let them pray Over him, anointing him with oil in the name of the Lord. And the prayer of faith will save the one who is sick, and the Lord will raise him up. And if he has committed sins, he will be forgiven. Therefore, therefore, confess your sins to one another and Once again, pray. Pray for one another that you may be healed. The prayer of a righteous person has great power as it is working. The prayer of a righteous person or a righteous man availeth much. God works in and through prayer. That's a biblical truth, and that's the basis of why we believe in prayer, and that's the reason we pray. Because God works through it. Elijah, verse 17, was a m was a man with a nature like ours, and he prayed fervently that it might not rain. And for three years and six months it did not rain on the earth. Then he prayed again, and heaven gave rain, and the earth bore its fruit The reason I read this passage, there's a many different topics in here, but just to see how prayer is woven in and out of all these other aspects of life. Whether it's suffering, whether it's uh being cheerful or joyful, whether it's being sick, whether it has to do with sin and forgiveness and repentance, it it even brings in the body life of the church and the leadership of the church. into view. And then he gives a principle here. The prayer of the righteous has great power. The prayer of the righteous is effective. Christians, we are righteous not by our own righteousness, but we're righteous by By faith. We're righteous by faith. And then as we are sanctified and transformed to the likeness of Christ, there is a righteousness in our lives, imperfect, and it's it's um from the Holy Spirit only working in us. But primarily to call us righteous would would mean that we're those who are justified in Christ. We've been made righteous in God's eyes by faith. It's that person, it's that person whose prayer is effective. And so the first step The first step to an effective prayer life is you must be born again. Make sure you are right with the Lord. Looking in this room, it seems as if all of you, or almost all of you, are. Uh but I don't know who's watching online, but we need to know this principle, embrace this principle as we come to God as his children, as those who have been reconciled to him through Christ, as those who are righteous in his eyes, by his mercy. By virtue of the death and resurrection of Christ. So we have to have a relationship with God in Christ. To have an effective prayer life. And then the effectiveness and the fruitfulness of that prayer life will be connected to How we are progressing in that relationship. It's not salvation by works, okay? It's not salvation by works. Anytime we connect the fruitfulness or effectiveness of anything spiritual, for example, here, prayer with the uh the nature of our spiritual walk and the progress in our spiritual walk. You always run the risk of being misinterpreted as saying as uh as being misinterpreted as saying that uh God will work in our lives based on our works or based on how well we're doing. That's not what we're saying. God works in our lives based on his purpose, based on his power, based on his mercy, and based on his grace. And on and on and on. But we are not passive subjects. God is working in us and through us, and we are his instruments as he's doing these things. And so First key to lasting prayer, make sure you're right with the Lord and make sure you are walking in the grace of the Lord, walking faithfully as a disciple. And uh prayers connected to all these other things. I'll give you some cross-references here. Proverbs 15, 8. The sacrifice Of the wicked is an abomination to the Lord. But the prayer of the upright is acceptable to him. Now that's in Proverbs that one story, one popular story should come to mind would be Cain and Abel. They both offered sacrifices. One was accepted, one was not. The one that was accepted was accepted because uh it was offered in faith. In faith. But the prayer of the upright is acceptable to God. So for a practical example, living in for a professing believer, living in habitual Unrepentant sin hasn't been the church in ages, or maybe months. I mean ages is relative, right? How long do you have to be in unrepentant, habitual sin, uh not caring about it and forsake the assembly before it becomes an issue? Well, it's an issue immediately. Um The primary thing God wants that person to do is to repent and get right So the prayer of the upright is acceptable to him. Make sure you're right with the Lord. Proverbs 15, 29. The Lord is far from the wicked, but He hears the prayer of the righteous. He hears the prayer of the righteous. So we need to pray with confidence. Pray with confidence. That God hears us and that God receives our prayers and cares, and according to His will will answer them. We should be praying according to his will. you can think of the difference between going to God with a laundry list of earthly treasures that you want God to bless you with, which is That's not a that's not praying according to God's will. You can pray for things, but if that's your heart, if your heart the primary thing that you desire are worldly treasures And never praying for spiritual blessings, sanctification, the Holy Spirit, repentance, to be more loving, and on and on and on, you're outside the will of God in the prayer life. It's not just the activity, it's the life that it's connected to. Prayer life is one component, one aspect of discipleship. Psalm 143. And connected to that, a quick gauge of where you are in your walk with the Lord is your prayer life. You can look at your prayer life. You can look at other things too. But that's a quick gauge. Almost like you put the thing on the tire. And uh the the air gauge or the tire gauge, whatever it's called, I know it's a gauge, and you you get a quick read on the air the tire pressure, the air pressure. Well, looking at your prayer life will be a quick gauge to where you are in your walk with the Lord. Stagnant, apathetic, or on fire for the Lord? Psalm 145, 18 through 19, the Lord is near to all who call on him. To all who call on him in truth. To all who call on him in truth. He fulfills the desire of those who fear him He also hears their cry and saves them. So it's God answering the prayers of his people. And I love this phrase in here to all who call on him in truth. In truth. Bible, a Bible-based relationship with the Lord Biblically shaped prayers and desires and cries. So, key to a lasting prayer life You must be born again. You must be right with the Lord. Be his child through faith in Christ. Absolute must. And then you must be walking with the Lord. You must be walking with the Lord. In the Bible, there's no such thing as coming to faith in Christ and then not caring about the things of Christ for the rest of your life. That's not a biblical picture of salvation. So let's let's turn to the next three we're turning to. John fourteen, twelve through fourteen. John fourteen, twelve through fourteen For you, what are the most difficult obstacles in building a consistent lasting prayer life, and in cultivating a heart that always remembers to pray and wants to pray. Let's see if I can repeat that question because it was two of them and they were both long. For you, this is not hypothetical. I want you to answer, okay? What are the biggest obstacles for you? I'm not asking you to philosophize. on the world. What's hard for people? No, I'm asking, what are the biggest obstacles for you in building a consistent Lasting prayer life and in cultivating a heart that remembers to pray and that really, really wants to pray. Alright, go. Time. Okay? Anybody else time? Raise your hand or just say give a nod. Time. Finding the time, setting the time apart. How to pray in the will of God, yep. How to pray. Uh being unrushed mentally, yeah. Slowing down, slowing down, yeah. Tom, were you just waving at me or did you Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, making it a priority. And in the midst of a a very busy life or a hectic schedule and we have all these other imp important things, priorities, and it takes time even to think about that. So it's taking the time to think about what else? Yeah, but that is quite good. Yeah, this is this may be the all encompassing obstacle. It requires a change of mind. And I'll tack onto that, which requires Deep humility. Right? To to come to that place where, you know what? I need to change my mind on this. I need God to do that for me. And but I'm going to pursue this in faith and cry out to the Lord and wait on the Lord and take one step at a time, one day at a time, one prayer at a time. But it does require a change of mind. Which is part of repentance. It's it's an area of repentance. Um yeah. What else? Other obstacles U five were the only ones who had obstacles. Yeah. That was going to be mine. Okay. So kindred spirits, uh Miss Lorna. Finding a quiet place with no distractions. Yes. That that's not as important for everybody for me that's very important. Lauren is saying this is uh this is for her too. I'm very easily distracted and um certain places I can be very focused. Other places I cannot. But, you know, it's a struggle for me because I I don't want to be a crybaby about it. You know, I know that God can provide and God can work and I can be in his presence here or there and And I don't want to be spoiled, but for me that is an obstacle that I need to deal with. Yeah, let's let's take two more. What are other obstacles Yeah, discouragement. Great answer. Yeah. Boy, I hadn't thought about that one, but that that applies to me. If I start getting discouraged And it can be a very slippery slope if I'm not careful. And those are the times I need to pray, but often I'm so discouraged. I don't. Yeah, that's great. Discouragement can be an obstacle. Absolutely. That's why we need to be an encouraging group of people to each other as brothers and sisters in the Lord. We should be encouragers. We should be encouragers. Alright, one more. Obstacles to building a prayer life Oh, oh, I see. When you guys are the end of the playout finding away , it's gonna have to play Yeah. So maybe impatience or yeah, things aren't working out. specifically in in regards to our prayers the way we want, yeah, and we can give up on that. That can be an obstacle, sure. Um I think lingering sin or hidden sin can be an obstacle. Maybe we don't even realize that, but We're uh we're almost frozen or stuck. We're caught in a snare, the snare of sin. And s and so it's not just a prayer life that's lacking, but some other things in our spiritual walk And so that's another obstacle. There are spiritual obstacles, there are mental or psychological obstacles, there are lifestyle obstacles with our schedule, with our priorities. And then I think um The secularism and materialism of the culture and of the world seeps into the way we think about things to where If if we're honest, at some level we don't really believe that prayer works. We know it's important and we know that it maybe or probably does something, but if you just look at where it is on the priority list Whether you're thinking about the individual or the church as a whole, I don't mean th you know, our church, I just mean the church as a whole, but you can think about our congregation. Um Do we really believe that prayer is, I mean, top two or three most productive uses of time possible That's a question to challenge ourselves on. Because biblically, absolutely, yes. It's the word of God and the prayer of God's people are primary. And so being mindful of obstacles can help you get started in a prayer life because you can pray in regards to those. God help me with this. You kn God, you know where I am on this. You know I don't feel like it, but Give me a heart that desires to pray. That's a legitimate prayer. Yeah. It's not the vision that you Yeah, yeah, and diff and different lot there's so many different religions and so many different variations and combinations of uh pagan religions and all kinds of religions and even versions, false versions of Christianity and subjective notions of what prayer is Pray to my ancestors, pray to saints, pray to Mary, pray to this, pray to No, what we're talking about is is talking to God, praying to God. Father, Son, Holy Spirit. Did I see movement over here? Jason, is that you? You're on the uh If you if if If uh you're online watching, what happens is if I see anyone move at all, I want I feel like yes, they want to say something. All right. Now that's definitely Oh yeah. Yeah. Independence. Independence was the uh was the answer there. That can be an obstacle connected to maybe Uh be the feeling of being self sufficient and you know , Yeah. Yeah, so even when it's not conscious. Um It's just a pattern, just a way of being independent. Another obstacle that comes to mind, maybe it's related to what you're saying, Pastor. Um Routine, just routine, going through the motions can be an obstacle if if it's just vain repetition. There's nothing wrong with the routine. In fact, and building a prayer life or routine can be a very positive and helpful thing. That's always helpful when you get to things that We seem to not make time for and if something gets cut off the list, this is usually the thing that gets cut off. Anything like that. giving a time and a routine to can be helpful. But there's always another extreme. You've got to find a balance of things become so routine and so rote and dry they're not genuine anymore. And so but just the fact of having a routine does not make uh does not make it um rote or vain. And maybe that's what you need. Alright, last one then we've gotta move on. It's like when you say, I I will pray for you. Pray for him right then. Yeah. You know, be spontaneous about it. Don't because you're a lot more Forget like me. Yeah, that's a good point. Spontaneity was uh offered as you know, one of the th one of the ways to address you know growing and overcoming some of these obstacles. Just say the prayer. When you think about it, just say it. Alright, are we ready for John fourteen, twelve through fourteen? John fourteen twelve through fourteen. And The focus is God faithfully answering prayers according to his will. God faithfully answering prayers according to his will. And the promise of scripture is He will, He will answer your prayers according to His will. And that should give us confidence It's not meant to confuse us. It's meant to give us confidence. It's meant to give us boldness. Truly, truly, I say to you, whoever believes in me, Will also do the works that I do, and greater works than these will he do, because I am going to the Father. Not more numerous works, although maybe that's an application, but greater works, works of a different kind, but he tells us exactly why that is, because he's going to the Father. So they will do greater works because they will be doing works as those filled with the Holy Spirit of Christ. who is exalted as king of heaven, because he says there, greater works than these he will do Because, because I'm going to the Father. So he's going to the Father. And that is the cause, that is the basis of the greater works that the church will do in his name. They're still the works of Christ. They're works of new creation. The works of new creation. Whatever you ask in my name, this I will do. That the Father may be glorified in the Son. If you ask anything in my name, I will do it. And we struggle to believe that and we want to immediately go to qualifications and we want to immediately go to what it doesn't mean and what it's not saying. And yes, if we had a sermon we would draw out those so that we were not confused. That's part of preaching, of course. But let's not overlook what this is saying. And this is meant to give us confidence and boldness. That we ask according to God's will, this is why we need to be grounded in Scripture. Or who knows what we'll be asking for And this is why we need to be walking in faith and growing in sanctification. Or who knows what motives. Well we do know what motives, sinful, selfish motives. But we need we want to have the right motives in our prayer. So all these other things, qualifying things. But we're asking in Jesus' name, and this is specifically regarding ministry. Admissions, maybe even to be more specific. But we're asking in Jesus' name, and he will do what we ask. And it gives us the reason, the reason that the Father may be glorified in the Son. Now that is the desire of desires in our hearts. That the Father would be glorified in the Son through his church. Through his church. Now there you go. We're taking a detour from our last days. But this is what the last days is about. Is the Father bringing glory to himself through his son and in his son In the church, which is the body of Christ. That burden, that longing, should fill our hearts And our prayers grow out of that, a desire to see the Father glorified in the Son, asking in Christ's name. We ask anything in his name, he will do. And he'll answer those prayers. He will answer those prayers. We don't go to him outlining the details and the PowerPoint presentation of how we want him and require him to answer the prayers. But he says he will answer those prayers. So we can't fill in all the details and all the mysteries of what we don't know, but we do know that the Bible is the Word of God, and and we do know that this is meant To give us confidence, to give us a grounding in prayer, what should be in our hearts. It's meant for us to believe that God will answer our prayers that are prayed properly. 1 John. 1 John 5, 13 to 15. Connect this series of passages. These are all related passages, but I want to connect it to Our main topic of building a prayer life that's lasting. First John five thirteen and fifteen. One of the keys that even look like a key? To lasting prayer is believing that God answers prayers. Believing that it's worth the time. And I'll just I've said this word already Confidence that he hears, that he cares, and that he will answer And no, he he won't answer all the time right away or the way that we want, but that's not what's on our heart is outlined It's not on our heart to outline things to God, do this, do this, do this, do this, do this. And I want it done by Thursday, 2 o'clock. I'll be checked back in then. That's not the heart of prayer. It's God glorify yourself. Through your son, through me, through your church, and everything else in prayer is filling out the details of that. But confidence. Con means with. Faith with faith. This comes from the Latin. It's just another word for pray with faith. Pray with faith. The prayer said in faith. We already saw that in James. First John five 13 through 15. Now I know I went over the board and talked about confidence, but I forget if I was explicit on the link to if if we don't have this, we'll not be able to build this. We've got to believe that God hears, cares, and will answer according to his purpose. Got to have confidence. Or the uh The candle for prayer will fade in our hearts. 1 John 5, 13 to 15. I write these things to you. Who believe in the name of the Son of God, that you may know that you have eternal life. A purpose statement for 1 John He wants you to know, he wants you to have assurance, and you can know, and you can have assurance that you have eternal life And how? How? Well, he said it right there in verse 13. You believe in the name of the Son of God. That's a summary way of talking about saving faith. Counterfeit faith or a superficial false faith doesn't save, but if you believe in Christ, you have eternal life. This is the free offer of the gospel. That we've received and that we are called to proclaim to all So, he wants us to know that we have eternal life. And this is the confidence, confidence that we have toward him. That if we ask anything according to his will, he hears us. So he goes right into the assurance of salvation for God's children who have faith in Christ. Right from there to the confidence because of that, because we're saved, that confidence that we now have toward him, whatever we ask, according to his will, according to his will, he hears us Not according to our own will, not according to the will of the world, the will of our family, the will of Satan, according to the will of God. Which strongly implies if you're going to have a true and lasting prayer life, you've got to know God's will. You've got to know God's will. He hears us. He hears us. And, verse 15, if we know, if we know that he hears us in whatever we ask, we know that we have the requests that we have asked of him. Well that is profound. God answer God answers prayers Again, it's uh I I always fall into the trap too, and I uh whenever I'm here I s I always tell myself, don't fall into the trap, don't just say what it doesn't mean, don't just say don't just give the qualifications, but um You've got to give the qualifications. Um He doesn't answer our prayers and doesn't grant us our requests when we want, the way we want. But he responds. He responds in his in his own way. God responds to our prayers. And again, if uh you know if if we have the right motive in our heart, we know the truth of God, we know the will of God, we understand God's purpose to bring glory to himself in Christ through his church and through us as his image bearers will will have the right kinds of requests and the right kinds of things. It won't just be a laundry list of subjective worldly desires and felt needs. Um all right. One more passage. No no no. Uh I do have one more one more verse. But any questions questions or related thoughts on this last point of confidence? I know that can be a struggle for some. No? Good? Okay. So let's go to one more verse. First Peter three seven. Taking a little bit of a Shift in the focus. But this uh 1 Peter 3. 7 does connect with this the first point I made that the prayer life is one component of a spiritual walk. And so if that spiritual walk as a whole is off course, the prayer life will be off course. And any effort to get the prayer life on course apart from the bigger issues of your walk will be will be futile So First Peter three seven is uh just gives one more example of how the life lived Does connect with the prayers prayed and how effective and fruitful they can be. Gives an example about husbands in their prayer life. Likewise, husbands, live with your wives in an understanding way, showing honor to the woman as the weaker vessel, since they are heirs with you of the grace of life. They're not inferior. They're not lesser heirs of the kingdom of heaven. But here he gives the reason why The husband should be a godly husband. That's my summary of what he's saying. Be a godly, gracious, compassionate husband. Serves your wife well, lead your wife well, so that your prayers may not be hindered. So that your prayers may not be hindered So you have the life, home discipleship, leadership in the home, loving your wife as Christ loved the church. Connected to prayers being hindered. And that could be, there's different ways of taking that. I'll let you choose. Not be hindered could mean that the husband is praying, but those God 's not answering those prayers The husband's outside the will of God, so the prayers are not effective. He's not walking with Christ. Or it could be that he's not even praying, it's just obstacles. He's he's not even praying because he's so far off of his discipleship path. He's not treating his wife right, and shocker, he's not praying It's and it's hindering it. So he needs to what does he need to do? He needs to repent. He needs to repent Alright. Ready for some diagrams? I haven't had them in a while. And I want to draw two diagrams up here to illustrate prayer as one component of spiritual walk. And a key oh I erased my key. One of the keys to a fruitful and lasting prayer life is ha well first of all, being saved. You've got to be a child of God. And then you've got to have confidence. But you also have to be walking with the Lord, abiding in Christ. And not caught in the snare of sin. Many examples we can give. Because ultimately that is the obstacle. That is the obstacle. We we want to see the big picture, not focused on just prayer by itself. Probably those watching and those here, all of us, if we can think back on our lives and we can think back for two years, ten years, twenty years When you can think back and just run through the years and think, man, I I've wanted to I've wanted to grow my prayer life for so long. But it's never taken off. And you think, why has it why has it not taken off? It's not like I haven't wanted that. It's not like I haven't prayed for that. Well, there's something else is off. Something else is off. And you're foc if you're focusing just on the prayer and wondering why that's not growing, there's a point of repentance or there's another point of growth. Maybe you've been slack in the word. Slack in body life of the church. And so there you go. You cannot isolate it or think that it will grow. Alright. So this first triangle is the person's growth. The uh talking about the Christian, so we'll put the Christian's growth. Christian Gross, this is The kingdom's growth, the kingdom of God. So the individual The kingdom, all of the individuals. And the three primary means of grace, the three primary Ways you'll grow is first of all the Word of God includes study. Um listening to preaching and teaching, just growing in the Word of God. The center of that will be the gospel, right? God's law, God's gospel, biblical wisdom. But the center is the gospel, the person and work of Christ, and then prayer, which is what we've been talking about, and then church. The fellowship of believers, congregational worship, serving in the church. And then at the middle of all of these The thing that makes Christian growth what it is, the power behind it all, is the living Christ who works in and through these things by his Holy Spirit. These are not things that get you saved. If you're interested in these things and growing in these things, you're already saved. By grace through faith. You've been born again. But now you're growing As a Christian, through the word and prayer and the church, by the Spirit, by the Holy Spirit, Jesus working in us, and there's a goal to all of this You could call it many things. I'm just going to put holiness. Holiness, you could call that godliness, Christlieness. Godly living. And did I say godliness? And fruitfulness. Fruitfulness. Bearing spiritual fruit. Those are connected. Those are connected. This is more on the the the ethical, moral side. Growing in holiness, and this would be more on the the nuts and bolts, interactive serving side. And that's how the Christian grows. And so one gauge One way to gauge and how other people can gauge your spiritual growth by looking at your life or by you looking at your life and taking inventory is do you care about these three Like how much do you care about these three things? How much do you want to grow in the Word and have a passion to grow in the Word, knowing that through that Jesus is going to conform you to his image and likeness? How much do you want to pray? How much do you long to pray? Knowing that that's part of growing in your relationship with the Lord and that's one way God will transform you to the likeness of Christ, to increase in holiness, to increase in fruitfulness. How much do you love the church? Do I mean the event on Sunday morning? No, I think you need to be devoted to the congregational worship. each Lord's day. But the church is the congregation. It's the people, the body of Christ. How much do you love the people and want to be with the people and want to serve the people and encourage the people and grow in relationships with the people? For the sake of God's glory through his son. So you can run that inventory Run yourself through that inventory. Oh, we have plenty of time. I thought it was like 753. It's 747. So now we'll look at the Growth of the kingdom. And it is quite intriguing. It would be the same paradigm. The way the kingdom of God grows and spreads is through the ministry of the word. Ministries of Prayer and the Fellowship and the Work of the Church. That's the book of Acts. It's God working through his word, working through the prayers of his people, working through his church, local congregations, and who's at the middle making all of this? Effective Jesus by the work of His Holy Spirit, the holiness or the purity of the church as a whole, and the fruitfulness and effectiveness of the church as a whole. In the world, so that others, and let's just say the impact this will have, so that others will also Be saved by grace. And now those others who used to be lost and alienated from God, now they're over here. And not only are they over here, but they're part of this. And now they're a part of God bringing glory to himself through saving others. And those others who get saved, now they're over here. And they're becoming more like Christ and serving in the kingdom for the growth of the kingdom, for the glory of God. And others are getting saved. Because we're saved by grace, individual salvation, but as we're saved by grace, we can put reconciled to God, right? That's my hyphenated way. I'm not going to write the whole world word reconciled. We're reconciled to God. As that happens, we're brought into a kingdom. Brought into God's kingdom And we should be concerned with seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, trusting that God will take care of everything else. And as we are seeking to grow as individuals, we're seeking The growth of the kingdom for the glory of God. This kingdom is not organized like it was under the old covenant. It was geographically centralized. Within one nation, Israel, but now that kingdom is um it's still geographic, but it's not centralized. It's It's global. It's universalized. I mean, it's still centralized in local churches, but those local churches are scattered all over many nations, not just within one nation. Those who worship worship the Father in spirit and in truth, no matter where they are. And that's what the kingdom looks like in these last days. This is the way in God's wisdom he's organized his people. He's organized his kingdom, and the way he advances his kingdom is through the local churches scattered all over the world. Everything that we're saying about a prayer life, we want to grow in our prayer life, we've got to see the whole picture. Our eyes must always be on Christ. And we must always have in mind that Christ is doing something in us and through us. He's making us more like Him. Conforming us to his image. And if we want to grow in our prayer life as a church, we've got to have the whole picture in mind if we're going to pray according to God's will. Everything, everything is about seeing Christ , that we might know him and show him and help make him known in the world. So that's supposed to be an arrow. It's all about Christ. All the power comes from Christ. All the work is the result of Christ. And from our perspective, everything is through faith in Christ and confidence in him and understanding what he wants to do. Understanding his purpose, we understand our purpose. All right. Did you like my diagrams? Good. Okay, principles of prayer and then goals. Just some things to think about. Number one, principle of prayer, the umbrella of grace. That means remember that we're walking in grace. Not by works of the law. We don't start by grace and then move to works. Don't see prayer as a work that will earn you more favor with God. That's not what prayer is. Prayer is something that people who already have the favor of God by grace do in love and grow in. Be under the umbrella of grace. Don't turn to legalism in the prayer life That will stifle you even more. Uh number two, principle of prayer. You must have a steady diet of scripture and of sound doctrine. Sound teaching, sound preaching. Reading the Word of God, contemplating it. It's not just the amount, it's the quality, it's the soundness. All kinds of things are taught using this book. People can make you say whatever they want to say. You must be in a biblical church. Under biblical teaching, biblical preaching, a steady diet of Scripture and the sound preaching and teaching of the Word is crucial here The Christian growth, Christians growth and crucial here. Kingdom growth. Absolutely crucial. Foundational. Number three. So, one, the umbrella of grace, not works, two , steady diet of scripture and sound teaching. And three, be faithfully active in the body life of the church. We're disconnected. If we're disconnected from what God is doing in his church, which is the centerpiece of what God is doing in the world Right. Spreading and advancing his kingdom, his saving reign in Christ through local churches. If we're disconnected from that, well, I've already said the key word. You're disconnected. We're disconnected from what God is doing. And trying to build a prayer life in that context is not going to work. Number four, practice. I put an exclamation point next to this. I don't know why I never use exclamation points. Practice! You actually got to pray. If you w if we wait till we are fully grown in prayer or for or or feel fully confident in what we're praying. If we wait till that, until we pray, we'll never pray. It's like evangelism. If we wait till we have a fully formed burden for the lost until we go out and try to reach the lost, we'll never go out and try and reach the lost. So practice. Practice. Just sit down and commit yourself to it. Say, God, I'm doing this. I'm trusting you, God. Make something here. Make something here. I need you. You can use the Psalms. Read through the Psalms. Go slowly and think of it as prayers. There are many different ways you can read the Psalms. One of the ways you can read them is uh just to learn about prayer, just to see the different different kinds of prayers and you can start applying them to your life and taking your time and meditating. How can I pray this? How does this apply to me? Not to read the scripture in a self-centered way. Again, keep it in the context. But you've got to practice. You've got to pray. So umbrella of grace, steady diet of scripture, be faithfully active in the body life of the church. Um that's actually uh that's insufficient the way that I have that. It should be be faithfully active in the body life of a biblical church. Of a biblical church. Practice, use the Psalms if you'd like. And number five, you can be consciously focused on this, be centered on God and His purpose. You center your mind and you center your heart on God, that's where you want to be. See, that's the heart of prayer. I'm coming to God. I'm mindful of God by Sight, I'm here on earth, but by faith I'm stepping into his presence. Be mindful of God. This is what prayer is about God is creator. God is Redeemer. Think about the gospel. God on the throne, Christ at his right hand, interceding on your behalf, receiving your prayers, prayers that are taken up by the power of the Spirit. So, umbrella of grace, steady diet of scripture, faithfully active in the body life of a biblical church. Practice. Practice. Be centered on God and His purpose And sixth and five, but there's more. This is just six favorites that I picked. Remember that prayer is a true spiritual event. It's an event of faith. It's an activity of faith. Remember that it's a means of God's grace to you and a vehicle of God's providence. through you and through your prayers, using you and using your prayers the way he wants to use. And if we understand that, we will have confidence. Because we'll know that w whatever I pray, no matter how No matter how bad my prayers are or good my prayers are, I know that God is going to work out his purposes. That's our solace. Alright. Principles of prayer. You can think of more. I'm sure you can. Where did my outline go? Here it is. Now goals. I'm going to give you some practical goals in these last three minutes. Seven of them, so good luck with that. No, I think we can do it. Ready? Make make these goals. Pray each day. Just settle it in your heart. Lord, I'm going to pray each day. To go no further than that. Don't overplan. You over plan, you're going to overwhelm yourself and you and you won't do it. I'm going to pray each day Start with that. And however long you have to live there, you live there until it's a natural part of your life. But uh okay, so number two, another goal, pray each day for the Holy Spirit. You know how long this takes? Time me. Lord, fill me with your spirit today. That's even too long. God, give me your spirit. It's the important thing is that that cry from the heart. I need your spirit. Pray purpose this in your heart. I'm going to pray for the Holy Spirit each day. And now over the weeks, over the months, as As you're getting that steady diet of Scripture, you're learning more about the Holy Spirit. You're learning more about the fruit of the Spirit. You're learning more about the work and the power of the Spirit and what the Spirit Doing That little prayer, that seed of that prayer is part of your life, will grow. Pray each day. Pray each day for the Holy Spirit. Pray for a deeper faith and fellowship with Christ. What else? I mean What else would we want? A deeper faith, a closer fellowship, a closer walk with Christ. Pray each day for a greater and more consistent gratitude toward God. Pray for thankfulness. Pray for thankfulness. We have so much. God's been so good to us. Redemptive graces, common graces, grace stacked up upon grace. We deserve none of it. Friends, we deserve none of it Pray for gratitude. Pray for a heart of gratitude. Contentment. Other ways to say it. Pray each day for a great love for God and a greater love for others. God help me to love you more. Help me to love others as I would love myself. Boom. Pray it. Short. Short and sweet. Pray each day for a stronger burden to pray. God, give me a burden to pray. Did you time that one? That might have been less than a one Mississippi. God, give me a burden to pray. God, here's what here's how I pray it. Give me a heart for prayer. Give me a heart for prayer. And and you know what? I've just come to the point where I'm not even thinking about what that might look like. I'm genuinely just asking God, give me a heart to pray. Give me a heart for prayer. Where else is it going to come from? Me? God help us all. Right? Amen? We go to God for these things that we need. We don't try and muster them up. Finally, finally, pray each day, pray for the Holy Spirit, pray for deeper faith and fellowship with Christ. Pray for a greater gratitude. Pray for a great love for God and love for others. Pray for a burden to pray, for a burden to pray, a longing to pray. This is connected to the Holy Spirit one, but this is specific. Pray each day. For holiness. Pray for holiness. Pray for holiness. Now that one can be the simple prayer, but also if If you if you're honest with yourself and you and you have any clue of what's going on in your own life and heart and mind, and if you're getting a steady diet of scripture, you will, because God will be showing you. You know specifics. You know specific ways you need to be praying for God to kill off certain sins in your life. You'll know specific temptations you need to pray for God to deliver you from and g and give you strength in to overcome. You'll know specific um fruit of the spirit that you lack. And you know you lack. And and the you know the only way that's this thing is going to happen in your life is if God brings it to life. And so we know sins to be praying about for God to kill. And we know aspects of holiness and the fruit of the Spirit that God must bring to life. So we can pray for holiness. Pray each day. Pray each day. I mean, I I think all of those, I'm trying, I'm really trying just to highlight the the essence, the basics of Of walking with Christ. But I would but I would live here to pray each day, asking God and trusting God that He would give you that prayer life. Not that you would create that prayer life and offer it to him as a work that he might love you more, but going to him with confidence. In his time, he's going to do this. He is going to give me a heart for prayer. All right, let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for Christ. We are trusting in you for your work in our lives. We do not measure our uh standing with you by any means uh based on what we do, how well we do it, how much we do it, how how much we can get others to do it. You we know that you've reconciled us. Made peace. Made peace through the blood of Christ. And we're thankful. We're thankful. But not nearly thankful enough, Father. So I pray you'd increase that within us. Help us to grow. Help our church to grow according to your will for your glory through your son we pray. Amen.