The reason is the participation heavy. To take a Bible and turn to Matthew chapter six Learning to pray. And of course, one Bible study is not going to give us a fully developed, consistent Effective, spiritually fruitful prayer life, but it can get us started And it can encourage us and inspire us to turn to the Lord in new and desperate ways. Matthew 6 We're going to begin with a prayer, a reading of the scripture, a moving away from the squeaky spot on this floor. It's already driving me baddie. Oh man. There's one I know there's one here somewhere. Because you know how I teach. I say the point, and then I come over here to expound the point and to connect with you on a more personal level, away from the barrier of the lectern. Let's pray. Father, apart from your power and apart from your intervention There's no hope for a turnaround or improvement in the chaos and the madness and the immorality of what's going on in our nation. Apart from the prayers The desperate prayers, the consistent prayers of your people. There's no hope for a turnaround or improvement of what's going on in our nation. Father, I pray that you would pour out within us a spirit of desperation, a spirit of repentance In a spirit of prayer, like we've never felt or experienced or practiced before. Let it start with us. Oh Lord, you know we're not waiting on Hollywood to lead the charge of moral improvement. You know we're not waiting on Washington. But Father, we are your people and you've put us here and we seek you and we ask for your help. We don't want to try to Cultivate a spirit of prayer apart from you. We don't want empty religion. We need you, dear Lord. We ask that you would come to us and help us in our time of need. Teach us, Lord Jesus Christ, you are our master. We are your servants. We are pleading with you to help us in this. Bring us together for prayer. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Matthew 6, we'll begin in verse 5. And when you pray, which is assuming that you'll be praying. You must not be like the hypocrites, aka actors, aka fakers, aka those who Want to look religious and want to be seen as spiritual. Wow. Look at look at how they pray. For they love to stand and pray in the synagogues and at the street corners, that they may be seen by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. What's their reward? They were seen by others. And others thought they were spiritual, and others were impressed with their expression of religion in public. That's their reward. What a pity. What a pity. If that's what we're seeking in prayer or any other expression of faith. But when you pray, go into your room and shut the door and pray to your father who is in secret. And your father who sees in secret Will reward you. By the way, the central reward of prayer is God Anything else he gives as a blessing, as a gift, as a grace, is just a reminder that he is our reward. And he must be our reward. I'm not going to expound and discuss this first paragraph tonight. I wanted it to set the context because it is the context, but there's a principle here in verse 6 The first step in cultivating a prayer life is to get alone with God That is what prayer is. Getting with God. Do you get alone with God? Do you desire it? Do you look forward to it? If there was some magical compartment in your bedroom that uh your favorite bagels appeared magically every morning. In a magic cabinet, warm, fresh bagel with your Favorite cream cheese or whatever you like to put on it. Every morning, you better believe every morning you'll be there for your bagel. But you know, every morning, no matter what room of the house you're in, you can enter into the throne room of God. And speak with him. Now, is he better than bagels? I mean, and this is what prayer is: it's by faith. Coming before God to be with him and to speak with him by faith. It has to be by faith because God is what? It starts with an I. Invisible. He's not in the earthly realm. He's God is everywhere, meaning He's not limited, His presence is not limited. But a special revelation of God, his special dwelling place in heaven, where Christ is seated at his right hand, where the angels are dwelling with him, and where the souls of the righteous made perfect are dwelling with him. Prayer is by faith coming into his presence, being with him, and enjoying that fellowship. And talking with him, speaking with him in very specific ways, which is why you have writing utensils and hopefully something to write on, because I'll be asking you to help fill in some of the answers under these different categories of of prayer. So anyway, that's where you want to start if you want to begin to Cultivate a prayer life, or if you want to deepen and expand your prayer life, you must get alone with God. There's no shortcut, there's no other way. God is the answer. Verse 7, and when you pray, do not heap up empty phrases as the Gentiles do or as the pagans do, for they Faith they will be heard for their many prayers. The length of a prayer has absolutely nothing to do with how worshipful or prayerful or genuine or effective it is. If you find yourself praying, just trying to make it longer and longer so that we think you're more prayerful, or if I if I find myself doing that, well just pray for one more thing and one more thing. If you can keep it going for 30 more seconds. That's not what makes prayer true or effective or fruitful. The length of prayers has nothing to do with it They think they'll be heard for their many words. Verse 8, in case verse 7 wasn't strong enough, weren't strong enough Do not be like them, for your Father knows what you need before you ask him. Pray then like this, our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name Your kingdom come, your will be done, on earth as it is in heaven. Give us this day our daily bread, and forgive us our debts. As we also have forgiven our debtors, and lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Before we get into these categories of prayer, let me skim my notes for the introduction and make sure there's nothing on there that I really, really wanted to say but forgot. Okay? Uh did I say this? We will never be the people that God has called us to be, and we'll never have the kingdom impact God has called us to have apart from prayer. Did I say anything like that? Okay, good. Uh it's true. I mean that's literally true. We'll never be the people God's called us to be, growing the way He's called us to grow, having an impact. for the kingdom, the way he's called us to have an impact apart from prayer, which makes sense because we can't do any of those things apart from him. Private prayer Smaller group prayer, congregational prayer. Alright? Private prayer. That's where you start smaller group prayer. Now with your family, with a group of friends. Small group Bible study and then congregational prayer, which is an area we need to grow in, and we will. I'm trusting God for that. Uh Well, if I didn't say that first thing, I definitely didn't say the second thing because it's just the first thing with one more clause that had it on. Okay, ready? We will never be the people God has called us to be, and we'll never have the impact The kingdom impact God has called us to have apart from prayer, comma, and a renewed devotion to repentance You see this all throughout scripture and all throughout history. If there's going to be a great move of God, it will always, God will always use God will use a spirit of prayer and repentance renewed and revived in his people. You see, it's the people of God who are the light of the world. Jesus is the light of the world, and he said, You are the light of the world. And that will begin with prayer and repentance. Now, if we're honest, if we list the things of Christianity, those are not our favorite things. Right, prayer and repentance. Um but that's what we need. The nation is in the mess that it's in because we've rejected God and the only way to get out of this mess is to reject Remember God, and it's the people of God who must lead the charge. We must repent. We must devote ourselves to prayer, trusting God. But we must lead the charge on this. What is prayer? I said this, I'm sure, by faith coming into the presence of God to express ourselves in specific ways. How does God use prayer? In two ways. Prayer is a means of grace to us. It's a means of grace to us just like a sermon or your Bible study or the worship of God's people or singing or the Lord's Supper. is a means of grace. It's the way God shows grace and works in our hearts and minds in gracious ways. But it's also a vehicle of providence. And what I'm what I'm saying there is God actually uses prayer to do things in the world. It's not a pagan concept of prayer. where we have the power to unlock God's power if we just believe strong enough and do the right things No, but rather it's God in his providence and his power according to his purpose using the prayers of his people to accomplish his purposes. It's just like the preaching of the word will go forth, and God will use it to accomplish his purposes. So don't ever think prayer, don't ever think prayer is not a productive use of time. That's absurd. Prayer is a real means of grace for God to work in our lives and hearts and minds. And in the church as a whole. And it's a vehicle of providence. And through our prayers, God will accomplish what He has planned and purposed to accomplish. Brethren, we've got to believe that. We've got to believe prayer is a good use of time, not a waste of time. All right. Five basic expressions of prayer. Five basic expressions of prayer. Get your writing utensils ready. Uh number one, worship. Number two Invoke. I've I've written these out as uh as imperatives, as commands. So Worship. Worship God. You invoke the power and the intervention of God. You will thank God. You will confess to God and you will ask God. If we're honest, most of our prayers I wouldn't I wouldn't dare critique True, genuine, heartfelt, spirit-led prayers of God's people, or criticize it. In a disparaging way, but if we're honest , I wouldn't say our prayers are unbiblical, but I definitely would think that they're unbalanced. I think the great bulk of our prayers is not only here , but if you start to list the different petitions we can lay before God, there's probably two or three that we're really, really, really focused on under the ask. But imagine uh a a kid who uh all he does with his parents is ask them for things. Can I have this? Can I have this? Can we do this? Can I have this? You said I could have this, you say can I have this yet? Can I have this yet? If you ever experienced that, that's not how we want our children to be. We don't want self-centered, self-absorbed children. That's not what we want to be like. We're always just asking. At best, it's unbalanced. I don't like these marks up here. I'm the one who drew them, I know. Alright. So what I'm going to do is ask you to start writing down Short and simple prayer expressions or prayer utterances or just different examples. For each of these categories, and then we're going to share, as you're thinking and as you're looking, and as you're writing, what I'm going to do is go through these As quickly as I can to give a basic definition and uh on just two of these I have cross-references, the other ones just linking to some linking to a phrase in the Lord's Prayer in Matthew 6. So worship is saying words that adore , admire, and praise God For two things, for who he is and what he's like. And that would start with addressing God. Verse 9, pray then like this: Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. That's one example. Addressing God and saying an utterance of worship. Our Father in heaven, hallowed be your name. So you can you can write down uh different ways to address God. Heavenly Father. I'm not going to give you too many more examples because I want you to come up with them. Children often will say, just dear God. That's fine. Address God. You can also write down different uh Things about who God is and what God is like, and a prayer of worship is an utterance Of adoration, of admiration, of praise, of exaltation to God for who he is, for what he's like. Think of God's names, think of God's attributes We worship him. We worship God. Invoke. I think we are I on the unbalanced chart, I think of these five, I think this is the one I need, we need most improvement Calling God to action. Calling God to action Your kingdom come, your will be done on earth as it is in heaven. John 12, 28. Jesus praised, Father, glorify your name. That's an invocation. Father, glorify your name. We can pray that prayer. You're about to do something, you're about to go somewhere, about to involve yourself in a ministry. Father, glorify your name. I have no clue what I'm doing, but I need to do this. Glorify your name. We can call upon God. So think of examples. Think of straightforward Clear expressions, utterances. Call God to action. Holy Spirit, come. Psalm 54, 1 and 2. O God, save me by your name. Vindicate me by your might. O God, hear my prayer. Give ear to the words of my mouth Many of them in there. Calling for God's help. Calling for God's vindication and salvation. Even calling upon God. Hear my prayer. Hear my prayer, Lord. Don't ignore me. Hear me. Psalm 6, 4, turn, O Lord, and deliver my life. Save me for the sake of your steadfast love. So worship you're writing down things to adore and admire, praise for who God is and what God is like, and invoke calling God to action. What is the way that you would call God to action? What is the way that we as a church would come together and call God to action? God, come help us. Help us do this. Help us do that. You fill in the blank. God help us. We need you. Thanks. Thanksgiving. Thanksgiving. Saying words of gratitude and recognition and appreciation for what God has promised And for what God, now this is uh three aspects of this. So for words of gratitude, recognition, and appreciation for what God has promised, and for what He has done. What he is doing and what he will do, which is connected to what he's promised. Okay? So there's overlap there But the the thing I want us thinking about is things God has promised and things things God has done or is doing. And we thank him. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord, for this. Thank you, Lord, for that. And this is not just coming to God and talking about talking about things, just randomly, but it's actually saying words like you you would say thank you for that sandwich I appreciate you taking out the trash. I'm just thinking of different ways we say thank you to people in real life. Hopefully you're doing that. Don't overdress it. Don't try to dress it up. We're not trying to be fancy. We're not competing with each other. Thank you, Lord, for the job interview. Thank you, Lord. Thank you, Lord, for that conversation. Thank you, Lord, for that encouragement that so-and-so gave me this morning. Thank you, Lord. Thank you for this. I appreciate this. We've got to be able. We've got to be able to say thank you to God. He's given us so much. So, so very much. I mean, if there's any category of prayer that we should not struggle with, it should be coming up with things that say thank you to God for. Same words of gratitude, recognition, and appreciation for what God has promised and what God has done, is doing, and will do. Psalm seven seventeen. I will give to the Lord the thanks that is due his righteousness, and I will sing praise to the name of the Lord. to the Most High. There you see the thanks, right? Give thanks to the Lord. Do this righteousness and I will sing praise, worship to the name of the Lord the Most High. And there's overlap when I talk about these with my family. There's overlap between worship and thanks. We often say thank you to God for who he is. or for what he's like. There's overlap here. It's just a matter of um emphasis, who God is and what God is like, worship, we worship him, and then thanking him for specific things he's done or promised to give. And uh that is would be the other side of verse 11 in the Lord's Prayer. Give us this day our daily bread. Now that is asking, asking God to provide what we need. The other side of asking And receiving is being thankful for what we receive. So these are two sides of the coin. God is our provider, God is our provision And we ask him, we also thank him. Confess. Confess. This is saying words that express Sorrow for sin, which we didn't have when we were lost. It expresses, these are words that also would express or confess guilt And transgression, transgression, violating God's law. These are words that would admit weakness, frailty, or inner corruption. As as Christians, we're not a people who don't care about the sin in our lives and never come to God in a sorrowful or Confessing spirit. In fact, as Christians, in the literal sense, we're the only ones who do care about the sin in our lives. And we're the only ones who are coming to God, confessing our sin and wickedness. We must be confessing people, saying words, giving utterance to being sorrow for our sin. confessing guilt and transgression, admitting weakness, frailty, or corruption, and then asking. I have this under two headings. I hope you're writing things down for each of these Asking God for general blessings and intervention. Asking God for general blessings and intervention. Those would be general things that we would go to God and ask for. Strength for something that's coming up. Or grace. God, we need your grace. Again, I'm not going to give you too many because I want you to come up with but general things we would ask God for. And then the second category under ask is laying before God specific petitions for specific situations. Now the bulk of our prayer life is probably there. Specific petitions for specific situations. But if you listen carefully, it's it's I I don't want to say very rare, but I'll say rare. It's rare that you actually hear the petition given to God as a petition. Right? Just talking to God about a situation and explaining that situation to God isn't a petition. God, please heal my mother. You're our only hope Petition. God, please save my friend. Intervene in their life. Change their heart. Petition. And again, there's overlap between invoking and asking. Okay, there's overlap. It's a matter. But don't be afraid to slow down. And think and engage your heart, engage your mind. What do I want to ask God for? What do I want to ask God to do? And brothers and sisters, ask God. Ask him. Lay your petition before him. And it can be specific. God, I'm at which end. Please come and help me. It's one of my most common prayers, right? God, I have no clue what I'm doing I'm at the end of my rope. Please, God. Please, if you don't show up, I'm toast. So ask God. Invoke God. Call upon God. The whole Bible is about is about this. It's God's God's people, God's True people, his children, coming to God, worshiping him, invoking, calling him to action, thanking him, confessing, and asking. Of course, our ministry of song helps us to do that in a regular way. as a congregation. Alright, now listen, you're a you can't give stories and illustrations because we want to get a lot of participation and there's a lot of categories and these are just the five basic categories, the five basic utterances. Under confess, let me make sure I give the uh the phrase in the Lord's Prayer. Uh forgive us our debts, forgive us our debts, as we also have forgiven our debtors, right? Asking for forgiveness, expressing That there there is transgression, there is guilt, there is debt that needs to be forgiven. And then asking, of course, uh verse eleven, give us this day our daily bread in verse thirteen. Asking also invoking God's intervention. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Lead us not into temptation, but deliver us from evil. Alright. So Worship. Saying words that adore, admire, praise, and exalt God for who he is and what he's like. Let's um Have some interaction. Uh who is God? And what is he like that we would worship him? Just yell it out, yell it loudly, don't be bashful, we don't have time. He's our creator. You're our creator. We worship you. Amen. What else? He's majestic. Oh majestic God. We worship you. Amen. Yes. What else? I heard. He's Lord, yes. Lord of salvation. We'll put your two together. You are Lord of salvation. You're our only hope. Amen. Did someone say holy? I thought I heard someone say holy. Holy. Holy Father, you're holy, holy, holy, holy. He's Redeemer. Oh great Redeemer. We worship you. We adore you. He's our sustainer. Lord, you're our creator. You're our redeemer. You're our sustainer. We worship you. We exalt you, O Lord. So all we have to do is slow down. And think. And in a spiritual sense, that means not just with the mind, but with the heart and with the will, engaging And bringing ourselves to contemplate God. Let's get two more. What else? Loving. He's loving. God is love. God, you are love. You've loved us with an everlasting love. Compassionate. You 're compassionate. Slow to anger. Abounding in love. And often as you do this, what will come to mind are Bible verses, and a lot of times it will spring you into go going to the Bible and studying the Bible. And then that will bring you deeper into your prayer. Which will give which will send you back to the Word of God. And see now this is what prayer is. God has revealed himself and he's spoken to us in his word and he's given us the avenue of prayer to speak back to him and with him. Okay, uh so there you go. There's worship. And that it that must be I mean that's a that's foundation of prayer. That's foundation. We're not praying what we're not theists Okay, what is theism? It's the belief that uh that a God exists. No, friends, we're Christians. This is not A general God that we don't know who he is, we don't know what he's like, and we just guess at it and pray these vague prayers that have no meaning. We're praying prayers of worship to God, the one true living God, according to who he has revealed himself to be. Worship, foundation stone of prayer. So, get into that secret place. I can't promise you bagels will be there. But I can promise you something that's far better. God. And worship him. Worship him. Alright. Invoke calling God to action. What are some things we would call God to action for? And you can think and well any way you want. I don't want to control the way you think. I'm not the mainstream media. I'm that's a that's funny, but that's true. Sorry, Vince. But the way let me say it this way, the way I typically think is things I would call God to action for me or just what's going on in in my walk. And the way I need God to show up. But also I'm always trying to think of the congregation, the church, because this is the hub. This this is the kingdom outpost. So what are some ways we would call God to action? Again, don't be bashful. Revival. Lord, revive our hearts. Do it, Lord, please. Yes. What else? Say it again. Direction. Direction. Yeah, yeah, yeah. That's a very common one in scripture. God give us direction. Give us guidance. Show us the way. Show us the way. Great Rise up and take action. Yeah, I love that one. And and uh as the Lord started working on my heart to open me up to this category That general uh cry for God to work was the most common. God, rise up, rise up, come to action, come to our help, come to our aid. That's biblical. We don't need to have all the answers for how God is going to work. And many times, well most times, if not all the time, we we don't know how God is going to fix the solution or what he's going to do. But that doesn't mean we don't come to him and ask him to fix the solution and do something about it. Great answer. Let's take three more on this. What would we call God to action for? Salvation for others. She's praying for the salvation of others. God please save them. God please save her. Bring them the gospel. Open their heart. Change their minds. Save them. Save them. Save them. Yes. We know that God likes to do that, right? And we know God has the power to do that. We've got to believe it. Our heart must become like his heart. Two more. Healing. Yes, pray for healing. Don't be afraid to pray for healing. Don't feel bad about it. All of our prayers we we we praying according to your will, according to your will. That doesn't mean we don't pray for things. That doesn't mean we don't pray for things. Um pray for healing. One more. Calling God to action. Hear our prayer. Yes. Hear our prayer. Hear my prayer, dear Lord. Hear my prayer. Listen, hear, respond. Alright, worship, invoke, thank. And We're thanking God what for things He's promised to give us or Or things he's done or is doing or promised to do. What are some things we would thank God for? Let's take uh let's take nine of these. Someone keep Count. Dave, keep count. Let's take nine of these. What would we say thank you to God? We've got to limit ourselves because I'm telling you, once we start really engaging our minds, we can go on this all day. We could be here all night thanking God for things. And still Still not even uh i it 'd be j just be the tip of the iceberg of giving God the thanks that He deserves. And if we were to do that, stay all night praying for God, I would text someone to bring us fresh bagels in the morning. I don't know what about the bagels. Springtime, I don't know what. Tom? Thank you for uh we have a place to live. Yeah. Yes. Thank you for a place to live. Thank you for a place to live. And I it's funny you said that first. I was talking to um my daughters Yesterday? Is it yesterday or the day before about being thankful for the place to live? And then underneath that is so many different things, right? uh the size of the place that we're living, the safety and security of the place that we're living, uh the heat, the air condition, the running water, the refrigerator. The toilets, you can go on and on and on. These are all wonderful things that we should not take for granted. A place to live. That's one. What else? Or daily bagels. For food. Thanking God for food. Thanking God for food. And and clean water. We need that to live, to be healthy. And not every not everybody has those things or has had those things. It's a great, great blessing, then. Health. Thank you, God. Thank you, God, for the measure of health you've given me. Amen. Salvation. Thank you, God, for salvation. For every day, for the day. Amen. For the day. Thank you for today. Protection? Yeah, thank you, God, for the protection, for his providences and protecting us. How many are we own? We need three more. Okay, go ahead. Family. Thank you, God, for family. Amen. Great answer. Healing. Thank you, God, for healing, right? We ask for it. God gives it. We don't just forget about God and And uh Mosey Mosey Long, thank you, God. Thank you, God. We give you the glory, we give you the credit. Creation, thank you for creation. Yes, the beauty of creation. That's nine, okay. Wisdom, wisdom. Thank you, God, for wisdom. Thank you, God, for your word. Thank you, God, for your Holy Spirit. Thank you, God, for my ch On and on and on and on. Thank you, God. Thank you, God. Thank you for religious freedom. Thank you for his mercy. All right. Confess, confess I don't think our prayers are unbalanced or our prayer life suffers from lack of knowledge or Whatever, but um but j but maybe maybe laziness maybe just made we were so distracted We're so caught up in the affairs of the world and the things and the stuff of this world that that we it 's really, really hard for us to say, you know, I'm just gonna stop and go pray. And and be with God by faith and worship him, call him to action, say thank you for all kinds of things, and confess my sins. I'm not going to ask you to say sins that you've committed last week, but um let's give some examples of ways or things we would say to express sorrow for sin. To confess guilt and transgression, or to admit weakness, frailty, or corruption. Let's get four of these because it's 717-09 Lack of discipline. Father, I confess my lack of discipline. Amen. Show me mercy. The sins of our nation. You you can pray you could pray. I don't know how you would confess that, but that's something you could pray about. Um the the sins of our nation, the wayward path of our nation. Um, remembering that local churches are the kingdom of God, but it's that does not mean that God doesn't care about the nation. That that does not mean God doesn't care about the world. So we can intercede on behalf of the world, pray for our leaders. Pray for peace. What else? What's some other ways we could con express confession? Anger. Anger God, I confess my anger. It's not difficult. How many words was that? God, I confess my anger. Five words, and you can fill in the blank with anger. For all kinds of things. Materialism, bitterness, selfishness, negativity. On and on and on. God I confess my blank. One more, one more. Apathy God, I confess my apathy. I'm caring about these things over here. Ultimately, that's of no significance. Just a distraction. I know this is where you want me to be focused, Lord. I know this is where you want me to be focused. I confess I've been distracted. Apathy. Apathy. Yeah, wow. And apathy just breeds more apathy. That is a deadly, deadly Subtle sin that can overtake our lives. Alright, so it's again, it's not difficult It just takes taking the time and really engaging the mind and the will and the heart, asking asking God for general blessings and intervention and laying before God specific petitions for specific situations. And uh we covered a lot of this in invoking, so let's just get a few examples on things we would ask God for. And if you want to, if there's a specific prayer request that you have tonight, just say it. I ask God for this. Father, give me a job. According to your will. According to your will. I'll wait, dear Lord. But please give me a job. Amen. Yes. To love like he loves. God asked that you would help me to love others like you love. Yeah, what a great prayer. Asked for it. Yeah, give me the words to speak to an unbeliever. God, give me the words. Please comfort the layman family at the loss of her son John. Great, great example. Just lay the petition before God. Ask God to do it. Bring them comfort. God, come near to them. I often even pray metaphors. God, lift them up. Lift them up and hold them close. So God knows what's in your heart. He knows what we need. He knows the situation. And so we're not giving God a, so to speak, PowerPoint presentation, lecture, explanation of things that are going on. We're laying petitions. Before him. Heal my daughter. Help my son deal with these bullies. Give my spouse repentance Comfort the family. All kinds of things. We pray before each service here. God, we pray that you would bless the service. We pray that you would encourage the people. We pray, Pastor John and I pray before every Wednesday ministry, every Sunday ministry, and if there's some kind of extracurricular ministry, we pray for it. God, please use this. We're nothing. We can do nothing. What we pray, God, please, and we give actual petitions. God, open our hearts, open our minds, help us, encourage us. So worship Invoking, calling God to action. Thanking God, expressing gratitude and recognition, confessing sin, weakness. Corruption and asking God general things for His grace, His mercy, His love , spiritual growth, transformation, whatever, and laying specific petitions before Him. All right, three deepening expressions of prayer. Three deepening, those are five basic Expressions or utterances. Challenge yourself to take what's in your heart as a prayer and to articulate it to an actual sentence, a prayer utterance An expression. The same way you would talk to a person. Thank you for bagels, brother. Right, say, speak to God in subjects, verbs, direct objects. Speak to God. With human language and sentences, not rambling like the pagans. Just thinking because it's a lot of words. It's going to do something. Three deepening expressions of prayer: pleading, groaning, and crying. Pleading. Or no, or keeping the pattern, we'll put it in the uh the imperative. Plead with God. Groan To God and cry, we also would have would have accepted cry out to God. You can cry out without crying, but you could also cry. I'll give some definitions and cross-references while you think about some feedback. Plead, saying words of utter desperation for God's help. Saying words of utter desperation for God's help. Now I say these are three deepening expressions of prayer. You're not going to be in utter desperation every day. But when you are, you need to know how to pray in that situation. And what you want to do is go to God pleading with him. When you are in the depth of depression, of utter desperation, emotionally, psychologically, whatever, physically Saying words, actually saying the words or in your heart. Utter desperation for God's help. Psalm 55, 1 and 2. Give ear to my prayer, O God. Hide not yourself from my plea for mercy. Come to me. Answer me. I'm restless in my complaints and I moan. Pleading with God. Psalm 86, 6 and 7. Give ear, O Lord, to my prayer. Listen to my pleas for grace. In the day of my trouble, I call upon you for you to answer me. It's the day of trouble. I'm pleading with you, God. Give ear to my prayer. Have you ever pleaded with God? You know, when we're in a state of utter desperation or weakness or depression, we're more vulnerable to Satan's tricks and lies. It's very easy to be susceptible to get caught in the snare of sin as we turn to this thing in the world to As it were, medicates those feelings and numb those feelings, but we must go to God. We must lay our plea before God. Groaning, groaning. Not able to say words, but with groans and grunts and growls and even screams to express to God a deep and often painful desperation Usually an overwhelming sense of helplessness and hopelessness. The longest definition on here. I'll read it again. But this is a deepening expression of prayer. And again, you're not going to be in this state often. In every season of life. Maybe you'll have a season that's uh maybe eight months or two years where this is a regular occurrence for you. Not able to say words You're in such such a state of hurt, of pain, loneliness, whatever, but with groans and grunts and growls, even screaming on the ground, face in the dirt. Expressing to God a deep, often painful desperation, usually an overwhelming sense of helplessness and hopelessness. Psalm 38, 6 through 8. I am utterly bowed down and prostrate. All day I go about mourning. My sides are filled with burning, and there's no soundness in my flesh. I am feeble, I am crushed, and I groan because of the tumult of my heart, or turmoil in my heart. Have you been there? Have you been there? That is the time to pray. That is the time not to get bitter with God, not to get angry with God, not to blame God, but to go to God and groan your desperation. Him when you don't know what to say because you don't know what to do. And everyone who talks to you trying to encourage you and help you, you just want them to get away from you and leave you alone. Because nothing can help you. But I want to tell you, friends, God can help you. God can help you Living in this sin-cursed world is not easy by any stretch of the imagination. And there will come times when we cannot even express in words the pain and the loneliness. And helplessness, but you can groan out to God. Would you turn with me to Romans 8, 23? Romans 8 One of the things Paul is doing is reminding Christians of future glorification in receiving a resurrection body. That is a future reality, and until then, we live in a creation that is cursed and brings great suffering. Romans 8, 23 through 27. Now not only the creation, but we ourselves who have the first fruits of the Spirit. Groan inwardly as we wait eagerly for adoption as sons, the redemption of our bodies. So now here groaning is in a general sense the the general groaning of still being in this sin cursed world in a mortal body that's prone to sin, it's fallen by nature, the general groaning for that future glorification. For in this hope we were saved, or in reference to this hope, this future hope of the redemption of our bodies, we were saved. But hope that is seen is not hope. In other words, we don't we don't see If we would see it now, it wouldn't be a future hope. For who hopes for what he sees? But if we hope for what we do not see, we wait for it with patience. And likewise, the Spirit helps us in our weakness, for we do not know what to pray for as we ought. But the Spirit Himself intercedes for us with groanings too deep for words. One of the ways the Spirit will intercede for us is through our groanings to God. Groanings when we don't know what to say, we don't know what to pray for, there's no words. We can groan And that is an outward expression, a prayer, prayerful expression of that general groaning of the inner man as we suffer through this life under the curse, awaiting that future glorification. Verse 27, and he who searches the heart knows what is the mind of the Spirit, because the Spirit intercedes for the saints according to the will of God. We know that for those who love God, all things work together for good, for those who are called according to his purpose. So we can plead with God, saying words of utter desperation for God's help. And we can groan to God when we don't have the words and we don't know we don't know what to say, but we're overwhelmed with helplessness and hopelessness. Finally cry. Finally cry. Closely connected to this would be crying out. I have cry. But you do see the phrase cry out in scripture. I cry out to you, we cry out. But but that to me it that could apply to many of these different categories of crying out in this way and crying out in that way. Here what I want to emphasize is crying And again, this is a deepening expression. Not going to do this very often. Maybe your personality or maybe something that you're going through is is uh uh just uh pi in a peculiar way, driving you to tears in a regular way, if you're getting a season of mourning, that would be normal. You can bring your cries to God. So there's uh two subcategories under this This would be shedding tears of incredible joy because of something God has done in your life or heart. This could be tears of joy. Fall in the grass, crying, thanking God. You had no idea he was going to show up in this way. And he did. And you're overwhelmed with joy and thankfulness. And you cry, or shedding tears of sadness, depression, confusing Confusion, even anger, coming to God is the only one who can make the unbearable bearable. There's different ways of crying. You can cry joyfully. You can cry in a sorrowful manner, a painful manner. Psalm fifty Psalm 5, verse 1 and 2. Give ear to my words, O Lord, consider my groaning, and give attention to my cry Give attention to the sound of my cry, my king and my God, for to you do I pray. So praying, saying words, also crying, expressing a cry. Calling it a prayer. Psalm 18:6. In my distress, I called upon the Lord. Distress. In my distress, I called upon the Lord. To my God I cried for help. Help, cried for help. From his temple he heard my voice, and my cry reached his ears. Isn't that something? Psalm 22. 2. And I'm sorry, because of the time, we won't get to feedback and sharing on this on this part. But please do in your conversations. Psalm 22. 2. O my God, I cry by day, and you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest. And that's the one I wanted to end on. Because God does not answer our prayers the way that we think, or in the timing that we think. Sometimes it will feel and it will be real that he just hasn't answered your prayer yet. Don't give up praying. Don't give up praying. Oh God, I cry by day, you do not answer, and by night, but I find no rest But I have a hunch that the psalmist is not going to stop crying, and he's not going to stop praying, and he's not going to stop trusting God and start trusting different things things in the world. It's going to God, going to God. And God, again, prayer is a means of grace. And he'll teach us Comforting lessons through our struggle to grow in prayer, and he'll show tough love to us and he'll humble us, try to teach us patience. Teach us humility. Teach us what it really means to be desperate. Teach us what it really means to depend on Him and not ourselves. Start to show us just how selfish and impatient we really are. But he's she's changing us into the image of Christ for his glory. Father, we pray to you and to you alone. We pray to no one else. We pray to you, O God, Father, Son, Spirit, you are our Creator, you are our sustainer, you are our Redeemer, and we ask that for us individually and for our church as a congregation, You would pour within us a spirit of prayer and repentance like we've never seen. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.