I begin with a question. In your heart, there should be an answer. Why does God want us to praise Him? I mean think about that. Does he need uh to hear good words to get through his day? We're encouraged by good words when we hear them, but no. He wants us to praise him. Because it means that we understand his greatness and his goodness. We understand that he's worthy. And understanding his greatness and goodness and expressing our appreciation is what is best for us. This psalm was most likely used by, Psalm 33 , was most likely used by the Levitical choir. Now, if you don't know what that is or was, let me read to you from 1 Chronicles 16, 4. We all need this reminder that David appointed some of the Levites As ministers before the ark of the Lord, so at the tabernacle, even to celebrate and to thank And praise the Lord God of Israel. So the tabernacle where the Lord's presence dwelt in the Holy of Holies, at that place, David appointed Levites. Asaph the chief, and second to him, Zechariah, then Jael, then Shimer Shimmer I knew I would struggle with this one, Shemiramouth. Jehiel, Matathiah, Eliab, Benaniah, or Beniah, Odim, Edom, and Jel With musical instruments, harps, leers, the musical instruments of the day, and Asaf played loud-sounding cymbals I'm not sure we need those, Jason, but I'm just saying Asaph played them then. And Beniah and Jehezeel, the priests, blew trumpets continually before the Ark of the Covenant of God. Then on that day, David first assigned Asaph and his relatives to give thanks to the Lord. Don't you love that? To give thanks to God was their one assignment, day by day. Because God was worthy of that. And so day by day they would come with music and instruments and play and sing and give God thanks. We see such from the angels in biblical visions of God's heavenly abode. And so it made sense to David to do that at the earthly tabernacle in his day. And so we do it here. Week by week in this local temple of the Holy Spirit, the gathered church, not talking about the building, but the assembled church. And so we do it in our individual lives, I pray, I hope, day by day, as we are each a temple of the Holy Spirit. That's a purpose of this sermon series, seeing the glory of God in the Psalms, that we might praise Him. uh having that kind of heart, that he's worthy, so worthy that I'm gonna get the best instrumentalists and singers, I'm gonna set them up at the temple. I'm king, I decide to do that, and they're gonna sing every day. That's gonna be their purpose. God is worthy of that. David knew that. And we know it as we read the scriptures, as we see his goodness to us. So perhaps the choir leader of that group spoke verses 1 through 3, which is a call to praise God. Sing for joy in the Lord, O you righteous ones, in Psalm 33 now. Praise is becoming to the upright. Give thanks to the Lord with the lear. Sing praises to him with a harp of ten strings. Sing to him a new song. Play and we sang a new song this morning. Play skillfully with a shout of joy. The choir Then probably sang verses four through nineteen here, which is about the character of the God we praise. For the Lord, the word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. He loves righteousness and justice. The earth is full of the loving kindness of the Lord. By the word of the Lord, the heavens were made. Think of sky and space. and by the breath of his mouth all their host. He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap. He lays up the deeps in storehouses. If you've been to the ocean this summer, think of what you saw. God did that, put the sea. in its place. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. For he spoke, Genesis 1-1. He spoke and it was done. He commanded and it stood fast. The Lord nullifies the counsels of the nations. He frustrates the plans of the people. The counsel of the Lord stands forever, the plans of his heart from generation to generation. Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance. The Lord looks from heaven, he sees all the sons of men. From his dwelling place, he looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth, including each one of us, including me standing here preaching, you sitting there listening He knows our hearts. He who fashions the hearts of them all, verse 15. He who understands all their works. The king is not saved. By a mighty army, a warrior is not delivered by great strength. The horse is a false hope for vic victory. That was a great asset in battle in David's day Nor does it deliver anyone by its great strength. Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear him, on those who hope for his loving kindness. to deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine. And so Perhaps the choir leader verses 1 through 3, and then the choir sings of the character of God, and then perhaps the people responded. With verses twenty through twenty-two, the confidence of those who praise him. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield, for our heart rejoices in him Because we trust in His holy name. Let your loving kindness, O Lord, be upon us according as we have hoped. You may may God's Spirit work that in our heart as we go through this psalm together. First of all, the call to praise God, verses one through three. three What is praise? Praise is a declaration of And an appreciation of who God is and what he does. Pastor Matt defined it last week a little bit differently, but in the same vein. In praise. We describe with appreciation the character of God, andor we tell with appreciation how He has demonstrated his character. So a declaration of who God is, what he does, with appreciation from the heart. That's what praise is. Who especially should praise the Lord? Well look at verse 1. Sing for joy in the Lord, O you righteous ones. Now there are other scriptures that tell the whole world to praise God because he is worthy of praise from every creature. I'm going to say, especially those who have understood his holiness. and have a right relationship with Him, we'll want to praise Him. And so the psalmist exalts, sing for joy in the Lord, O you righteous ones. Praise is becoming to the upright. So praise is the duty of all, I agree, but especially those who God graciously forgives and calls righteous These were people in David's day who understood God's holiness and understood their sinfulness and understood God's gracious forgiveness. Through blood sacrifice. They believed in the covenant sacrifices that took place at the temple day by or at the tabernacle in David's day day by day And these are people in our day who understand God's holiness and their sinfulness and God's gracious forgiveness through Jesus' blood sacrifice. which we will show our appreciation of at the end of the service and the Lord's Supper. We believe in the new covenant sacrifice of the Son of God, and in him we are forgiven. In him we are credited with his righteousness. And can offer holy God our worship. And so I say especially praise is the honor of. Praise is the heart, desire of righteous ones, believers. Whereas all are called to praise God Righteous ones must. There's a compulsion for us to praise our God. How do you praise? Well, look at the suggestions given to you in verses one through three. Sing for joy. You've had a chance to do that already. Sing for joy in the Lord. O you righteous ones. Praise is becoming. It is fitting. To the upright. Give thanks. There's another way to praise. To thank him. To remember what he has done, his blessings. Give thanks to the Lord with the lear. If you play an instrument, Dedicate it to the Lord. Sing praises to him with a harp of ten strings. Sing to him. A new song. You know, in in in college, just stopping on the harp of ten strings, I I wanted to learn a guitar of six strings and uh uh I don't remember my motivation really in wanting to learn, but there was a guy down the hall in the dorm who taught me three chords that went along to a song of the day, and I kept practicing those three chords. And it's been such a blessing to use that simple musical instrument and probably those three chords most often to to write songs of simple praise to the Lord and to play other songs that others have written. So if you play an instrument, what a great opportunity you have to do what David had people doing day by day at the tabernacle, praising God with your skill. Sing to him, verse 3. There's another way to sing to him a new song. Write a song. Sing a new song that others have written. I know some of you want us to always sing your favorites, and that's good, and we do that. But we also sing new songs and we don't apologize for that. Scripture wants us to continue to write biblical lyrics a and express in new generations and sometimes in new forms and uh and um and types of songs. praise to him and to play skilfully with a shout of joy. I'm not a big shouter, I'll admit that, but if you are, shout with joy. We're we're told that that is a way to praise By the way, a new song is one that comes from a fresh impulse of gratitude of the heart as we see the greatness And goodness of God. It may not say something brand new, but it says it anew. An example from David's life, Psalm 40, if you want to turn a few pages to Psalm 40, verse 1. David says, I waited patiently for the Lord. And he inclined to me and heard my cry. He brought me up out of the pit of destruction, out of the miry clay. So a trial in David's life. And God helped him. He set my feet upon a rock, making my footsteps firm. And then notice verse 3. He put a new song in my mouth. David played the harp. David was a songwriter. God used that. He put a new song in my mouth, a song of praise to our God. Many will see and fear and will trust in the Lord. The call to praise God. I hope we all sense that in our heart. God is worthy. Corporately he's worthy of us coming together. That's one reason we should. That's one reason we do, that with one voice we might praise him. We also come to learn his word, that we might know more and more of the reasons to praise him. But then on your own, day by day, stop what you're doing. Be still before the Lord and give him praise and thanksgiving The reasons we should sing new songs, the reasons we should pray. Number two, the character of the God we praise, verses four through nineteen. Because before there can be a declaration of who God is and what he does, listen, there must be a recognition of who God is and what he does. Husbands, you that are here. You can tell your wife that you love her. Don't do this right now. Well you can. Jody is sitting over here. But what if your wife says to you, Well, why do you love me? And waits for answers. Hmm. You should have some. You should have some. You should have some answers beyond you dust and clean. Yeah, of course. Of course you do that. But you should count the ways. That you love her. You see, praise, the point of that is praise is more than saying, I praise you, Lord. That's okay to say. But fill it in. It's having in our mind and on our lips the reason for praise. What if God were to say, why do you praise me? What would you say? Here's some good answers for us in verses four through nineteen. He is faithful. For the word of the Lord is upright. And you can write these words to the side of Roman numeral two. He is faithful. The word of the Lord is upright, and all his work is done in faithfulness. What God says is good, and he doesn't say one thing and do something else. He speaks truth. He acts according to truth, verifying his word. His ways are perfect, and his word reflects this perfection His commands are perfect. His declared judgment is perfect. The gospel, the good news that Jesus died for our sins. The way that we can be in relationship and have fellowship with God is perfect. He is faithful. Secondly, he is righteous and loving. Another reason to praise him, he is righteous and loving. Verse 5. He loves righteousness. And justice, and the earth is full of the loving kindness of the Lord. One without the other is not our God. He is righteous without any sin. He exercises justice on all sin. That is, all sin must be punished But he is loving to provide undeserved blessings throughout the earth, particularly the blessing of the gospel. That God punishes sin by putting it upon his son Jesus at the cross Jesus demonstrated righteousness and justice in his teaching. Sermon on the Mount, remember? And he teaches righteousness and justice in his call for repentance, the very first word of the gospel, according to our Lord. Jesus demonstrated this loving kindness in his mercy to heal, to provide food to the 5,000, to forgive sin, and of course, to die for the sin of others. On the cross. As His Church calls for repentance, as we do, as we spread the good news of Jesus' death for sin, as we do, the gospel We continue to honor God's righteousness and justice and fill the earth with the loving kindness of God. So read verse 5. Celebrate it that God is this, righteous and loving. But also remember we are to image that, and we image that by being faithful. to proclaim the gospel, both repentance and faith in one who came to die for our sins. Thirdly, he is creator. Write that beside Roman numeral two. I'm going to praise him because he's creator. And not a creator who Who sat down at a drawing board and calculated what materials he should order for the new project There are those in this room that would know how to do that if you were building something, but God didn't do that. He spoke, let there be, and there was. Verse 6, by the word of the Lord the heavens were made. By the breath of his mouth, all their hosts. He gathers the waters of the sea together as a heap. He lays up the deeps in storehouses. How should we, as his creatures, think toward our God, our Creator? Look at verse 8. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. That's a Now there will be an ultimate fulfillment of verse 8 when Jesus returns. Everyone will call him Lord. Everyone will stand In all of him, but believers today, this is what we are called to do, to fear our Lord God, to reverence his holiness, to be afraid to sin To stand in awe of him, that is, in all your ways acknowledge him, to not think and I do I know we do but to purpose not to think of just acting independently in life. Without the counsel of God's word, without prayer for his wisdom and blessing. Verse 9 For he spoke and it was done. He commanded, and it stood fast. Christ demonstrated such authority, this creative authority. Remember uh his creation in feeding the five thousand, the fish and the bread that he fed them, uh his creation of life in raising the dead. So we saw it, we see it in the Gospels, so to speak, firsthand in the person of Christ. Fourthly, he is sovereign. Our God is sovereign. We praise him for that, verse 10 and 11. The Lord nullifies the counsel of the nations. This is a verse very pertinent to today that we certainly pray that that God would nullify the council of a nation such as Russia that that um uh uh uh uh i is is seeking to take over Ukraine He frustrates the plans of the peoples. The counsel of the Lord stands forever. The plans of his heart from generation to generation. So we might look at the world and think, oh my, you know, it it's it's terrible. It's a mess, and there's a truth to that. And yet we come to Psalm 33 verse 10 and 11. And we have to say what God says, that this mess is working out according to his will. No one can hinder him as the ruler in the history of all men. And that goes for today. What is today? The uh seventh, eighth, what is it? Seth seventh seventh of of uh August 2022. He is on his throne. We see this in the life of Joseph. Remember Joseph sold into slavery? He gets jailed for a false accusation, but through all of that he raises up. is raised up to leadership in the land of Egypt, and he meets his brothers who sold him into slavery, and he says, as for you You meant evil against me, but God meant it for good in order to bring about this present result to preserve many people alive. Oh, if we had that concept of God's Uh providence in our personal life, we could forgive others so much more easily as Joseph does here. Israel and Egypt. Prospered. Exodus chapter 1, verse 10 shows us that God was fulfilling his covenant promise to Abraham to make them like the stars, to make them like the sand, to make Israel individual people like the uh sand on the shore. Come, let us deal wisely with them, or else uh the king, the pharaoh is saying, of the Israelites, or else they'll multiply, and in the event of war they will join themselves to those who hate us and fight against us and depart from the land. He saw the Israelites multiplying They appointed taskmasters over them to afflict them with hard labor. They built for Pharaoh storage cities. But the more they afflicted them, the more they multiplied. Why? Because God is sovereign the more they spread out. And then he protects David, 2 Samuel, as king, 2 Samuel 17, 14. Uh later in David's life, I think later from Psalm 33 and the other Psalms we've looked at, Absalom, his son, is seeking to kill David. And then Absalom and all the men of Israel said, The council of Hushai, the Archite is , Architect is better than the council of Ahithophel. And listen to this, you don't have to understand the context to understand the sovereignty of God here. For the Lord had ordained to thwart the good counsel of Ahithophel so that the Lord might bring calamity on Absalom. He is sovereign. And so we praise him. We may not see all of the answers to our prayers that he would act for uh on the world stage in this way or that, but we can trust that he's sovereign and we praise him for it by faith. Proverbs twenty-one thirty declares there is no wisdom and no understanding and no counsel against the Lord. That is, he's going to do what he will do. And no one can hinder him as the ruler in history of all men. Many plans are in man's heart. Proverbs 1921. But the counsel of the Lord will stand. And Ephesians one eleven, we have obtained an inheritance, having been predestined according to his purpose who works listen God works all things after the counsel of his will. And so you can read a verse like that, whether in Proverbs 19 or Ephesians 1. Praise you, God, that that is true. I don't see it. I look at the headlines, I listen to a news report. It's hard for me to see, but I trust it. I believe it. Praise you that you are in control of all things. And certainly we have incidents in Scripture to look and see how he works things out for his plan. We have we have uh have actual history books that show us how things have worked out for this way or for that way. Certainly he raises up leaders and puts them down. Well, fifthly, he is gracious. Verse 12 Blessed is the nation whose God is the Lord, the people whom he has chosen for his own inheritance. Now I know some people take this verse out of context and say we ought to pray that our nation be this. But this, the nation in view in this verse, verse 12 of Psalm 33, is Israel. God chose them and blessed them. The inheritance is the blessing promised to Abraham. Blessing of land. Blessing of many descendants, as I commented on earlier, and continued favor from God. Now listen, here's how we should use this verse from our New Testament perspective. We understand that the promise to Abraham is fulfilled in Christ and in the kingdom, not in a nation today such as America or some other nation. Certainly we can pray for God-fearing leaders. I don't mean that. But but the fulfillment of verse 12 is going to come in Christ's kingdom, the blessing of an eternal kingdom and of a people. Countless, like the stars, like the sand, from every nation and tribe. And the blessing of eternal life with the Lord and all the blessings of the eternal So yes, the promises to Abraham are still yes and amen in Christ. And verse twelve is something that we as a church should take personally, because we are the chosen of his Today the people whom God has chosen for his own inheritance are not a nation of the world. That's what I'm trying to say. say they are the church whom he has indeed blessed. First Peter 2. 9 says it so clearly, speaking to the church. Peter writes, you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for God's own possession. Taking Old Testament language about Israel and applying it to the New Testament church. We today are the people of God. So who is the promise of verse 12 for today? It is for all who have received the Lord Jesus Christ. Personal Lord and Savior. Through him we draw near with confidence to a throne of grace, we're told in the book of Hebrews 4. 16, so that we may receive mercy and may find grace to help. in time of need. That is a fulfillment of Psalm 33 and verse 12. He is omniscient. We go on. Two more. He's omniscient. Verse 13. The Lord looks from heaven, he sees all the sons of men from his dwelling place. He looks out on all the inhabitants of the earth, he who fashions the hearts of them all Now, whether you think physical organ the heart or inner self the heart, God has fashioned us, knows everything about us. He understands all our works. And then finally he's able to deliver. Verse 16 and following. The king is not saved by a mighty army. A warrior is not delivered by great strength. A horse is a false hope for victory, nor does it deliver anyone by its great strength. So the point of those two verses, great military strength. bodily strength, weapons of warfare can accomplish nothing without God. Behold, the eye of the Lord is on those who fear, stand in awe of Him, as verse 8 shows us. Stand in awe of him, those who hope for his loving kindness, his mercy to deliver their soul from death and to keep them alive in famine So deliverance, righteous kings of Israel knew, obedient kings of Israel knew was from God who is merciful. Victory was from God who is merciful, not from any strength that they might possess in their army. And so I would say applying this today, the church's hope for ultimate victory over our world, because our task is spoken, couched in The the phrases, the language of warfare at times, our hope for ultimate victory in the world over the flesh and the devil It it is not in, listen, not in influential earthly leaders or powerful news strategies or gaining some new territory of culture, but in the faithful preaching of the Word of God and ultimately in the return of Christ. Come, Lord Jesus. We pray. He is able to deliver. Finally, the confidence of those who praise God. We can wait on God's will because He is our help and shield. Look at verse Verse 20. Our soul waits for the Lord. Our soul waits for the Lord. That verse too reminds me to pray. Come, Lord Jesus. Our soul waits for the Lord. We look for his He is our help and our shield, but we also wait for blessing in the midst of living life unto his glory. To wait means to to pause. Okay? And to soberly consider our own inadequacy and the Lord's all sufficiency And thus, meditate on that for a moment and quickly seek his counsel, seek his help, hope in him, trust in him, be patient, be faithful to him. Him. Wait upon his will. Secondly, we can rejoice now because we trust in him. Our heart rejoices in him. Because we trust in his holy name. His holy name refers to the person he has revealed himself to be that we saw in the verses previous to verse 20, from verse 4 on. To verse 19, we know he will act consistent with who he is, who he has revealed himself to be. So we can rejoice now because we trust in him. So that's why James would tell us to take joy in our trials. We know God is going to use them for His purposes. It's going to grow us, make us more mature in Christ. We can trust that. We can rejoice now. Thirdly, we can pray for loving kindness according as we trust. God's character. I I love verse 22. It's where a psalm like this should lead us. We see these great things about God, and here's the prayer of the psalm. Let your loving kindness, O Lord, be upon us. We need that. We need that. Let your loving kindness be upon us according as we have hoped in you. We understand our God more because of the psalm. Therefore, we hope in Him more. And the prayer is, God, be that to us. Love us in those ways. So notice here that praise Understanding God's character and praising Him helps to keep the character of God fresh in our minds So David had a purpose, probably many purposes. God's glory was one reason he set up those singers in front of the tabernacle and those instrumentalists in front of the tabernacle. And if God's the only one who ever heard, they were worthy of that, but others heard, and it reminded them of the character of God and kept it in the mind of the people. And when we do that by reading the scripture and by singing hymns of praise together and by being under the word of God We think about his character, and we know that his love is poured out within our hearts through the Holy Spirit who is given to us. Romans 5, verse 5. We know that nothing will be able to separate us from the love of God. Romans 8. Verse 39, and therefore praise is an essential to a steadfast prayer life. Let your loving kindness, O Lord, be Be upon us according as we have hoped in you. Why do we hope in him? Because we know him. We praise him. We acknowledge him. I think Jesus underscores this principle in the Lord's Prayer. Remember how it begins. Jesus taught the disciples, Pray then in this way, our Father who is in heaven. You know the next line. Hallowed be your name. Well this Psalm, Psalm 33, helps us to express Such praise helps us to hallow God 's name with detail. Implications: we've seen the call to praise God, sing for joy. Give thanks. Sing praises to him. Sing him a new song. Play skillfully if you play with a shout of joy. We've seen the character of the God we praise, just to remind you, He's faithful, He's righteous and loving, He is the creator, He is sovereign, He is gracious, He is omniscient, He is able to deliver. And each of those parts of his character is worthy of your thought and meditation and personal application. And then the people responded with verses 20 through 22, the confidence of those who praise God. And let me just ask you and ask myself, have we this morning responded? In this way, in the way of verses twenty through twenty-two. Look at them again. Our soul waits for the Lord. Certainly, there's ways in your life you should be waiting for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. For our heart rejoices in him Because we trust in His holy name. Let your loving kindness, O Lord, be upon us according as we have hoped in you This is God's invitation to all of his people, according to the Psalm. And in the situation that you're in, if you are one of his people, you are to wait in, you are to rejoice in, you are to trust in God. But the question is still there, are you one of his people? And that has to do with whether or not you've understood that he so loved the world that he sent his only begotten son. that whoever believes in him will not perish but have eternal life. We're going to celebrate the truth of the gospel If you have received Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, and if you have been baptized showing publicly that you have received Jesus Him, then indeed you're invited to to join with us. But if that's not the case in your life, don't leave, but think about God's goodness. Think about God's love to you. Because he's holy and you're not, and your sin must be punished. Because God is holy and just, and he must punish all sin. That's a given according to the word of God. You and I can just say, uh pick on Dave. Dave, I forgive you, I let it go, don't worry about it. And and and I can do that. I'm not holy, holy, holy. I'm sinful like Dave. I I can Understand that we're both going to make mistakes sometimes and we can forgive each other like that. God must punish every sin. And unless you've trusted In the Savior, the one who came to take punishment upon the cross for the sin of others, unless your sin has been placed there by your faith. Then you're going to pay for your sin when Jesus returns. And you'll pay for it eternally. Remember what I just read. For God so loved the world that he gave his only begotten Son that whoever believes in him will not perish. The word perish has to do with with paying the penalty of our sin through death and through eternal death. But those who believe have eternal life. Amen. Amen. Forgiveness now. Relationship, friendship with God now. If you don't know what that's all about, ask one of us afterwards. We'd be glad to talk to you about it. That. But don't leave. Just understand that's what we're celebrating today. That Jesus came to give us eternal life through his death, his shed blood. The tabernacle sacrifices that David was dealing with and singing about, they were shadowing, they were pointing to the once and for all sacrifice of the Son of God. Let's pray together. Well, Father, we come before you wanting to grow in our praise of you because you are worthy, and we have the opportunity now. to praise you for so loving the world that you sent your son. And I pray that believers who have shown that through their baptism would come together in this great time of remembrance, in this great time of Time of thanking you and worshiping you, praising you for your love for us. In Christ. And for those Father who are not in Christ, who are here, we thank you that they're here. We thank you that they're listening to your word. And I pray that your spirit would bring them along, would show them What sin is, what righteousness is, what holiness is, and what needs to be done there. Convict them of a judgment to come, and then show them your love in Christ, I pray. It's in his name we ask. Amen.