The words we'll examine this evening come from Romans chapter five, verses twelve through twenty-one. Romans chapter five. Verses twelve through twenty one. This maybe is a strange place to go on Good Friday. You know, we're not sitting in the gospels where we're seeing the story of the crucifixion of Christ unfold, but I had Pastor Matt read that section so we can have that in our minds. Because what I want to do this evening is help us understand how did we get to the point Or why do we need Christ to die on the cross for us? How do we get to the point that Christ is going to the cross and dying? Or maybe the better question is, why? Why is this happening? Why are we calling this Good Friday when Jesus is dying? Why are we taking so much time to celebrate the death of a man? We need to understand our condition that we are in before Christ, and we need to understand the reason that Christ came. And went to the cross. I believe Romans 5 gives us a helpful insight. Uh actually gives us a a tool to see or a lens to see through, a tool to understand Our condition outside of Christ, and then our condition in Christ. So our status, our identity, one is in Adam, which we'll see, Paul addressed, and the other one then is in Christ That's the two options we have in all of society. We are either of Adam, of the world, dead in our sins and our trespasses, rebels against the holy God, or we are in Christ. Righteous. In Christ, holy in Christ, children of God, because of Christ. And tonight I want us to examine this, but here's what I want us to walk away with tonight. I want you to leave here knowing this truth, that because Christ died on the cross, you now can have eternal life Christ died on the cross, and through his death you can now have eternal life. Now, if you are a Christian, you already have faith in Christ, let me make this in the very positive form. Because Christ died, you now live. And it's an eternal life. It's an eternal glory. It's an eternal hope that we have. But we must understand how we got to this point. So let me pray, and then we will read Romans 5, 12 through 21. Holy God, once again we come before you. We look to you for guidance tonight. Lord, may your word speak to us. May the truth flow out. May we see our need for Christ. And may we We see the glory of Christ in His work. May we be in all that you sent your Son to die for sinners like us. May we be amazed that we have any hope of salvation, that we have any hope of life in our filthy and sinful ways. Lord, I ask that you mature us, you sanctify the saints, you convict the sinners, and draw them to you tonight. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen Amen. Now let's read Romans 5, 12 through 21. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man, and death through sin. And so death spread to all men because all sinned. For sin indeed was in the world before the law was given. But sin is not counted where there is no law. Yet death Reigned from Adam to Moses, even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one who was to come. But the free gift is not like the trespass. For if many died through one man's trespass, much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for many. And the free gift is not like the result of that one man's sin. For the judgment following one trespass brought condemnation, but the free gift following many trespasses brought justification. For if, because of one man's trespass, death reigned through that one man, much more will those who receive the abundance of grace and the free gift of righteousness reign in life through the one man, Jesus Christ. Christ. Therefore, as one trespass leads to condemnation for all men, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. For as by the one man's disobedience, the w the many were made sinners. So by the one man's obedience the many will be made righteous. Now the law came in to increase the trespass, but where sin increased, grace abounded all the more, so that as sin reigned in death, grace also might reign through righteousness, leading to eternal life Through Jesus Christ our Lord. Friends, may we understand the condition of who we are outside of Christ And Paul does such a wonderful demonstration here of our identity outside of Christ, that we are in Adam. We are in Adam. And if we are in Adam, then we are in sin. And if we are in sin, or we are sinners, then we are dead. This is our issue. This is the world's issue. Is that we're all sinners. Right? This is our problem as humans. This is the conflict we now face every day: we are sinners, and the just punishment for our sin is death, an eternal separation from God. But let us ask this question. How did we get to this point? How do we get to be sinners? Why are we sinners? How's that possible? You know, think about little babies. Right? They're all so cute. Right? They're squishy. I think that's appropriate to say. They're just they're just lovely. Yeah, they cry, but but we don't look at them and go, Oh, you're so wicked, you're such a sinner. Yet we see death reigning even in infants. And then we look at our friends and our family and we say, yeah, you know, my siblings, they have their problems. But they're not disgusting rebels, they're not the murderer, they're not committing crimes, yet death reigns in our families So how did we get to this point? We must see the case that Paul lays out here in Romans 5. Look with me in verse 12. It says, therefore Just as sin came into the world through one man. Beloved, our problem goes all the way back to the garden. It goes all the way back to Genesis 3. Just to paint this picture so we understand where we're at, God is the creator of the universe. He created everything. He spoke everything into existence. Except for man. He formed man out of the dust, and then he breathed life into Adam, making Adam a very unique creature. Made in the likeness of Yahweh. And in that likeness, now Adam has a special responsibility in the creation. And he was given instructions, he was given an abundance of ability to live and to flourish, he was given commands, and he was also given a restriction. And then Adam, he sinned. Adam went and clearly disobeyed God's instruction. He went to the tree and he ate from the tree. And in that moment, God promised that death would come upon Adam, and we see that there is a spiritual death that happens to Adam. But in that moment, we see death then reign throughout all of creation. But so does that sin. In that one man, that one action, we are now feeling the effects of that sin today. Thousands of years later, we are still feeling the effects of that today. Now there's there's the general sense. We could say Adam is our head, so he is the figurative head of all of humanity. Because we all come from Adam, right? The very first man, Adam and Eve. There's only two. And if there's only two, then all of us come from those two. And then s sin then reigns throughout all of humanity. But not only does sin just reign because of Adam's sin, and because we all are from the lineage of Adam, but we all have the sin nature of Adam. No one had to teach you to sin. Did anyone have to instruct you to hate your brother? Did anyone had to have to teach you You new drivers, does anyone have to teach you to get angry when someone cuts you off in traffic? No? I don't know where that comes from. That's just natural, right? Our anger and our frustration is just natural. Did anyone have to teach you to lust? To envy what other people have? No, this is part of the fallen nature. This is part of what we have received. From Adam, our nature is corrupted. It's depraved. It's sinful. The sin issue is just reigning within all of us. Alright, so we see that Adam is the figurehead, and that the issue of sin comes from him. Now this is this is hard for us to understand that we are taking on the punishment because of one man's actions, but we must understand that Adam is the figurative head of all humanity and that the punishment for sin. is coming because of Adam's sin. Now we do know that we all sinned. Look with me in verse 14. It says, or let's jump back in thirteen. For sin indeed was in the world before the law was given. But sin is not counted where there is no law, yet death reigned from Adam to Moses. Even over those whose sinning was not like the transgressions, of Adam. Just notice our sin is not exactly the same as Adam's sin. Each one is unique. Is this different from Adam? Yet we're all under this figurative head of Adam. And we must understand that Adam is the point. Of the tension we have in this world. Adam is the cause of all the death and destruction that we see around us. Why do I say that? Why is that so important? It's because if we don't understand that Adam is the the figurative head of humanity where all sin comes from, then we don't understand how it's possible that Christ can be our answer. Yes, we are all guilty of sin. All of us are guilty of sin. We all have committed sin in our actions. We've all committed sins in our thoughts. And our desires and our passions, our lack of care of what God has said in his word and law. So we're all guilty of that. But just notice, and we're going to walk through this, how often Paul points that our issue of sin is going back to one man. And that man is Adam. So look in verse 12. It says, Therefore, just as sin came into the world, through who? One man, yeah, Adam, one man. Jump down to verse 15 with me. And he says, but the free gift is not like the trespass, for if many died through, how many? One man's trespass. Jump down to sixteen with me. And the free gift is not like the result of that One man sin. Thank you, John. You're catching on what we're doing here. That one man sin. You're seeing that the issue we are facing of sin is going all the way back to Adam. Now we are still guilty of it, but we must understand Adam as our figurative head. Jump down to verse 18. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men. Sorry I didn't give you the chance to say that one, but that one trespass, he's pointing back to Adam, the one trespass that has brought the death and destruction upon us. And then verse 19 for as by the one man's disobedience Do you see it? Do you see the one man, the one man, the one man? Now I'm not making a scapegoat here I'm not saying, oh, you're excused now. You don't you you can't help it. This is just who you are. No, what I'm trying to help us understand and see is that this is the reality that all of humanity finds themselves in. This is the condition that we are in. We've received, look with me in verse 12 at the very end. So death spread to all men because, here it is. All sinned. All sinned. Yes, we can point back to Adam, and we have to. We have to understand that Adam is that one man. That God created Adam in perfection. God set up Adam to reign over all of creation. He commanded Adam to be fruitful and to multiply. But Adam failed. And because of his failure, we are still feeling the effects of that failure, and we are also guilty because we have all sinned. Now that that sin there in verse 12 is I'm gonna get fancy. I just want to use my Greek for one time. This is the only time I've ever used Greek. But it's in the aorist tense. Now we all know what the aorist tense is, but I'll I'll say it is just for those that don't know. It just means that it's already been perfected and completed It's been perfected and completed. So, this idea of all sinned, well, yes, we are continuing sin. There's something very specific about this term here of all sinned. It's saying it's done. It's not like we could read this and say, oh, I didn't know about that. I'm going to correct it and solve the problem myself. The reason that Paul's using this word here is because our sin and the problem of sin is going all the way back to Adam. It's not like maybe if we can just get a hold of that baby as soon as they're born and and then we go put them in in a room by this themselves and we make sure that they have enough food and enough diapers and they they can raise up and as long as they never interact with anyone else they'll never sin They'll never, they'll be innocent and they won't need Jesus. No, what Paul's saying is that's not the case. All sin, because it all goes back to Adam. And now you can think about your own life. How easy sin has just flowed out of you at times, especially before Christ. How it's just uh it was just who you were before Christ. It's just the natural being that you are to rebel and to sin. This problem is huge. So we see we have this problem of sin before us, and and that sin goes to Adam as our figurative head, but we see that we all sinned, and because of that we are all guilty of sin. And the just punishment for sin is death. We've seen it quite a few times already, but once again, look there in verse 12. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man. Here it is. And death through sin. Beloved, this is our problem. We have sinned And we deserve the punishment for our sin, which has been promised from God from the beginning, that if we rebel against him, if Adam sins against him , He will die. He will surely die. Now there's two aspects to this death that we must recognize. There's the spiritual death that happened. That happened immediately. There is the separation. From God. There's a separation from the Creator. And this death, we we are all born into. That we we experience this, that we are separated from the Creator. We are separated from the perfect holy God. Therefore, outside of Christ, we really like our sin. We enjoy it. We don't even use the term sin. We're just living according to our passions. We're just going after our desires. We don't even think about it. Like to try to try to go back for some of you this may be a long time ago. Go back to Who you were before Christ. And maybe some in here are in that state now. If you're not a Christian and you never confess faith in Christ, do you even think about what God wants for you on the daily? No, you just wake up. What feels good? What's going to bring me happiness? That separation is experienced here in the physical. But we also understand that there is a spiritual, eternal separation that happens. Those outside of Christ, when they die, the physical death, which we'll come back to, When they have the physical death, they will receive the just punishment of an eternal separation from God in hell and then into the lake of fire into the eternal. We see God's judgment coming upon them. God looks at their works and he sees their works are corrupted, that they've sinned against him. And he sees and he looks at them and says, You have nothing to bring to me. Except for corruption. Therefore, you do not know me, be gone. And cast them into the lake of fire in the eternal. That's the spiritual death that all will receive outside of Christ. But I I believe that God has given us a discipline here on this earth that we do not like. But it's very intentional that He has allowed it to continue. That's the physical discipline. Oh, physical death stings, does it not? When we lose a loved one, we feel that. For some of you, you may just have a fear of your own death, of that reality. There's the understanding that in the future there is going to be a moment that you do not exist here on this earth anymore. And for some of you, that may grip you at night. That twists up your mind and that fear is there. For some, you are maybe in a season where you are currently experiencing the sorrow and the pain and the mourning of losing a loved one to death. That's still And that pain is very intentional. Because that's only a glimpse, it's only a shadow of the eternal spiritual death that we will experience. experience outside of Christ. But we must see that everyone physically dies. Right? That is the reign of sin on this corrupted creation. Right now. Sin has corrupted everything that everybody and everything dies And we need to feel that. It needs to hurt. I was at a funeral today, and while in one breath, the family's celebrating the life of this woman who is a faithful saint. And celebrating her life in Christ and celebrating that she is in the eternal, in the eternal glory, in the presence of Christ right now. But in the very next breath, there's tears because of the They recognize the pain of the physical death. They recognize the separation that they just don't have their mother, their sister, their grandmother, their friend here on this earth. Right now. And we need to understand that. This is our problem, friends, is that because of Adam, we now have all sinned, we're all guilty of sin, and we all deserve the just punishment of death. And we see the physical death that reigns in creation right now, but we know that there is a promised spiritual death, eternal separation from God, if we don't solve this sin problem. So what's the solution? Right? Hopefully I I brought us down a little bit. I caused some some sorrow a little bit. We need that, beloved. We need To be reminded of how disgusting and terrible our sin is. We need to be reminded of how painful and and and and agonizing The punishment for our sin is how God is just in that punishment. He is righteous in punishing wicked with death. Because when we feel that pain, when we feel that sting, when it when it stirs up in us uh uh a bit of chaos and And a bit of confusion and uncertainty and maybe a sense of hopelessness if we are dwelling on our own sin, it then drives us to Good Friday when Christ goes to the cross. Now why is that? For you that are Christians, you're making these connections already. You're going, absolutely. The only hope I have is in Christ going to that cross. The only hope I have is that Jesus died for me. There's a chance that some of you are in here tonight and have not made that connection. You're going, okay, okay, Pastor, tell me the answer. I don't like this. You've made me sad. You've I'm I'm hurt now. I'm I'm scared because you've told me I'm a sinner and yeah, I I recognize that I've lied and I I recognize that I've I've hated my my siblings or uh I've hated people in my life. I've recognized that I've lusted after people. I've recognized that I've coveted after things that others have and so I I okay, I I understand this sin issue and if I believe you, I I have this death thing that's that's bound for me, and and this this death is not good. What is my hope then, Pastor? Well, here's your hope if you're asking that question. Just as sin entered through one man, Adam, righteousness enters through one man, Jesus. Jesus Christ. And that's what Paul is laying out here in Romans 5. Remember, he's saying, one man, one man, one man brought sin. One man brought the trespasses. One man brought destruction. One man brought death. But now let's look at those same verses and see how they're reversed. So the one man brings the destruction, but now the one man, Jesus Christ. Brings life. The one man Jesus Christ brings hope. The one man Jesus Christ brings righteousness. Look with me in verse 14. Yet death reigned from Adam to Moses even over those whose sinning was not like the transgression of Adam, who was a type of the one who was to come. Before I get to the comparison here, let's just talk about this word type. Or shadow. It's an example or a demonstration of something to come in the future. So Adam was a type. He was the prototype. He was the image that we are to have. Okay, Adam was given the command to reign, to be fruitful, to multiply, to take dominion over all creation. And he failed. So he's not a good example, but he is a type. And now what we're going to see is Christ coming onto the scene. Well, Adam failed to take dominion, to be fruitful, to multiply. Here comes Christ. Does the Lord Jesus Christ take dominion? Yeah, shake your heads up and down. I'll give you the answers. Is he fruitful? Yeah, there's churches all over the world. There's Christians all over the world. Is he multiplying? Oh yeah. That's why we preach the gospel. We just see that that as Adam as the type He didn't fulfill what he was commanded. Here comes Christ, fulfilling it perfectly. As Adam was commanded not to break the law of God, here comes Christ. And he did not break the law of God. It's one of the celebrations, it's one of the realities of Christ. That from his birth until his death on the cross, he never, ever sinned. Never. Now I'm not just talking about like what he did with his hands or his words. Right, that for some of us we go, yeah, I can go I can go a day without without cussing. I can go a day without uh physically sinning. But he didn't even sin with his thoughts. He didn't even sin with his desires and his wants. How many of us can say that we can do that for two days? Right. That whoa whoa. You're saying you're saying in the thirty-three years of life Christ never even broke a single law of God. No. But let me even magnify what Christ has done. Well, he never broke any aspect of the law. He also fulfilled the law perfectly. He perfectly worshiped God. Perfectly. Fulfilled it. All the commandments were fulfilled in Christ. So he did the negative by not breaking the law, but he also did the positive by rightly living and worshiping God. Friends, I hope you're just being you're seeing the magnifying glass upon Christ and how how perfect he is, how wonderful he is, and how opposite he is of Adam. Adam broke one law, one commandment, and brought all this destruction to us. Here's Christ, who has not broken any laws or commandments, and in So you see the two types here. Adam all sins, boom. Now let's see Christ and what we what comes out of Christ. That's why we must see that Adam is the figurative head of humanity and that sin comes from Adam and reigns in us because the only hope we then have is in one man and that one man is Jesus. Jesus Christ. So look with me in verse 15. But the free gift is not like the trespass. Alright, so for the if many die through one man's trespass, here it is. Much more have the grace of God and the free gift by the grace of that, here it is, one man, Jesus Christ, abounded for many. One man Adam, sin has entered, but here's the free gift. The grace of God demonstrated through that one man, Jesus Christ. Jump down to verse eighteen with me. Therefore, as one trespass led to condemnation for all men, here it is, so one act of righteousness leads to justification and life for all men. Now who's what's that one act? Is it your good deeds? Anyone want to bring one good deed up here to see if that'll get you eternal life? That one nice thing you did, that one nice extra dollar bill you put into the offering plate, you think that's going to get you entrance into heaven? You think that's going to pay for all of your sins? Absolutely not. That one act is that perfect, unblemished Lamb, the Son of God, Jesus Christ, going to the cross. and dying on the cross. Look at one more verse with me in Romans here, verse 19. For as by the one man's disobedience The many were made sinners, so by the one man's obedience, the many will be made righteous. Friends, we must understand that distinction that sin and uh trespasses and unrighteousness And death comes out of Adam, and we are all born of Adam, and the only hope we have is in Christ, therefore we must be born of Christ. Christ. Do you see that connection? That if we're if we're all sinners because we're born of the line of Adam, then we must be made righteous, and the only hope to be made righteous And to be forgiven and to have eternal life is to be born of Christ. Now your question is, how is this accomplished? Great question. I knew you were asking that. How is this possible? How is Jesus' act on the cross righteous? How can we be made made holy, and how can we be forgiven by the work of Christ on the cross? Well here it is. Christ's death is not due to his own sin, but rather for ours. Right, we die because of our sin. But Christ didn't sin. Christ didn't sin. He didn't break the law. So, if you're logically thinking through this, that born from Adam, we've all sinned and we all have committed sin, therefore we die, then here comes the Son of God, Jesus Christ, who lives a perfect life. Why then is he dying? That's not the just punishment. He hasn't broken the law. He hasn't committed a sin. There's no reason for Jesus to die according to his own works. Right? But this is what we're told. 2 Corinthians 5. 21 says, For our sake, he made him to be sinned. Sin who knew no sin, so that in him we might become the righteousness of God. Do you hear that Why did Jesus die? It's because God made him to become sin, even though he knew no sin. Why? It's because God loved us while we were rebels and sinners. In our weakness, he sent his son Jesus to die for us and our sins. Jesus is holy, he's perfect, he's righteous, and he's going to the cross because you are not. Your only hope is in Christ. He died while we were dead in our sins. That's another amazing aspect of the death of Christ There's this a piece of us that wants to kind of put it together that Jesus came down to the earth and we were like kind of getting our act together, but We weren't quite there yet. So Jesus did the last big step for us and went to the cross. Like we were almost there, but we needed Jesus just to kind of push us across the finish line. That's a lie. You didn't even start the race to righteousness. You were dead in your trespasses and sins, as Paul says in Ephesians. You were at the bottom of the pit. You were a rebel. You hated God. When you hated God, in your rebellion, in your deadness, that's when Christ came down to this earth. That's when Christ went to the cross. It wasn't like, oh, it's just kind of bubbling up in you and you were about to do it. No, God is the justifier. God is the justifier. God is the one that has made you righteous. God is the one that has done the work in your life to make you new and to give you a new life. God is the one that gives you new birth. That's what Jesus tells Nicodemus in the garden in John 3, right? He says, he starts talking about this new birth. You've got to be born again. And what's what's silly Nicodemus do? Must I climb back up into my mother's womb? Right? He's thinking in the physical sense. But no, then Jesus starts to point to the work of the Spirit. And the birth comes from the work of the Spirit in an individual's life. And then what does he say? You don't know. You can't see. The spirit at work. But you see the effects of the spirit. You see the leaves move when the wind blows. You don't see the wind itself. Well, friends, here we are. That's our God. That while we were dead, while we were rebels, Christ came and died for us. And we need God to make us righteous. We need God to justify us through the work of Christ on the cross. So what happened in that moment as Christ is on the cross? Ephesians 1. 7 tells us. Ephesians 1. 7, in him we have redemption. How? Through his blood. the forgiveness of our trespasses. His blood was poured out because we deserve to pour out our blood for our trespasses, but he paid for our sins. And then 1 Corinthians 6 20. I love this verse. Oh, this is a good verse. To fight against sin and temptation in our lives. You were bought with a price. I love that. Why is that so important for us? How great of a price is that the Son of God, the Messiah, died on the cross for you? That's not a twenty-dollar bill. That's not a home mortgage. That's not all the riches of the world. All the silver and gold you could gather does not compare to that. Great price. The Son of God came down from heaven. Came down from heaven. Took himself out of the just position that he had in heaven. Reigning over heaven. He was there. He was in unity with the Father. He came down to this earth, took on flesh. Was beaten, was persecuted, and went to the cross. And as he's on that cross, he takes on our sins. And this is why he cries out on the cross: My God, my God, why have you forsaken me? This is the Son of God. He's crying out to his Father, who he has been in unity with from before time began. He's crying out, Why have you forsaken me? Because in that moment he's taking on our sins and receiving the punishment that we deserve. What a great price that has been paid for our sins. A price we can't pay. A price that we can never pay here in this lifetime, and we can't pay for it in the eternal. That's why it's an eternal separation. From God. But here in that moment, Christ paid the ultimate penalty. He paid the price for us. It's finished, He cries out. His work is complete. And sinners are made righteous. Now, why do I love that 1 Corinthians 6 20 verse? You were bought with a price. Hey, friends, when you are tempted to commit the sin that's always kind of creeping up in you, remember that. If you're a child of God, you are bought with a price. Do you mistreat your cars? Who's got a I was going to say a $20,000 car? That's not really an expensive car anymore. Who has that $40,000 car? It's fresh. It smells good. You're gonna start acting crazy in it? You gonna let the kids eat McDonald's in the backseat? No, right? You keep it nice and clean. You put some effort into keeping it in its tip-top shape because you spent so much money on it But then for some reason when we think about our salvation and our new identity in Christ, we are we're just we're foolish with it. We just say, oh yeah, I was bought with a price. Yeah, I'm a Christian. But I'm going to go back to the old darkness and the old way of living I'm going to go back to the old sins that I loved before Christ. Insulting the very price that Christ paid for you. So I love that verse. I think it's a great challenge, especially for men, to fight against temptation. You are bought with a price. Now live out as though you are valued. And recognize how valued you are, how God looks at you as being valued. How he sent his son to die for you because he values you so much. So we see the problem of sin and the punishment of death. We see how the only hope we have is in Christ and we must be and he has lived a perfect life and he has paid the penalty for us on the cross. Now final and conclusion here. How does that activate, right? How do we get out of the line of Adam where we're sinned and received death? And how do we get born again and into the line of Jesus? Maybe some of you are in here saying, well, if Jesus died and Paul's laying it out, he's using those same languages as many and all, then that must mean that Jesus has saved the whole world and that everyone's saved. So it doesn't matter. They don't need to be Christians. They can follow other religions. They can do whatever they want. Jesus died for many and all. Therefore, we're good to go. Well, no, friends. You're not following the logical thinking here. We are naturally all born into Adam, right? That's our lineage. We're born into Adam. And so then we are living according to the nature we have in Adam, but we must be born again in Christ. And the way that we are born again in Christ. As Paul tells us in Ephesians, is that we are saved by grace through faith. Or Paul tells us in Romans 10:9 , any of the youth know it? If you believe that Jesus is the Lord and that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. So how we are naturally born into Adam. How then are we born of Christ? It's by believing in him. Believing that you were born into Adam and you deserve the just punishment for your sins. And that your only hope is that this Son of God, Jesus Christ, came to this earth, lived a perfect life, died on the cross, paying the penalty of the death. You deserve to pay. And on Sunday we'll celebrate that he rose from the dead, defeating sin and death, and now he sits at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth, and one day he will return to his creation. To judge the living and the dead, and that the saints will be with him forever, worshiping him and living with him forever. If you believe that, that your only hope is in that man Truly God, truly man, Jesus Christ. When you believe that, you are then born of Christ. It's not complex. It's not like you have to come up here and do a song and a dance. It's not there's not a whole bunch of work. It's what happens in your heart. Your mind and your heart start to connect, and you're saying, I'm seeing my sin, and I'm seeing the glory of Christ. I'm seeing that I'm going to die my sins, and I see that the only hope I have for eternal life is a Christ. I see that I can't solve my problem, but Christ has solved my problem on the cross. Friends, run to the cross of Christ now. Cry out to Him in your hearts now. Believe in Him now. Do not delay. See his work, see his glory on the cross, and you will be born again. And in that, it's many. That's why Paul can say the words many and all. It's because Jesus' death is not limited to a specific time in history. Right? It's not like, oh, uh after 2026, there's no, you're too late. If you're born after 2026, you can't receive salvation in Christ. No, it's not limited there. It's not limited to a specific racial group or ethnic group. Oh well you weren't born into the right family, therefore you can't come to Christ. No, it's open to all. The calls to all. The plea of the gospel goes around the world to all people, tribes, and tongues. Maybe you're thinking, well, Pastor, you know, this is my first time in the church. I'm just not a religious person. I probably will like you a little bit more. Come to Christ. Right, your religion, how hard you've done religion does not dictate if you are born of Christ. For many, you're living a false religion, you're allowing this just kind of going through the motions to say that you are born again, but you have no relationship. You have no faith in Christ. Your hope is all based off of the works of your hands. Give that up and come to Christ. Maybe you say you're not wealthy, you're not smart enough, you don't have all the answers. Well, friend, join the club. The broken, the humble, the weak is who come to Christ in faith, believing in him. They find strength, they find wealth, they find knowledge and meaning in Christ. So as you see, Adam, and sin reigns through Adam, and death comes upon all of us, look to Christ, the one man who hung on the cross as the perfect sacrifice, the unblemished Lamb, and be born of Christ. By coming to faith in him. Let us go before our God in prayer. Holy God, once again we come before you, rejoicing that while we were sinners, you sent your Son While we were your enemies, you loved us. You redeemed us. While we could not solve this sin problem, we could not escape the penalty of death Christ has accomplished it all for us. He has made us righteous. He has atoned our sins. He has brought us into your family. He made us your children. Our sins are forgiven before you, so we rejoice in this. Father, I ask that you remind us of this truth and this reality many times tonight and this weekend as we celebrate Easter. Remind us of the hope of Christ and give us the proclamation to proclaim this to the world. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.