Let me invite you, church, to open with me to First Peter chapter four. First Peter four, we're going to be looking at verses seven through eleven this morning. 1 Peter 4 verses 7 through 11. As you're turning there, there's a question that I want you to consider. How would you live if you knew that your life was about to end? This is a well-worn question. It's one that's been taken up in countless books, movies, plays, even some very tedious country songs I had to listen to as a kid in the car. But this can be a question that helps reveal to us what we believe to be most important, can't it? It can reveal what we value, what we had w wished perhaps that we had dedicated more time to. It's a question to get us thinking about what do we believe matters in life, and what do we believe will make our life matter. As we look this morning at this text in 1 Peter, we're going to be confronted with a similar question. How must we live knowing that this world as we know it will soon end? You see in verse 7 that Peter writes under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit that the end of all things is at hand. That is to say, in the grand scheme of redemptive history, we are now in the last days. We're in the final stage before Christ Jesus returns to consummate his kingdom. His redemptive work on the cross has been accomplished. He has risen from the dead. He has ascended into heaven. He is ruling and reigning now at the right hand of the Father with all authority in heaven and on earth. He is expanding the borders of his kingdom as the gospel is preached and as sinners are saved. And now we live in the last days as those who long for and who anticipate. His return to consummate his kingdom. And so we're confronted with this question: How must we live in light of the imminent return of Jesus Christ our King? And what we might expect as an answer to this question is something like a rousing fourth quarter pep talk. The end of all things is at hand, so exhaust yourselves. Give it all you've got. Go for broke. Charge the mound. Be radical. To use a buzzword from 2010. Instead, though, what we see in this text almost seems like a letdown by comparison. The end of all things is a hand, so be self-controlled. Be sober minded, love one another, show hospitality, serve one another. If we're being honest, doesn't that feel just a little bit anticlimactic? I mean, where's the drama? Where's the spectacle? Where's the action in those things? But here's what we're going to see in the text this morning. When we are saved by the gospel of Jesus Christ, looking to him in faith. We are then brought into a brand new community that is created by the gospel. That's the community known as the local church And as we live together in this new kind of community, as this new kind of people created by the gospel, the ways that we are called to live in this community. The ways we are called to relate to one another are meant to, in these last days, declare to the world and to each other the fact that Jesus is our King. And the fact that Jesus is King over all. Our lives, our priorities, our self-giving love for one another, it's all meant to To be this living proclamation that Jesus Christ has dominion over all things. And that all things include our lives together. And we need to see that just as we are saved and as we are brought into this community by the gospel, by looking to Christ in faith. We put these things on, we relate to one another in these ways by looking to Christ in faith. We need to recognize and have clear at the outset that the gospel creates our community. And the gospel empowers us to live in this community together as believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. So you have an outline in your bulletin. The main question we're going to be thinking about this morning is how are we called to live in the last days? And the main point we're going to see is that we are called to live under the Lordship of Jesus Christ in gospel community together for the glory of God. Under the Lordship of Jesus, in gospel community, for the glory of God. Let's look now at 1 Peter 4, beginning in verse 7. The end of all things is at hand. Therefore, be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins Show hospitality to one another without grumbling. As each has received a gift, use it to serve one another, as good stewards of God's varied grace. Whoever speaks is one who speaks oracles of God. Whoever serves is one who serves by the strength that God supplies. In order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. As we walk through this text together, we're going to consider three ways that we are exhorted to live together in the last days. And you see them there in your outline. We're going to see that we must be yielded to King Jesus. We must love one another in gospel-shaped community, and we must pursue the glory of God as our highest good. Now there's one pr more just preliminary point that I want to make at the outset. The kind of community that we see depicted here and that we are called to. It's created by the gospel. We don't do these things in order to get the gospel. If you were to come to my other workplace tomorrow at Chick-fil-A and you were to walk behind the counter You were to join me in the kitchen, you were to start dropping chicken into fryers and slinging sandwiches. You could work with me all day. That wouldn't make you an employee. You have to be brought in. And similarly, as we see this community depicted, we don't do these things in order to get to the gospel. We must be brought in by faith in Christ. So let me encourage you, if you are here this morning and you are not a believer, the application of this sermon for you is to look to Jesus Christ in faith for the forgiveness of your sins. Trust in his work on the cross is the only reality that will make you right with God. And that will make you a citizen of his kingdom. Do not think for a moment that you can do these things in the hopes that it will make you right with God, because it will not. Likewise, if you're a Christian here this morning and you have not committed yourself to a particular body of believers through church membership, Let me encourage you that the application of this sermon for you is to place membership, be joined to a community of believers in a biblical local church. This is God's pattern for your discipleship. This is the assumption of the entire New Testament. And we can't expect to reap the benefits of the church community apart from meaningful commitment. to the church body. We turn now to consider from this text how we are called to live side by side in gospel community together. We see first that we must be yielded to King Jesus. We look at verse 7 and see that after Peter tells us that the end of all things is at hand, he says, Therefore, in light of that reality, be self-controlled and sober-minded for the sake of your prayers. This text calls us to be self-controlled. That is, we are called to live in the last days as those who are no longer under the ruling power of sin. But by God's grace we have been set free from our sin. We have been changed and transformed by the gospel of Jesus Christ. And therefore, we now have the Holy Spirit-empowered grit. To say no to our sin. Before you were redeemed, before you came to faith in Christ, you were ruled by sin. You were under the dominion of your sinful flesh. But Christian, you are under new management. Therefore, as you look to Christ and as you live together in this body of believers, you're called to live like it. You're called to live a life that is yielded and given over and gladly submitted to your new master And we can see the point he's making here if we look up just a little bit at the beginning of chapter four and see this contrast he's establishing. Peter's establishing here this contrast between those outside the body of believers who are still living a life that's ruled and controlled by the sinful passions of the flesh. But in Christ we now live according to the will of God. Look at verses 1 and 2 of verse 4. He says, Since therefore Christ suffered in the flesh, arm yourselves with the same way of thinking. For whoever has suffered in the flesh has ceased from sin. And here it is, so as to live for the rest of the time in the flesh, no longer for human passions, but for the will of God. We still live in these physical, fleshly bodies, but spiritually we no longer swear allegiance to our sin or to the passions of our sin. Sin is no longer our master. We are under a new master, a better master. So, be self-controlled Verses three and four make this contrast even clearer for us. He gives kind of this summary list of all the ways that the Gentiles, the those who have not come to faith in Christ. Are still living ruled by their sinful passions. And his point is: you've been saved out of that. You've been delivered out of that, and that is not a loss, that is a gain. Praise God, friends, that you no longer have to live for your sinful desires. Praise God that you no longer have to swear allegiance to something that can only ever promise you pleasure, but never actually deliver. On it. Praise God that his grace in Christ enables you and equips you and empowers you to be self-controlled. And to say to your sin, you no longer rule me, I am under the rule in the reign of Christ Jesus Now, as we see this call to be self-controlled, we need to recognize this is not a call to an attainable, sinless perfection in this life. Because the very next verse is going to assume that the community of the church is a community of saved sinners. It's a community of people who still battle with sin. But, though we are no longer ruled, or though we still battle with sin, we're no longer ruled by our sin. Because Jesus Christ has paid the price to set us free. So again, Christians see that you can say no to sin by God's grace, by his power and his equipping. We also need to see that this call to be self-controlled, it's not the call to be some sort of unaffected, emotionless stoic. When we hear the term self-control, perhaps we might think that emotions then are out of the picture. Your emotions don't matter anymore because you're called to be self-controlled. We're not called to be like the King's Guard that just stands at attention and is completely unaffected. Rather This call to be self-controlled is a call for our emotions and our affections and our actions to be bent toward and controlled by what God now defines to be right and good and true and beautiful in our lives. So the call to be yielded to King Jesus we must see is a call to be self-controlled. We'll see also that this call to be yielded, submitted to King Jesus, is a call to be sober-minded. It says for the sake of our prayers. The language here in verse 7 is literally sober unto prayer. We need to see that this call to be living under Christ's Lordship, it not only engages how we live outwardly, it engages how we use our minds. How we think. The Christian life is a call not only to live outwardly, but inwardly to think in a way that honors God. There are a lot of jobs, a lot of callings that can be done without the use of our minds. When I made granola for a living, I I didn't have to do a whole lot of thinking as I was on a factory line just making granola for eight hours a day. There are a lot of jobs that can be done mindlessly, but the Christian life is not like this. We're called to engage our minds, our inner thoughts, our emotions, our faculties. To live for Jesus Christ. Well, how is that? Well, here, see that it's by putting our minds to use through fervent prayer to God. We must use our minds to pursue communion with our God. We must thank him for his blessings. Plead with him for strength. Confess our sins. Ask for his will to be done in our lives. Remind ourselves of the truths of the gospel that hold us fast. We need to recognize that Peter is writing here to Christians under persecution, Christians who are suffering for bearing the name of Jesus. where just the heat of their circumstances and the fear of the unknown would just have threatened to cloud their minds. and to pull them under, to pull their focus away. And here as Peter exhorts them, he says, don't be pulled under. Use your minds to be fixed on the reality of God's grace that holds you fast. And do that by putting your mind to use through communion with God in prayer. Use your minds to be sober unto prayer, even in the midst of circumstances that threaten to pull you under. So see first that as we live in the last days, we must live lives that are yielded inwardly and outwardly to King Jesus. And as we come to these commands, we might conceive of these as things that we can do all on our own. And we could perhaps get the wrong impression From just this first verse that living for King Jesus is this purely individual reality. I need to be self-controlled. I need to be sober-minded. But then we turn to verse 8. And we see that instead to live under the Lordship of Jesus is to be brought into a community where all of us confess Jesus is Lord. Where all of us are brought under the banner of the gospel. And now we are called to live alongside with other believers in ways that are shaped by the gospel. And focused, pointing to the glory of God. We turn next to consider this in point number two. See that we must love one another in gospel-shaped community. We must love one another in gospel shaped community. Look at verse eight. It says, Above all, keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of love. Of sins. So, what is it that animates our relationships within the body of Christ? What defines how we're called to relate to one another? We'll see here that it is love that's shaped by, defined by, and empowered by the gospel of Jesus Christ. See in the text here that this kind of love is essential, not optional. He says, above all, keep loving one another earnestly. This is a central calling, a central task, not a peripheral one. Notice also that it's an ongoing reality. It says keep loving one another. This isn't something that you attain to and then move on from. It's not something for occasional use or occasional application. It's an all-the-time reality. It's an ever-present disposition of our hearts that then spills over into our action toward one another. And see also this word earnestly. This is a word for straining, for stretching, for striving. The kind of love that defines our relationships within the body of Christ, friends, is not a passive love. It's active. It does things. It puts work in. We're going to see this clearly in verses 9 through 11. There are some things in the world that we can love passively. Uh my love for the Baltimore Orioles is very passive. I express it by sitting on the couch and watching a game while reading a book. And it also costs me very little other than a little bit of disappointment every year. The kind of love that we're called to in the church, though, is not like that. It's not a passive love. It is an active, earnest, striving love. Not empowered or fueled by anything in us, but fueled by the reality of the gospel. Fueled by the work of Jesus Christ. Fueled by our identity in Christ. But we also need to ask from this text, who is the one another? Who is it that we're called to love in this way? We've built up to this already and we've seen this already, but see once more that the one another here is fellow believers in Jesus Christ, with whom you are committed in a particular local church. That's the context here. The one another is Christians with whom you're joined together in your local church. That is to say, that the application of this command is sitting with you in this room right now. These are the people that God is calling you to love earnestly. And if we're honest, that might just seem a bit underwhelming at times. Because let's be honest, if we know one another and many of us know one another well in this church We know that sometimes we're not all that impressive. Sometimes we're not all that exciting. Sometimes you think, well, these people in these this room aren't even all that interesting to me. Think about it, we stumble through life. We can struggle with the same sins over and over again for years. Some of us are just downright weird. And often quite unlovely. Can we ad can we admit that that's true? But less we groan at this, less we groan at the idea that these are the people God is calling you to love in this way, we need to remember what's true about us in Christ. Turn back with me just a page, maybe not even a page in your Bibles to 1 Peter chapter 2. Look at verses 9 and 10. 1 Peter 2 verses 9 and 10, Peter writes, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood. A holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light Once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. These unimpressive ragtag Christians that you gather together with week in and week out are a people possessed by God. These are the ones for whom Christ Jesus shed his blood. They have been called out of the sin and darkness of this world and constituted as a people together. Owned by the God of the universe. Christian, you're going to inherit the universe with these people. So you must see them that way. The call to keep loving one another earnestly requires That we see one another in light of the gospel. In light of the way that God looks at us in Christ Because God looks at us and does not see the reality of our sin and our failure week in and week out, day in and day out. That's not what defines our relationship with God. What defines our relationship with God is the perfect righteousness of Jesus Christ, which has done away with all your sin, paid the price for it eternally. That's what defines your relationship to God. And that's what must define our relationships with one another in the body of Christ. And we pursue this kind of love, knowing full well that we are sinners. We see this in the second half of verse eight, don't we? Turn back to first Peter chapter four. Keep loving one another earnestly, since love covers a multitude of sins. This image here of love covering a multitude of sins, it's an image of a veil being thrown over. Of covering something. And that's to say that our love acts as a sort of veil that that covers, it overlooks the sins of another person. Now let's be clear here. The point is not that we enable or hide sin or let people continue living in their sin. In fact, often this kind of love will require that we confront sin. It will require that we bring it to light. But the point of this image here is that we don't wait for someone to act lovely toward us before we love them. With a self-giving gospel love. We don't wait for the other person to be worthy to receive our love. I mean, can you imagine if Christ had done that with us? Rather, even if we are being sinned against by God's grace, and it only happens by God's grace, we resolve to treat that brother or sister according to the love that we have received in Christ. Christ, not according to what we feel like they deserve. Our love it it it covers, it overlooks the reality of sin by resolving to look at these brothers and sisters in light of the fact that they are brothers and sisters. sisters in Christ. So let me ask you this. Think about the person in church who absolutely drives you nuts. Don't try to look for them now. Don't make eye contact. Keep your heads down. How would your attitude toward them change if you were to discipline your mind to remember that Christ Jesus shed his blood for you? To remember that God calls them son or daughter. To remember that they will inherit resurrection life. Friends, if we try to make anything else the foundation of our love for one another in the body of Christ, it will eventually crumble. Familiarity and friendship on its own will not sustain this kind of love. Family connections or common interests will not sustain it. Christ Jesus alone and his gospel is the only thing that will sustain and empower this kind of love that we are called to. So we must keep the gospel at the forefront, not only of our public ministry, but of our relationships. So see that the this call to love one another earnestly it begins in the heart. It begins with how you look at each other in light of the gospel. But then notice in verses 9 through 11 that our love, it has real, concrete, practical application. Our love for one another has arms and legs and sweat. It's not just this nebulous idea floating out in space. It does stuff. And as we continue in this text, we're going to see some of the things that our gospel-shaped love does toward one another, how it acts. And as we consider these things, I just want us to see and think about how Peter is at once kind of commanding us, these are commands, but he's also persuading us. And make no mistake, these are imperatives. These are commands for the body of Christ. But don't they also present to us this vivid, beautiful picture? of what it looks like to be formed into a community shaped by the gospel of Jesus Christ. Doesn't this instill a sense of longing in you? Don't you want to be part of this kind of body? We must see these commands not as threats, but as an invitation. An invitation to be shaped together into the kind of people who will put the glory of Christ and the power of the gospel on display in the world. So we ask next, what does our love do? What does it practically look like? Well in verse 9, see that we are called to show hospitality to one another without grumbling. We open up our homes and our lives to one another. We share with those in need We do the difficult, often awkward work of getting to know one another and taking on the responsibility to fulfill and meet both spiritual and practical needs. That's the what of hospitality. We open up our homes, we open up our lives, we go to one another. And it can be as simple as asking on a Sunday morning, man, how is your week going? And how can I be praying for you? So he gives us a what here, but he also gives us a how. Show hospitality what? Without grumbling. It's not only the practice that matters, it's the posture of heart behind it. Showing hospitality to one another, whether it's on Sunday morning, the conversations you have, the way you greet and welcome in visitors. Or the way you open up your home to share a meal. It's a good thing. It blesses and it builds up the body of Christ. And God wants us to agree with that. God wants us to agree that it is a good thing, both for the one who receives it and for the one who gives it. But what does grumbling say? Grumbling reveals a heart that disagrees with God about whether or not it's good. Grumbling reveals a heart that thinks only about the inconvenience of the work, not the way it will bless and build up. Grumbling says, man, I'm tired. My house isn't clean. My children are such a mess at the dinner table, I can't imagine inviting people over to my house. Patty Lynn, have we ever had that conversation? God wants us to agree with him, though, about what is good for his church. God wants us to agree about what lesses and builds up. Showing hospitality to one another is a practical good by which we earnestly love one another. And see next that we're called to serve one another with the gifts that God gives us. We see this in verse 10. He says, These have received a gift, use it to serve one another as good stewards. of God's varied grace. We need to notice here that God is the one who gives the gifts, and the purpose of the gifts is to build up and serve the body of Christ. It's God who gifts us to serve And it's the good of the body, ultimately for the glory of God, that's the purpose of the gifts. And I want you to see just how this cuts off right at the root. One of the ways that we are so prone to twist our service in the body of Christ. Because don't we have a tendency to so easily make it all about ourselves? Don't we have a tendency to so easily think, I'm gifted in these ways. I've always served in this way, I'm gonna continue to serve that in this way, and by golly, you'll have to take it from my cold, lifeless hands if you want to get me to stop serving in this way. Maybe I'm being a bit hyperbolic, but don't we identify that temptation in our hearts at times? To only serve in the ways we want to serve, or to make our service all about ourselves? But see that God is the one who gives gifts to his church. So we use our gifts to serve one another as stewards. See that word in the text, not as CEOs over our own little kingdoms. And see in verse 11, this is true whether you're preaching the word of God. God is the one who gifts and equips those who proclaim his word. It's also true in doing the most menial practical tasks of service. It's all by God's grace. It's all for the good of the body. As we'll see in just a moment, it's all for the glory of God. So therefore, in our service to one another, again, the gospel must be central. The gospel must be what motivates and empowers our service to one another. Because God is the one who gifts it. God is the one who enables us to serve. Before we move on. to the final point and see the glory of God as the the destination that we pursue. I want to just acknowledge a difficulty That these commands can present to our hearts. Because we see these commands and the these imperatives, and to fulfill these requires that we know one another. Which requires time spent together. We can't fulfill these things from a comfortable distance. It's hard to practice hospitality at arm's reach with people. It's not so easy to do virtually. Love that covers a multitude of sins will see the sin and ugliness of others up close, won't it? And therefore, when we see the reality of the time spent together that these things call us to, in our hearts there can be a sense of risk, can't there? What if people reject me? What if when I get right up close to people, they see just how messed up and how sinful my life is at times. What if I'm hurt by someone else? Either as I'm trying to love them or as they are trying to love me? And let's be honest that both of those happen. Friends, this is why we must keep the gospel central. As people joined together in Christ, we must continually look at one another through the lens of the gospel. Otherwise, when we're hurt, we'll just want to pack up and move on. We'll simply give up and say, well, forget these people. But if we have the lens of the gospel, we see, no, I am called to be committed to these people because Christ has shed his blood for them. Because we are united in Christ together. So we must keep the gospel central, not only in our doctrine, but in our life together as the Church of the Living God. And by God's grace, as we are looking to Christ in faith, the gospel shapes us into a people who are gracious, into a people who, by his grace and by his shaping, won't Act in ways that hurt and harm and judge one another, but in ways that build up and point one another to the gospel of Jesus Christ. So we see these commands exhorting us to love one another, and we have these horizontal commands that we're called to fulfill to one another within the body of Christ. But see finally that the ultimate purpose, the ultimate direction of these horizontal commands is vertical. They don't stay in the horizontal, but rather the ultimate purpose is vertical that God might be glorified in his church and in his world. And this brings us to point number three. How are we called to live in the last days? We must pursue the glory of God as our highest good. Why are we called to be self-controlled? Why are we called to be sober-minded, earnestly loving, hospitable, servant-hearted? We'll see the answer in verse 11, the second half. In order that in everything God may be glorified through Jesus Christ. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. Friends, the reason we are called out of the darkness of sin and forged into a community together and exhorted to live side by side with one another so that we might make much of God's glory. We live side by side in gospel community to declare to each other and to declare to the world the greatness of God, the power of his gospel to save and transform and keep together People who in the flesh could not be more different at times. We're called to live lives that shine a spotlight on his glory as it's revealed in the person and work of Jesus Christ. Which has saved us and is shaping us as the people of God. This is the point of your obedience. This is the point of your self-control. This is the point of your love for one another. This is the point of your hospitality. It's the point of your service to one another. That God might Be glorified. We need to see that the glory of God through Jesus Christ is what motivates our love for one another in the last days. And just see how seamlessly here Peter transitions from this series of exhortations to this eruption of praise. He goes right from command to doxology. Be this kind of community, do these things so that you might show the glory and the majesty and the power of our God. Show by your transformed life together the fact that Jesus Christ is glorious and reigns over all things. That is to say, the purpose, the ultimate purpose of our life together as the body of Christ, it's worship It's to see and savor and lift high and delight in the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. Isn't this what we're called to in Romans chapter 12? We're called to present our bodies as living sacrifices, as an act of spiritual worship. The gospel calls us out of this world, brings us under the banner of Jesus Christ, so that we might be worshipers of the living God. We saw the same thing in chapter two, verse ten. We've been saved and called out of sin and darkness, so that we might proclaim the excellencies of him who called us. Living lives that are bent toward the glory of God. And in that, as we are shaped by the gospel, and as we live lives pursuing the glory of God in the ways that we relate to one another, See that we find our highest good. We find that which can truly satisfy our hearts. We won't ever be disappointed by pursuing the glory of God in the face of Jesus Christ. That won't ever be a letdown. Because what could be greater than knowing God? Well, as we conclude, let me just encourage us to look once more at this final phrase in verse 11. To him belong glory and dominion forever and ever. Amen. So not only is our God glorious over all things, he has dominion over all things He reigns and he owns all things now and forever Christ Jesus, friends, reigns now, possessing all authority in heaven and on earth. And our life together as this called-out community shaped by the gospel is meant to testify to the dominion of Jesus Christ over all things. When we have the self-control to say no to sin, when we use our minds to pursue earnest prayer, when we commit to love one another despite how unlovely we can be at times. When we serve one another, we are declaring to the world and to one another that Jesus Christ has dominion over our lives. And that we have been brought under his saving reign. We show that we no longer live as lords over our own lives. But we've been brought under His reign and His dominion. And we confess by our love for one another that Jesus will reign forever. And therefore, whatever sacrifice, whatever risk We feel in the body of believers is worth it because it declares the eternal reign of Jesus Christ. Friends, that's the motivation we have to love one another. That's the purpose of our love, to show that King Jesus, who will return, has dominion over his world. And he puts his dominion on display through the churches that he has purchased and that he has instituted by his blood. We live for his glory to proclaim his dominion. We are a people created by the gospel, empowered by the gospel to display the glory and the dominion of King Jesus. Jesus. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you for the gospel that has saved us. We thank you, God, that you have not left us in our sin, but you have brought us together as a people. And we pray, God, for the strength through Christ to love one another earnestly. God, we know our sin Pray that you would reveal more and more to us the realities of our sin, so that we might confess them and so that we might That we might see your spirit change us. God, help us and equip us by your grace and by your mercy to love one another despite our sin. Help us, God, to be a community established upon the grace that we've received in the gospel, not the law that only knows how to condemn. And help us, God, to be formed and shaped into a people who declare your dominion to the world. Pray this in the name of your Son Jesus Christ. Amen.