And that has the uh what do you call it, bigger yeah. Taking a break from the study on the last days, we're going to do another class on prayer. We did one Sunday night, and um I did not get through all of my notes, and then at the end of that Just looking at my other notes and things I've been going through there's uh a few more things. So I figured w since we did it just three days ago Do a second part and uh hopefully get through it all. But you know, growing in prayer is one of those pillars of spiritual growth. Growing in prayer, growing in the word, and growing in our um uh growing in our fellowship with the church. Those would be the three follower to Joel just uh the basics of spiritual growth and discipleship It would be growing in the Word of God through reading, study, sitting under the preaching of the Word, the teaching of the Word, discussing the Word, meditating on the Word, and then growing in prayer. And then sharing in the fellowship and worship of the church and serving in the church according to your gift and at the center of all of those. We would put Jesus, right? Those are all things Jesus has given to us, all things Jesus has called us to, all things that He uses in our lives to grow us. And the reason I draw this as an arrow pointing this way instead of just a triangle sitting on its base is because spiritual growth has a goal, has a direction, and it is growing more to be like Jesus So there's just a basic diagram. And so anyway, we are talking about prayer. The first passage we'll be in is 1 Thessalonians 5, if you want to get there. And I've got to take this jacket off because it is pulling on my microphone. And friends, that's going to distract me Every second of the evening, if I keep feeling that tug on my head like this. Alright. First Thessalonians. Oh that's why, because it's beh it's in front of my arm. There you go. So out of whack First Thessalonians five. This is a topical class, so we have four passages To introduce and get oriented with our topic. But here is this class: Living in Prayer. A Sunday night we talked about learning to pray, the basics of prayer. And then some things about growing in prayer and expanding our prayer life. This one is living in prayer. And what we're getting at is the idea that prayer Should become a staple in our daily lives. So, and so there are times when we stop what we're doing And we pray, like I prayed before the class, which I don't think I've done yet. I'll do that in just a minute. Or we pray before dinner. Or you pray with your children before bed, or you, whatever, you stop to pray. But there should be a thousand and one little prayers Or just general prayerfulness also in our hearts and our minds. Prayer should be a way of life. Living in prayer. Let's pray together, then we'll begin. Father, Thank you for the blessing of prayer. Thank you for the blessing of your word. Thank you for the blessing of your church. And thank you Centrally for Christ. All that you've given us in Him, according to your purpose, and by your grace, it's undeserved. But we thank you, we worship you, and we ask that you bless us in our study tonight. Teach us, help us, change our hearts where we need it. Which in Christ we ask. Amen. Okay, living in prayer, thinking about how prayer should become a staple in our daily lives. First Thessalonians 5 Beginning in verse 16. Rejoice always. Great memory verse. One of the shortest verses in the Bible. Rejoice always. Pray without ceasing. Pray without ceasing. So you see where this living in prayer idea fits into this passage. Rejoice always, pray without ceasing, give thanks in all circumstances. For this is the will of God in Christ Jesus for you. Three things right there, and I'm just plucking those out of a paragraph where there's lots of other things. But for our topic tonight Rejoicing, cultivating a spirit of rejoicing, and of course the root word of that is Joy, something we need to strive for. It's something we need to pray for. It is a Christian duty, but it's also a blessing from the Holy Spirit. Rejoice always. And then verse 17, pray without ceasing. Be ever prayerful. Be ever prayerful. Or don't give up praying. Don't give up praying. Nonstop prayerfulness. Consistent prayer. Consistent prayer. Being persistent with our prayer. So rejoice always, pray without ceasing, and give thanks when circumstances suit you. No, no, no, no. Seeing if you're awake Give thanks in all circumstances. Give thanks in all circumstances It's quite ironic though when circumstances are suitable to us, sometimes we forget to give thanks because we're just cruising along. And then when things start going bad, sometimes not always, but sometimes that will drive us back to to our knees and create within us a prayerful spirit and maybe sometimes that's why God allows difficulties and trials. And uses them to wake us up. So rejoice always, pray without ceasing, and give thanks in all circumstances. Less than two lines in the Bible, that is a lifetime of growth. Just those things. That is a lifetime of growth. Colossians four two One of Pastor John's favorite clauses we're about to see. See if he can pick it out. Not in verse 2. Colossians 4 2. Continue steadfastly in prayer. Being watchful in it with thanksgiving. At the same time, pray also for us that God may Open to us a door for the word. That's the uh favorite one of the favorite phrases I think I'm right on that. Well, even if it's not, it's one of your most off okay, yes. Points, scoring points with the senior pastor to declare the mystery of Christ, on account of which I am in prison. Which is uh was literally true for Paul. And the the topic of our discussion tonight is prayer. Not outreach and evangelism, but you do see in verse three he's asking for prayers that God may open a door for the word. Paul is trusting in God's sovereignty and in God's providence in opening doors for his outreach and evangelism. He's not depending on himself. His strategy, his methods, a charismatic personality. He's depending on God and on God's actual working and providence In the world and in situations. And so he asks for prayers. Pray for us that God may open a door to us for the Word. That would be another point. He knows what people need. He knows what lost people need. They need the Word of God. And specifically, Word here is shorthand for the Word of the Gospel. The word of the gospel. So it does carry the idea behind it of God's word in general, but in the book of Acts and then into the uh the epistles It's shorthand for the word of the gospel, the word of Christ, the word of the cross. So he's asking for prayers. Practical application is flying off of the page for us. We should be praying for that. We had better be praying for that. God, open a door. Open a door for the word that the word may go forth and show us that door. Give us courage to go through it and speak the gospel and believe that you'll change hearts. All right. But I get sidetracked on these things, but they're important things and it's such much needed application for me and for us. But tonight's topic is what? Prayer. Living in prayer. So he says, verse 2, continue steadfastly in prayer. Keep praying. Be faithful in prayer. Be steadfast in prayer. Now, next passage, Ephesians 6, 18. Ephesians six, eighteen. This is after, well, it's a it's it's within that passage of the armor of God. Which basically is uh just being in Christ. They all have to do with Christ, the uh the belt of truth, that's the truth of Christ, and the breastplate The breastplate of righteousness is the righteousness we have in Christ, the um the the boots, the combat footwear of the gospel, the gospel of Christ, the shield of faith, faith in Christ, the helmet of salvation, salvation in Christ, the sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God, essentially again the gospel. But in verse 18 Praying at all times in the Spirit. Praying at all times in the Spirit with all prayer and supplication. To that end, keep alert with perseverance. To what end? To the end of praying, to the end of praying, at all times in the spirit, with all prayer and supplication, to that end, keep alert with perseverance, with all perseverance, making supplication for all the saints, making supplication Laying your petitions before God, asking God to work on behalf of all the saints and in the saints and through the saints for the sake of the kingdom and God's glory, of course. And also for me, pray for me. Verse 19, also for me, that words may be given to me in open, opening my mouth. Words given to him from whom. From God. From God. Paul's not trusting in himself. Boldly to proclaim the mystery of the gospel. For which I am an ambassador in chains, that I may declare it boldly, as I ought to speak, boldly, not timidly. He preaches like he preaches like he believes it , with clarity and boldness and conviction Verse eighteen, praying at all times in the spirit, and where that comes after the uh armor of God One of the implications, if not the central implication, is that you cannot put on It's a metaphor, the armor of God that he just described, apart from prayer. Apart from prayer. We'll not be able to Live in accordance with our calling as we ought, apart from prayer. We won't be able to walk in the Spirit and be filled with the Spirit as we ought, apart from prayer. Remember those two ways God uses prayer that I talked about on Sunday? He uses it as a means of grace, right? Is it's a way of receiving God's grace, it's part of He uses it for your spiritual growth through the agency of the Spirit, of course. And then it's also a vehicle of providence. God uses prayer. In what he's doing. That's the way God has planned things. He uses prayer to accomplish his purposes on earth through his covenant people. So, praying. Verse 18. At all times in the spirit, which for Paul is opposite of being in the flesh. Yeah, wow, everyone got it. Great. Right. So it's uh it's not the outward activity or form of of what we think is prayerful or just saying prayers or going through the motions. It's the Holy Spirit. It's the life of the Holy Spirit that must be in us first and then at work within us. Driving us to prayer, praying at all times in the Spirit, with all prayer and supplication. He's hinting there at something I I tried to do more than hint at on Sunday night. Uh he's hinting there that there's all kinds of things to pray for. Endless list of things to pray for in different ways. So Ephesians 6 18. We have one more, let me ask you. Luke 18. Luke 18. From the 1 Thessalonians and the Colossians and the Ephesians verses Is the idea of living in prayer coming out? Is it beginning to take shape? This is all times. Pray at all times. Steadfastly prayer. Pray without ceasing. It's not a box we check and move on. Luke eighteen, one through eight And he, Jesus, told them a parable, to the effect that they ought always to pray and not lose heart. Always what? Always pray And do not lose heart So you have a positive command, what you we must do and what we must strive to do, and then we have this It's an encouragement, but it's stated in the negative. Do not, do not do this. Don't lose heart. Don't give up. We all get discouraged at times. We're weak. We're feeble, but we must not give up seeking God. He's the only one who can strengthen us. in those times. And so times when discouragement comes is not time to pray less, to signal to pray more, more deeply, to rely on God more. It it's interesting He gives the meaning of the parable before the parable. It often comes at the end. The punchline. Here it comes right at the beginning. He's telling them a parable to the effect, right? For the purpose of that they would always pray and not lose heart. That's the message of the parable. So if you were to preach a sermon on this, that would be a good option for a title. Always pray and do not lose heart. Verse 2, he's now here's the parable. He said, In a certain city there was a judge who neither feared God nor respected man. So what kind of judge are we dealing with? A bad judge, a corrupt judge, corrupt politician. Ever seen one of those? Alright, so you know what this is. So it comes to life. It's a parable. It's supposed to come to life. It's every stuff using everyday stuff to make a spiritual point. 3. Verse 3. And there was a widow in that city who kept coming to him and saying, Give me justice against my adversary. So she was wronged. And she was seeking justice. And she was going to the person she should go to, the judge. For a while he refused, but afterward he said to himself, Though I neither fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow keeps bothering me. I will give her justice, so that she will not beat me down by her continual coming. This is one of the reasons, one of the practical reasons Jesus gives the meaning of the parable up front, so we don't get confused. The par the parable is not in any way likening the character of the judge to the character of God. In any way. This is a parable about being persistent in prayer. And not giving up in prayer. How do I know that? That's what Jesus said in verse eighteen. She keeps coming back, keeps coming back, keeps coming back, and even this wicked, corrupt man, now he does it for impure motives. To get rid of her. It just wants to be done with it. She'd become a bother. But he g he grants her the request by her I love this phrase at the end of verse 5. Continual coming. Continual coming. And that should say something about our prayer lives. There should be a continual coming to God. Verse 6, and the Lord said. Hear what the unrighteous judge says, and will not God give justice to his elect Who cry to him day and night, who cry to him day and night, living in prayer A uh continual coming. Verse 1. Always pray and not lose heart. Pray without ceasing. Always be in prayer, thinking of those other verses. Will he delay long over them? Verse 8, I tell you, he will give justice to them speedily. Nevertheless, when the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on earth? Now that's a question. We don't have time to expand on that, but uh don't see an answer there that's not there. Uh the fact is the Son of Man will find faith on earth. And the reason we know that is because there are passages about when the Son of Man comes back and there are believers on the earth who are lifted up, caught up, raptured, and given resurrection bodies. Okay, so it's the e obvious answer if we look at all of Scripture. Yes, there will be believers when the Lord returns And when he returns, he will gather all of his church glorified together with him. Living in prayer. Okay, uh what I'd like to do, if you guys are okay with it, is do a brief review of what we covered on Sunday, and then add seven Strengthening expressions of prayer. Seven strengthening expressions of prayer I do not think that this is supposed to make things complex or will make things difficult. Because we already gave, and this is what we're going to review, uh five basic expressions of prayer, and then we gave three deepening expressions of prayer. Well now we're going to give seven. You're going to overwhelm me. No, it's not supposed to be complex or difficult. It's supposed to be helpful. Think of it this way. Think of it this way. I think this will be helpful for for us. We should bring all our emotions to God. Okay? That's number one. We should bring all of our emotions to God. And how many emotions are there? Three? How many emotions do you experience? And how many degrees of those emotions do you experience? Well, there's only six six six kinds of feelings that I have And not only do we bring all of our emotions to God, but we come to God in any circumstance. How many different kinds of circumstances are there? How many different kinds of struggles are there in the Christian life How many different kinds of struggles are there in your family, and extended family, and at work, and in the church? So there are so we sh so what we want to do is have this Even though we don't have all the details ironed out and laid out to perfection in our minds and outlined in some linear fashion, we want to have a heart that says, God, I'm bringing to you everything. Every emotion I'm bringing to you, I'm coming to you as my God. Every circumstance, every situation, I'm coming to you, and there'll be a different response, a different cry, a different utterance, a different prayer. Something different to ask for, something different to say thank you for, something different to offer worship for. Because living in prayer is going to deal with the full range of living the full range of human emotion in life, the full range of human experience in life. It's not like we'd cordon off certain experiences and certain situations and feelings and emotions and oh these ones we come to God in prayer but the rest of life we don't worry about it. No. And so thinking about that, that overarching goal Now we're going to do seven strengthening expressions of prayer. It's just to get us, and by the way, most of these are just particular examples of those five basic expressions of prayers. They're just particular examples. But you'll see them if you read through the Psalms and start looking at the different kinds of prayers and songs in the Psalms. You'll see these fly off the page, these different ways of addressing God and different situations and emotions coming to God and Let's get to the review. So the review, first of all, was let's see We talked about what is prayer. We said, by faith, coming into the presence of God to express ourselves in certain ways, specific ways. How does God use prayer, a means of grace and a vehicle of providence? Five basic expressions of prayer. The first was worship, saying words that adore and admire and praise and exalt God For two things, who he is and what he is like. So who God is and then God's attributes and we worship him for that. We praise him for that He 's creator, he's redeemer, he's unchanging, he's merciful, he's compassionate, he's patient, he's just, he's righteous, and on and on and on you could go. Second basic expression of prayer was to invoke, to invocation, to call God to action. Third was thanksgiving, to offer thanks and gratitude to God. saying words of recognition and appreciation and gratitude for what God has promised And what God has done, or what God is doing, you could say thank you for those things too, or thanking him for what he will do, what he's promised to do So we worship God, which includes uh addressing him, Heavenly Father, Almighty God, Lord Jesus Christ. We address him, we worship him for who he is and what he's like, we invoke him, we call call him to action. In different ways. Jesus prayed, Father, glorify your name. The psalmist prayed, oh God, save me We give thanks. Fourth basic expression of prayer was confession. Confession. Saying words. I've really tried on Sunday night to put the emphasis on saying words. And But that even if you're praying silently, it's still communication. You'll be thinking those words. I tried to put the emphasis on Articulating actual expressions and utterances of prayer. So confession, saying words that express sorrow for sin. Not just sinfulness, but sorrow for sin, specific sins Violations of God's commandments. Confess guilt and transgression. There it is. Violation of commandment, transgression. Or admit weakness, frailty, or corruption. There's nothing wrong for the general prayer. But But we need to have uh we need to be tuned into what's going on in our spiritual walk and sanctification. That general sin is not our only kind of sin problem. And we need to learn how to come to God and confess our sin under the umbrella of grace. But we So basically, grace uh does not mean that we ignore our sin and act like it doesn't exist. Okay, we deal with it under grace. And finally, the last basic expression of prayer was asking. Asking God for general blessings and intervention, and laying before God specific petitions for specific situations. Don't be afraid. Pray the prayer. Ask God. Ask God. Lay the petition before Him So some other words, these will be s synonyms. You guys know my cinemas That do okay? Synonyms for some of these basic expressions of prayer, you might have heard them. If you're reading on prayer or hearing a sermon on prayer, you might hear these other words. Just to throw them out there, supplication is one that's often used. That's asking, making supplication. We saw that in our pat one of our passages. Lament. Lament uh which oh that's the three deepening let me do those I forgot I forgot to do this and then we'll do these synonyms synonyms synonyms Now all I can think about is cinnamon toast crunch. Cinnamon bagel. Three deepening expressions of prayer. We talk about pleading with God, saying words of utter desperation for God's help. There'll be times when we're there. We talked about groaning. We looked at Romans 8 as a cross-reference. Groaning when we're not able to say words, we're so distraught. Or we're so depressed, or we're so sad we're not able to say words, or but with groans and grunts and growls, even screams, maybe express to God a deep desperation. Usually it comes with an overwhelming sense of helplessness and hopelessness. Those are times to go to God. Those are times to go to God. And so pleading, groaning, and then crying, we also would would have accepted crying out. And a couple different expressions of prayer Uh there could be tears of of incredible joy because of a way God intervened or something you had been praying for, maybe that was really, really big from a from a human perspective, not big for God, or that you've been praying for for decades that Just lit your heart on fire and fills you with joy and can bring you to tears and maybe even lead you to fall down and worship the Lord. Or tears of sadness and depression can Confusion, anger, coming to God is the only one who can make the unbearable bearable. Pleading, groaning, crying, and we call these deepening expressions of prayer because you don't plan for these They don't happen every day or every week or every month. And they may maybe haven't happened to you in a long time, but they'll but these times may come in your life where you're so distraught So lonely or whatever, you can fill in the blank. The hurt is so unbearable. You're pleading, you're groaning, maybe crying. We can go to God in prayer. So back to the synonyms. Supplication was asking, lament. Lament is what I was trying to get at with some of those three deepening expressions of prayer. uh to expressions of sorrow, contrition, which is uh would fall under what we what I talked about is confession and sorrow for sin and bringing that to God. Doxology, which is a word means a word of worship, a word of praise. So that would be What I was saying was the foundation of prayer, a word of worship to God, and then intercession, praying for others. So that falls under the ask or the supplication, but that's a specific way. Uh you praying for me. Of me praying for the church, you praying for the nation, or praying for our leaders. That's intercession. So there are other ways to say these things. Alright, so that's the review. Basic three basic expressions. And then Three, no, no, five basic expressions, worship, invocation, thanksgiving, confession, and asking, and then three deepening expressions, pleading, groaning, crying, or crying out. Now, tonight, seven strengthening, and I'm calling them strengthening expressions of prayer, because they they will fit as examples, particular examples. within those other the five basic ones, for the most part. It's not a hard and fast rule. But they're they will str start to strengthen if we can be mindful of these and Start to work them into our prayer life. It can strengthen our prayer life and strengthen us. But again, not getting Trying to give a list to think of mechanically or to make things difficult or complex just to get us thinking about any emotion, any emotion, uh expanding our prayer life I think is part of growing in prayer. Not just increasing the amount of of prayer. Like picture a husband who is just garbage in the way he talks to his wife and he's just incredibly rude. He gives short answers. He does not straight forth Uh the the problem is not he doesn't talk enough, he needs to talk more. If he talks more, it's just gonna cause more of a problem. He needs to change the way he talks. And often our prayer now that's a that's an issue of repentance. And often our prayer life needs not just more of it, although it probably, if you're like me, does need that, needs to be expanded. Needs to be deepened, needs to be strengthened. Like any aspect of spiritual growth. Alright, enough. Enough of the lead up. Why don't I give these lead ups for like ten minutes? The first Of seven strengthening expressions of prayer is affection. Affection. What is affection? Definition or a cinnamon love Love. Psalm eighteen one. I love you, O Lord, my strength. What's the first greatest commandment in all of Scripture? All of God's counsel, secret or revealed, what's the greatest commandment? Love the Lord your God. Tell Him you love Him. If you love the Lord your God with all your heart, sing to Him with all your heart. Seek Him with all your heart. By faith in Christ. Tell them you love them. I love you, Jesus. Holy Spirit, I love you, Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is the third person of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit is God. I love you, Father. You have made me your own. I delight in you. Express affection. To the God who loves you, has chosen you, made you his own, and delights over you. Isn't that amazing? And from one angle, this the story of the Bible is Sinners who should delight in God, who is most precious and beautiful, don't. But God, who is holy, Does delight in sinners who are not precious and beautiful. It's opposite. But he's merciful, he's gracious. Psalm 40, verse 8, I delight to do your will, O my God. Your law is within my heart. I delight to do your will, O my God. Now, sometimes we have to discipline ourselves and do things that in the flesh we don't want to do. But Christianity is not forcing ourselves to do something, aka or I. e. I should say, i. e. serve God. It's not forcing ourselves to do things that we do not want to do and we don't care about. There'll be difficulties and there'll be struggles because we're all weak and we still we all have sin, but in our heart of hearts, because of the spirit within us We do want to serve God. We do want to obey God. We do want to hear His Word and grow in His word and share the gospel. And we do want to pray. So even though it's tough. And there'll be difficulties in our heart of hearts we delight in the Lord, and since we delight in the Lord and love the Lord We delight in his word and we love his word. We delight in holiness and love holiness and strive for holiness and we delight in prayer and we love prayer and on and on. And we delight in the people of God and we love them. So affection. Tell God you love him. Tell God that he is your delight. He is your treasure. He is your aim. He is your goal. He is all that you want. He is all that you need. Tell him. Tell God. Express your affection. Number two, testimony. So that is that would be a subset of worship, I would say. But it's a specific utterance of just expressing affection in a personal way. To a personal God. Number two, second of seven strengthening expressions of prayer, testimony. What is testimony This also is a subset of worship. And turn to Psalm 6 as you're doing that. What is testimony? Don't overthink it, it's not a trick question. Testimony is saying something that So something that happened, something that God did. What did you say? Something that glorifies God, but it's it's saying something that happened, something that is true. Saying something that God did is the way I put it. Say something that God did. Uh so turn to Psalm one thirty six, let me uh get there God answers a prayer. You say you pray something on Monday, He answers it on Wednesday. You can you can pray that night? God, you did that. You answered that prayer. You heard my prayer. Um you're the one who gave me success. You're the one who did this. And you could and you could fill in the blanks of specifics. But it's basically it's it's it's almost a personal Preaching within your prayer just to go on record and proclaim what God has done. It's saying something that God has done. Psalm 136. Give thanks to the Lord, for he is good. His steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the God of gods, for his steadfast love endures forever. Give thanks to the Lord of Lords, his steadfast love endures forever. To him who alone does great wonders. His steadfast love endures forever. To him by to him who by understanding made the heavens His steadfast love endures forever. To him who spread out the earth above the waters. What has he begun doing? Testifying to the great things God has done. He made the heavens. God, you made the heavens. God, you made the earth. God, you sent your son. You sent a Savior Jesus, you died on the cross for us. You rose from the dead. You proclaim and you state in wondrous exaltation in your heart the amazing things God has done. Verse 6. To him who spread out the earth above the waters for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who made the great lights For his steadfast love endures forever. The sun to rule over the day. For his steadfast love endures forever. The moon and stars to rule over the night. For his steadfast love endures forever. He's not singing about these created wonders. He's singing about the creator of these wonders. God, you did this. You put this in place. Verse 10, to him who struck down the firstborn of Egypt, right? Testimony. He's testifying. You struck down the firstborn of Egypt. For his steadfast love endures forever. And brought Israel out from among them. For his steadfast love endures forever. He seems to be a bit captivated with the steadfast love of the Lord and with the wondrous deeds that look that God has done on their behalf. Brought Israel out from among them, for his steadfast love endures forever. With a strong hand and an outstretched arm Which are anthropomorphisms, uh a metaf a metaphoric way of expressing God's power and intervention on behalf of his people on earth. Strong hand, outstretched arm, for his steadfast love endures forever. To him who divided the Red Sea in two That's testimony. For his steadfast love endures forever. And made Israel pass through in the midst of it. For his steadfast love endures forever. But overthrew Pharaoh and his host in the Red Sea. And he goes on and on and on. If and if you were to take out these this refrain of his steadfast love endures forever, he could have just written a paragraph of what God did in that narrative because that's all this is at this point. He began with the creation narrative, and then he went right into well not the narrative, but he began with elements of creation. And then he went into elements of redemption. And instead of just writing a paragraph on it, which would have been perfectly fine, you want to write a paragraph on that. I will not decry your efforts. But it's for him it's a prayer. It's a praise. And he is giving testimony And he wants to be clear about this testimony and prayer and praise to the deeds God has done on behalf of his people. Giving testimony to what God has done, giving testimony to what God has done is part of prayer. So there are so many ways, so many things God has done. You can think of specific things. God, you have brought us together. God, you have given us your word. On and on and on, on and on and on. But what was I saying Sunday night? I think I said this We've got to slow down. We've got to slow down and think and engage our hearts and engage our mind and engage our will and think about. I mean if we're going to prayer, if we're going to pray prayers giving testimony to what God has done, we've got to know what God has done. We've got to be in tune with what he's doing in his church and in his people and in your life. God, you gave me repentance over that sin. All of us should be able to pray that in multiple ways. You spared me from that temptation. Thank you, Lord. Alright. So affection, testimony. Both subsets of worship. Now, this one uh might throw ya the curse Prayer of curse, calling God to defeat his enemies, calling God to bring his enemies to justice. I'll give you a vocabulary word if uh this is a subset of that asking or a subset of supplication. Here's your vocabulary word, the imprecatory psalms. Imprecatory psalms. Psalm 5, turn to Psalm 5, by the way. Psalm 5, Psalm 10, 17, Thirty five fifty eight 59, there are some others. Imprecatory Psalms. Psalms calling down the curse. Asking God to deal with his enemies. According to his purpose. According to his purpose, according to his wisdom. We don't have that wisdom. We're not the judge. We've not been called to be judge Jory executioner, we don't have that power, we don't have enough wisdom to play that role. That job is taken God and God alone. We can come to God and bring our requests to God. This is uh Psalm, what did I say, five? Okay. So impregatory Psalms, if you want to do a follow-up study to see more about this and how it would apply to the Christian. When we get back to our study on the last days or these last days, one of the classes I'm going to do is deal with the enemies of Christ and how he's subduing those enemies and what that will look like in the end. We've talked about what Christ is doing and building his church and spreading his kingdom, accomplishing his purpose, and right along there I've been mentioning this verse in 1 Corinthians, uh, the last enemy to be destroyed is death. He's subduing his enemies. And the last enemy. So there are enemies of God. Satan is real. Demons are real. False teachers are real. The spirit of the Antichrist is real. So Curse. Psalm five, let's just look at verse eight through twelve, the second half. Lead me, O Lord, in your righteousness because of my enemies. Lead me, O Lord, in your righteousness, because of my enemies. Now, David is a representative of God. David's enemies are God's enemies. Whose enemy was Goliath? David's enemy or God's enemy? Both. Make your way straight before me, for there is no truth in their mouth. Their inmost self is destruction. Their throat is an open grave. They flatter with their tongue. Make them bear their guilt, O God. Let them fall by their own counsels because of the abundance of their transgressions. Cast them out, for they've rebelled against you. But let all who take refuge in you rejoice. Let them ever sing for joy. Spread your protection over them. That those who love your name may exalt you. For you bless the righteous, O Lord. You cover him with favor as a shield. One example, and boy, I've got to really get moving here, would be uh would be a habitual troublemaker Division starter in the church, or a false teacher in the church who will not repent and who is dead set on error It has the spirit of the Antichrist within them. In short, my prayer would be: God, give them repentance or get them out. And we would need to deal with that in love and, listen, wisdom and conviction for the sake of the gospel, for the sake of the bride, for the sake of the kingdom, for the sake of God's name. Sometimes we're so afraid of appearing unloving to the world around us that we lack conviction and clarity on some of these things. There are actual real life enemies of the gospel. We need to that needs to be something we're praying for. I mean, if if almost if anything we're praying for, we need to be praying for that. God keep them out, chase their hearts. Save them or get them out and deal with them. So fourth self-counsel. Fourth self counsel I was gonna squat down and write it, but I may not be able to get back up again Self-counsel, and this is a subset of that groaning or crying. Psalm 42, 5 and 6. So self-counsel is talking to yourself. Not in a an unhealthy way, but reflecting on the struggles and sorrows Within your heart, and the confusions within your mind, and as you're bringing them to God, you're also dealing with them and trying to make sense of them, and so you're laying yourself bare before God. Psalm 42, 5 and 6. Talking, here's what the psalmist says. He says to his own soul, why are you cast down, oh my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? What is he doing? Self-counsel. That's just the phrase I could come up with to put this in a category. He's talking to his soul, dealing with the turmoil. Have you ever had that kind of turmoil or anger within you and you you don't want it and you know it's wrong but you don't know what to do to get rid of it. Sometimes it's just time. Almost always it's time and rest and prayer and waiting on the Lord. But you can struggle through it, deal with it. And then here's what he says to his soul, the end of verse 5. Hope in God. I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. My soul is cast down within me, and therefore I remember you from the land of Jordan and of Hermon and from Mount Nazar. So, being honest with the turmoil inside, with being cast down, why are you why can't you feel better? Oh my soul. Why are you so distraught? Why are you so angry at just that little thing and now it's ruined your whole day? Why are you so But here's what he says to his soul. He says this to his soul: hope in God. Hope in God. You hope in the Lord. You wait on the Lord. You ask the Lord for help, and he will show up. And that's what he says here I will again praise him, expecting God will restore. Verse 11, also in Psalm 42, why are you cast down, O my soul? And why are you in turmoil within me? Sort of becomes a refrain, not quite in that psalm, but and then he says again, hope in God, for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. We have to be honest with ourselves about what we're feeling and what we're going through. We have to be honest with God. about what we're feeling and going through. And we should be honest with each other about what we're feeling and going through. Otherwise we're building relationships on a foundation of lies. And that's no way to build a build a relationship. And so w there needs to be an honesty and a wisdom When we're dealing with these emotions and sorrows within us, but brothers and sisters, the answer is always, always the same. God. God is the answer. And that's not saying that he won't answer the prayer in in providential ways using a friend, using a sermon. Um Using something you hear on the radio. He'll work. Remember prayer, means of grace and vehicle of providence. So he'll answer prayers through this or that or whatever he chooses, but he's the answer. He's the answer for these things. Worldly wisdom is not the answer. Alcohol and drugs is not the answer. All kinds of worldly things that can give us a false positive or a quick fix or a superficial healing God is the answer. God, we must go to God. Alright, fifth. Questioning. Questioning And this is closely related, but here is questioning God. And I'm not going to get off hobby horse here, although I whew. I could, but I won't. I I I hear lots of unbalanced talk about being mad at God almost glorified to her. That's like the height of being spiritual and it it goes too far and we don't want to be mad at God. We can be distraught and we can be mad. Of course we're all going to be mad and we're all going to be angry and we can be confused, but we don't want to cross that line and begin to blame God and lace and put God uh take God off of the throne and put him in the the tr in the trial seat. He's not on trial. But we can come to him with our questions, our questioning. Psalm 42, 9. I say to God, my rock, why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning? Because of the oppression of the enemy. Those are good questions. Those are good questions. God's promise to be ever-present. And you felt you you you felt like he hasn't been present for you. Well, is is that time to forget God and stop praying and and give up? No, it's time to go to God and say, God, my rock, where are you? Why have you forgotten me? Why do I go mourning because of the oppression of my enemy when God's promised to give you victory over sin, yet you cannot have victory over this sin? Is that time to give up praying? Is that time to blame God for not being faithful to his promise? Is that time to be angry with God and become a skeptic in our hearts? No, but go to God. God, what what's happening? What's going on? Please help. You know, a lot of these things, God is Working in providential ways to bring us to a deeper dependence upon Him. One of the reasons is probably you're not depending on him as you ought, and you're not praying as you ought, you're not crying out as you ought, and you're not saying thanks as you ought for The victories he's already given you So, questioning God, Psalm 13, 1 and 2, how long, O Lord? Will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Questioning, questioning. And this is related to the self-counsel. And again, these are subset of that groaning , that crying, not pleading. You said you would help, O Lord. You said you would help. Well, here I am. And so We go to God with questioning, but not with the skeptic's heart, with the believer's heart, not in the flesh, but in the Holy Spirit, and not one who's Putting the Lord your God to the test and putting him on trial. The one who's pleading with God, pleading with him, it's a way of saying, You're my only hope. I have nowhere else to go. Where are you? Answer my prayer. So God will use these things to drive us deeper into prayer. He's not intending, this is what the devil intends. He's but God's not intending to drive us further away from prayer. Let alone to be mad at him. Six vow a vow or a pledge We're not talking about swearing in an ungodly and unbiblical sense. We're talking about making a pledge of faith or a commitment to God. Psalm 22, 22 to 23. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. And then gives an example of what he would say in the midst of the congregation. You who fear the Lord, praise him, and you offspring of Jacob, glorify him, and stand in awe of him, all you offspring of Israel. Highlighting there at the beginning of verse 22. Pledging to God, of making a vow. This is what I'm going to be about. I will tell of your name to my brothers. In the midst of the congregation, I will praise you. I will preach you, God. I will preach your works. For your name, for your glory in the midst of your people, I will praise you. I will tell the people about you, O God. We can make a similar pledge. In our prayers as a church. God, we will tell the community about Christ. We will preach the word. And behind that, again, is a spirit of faith. It's not an arrogant thing or a proud thing. And there's a s there's a spirit of dependence always, always, this would be part of the prayer. We can't do this on our own. We can't do this apart from the spirit. If we try to do this on our own, it would just be sin and false religion. But we can we can we can we can pledge to God, God, whatever you ask, I will do. Wherever you send me, I will go And if that starts to strengthen our prayers, and that's what we're talking about, strengthening expressions of prayer, we'll start to see the world differently. We'll start to see the world more and more as the play, the theater in which, the theater is not really a good illustration, we're not actors, but the place in which we're living out our faith commitments to God. Psalm 33, 20. Our soul waits for the Lord. He is our help and our shield. That's a pledge combined with a testimony. We will wait on the Lord. We will trust in the Lord. And then he says this: He is our help and he is our shield. So the truths about God are the basis of our vows. I'll give you one for your cross-reference, although we have to get to the seventh one. Psalm 51. Particularly 14 and following. Psalm 51, verses 14 and following. But the seventh is You know it well, the Not like a particular one. That's just grammatically, that's the way we want to say it. Yeah, the Beatitude Just proclaiming God's blessings upon his people. Proclaiming and affirming the blessings of blessings of God upon his children. So this is how this um The Psalter begins. Psalm 1, 1 and 2. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners. Nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and upon his law he meditates day and night. To beatitude. The pronounced what it's just pronouncing the blessing, God's blessing upon his children. And then the rest of the Psalms , Psalm 1 and 2 together are the introductions. Introduction to the whole Psalter. But it begins with a beatitude. Psalm 32, 1 and 2. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven and whose sin is covered. We could you can say that in a prayer. Blessed is the one whose transgression is forgiven. Blessed is the one whose sin is covered. And then you you just put it in your own words and from your own heart. Blessed is the one who has Christ. Blessed is the one who is forgiven by the blood of Christ. Psalm 32, verse 2. Blessed is the man against whom the Lord counts no iniquity. And in whose spirit there is no deceit. So you can take the general idea and the general structure of a beatitude, pronouncing the blessing. Blessed is the one who has the Holy Spirit. Now, blessed is the one you've saved. Blessed is the one who loves you. Blessed is the one loved by you. Blessed are your elect. Blessed is your church. For you've given them and promised them all things in Christ. Psalm 34 8 is a favorite, a classic. It's one of my favorites. O taste and see that the Lord is good. Blessed is the man who takes refuge in him Blessed. Blessed is the one who takes refuge in the Lord. And the Beatitude is an important part of prayer, and it is an important part of strengthening our hearts, strengthening our faith in prayer, because the world tells us the exact opposite thing. Foolish is the man who trusts in the Lord. Foolish is the man who thinks Christ is a refuge. Foolish is the man who thinks the Holy Spirit exists. Foolish is the man. So we must pronounce the blessings of God, the truth of God. upon his children. So as you one of the ways to grow in your prayer life is to read through the Psalms and meditate There's so many different ways you can read through the Psalms and different kinds of studies, different ways of having devotions. So just one of the things you can do is just look at the types of utterances that are there. The types of prayers, the types of songs and expressions. Start to think about, okay, now what what kind of expression is this? What is the language doing, and what does that express about the heart? And just start thinking about ways, okay now there's times when I need to be coming to God in this way because we want to be living in prayer. And yes, there are times there are this I I know it's eight oh three in twenty-two seconds. But so let me give an asterisk though on this. I I've often heard this idea of pray without ceasing. Really, really, really watered down to just the the vague idea of having a prayerful attitude or a prayerful mindset Yeah, but you've got to define that because prayer and praying is an actual thing that involves language, words, subjects, verbs, direct objects, and things like that that's rooted in the truth of God. We don't want to ever have just a vague spirituality without substance. We want the substance of God's word. to have living communion and fellowship with the living Christ through prayer in the Spirit. And we don't want to misinterpret living in prayer with Well, that means we never have to stop and assign a particular time of day to just praying and nothing else. Right, so we could always be praying in our minds, hearts, and uh approach things prayerfully, but please don't ever take that to mean that we don't need to set time aside. And say, I'm devoting this time to you, O Lord. Please use this time however you want and to start to build prayer life. Let's pray together. Father, I worship you. I thank you. I thank you for what you are doing in our midst here at North Harford Baptist Church. We pray for a greater unity, a greater love for each other, a greater love for you, a greater burden for the lost. Father, we pray that you would use us. Use us, O Lord, for your purposes. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.