We come to Matthew chapter 5, verses 43 through 48. There is uh an outline on the sheet that I hope you have there. At the entrances of the table, of the uh they're at e each entrance, and sometimes if you don't see them, they're on the ledge in the back. Last week we learned from Jesus' teaching how we should respond toward one who does us wrong. That's always a a difficult thing because there's sometimes a split second where we think and react, but we're not to retaliate, but rather to seize the opportunity to demonstrate, to respond. with sacrificial loving service. That's what Jesus described. We follow the pattern of what he did walking to the cross. And he's asking us this morning in the passage that we choose to respond in love toward those who aren't showing love to us. You've probably heard of three kinds of love, and I'm not talking about the biblical kinds, but someone has categorized love in this way, love if. Love if you do this, I will love you if you do this, or love because of, I love because you are this or do this, and then love in spite of I love you, period, in spite of what you are. or aren't what you do or don't do. The passage teaches that love is based On choice, not feelings. And that is what agape love in the scripture is: it is a commitment to love someone else Because you've made that commitment. And you're going to keep doing it. And so this idea of loving your enemies, though, that's Obviously more challenging. Loving your enemy though is a choice. It's a choice you're commanded to make. It's a choice that demonstrates the character of God, and it's a choice that distinguishes Christians as gracious, forgiving people. Jesus is teaching on it because he's interested in in each of those that we obey, that we demonstrate God's character, that we are distinguished as his people. in this earth, on this earth, as we live. In the context of Jesus' day, we need to ask what was an enemy? And you probably can remember some ideas of what that was about. He was talking to people who considered Most Gentiles to be enemies because they did not acknowledge one God, Jehovah. And the people he was talking to certainly considered Samaritans to be detestable enemies because they had mixed in marriage with Gentiles, Jew and Gentile, so for a racial reason. And they considered all tax collectors to be enemies because they served Rome. And Rome ruled over their homeland, the land God had given to them. And so just the thought of a Jew helping out the Romans in any way made that Jew an enemy So this teaching would bring radical change, understand, to the disciples and the followers and the crowd who are listening in on the mountainside if they were to obey it. It would change their thinking, it would change their acting. By the way, I don't want to distract you. I'll pause just to say this is the second uh uh carpal tunnel surgery because I do use this right hand a lot and you're gonna wonder what is that? He had one on the left hand. Yeah, second carpal tunnel, that's all it is. And it's going I didn't do anything to my wife, she didn't do anything to me. I know those questions were all asked in jest, but I got several of them this morning, so just want to say she does twist my arm, but in much kinder ways than than this. So this teaching will not only bring radical change, would not only bring radical change to those who heard, brings radical change to us who are listening in through The scripture. What's an enemy today? Today, an enemy is anyone whose presence causes you feelings of resentment. Or hatred or hostility, if that surfaces in your heart when you think about somebody because of maybe something they've done to you or to your family. Or because of something that they are, a certain race, nationality, etc. or or because of something they represent? Some people are struggling with that politically this week, or something they represent culturally because of beliefs that they have and hold. And want to see our nation go in a certain way. It can be many ways. But but an enemy is somebody whose presence causes feelings of resentment. To surface in your heart. But listen, an enemy is also someone who shows hostility toward you because of something you've done or something you are. or something that you represent. So we can have enemies, but as, let's say, persecuted church and view in my prayer earlier, you as a believer, what you represent because of that, you might be singled out. And thus things done to you that cause you challenge. And someone becomes your enemy because of something that you are, something that you represent. Something that you've done. November November has been a time to pray for the persecuted church around the world, and so I would encourage you to think of them As one way to pray from this passage of Scripture, it is always good to take passages of Scripture and think about how to use them in our prayer life. I think this one lends itself particularly to the persecuted church. Let's look first at the command of Jesus. Verse 33 and 34 and I'm sorry, 43 and 44. You have heard that it was said, You shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. But I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. Again, we see that Jesus was not changing anything God had said in the law, that which you have in probably Capital letters perhaps in some versions, you shall love your neighbor. That was from the law of God. And hate your enemy was something he's going to deal with, because that's what the Pharisees were giving permission to do. Do, but he is going to be true. Jesus is to the Old Testament law of God. He's going to give the full meaning of the law, and he's going to correct the false teaching of the Pharisees. The Pharisees taught that it was righteous to hate your enemies. Verse 43, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. That's what the people were hearing from the religious leaders. Why would they be hearing that? Well, because in the Psalms. We see David expressing hate. And so they had taken that to mean it is right for us to hate our enemies But you have to realize that in the Psalm, the issue is not sin against David that he's upset about. It is David being upset about sin against God. It is a righteous indignation. It is an obedient anger, a righteous anger to be jealous for God and His will and to react that way in prayer toward enemies. Now I think we're we're taught clearer principles of how to pray for enemies enemies in the New Testament. But the Pharisees were taking this righteous indignation and excusing personal hatred. I hope you see the difference. Personal hatred is not where God wants us to go. In our heart. So it was David's a God-centered hatred, not a self-centered hatred. Notice what the Pharisees have done then. They have condoned a self-centered hatred. Notice the text. But I say to uh uh uh I'm sorry, verse 43, you shall love your neighbor and hate your enemy. Uh they were making it personal. It was a self-centered uh person um hatred and they were giving the the principle that it was okay to do that towards someone who has become your enemy Now I want to see it, I want you to see in God's law, or at least hear from God's law, what Jesus is building upon. So you see the text there in your notes Leviticus 19, verse 17 and 18, and 33 and 34. You shall not hate your fellow countrymen in your heart. You may surely reprove your neighbor, but shall not incur sin because of him. You shall not take vengeance, nor bear any grudge against the sons of your people. people, but you shall love your neighbor as yourself. I am the Lord. Then down in that same chapter Verse thirty-three, when a stranger resides with you in your land, you shall not do him wrong. Another stranger would be a stranger to the Jews, someone from another nation. The stranger who resides with you shall be to you as the native among you, and you shall love him as yourself, for you were aliens in the land of Egypt. I am the Lord your God. From Exodus chapter 23, four and five, if you meet your enemy's ox or his donkey wandering away, you shall surely return it to him. If you see the donkey of one who hates you, lying helpless under its load, you shall refrain from leaving it to him. You shall surely release it with him. So loving your neighbor, as is clearly taught in the Old Testament, is taught to mean clearly loving your enemies. Both the alien nation who might be in your midst, or one who hates you for some reason Loving your neighbor includes loving your enemies. And thus Jesus command, verse 44, I say to you, remember his authority to do that, I say to you, who is he? He is the Son of God. He is the rightful interpreter of Scripture. I say to you, love your enemies. And that means act for his or her welfare. It meant that in Leviticus and Exodus, and it means that in what Jesus teaches here. in the Sermon on the Mount. How do we do that? Jesus gives us several practical ways. First of all, pray for your enemies. Verse 44. How do we love them? We pray for them. I say to you, love your enemies and pray for those who persecute you. So listen, enemies automatically go on your prayer list. It may not be the first thing you think about, but enemies automatically go on your prayer list. You pray for their souls. Or, if they are a believer, you pray for their fellowship with God. You pray for your attitude toward them, and you pray for opportunities to serve them. That's where Jesus goes in the passage next Secondly, do good to your enemies, verses 40 through 42. By the way, Luke here says in his recording of Jesus' sermon, love your enemies and do good to those who hate you. So we are to look for opportunities to do good, to serve our enemies. We saw that action last week in verses 40 through 42 in Matthew 5. If anyone wants to sue you and take your shirt, let him have your coat also. Whoever forces you to go one mile, go with him. Two, continue to serve, to do good. Give to him who asks you. Do not turn away from him who wants to borrow from you. So pray for your enemies. Look for ways to do good to your enemies. Enemies. Thirdly, speak kindly to your enemies. Verse 47. If you greet only your brothers What more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same? Now what is Jesus talking about when he says greet? In his day, it was to wish peace upon someone you would meet. Shalom. Peace be to you. Luke has it in chapter 6, verse 28, bless those who curse you. So we should speak kindly to our enemies. By the way, we should also speak kindly of our enemies. If we have to talk about a situation to someone else, we do it with kindness. We don't curse them to others. Now understand what Jesus is commanding of his followers. You are not to do unto others as they do unto you. That's a common misquoting of the golden rule, which is to do unto others as you would have them do unto you. So we are not to do unto others as they do unto us, or as Luke has it in chapter 6. 31, treat others the same way you want them. to treat you. So here it is. Don't allow an enemy, someone who has something against you for some reason, don't allow their behavior to dictate your behavior. Christian, you need to rise above that. One who wants to be faithful to Christ, we need to rise above that. And by God's grace, we let Jesus' command dictate our behavior. Now it doesn't come naturally. So that's why we go to the throne of grace, to receive mercy and grace in time of need. We breathe a prayer, if it's in the moment. Or if it's something we hear about and we have to respond to, we we go to prayer and ask God for help with our thoughts, our attitudes, our words, our actions. Jesus impresses upon us secondly the character of God. Verse 45. As you read this, just think this is What I am to image, as a creation of God and as a believer in Christ. Here's the purpose: so that, so that you may be sons of your Father who is in heaven. For he causes his son to rise on the evil and the good, and sends rain on the righteous and the unrighteous The lyrics of the songs we sang had this thought in them. That's why they were chosen. Jesus is saying that it is a part of God's character to love. demonstrating his goodness intentionally to those who are his enemies. That is, that they are not Singled out and not given the blessing that he gives to the world. And so nor should we single people out and not Give them the blessing that we would give from our life. This is why we must love our enemies in order to be like God, in order to be godly, in order to image Him is another way of saying it. In order to glorify Him. is another way to say it, to please him. The phrase, sons of, is the Hebrew way of saying to be like. To show the character of. Jesus used the illustration of sun and rain, daily, consistent occurrences around the world that all people receive the blessing of. No matter their attitude toward God. Those who are persecuting the church in Indonesia benefited from the sun and the rain this week, just as the persecuted church benefited from the sun and the rain. Luke records in chapter six, verse thirty-five, ge God Himself, He Himself is kind. To ungrateful and evil men. And we shouldn't misunderstand this from In our thoughts about God, God doesn't excuse ungratefulness. He doesn't ignore evil His enemies will face judgment for sin if they do not repent. But he doesn't exclude his enemies from love in the sense of goodness toward him. He continues to show that. Listen, Jesus is not asking us to fellowship with our enemies. He is commanding us to love our enemies with daily, consistent, indiscriminate goodness. Why? Because God loves his enemies that way. You are to be merciful just as your Father is merciful. Luke 6, verse 36. The third challenge of the passage is the comparison to others, verses 46 through 48 For if you love those who love you, what reward do you have? Do not even the tax collectors do the same? If you greet only your brothers, what more are you doing than others? Do not even the Gentiles do the same. I mean , that's the way of the world. Verses 46 and 47 is how everybody lives We rise above that, though. He's arguing Jesus is the truth of his command. He exposes the standard of the world. Here it is Treat others as they've treated you. That's the standard of the world. And if that's all you do in your love for others, then you've acted according to your fallen nature. Because that's what the world does. That's what we see. There's no reward for that from God. A reward will come to those who accept a higher godly standard of loving enemies. By acting, speaking, and praying for their enemy's welfare. Jesus does not want anything to be lacking In the twelve's behavior, as he speaks to them, in any follower's behavior. He doesn't want anything to be lacking In his church today, in this collected assembly, in our love for others If you are a believer in the Lord Jesus Christ and you merely compare yourself to others, you will be lacking. For your love to be complete, you must compare yourself to God. Right? That's the comparison. And that's the the meaning. That's where Jesus is pointing us with the word perfect. In verse 48. Therefore, you are to be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. The word perfect means complete. It is the same word that Jesus used on the cross when he said, it is finished, it is completed, comes from the same root. The word perfect means nothing lacking. So if God's love is our pattern, it will image his complete, perfect love. Jesus is not saying we can be sinless. Oh no. We're not going to be perfectly righteous. But in the context of love here, where this verse is, I think there's general principles from it as well, that we should always strive toward godliness. But in the context here, just thinking about love , He is saying that our love should be the in spite of kind. Our love should show the character of God. Who is kind and good to sinners. And sometimes that's what can awaken a soul, what God will use to awaken a soul to understand their sinfulness against this one who has blessed them so Jesus isn't saying we can be sinless. He is saying that no sin can be excused. You're to be perfect as your heavenly Father is perfect. Therefore we cannot say, well, I'm never going to be perfect. I I'm just going to be this way toward that particular person. No, there's no excuse for hatred of an enemy. If there's hatred in your heart toward anyone or any group of people, please understand Jesus is not commanding you to feel good about such people. Feelings are things that will follow obedience, perhaps, but that's not the command. He's commanding you to love them with prayer. Right? With goodness, with kindness. That's the example of God. And as a witness of his character, your example must rise above the standard of love that we see in the world. Paul picks up on this. Turn, if you would, to Ephesians 4. 31. We'll finish here, or close to finish here, excuse me, a little bit more. But I want you to see this. Paul picks up on this. Ephesians four, thirty-one and thirty-two. And we are dealing with the heart For sure. Let all bitterness 431, Ephesians, let all bitterness And wrath and anger and clamor and slander be put away from you. Paul gives a string there of five descriptive words that Reside in heart and come forth in action in difficult times. Let them be put away from you You're not going to do that in your own strength, but that's the goal. Along with all malice, there's the sixth. In verse 32, be kind to one another. Tenderhearted, forgiving each other. By the way, let me just stop and say one way to become tenderhearted is to realize that If you're dealing with a lost person, or maybe a backslidden Christian, but don't be surprised at what sin brings forth from another person towards you Why be surprised at that? Lost people will act like lost people. Sometimes they'll act in a way God has made them to image him and by his common grace and they'll be a good neighbor. Sometimes they won't. So why be surprised at that? Let it remind you to pray for their salvation is my point. Be kind to one another, tenderhearted, forgiving each other, just as God in Christ also has forgiven you. Just as God in Christ, to be godly, to grow in that way, has forgiven you. And you might be able to say, sitting here this morning, thinking about this message, hey, I'm better than than verse 31. I don't look like that exactly. But the comparison that honors God is with verse 32. Okay? So you may control bitterness, wrath, anger, slander, clamor, malice. But here's where Jesus is teaching us to grow: kindness, tenderheartedness, forgiveness. That we image what God has done to us in Christ That's the comparison that honors God. We are about to celebrate. This truth of love for enemies through the Lord's Supper. Think about it. Who were you before he saved you? You're described as an enemy. Let me read it to you. Romans 5:8. God demonstrates his own love toward us in that while we were yet sinners. Christ died for us. Romans 5. 10. While we were enemies, we were reconciled to God through the death of his Son. The ultimate goodness, mercy. Ephesians 2, 3 through 5. We too all formerly lived in the lust of our flesh Indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest, children deserving of God's wrath. That's the point. But God being rich in mercy because of his great love with which he loved us, even when we were dead in our transgressions, made us alive with Christ by grace. You have been saved. The perfect love of enemies is what I just read about. God loving sinners by sending Jesus to take the punishment of their sins. For maybe most of us in this room, the challenge is to imitate that love. And that's a challenge For some in this room, the challenge is to receive that love, to understand what God was doing, sending Jesus. To take sin upon the cross, to die for it, to pay its penalty, so that you could rightly be forgiven. Deciding, choosing, before the foundation of the world, not to hold you accountable for that sin, but to put it on his son so that you could be forgiven. Well, if you've understood that, I call upon you to pray and express sorrow for your sin. Repent and believe in Jesus this morning If you have more questions about that, I request that you see me afterwards and we'll get together as soon as possible to talk more about that. Have you understood God's love? And have you understood Jesus is exhorting you to grow in it this morning? church, have you received that love by believing in Jesus, understanding that his mission on earth, in addition to teaching true righteousness, Sermon on the Mount as an example. His mission on earth was to die, paying sin 's penalty for those like you who fall short of the glory of God, the righteousness of God. Who deserve hell. And Jesus is calling us to imitate the gospel, is he not? And if you've got an enemy, someone who causes those difficult feelings to arise in your heart, I want to say you have a special opportunity for For witnessing, for showing forth the grace, the mercy of God. There is special opportunity to be Christ-like, to be godly. my prayer for you. Let's go to God. Father, we we pray, we draw near to the throne because this takes something that is beyond us. No matter what our natural demeanor, no matter how you've made us to be an easy-going or high-strung, this takes a special grace. And so we come to you, we draw near. We who are believers with confidence to the throne of grace, that we may receive mercy and find grace to help in time of need. Lord, we pray that for our brothers and sisters around the world who deal with very real enemies whenever they gather. whenever they are out in the marketplace. We pray that you would protect them and give them opportunities to show love and goodness in their lives And Father, we pray for those who are here who are without Christ as Lord and Savior. Would they see you in a new way today? Not only as one who Brings sunshine and rain, and because of that, food in this world, and many other resources, but one who Send your son , we might know you personally, be forgiven of our sin, to know an eternal kingdom. One day. So Father, we pray for believers. We pray for unbelievers this morning. That you would do your work through the preaching of your word. In Jesus' name. I pray. Amen.