Tonight we're in Luke 10, 38 to 42. Luke chapter 10. Verses 38 to 42, Martha's problem. Martha's problem. Some passages of Scripture and some topics of Christian living you can give specific practical application. But for this passage and for this topic you really going to have to do the hard work of the practical application in your own heart, in the specifics, in the concrete details. Just by the nature of what the lesson is. There is application here for every single one of us, but you need to seek the Spirit, you need to seek God's will for your particular situation. For your particular application. So that'll take some hard work, and I'm trusting that the Spirit will enable us, will enable you to do that as we think about Martha's problem. Martha's problem is that She was more concerned with serving Jesus than Jesus serving her. Does that make sense She's more concerned with what she's doing for Jesus than what Jesus can do for her. And this is a trap of outward religion. It's a dangerous trap. To be more concerned, to be more captivated. with what we're doing with our service rather than being served by him. Let's read the passage, Luke 10, 38 to 42. Now as they went on their way, Jesus entered a village, and a woman named Martha welcomed him into her house, and she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet and listened. to his teaching. But Martha was distracted with much serving. And she went up to him and said, Lord, Do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me. But the Lord answered her, Martha, Martha, you're anxious and troubled about many things. But one thing is necessary. And Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. Mary was deeply aware of her need for Jesus Christ. And she was passionate for personal communion with Jesus Christ. And that, brothers and sisters, is far more important than serving Jesus and serving others. Because if we're not served by Jesus, we will not be grown spiritually. We will be shriveling up and dying. And you can be shriveling up and dying spiritually all the while maintaining an outward public. Show of religious service. Now, let's be balanced with Martha. I'm really zooming in on the issue and the problem, and that's what the topic is for the sermon, so we have to do that. for it to be clear and for it to have relevance for us. But let's be balanced with Martha. Martha is not an unbeliever. Martha is a believer that's a little bit out of balance. And isn't that all of us? Aren't we all believers who are going to be a little bit out of balance in one way or another? Aren't we all like Martha? We're believers who need to grow. We're believers who need to learn. We're believers who need to repent. Friends, that's the only kind of believers there are in this world. So let's be gracious to Martha. Let's be balanced with Martha. She's not the devil. She's not a lost person. She's a believer who needs to learn a very specific lesson and apply it to her life. Does that sound good? So She's more concerned with her serving Jesus than Jesus serving her. And that's why I said on this topic, on this issue, it's something each one of us individually will need to do the hard spiritual work of What does this look like in my life? You have to do the practical application of like changing your mindset that you need to make or change in in your behavior that you need to make. That's going to be between you and the Holy Spirit of the living God to work that out in the application. But she is distracted from fellowship with Jesus by her own doing good deeds for Jesus. Broke this discussion down into three Sections. Alright, so I want to try to work through these three sections together with you. The first thing I want us to look at is the snare of Ungodly religious service. The snare of ungodly religious service. And then after that, I want to talk about the spiritual death that it can bring It's not neutral. It will have a negative impact. The spiritual death it can bring. And then number three, most importantly , The source of help. The source of help for Martha. The source of help for Mary. The source of help for every other Character in the Gospel of Luke, the source of help for Matt, your source of help The source, the living source of spiritual help for the sinner, Jesus Christ So that's the three sections. Number one, the snare of ungodly religious service, which is something that needs to be repented of. Number two, the spiritual death it brings. And number three, the source of help. So, first, the snare of ungodly religious service. Now, that does not mean that all religious service is ungodly. Of course not. But a major theme, Old Testament, New Testament, all throughout Scripture, is Superficial religious service that is ungodly and needs to be repented of. That's used as a distraction from true spirituality. It's an abomination to God. This comes from verse 40. But Martha was distracted with much serving. She went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Then tell her Tell her then to help me. She's not tuned into her need for Christ. She wants help doing the work. You sense a little bit of bitterness. You sense a little bit of frustration in Martha, don't you? She's implying that Jesus is tuned out to what's going on. She's implying she's doing the most important thing. She's doing the service. Jesus has tuned out. So she says, don't you care? Look at all that I'm doing. Don't you care that I'm doing this alone? And you're going to let Mary sit out here and not do anything? And then she's completely confused about who's the Lord and Master in this situation. And I quote, tell her then to help me. End quote. Do you see what this snare of ungodly religious service leads to? She's not tuned in to her need for Christ. She's reading the whole situation the wrong way. Is it possible for good things to distract us from the greatest thing? You bet. Absolutely. Is it possible for important things to distract us from the most important thing? Absolutely. In fact, I would argue there's within professing Christianity, those are the two biggest distractions. The biggest distraction from the greatest thing are other good things. We're just so busy with the other good things that we're distracted from the supreme thing. And it happens to Martha in this story. It still happens today. Now, serving others is good. Yes? Serving others is good. But it can be used as a distraction from true spiritual health and true spiritual life and growth. Of being served by Jesus, being sanctified by Jesus is more important for me than my service to the church. You're being served by Jesus through his word and through his spirit. Your being sanctified by Jesus is far more important than the jobs you do at church. You've got to know that. I've got to be clear about that. So that we don't fall into the Martha trap. In fact, in Matthew 23, 5, Jesus will say about the Pharisees, this. They do all their deeds to be seen by others. And he's not talking about sinful deeds like stealing and things like that. He's talking about their outwardly righteous deeds. But why are they doing it? They're doing it to be seen by others. And that's why we always have to check our motives. We always have to examine our motives. Why am I doing this? What's my goal in doing this? Is it to glorify God or is it to bring glory to myself? Is it to honor God because I love God? Or is it because it makes me feel good to do good things in front of other people? The flesh loves that. Now, doing good is important, but doing good can be used as a distraction from the most important thing, which is seeing Christ and receiving Christ in our hearts. In Matthew 23, 28, Jesus, still talking about the Pharisees, will say, outwardly they appear righteous to others. Outwardly they appear righteous to others, but within are full of hypocrisy and lawlessness. I do not want to be in that group. I do not want to just be in the group that other people see a veneer of righteousness Through religious service and good deeds, but then really what's happening inside my heart is hypocrisy and lawlessness. I'm doing it all just for my own glory. Now, doing good deeds, serving others in a religious setting, can be one of the most common ways a person can distract himself or distract others. From the fact that he is negligent in spiritual matters. Why is this such an effective distraction? Why is this so effective in camouflaging the truth? Because when you're doing good deeds, when you're serving others, it looks good. It outwardly looks good. In fact, it can even look exactly the same as those who are not hypocrites. Who do have the right motives and goals in their hearts? Outwardly it can look exactly the same. It looks good to others. Others think highly of you. Emotionally, it feels good for you. And then you always have an out. You always can spin things on how this is biblical. This is godly. I'm doing what the Bible says. I'm doing what God commands. Yeah, yeah, yeah. Outwardly. But that's not God's will for us. Just to do things outwardly that He commands. What's the greatest commandment that underlies all other commandments? To love God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength, to love God most Turn to Matthew six, verses one to four. A practical admonition from Christ. Matthew 6, 1 to 4. Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them. For then you will have no reward from your Father who is in heaven. Thus, when you give to the needy, sound no trumpet before you, as the hypocrites do in the synagogues and in the streets. that they may be praised by others. Truly I say to you, they have received their reward. But when you give to the needy, Do not let your left hand know what your right hand is doing, so that your giving may be in secret, and your father who sees in secret will reward you. There are different passages in Scripture that command us to be careful, to make sure we are practicing righteousness and not practicing wickedness. But this is an intriguing passage. Because this is an admonition to be careful not to do your righteousness publicly just to be seen by others. And we need warning about that. It literally says, beware of practicing your righteousness. That's pretty interesting. Beware of practicing your righteousness before other people in order to be seen by them. The snare of ungodly religious service had caught Martha by the ankle. She's in a sneak like a little snare, a little rope trap. The rabbit's coming by. It just grabs the rabbit. This snare has grabbed Martha and it can grab us. Let's examine our motives What are we more tuned into as we're coming to the fellowship? What are we more zealous about as we're coming to the church? Are we locked into just our jobs and our duties and our service and what we're doing for others? Or are we coming as desperate for Christ? Are we coming feeling, sensing, knowing our need for Christ and for the Word of God to minister to our hearts? Are we Mary or are we Martha? Probably a little bit of both for each of us, right? To a different degree in different seasons. There's ups, there's downs. But let's be tuned in to the difference. Number 2, section 2, let's talk about the spiritual death that it brings. Back in Luke 10, now looking at the second part of verse 40, also into verse 41. She went up to him and said, Lord, do you not care that my sister has left me to serve alone? Tell her then to help me. But the Lord. Answered her, Martha, Martha, you are anxious and troubled about many things. Jesus tells us what the problem is. She's anxious and she's troubled about many things. Her heart is full of unrest. Listen, Jesus is at the house. And he's teaching. And he's hanging out. It's a small-scale fellowship meal with Christ there bodily And you're anxious and troubled about many things. Isn't this incredible? She has a little bit of a root of bitterness starting to sprout up at her sister. She's left me all alone. You see, this word serve comes up, verse 40, much serving. Again in verse 40, it left me to serve alone. And she's so captivated by her own service, she's not tuned into her need for Christ. She's full of unrest, and she's frustrated with others Have you ever been there? Have you ever ever met someone who's there? Have you ever been in a season like that? You're full of unrest and you're frustrated with others. There's a good chance you're just focused on the wrong things. If you are saved, your sins are forgiven, you're reconciled to God, you have the hope of heaven, you have the certainty of resurrection, and your heart is full of unrest. Jesus said those who come to him will find rest for their souls. So if you if you never have rest for your soul Like none of it ever? Then you haven't come to Jesus because Jesus is not a liar. He's right about that. Those who come to him will have rest for their souls. Now, like everything in Christian living, we don't experience that Perfectly in this life. But we'll have that truly. You'll have at least a seed of rest for our souls. And as we're growing and maturing and being sanctified by the Spirit will grow in that experience of having rest for our souls. But right now Martha is not there. She's full of unrest. She's frustrated with others. That's the spiritual death that ungodly superficial religious service can bring. All because why? All because she's more concerned with her serving Jesus than Jesus serving her. You see how this can be, this is so subtle, but it is diabolical. Because serving Jesus is good and serving others is good. But when it is used as a distraction from your need to be served by Jesus, then it brings death It's become an idol. It's become about my glory, not the glory of Christ. It's become about how much other people need me and the affirmation that that brings, right? Because they need me. They need me to do this. If I don't do this, nobody will do this. How do you know? But it becomes about self and how much others need you rather than how much you need Jesus. And brothers and sisters, we need Jesus. That wasn't something just in the past. Well, I did that. I needed him, and so I believed in him. I prayed the prayer. I was baptized. I needed him, but now I'm good. No, you need him every day. You sing it. We sing it. We need you every hour. Every hour we need you. And it is true, it is true. Do you feel that, brothers and sisters? I'm pleading with you, I'm asking you, do you feel that? Do you daily feel and sense and know your need for Christ? So that you're always going to prayer. You're always going to the word. You're longing to come worship him so that he might minister to you from heaven. Through the preaching, through the singing, through the fellowship, through the praying together, through the Lord's Supper, I need Jesus, and so I'm going to worship him. Is that why we're coming? Three, the source of help. The source of help is the word of Christ and the nourishment of listening to Him I almost want to just repeat that 50 times and go home. I won't. Alright, Andrew. But this is the source of help. The Word of Christ And the nourishment of listening to him. And I wanted to say that fifty times. Now that's twice, so I'm getting there This is our greatest need. This is our greatest practical need. This is the thing that will revive our hearts, revive our lives, revive our church. The word of Christ and the nourishment of listening to Him. Verse 39. And she had a sister called Mary, who sat at the Lord's feet. And listened to his teaching. In my book, Mary hits a grand slam game-winning home run right there. That is the Super Bowl-winning touchdown as time expires. Sitting and listening to the voice of the Lord Jesus Christ. Put me there. That's where I need to be. And that's where I want to be. Now the flesh will take us away from that. That's why we must always be striving in prayer. And in the word, crying out to God in our sanctification, because the flesh will drive us away from that. And Satan will drive us away from that, lying to us, trying to convince us that we don't need that. You don't need that. You already know enough. It's not just about amassing head knowledge. It's about living communion with Christ. And she's sitting and she's listening to him, listening to his teaching. So she said that she can be built up and encouraged and changed by his teaching. And then also verse 42, but one thing is necessary. Mary has chosen the good portion which will not be taken away from her. One thing is necessary. Yes, other things are good. But only one thing is truly needed. Other things are important. It's good, it's important, but only one thing is necessary So if the good drowns out the necessary, if the important drowns out the necessary, that's a strikeout. That's a fumble turnover, game losing turnover. Pastor John is really enjoying the sports metaphors. That is an unforced error And the final game o of Wimbledon. It's so simple, isn't it? Just really, brothers and sisters, this isn't profound like ivory tower theological stuff. We're just talking about being tuned into our greatest need And then attending to that greatest need in the way that God's designed. Hungering for the Word of Christ. Feasting on the word of Christ. Zealous for daily communion with Christ through his word and by his spirit. That's just where our hearts need to be. If we're to be biblical Christians. One thing is necessary. Mary's chosen the good portion, which will not be taken away from her. Mary's doing the better thing. Why in the world would Jesus stop her from doing the better thing to go do an inferior thing? Mary is doing the thing that's best for her soul. Why would Jesus stop her from doing that and tell her to go do something inferior? It doesn't make sense. And this is what Martha needs to learn You are anxious. You are troubled about many things. Why am I going to put Mary on your program? You want her to be bitter and frustrated like you are? You want her to be tuned out to her spiritual need like you are? One thing is necessary. She's chosen the good portion. It's the better serving. It's the better platter that could be put before you, is the illustration. And it will not be taken away from her. Jesus is happy that Mary is listening to his teaching, that she's fixated on his word and the nourishment of listening to him. Now I wanted to close by going through five practical reasons why we need to be hungering for the word, feasting on the word. Now there are many of these. I'm just doing five. I try to do five overarching, practical. Here's why we need to hunger for the word of Christ and feast on the word of Christ to be nourished by listening to Christ. Number one, to be strengthened and sustained in our faith. Now, if you want a stagnant faith, the word is not for you. If you want an apathetic faith, the word is not for you. But to be strengthened and sustained in our faith, we need to Constantly be nourished by the word of Christ. Acts 20, 32, Paul says, I commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up. And to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. Do you want to be built up? Well, then you need the word. You need the word of his grace. Also, Hebrews 13:9. It is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace. Now, do you want your heart to be strengthened? Strengthened in faith? Strengthened in hope? Strengthened in love? Well, then you need the word of his grace. You need the grace of God preached to your heart so that God will minister to your heart and strengthen your heart. God strengthens and sustains our faith and strengthens and sustains our hearts by His word, specifically the word of His grace. Now he'll convict us by the word of his commandment, the word of his law. He'll convict us, he'll instruct us, but he transforms us and strengthens us by the word of his grace, the gospel of Jesus Christ. So to be strengthened and sustained in our faith, we need the constant nourishment of the Word of God. Secondly, To fight sin and cultivate holiness, we need the constant, regular nourishment of the Word of God. It was hard to pick just one verse for this one. But I picked Psalm 119, 9. How can a young man keep his way pure by guarding it according to your word? How can a man keep his way pure? How can a man live a holy life? By the word of God. How can a woman lead a holy life and be given to holiness and purity? By the word of God God will sanctify us by His Word. We need regular diet, steady diet of the Word of God. Number one, to be strengthened and sustained in our faith Number two, to fight sin and cultivate holiness. Number three, to gain wisdom and discernment. Anybody in here along with me need to grow in wisdom and discernment and decisions in life? Psalm 19, 7, the testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. How does the simple get to be wise? The testimony of the Lord. How do the wise get to grow and increase in wisdom? Which is one of the one of the purposes of the wisdom literature, one of the purposes of Proverbs, is not just for the simple to learn wisdom, but for the wise to increase in wisdom. and knowledge. The testimony of the Lord is sure, making wise the simple. Psalm 119, 10. With my whole heart I seek you, let me not wander from your commandments. That's a powerful verse, so I'm going to read that again. With my whole heart I seek you. Let me not wander from your commandments. So let's not be the people who are talking about a relationship with God and talking spiritual and acting spiritual, but now we've wandered from his commandments. You can't separate the two. You can't separate the relationship out from the obedience. If you love me, you will keep my commandments, Jesus says. That's the biblical paradigm. We love him. And as this scripture says, with our whole heart, we seek him. And in that context, we're striving for a practical obedience. Amen? Striving for practical obedience in the context of a relationship from a heart of love, with my whole heart I seek you. Let me not wander from your commandments. Because if we wander from the commandments, wisdom Crashes. If we wander from his commandments, our discernment in daily life crashes. And if we stray from the personal relational communion, we will wander from his commandments. So, practical reasons, we need a steady diet, constant nourishment of the Word of Christ. Number one, to strengthen and sustain our faith. Number two, to fight sin and cultivate holiness. Number three, to gain wisdom and discernment, or to increase in wisdom and discernment. Number four, to endure sufferings and trials. To endure sufferings and trials and not just to skate through and still exist. I mean to endure them in a godly way And endure them in a way that draws us closer to God. Endure them in a way that sanctifies us. To endure them according to God's will. To endure suffering and trials, we need the nourishment of God's word. Romans 15, 4. Paul makes a statement here about one of the practical purposes of the written word. Romans 15:4 , for whatever was written in the former days was written for our instruction, that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. It's a picture of the written word, the scripture encouraging us so that we would have endurance. It's a picture of the scriptures, the written word. Strengthening us, encouraging us, so that we would endure through whatever suffering and trial comes our way. It was written in the former days, but it was written Paul says, for our instruction, so that through endurance and through the encouragement of the scriptures we might have hope. We need finally on my list, not finally, period, absolutely, but just on my short, very short abbreviated list, Pastor John. You need the word for more reasons than this. For example, we're not even talking about just uh we're not even talking about comfort and consolation for the heart, which would be a huge one But I just wanted to do five tonight. Finally, this really is the overarching one. This is the big one. This is the biggie. We need The nourishment of the word of Christ that we might mature in Christ's likeness. His word makes us more like Him. His word, by his spirit, administered to our hearts by his grace, makes us more like him. 1 Peter 2:2, like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk that by it you may grow up into salvation, which is uh an idiom for sanctified, being sanctified. That's how you grow up into salvation. That doesn't mean um That if you keep really working at this, you can be reconciled to God and you can be forgiven. No, no. You've been reconciled to God and you are forgiving. Growing up into your salvation is talking about our ongoing sanctification. And being conformed to his likeness. Think about this illustration. It's one of the great illustrations of Scripture. Like newborn infants long for the pure spiritual milk, which is the milk of the Word. It's the milk of God's truth. Now is that a vivid illustration or what? That's a pretty good one. Like a newborn baby longing for milk. That's how we should long for the word of Christ. For the right reason that we might be sanctified. Are you tuned in to your need for God's Word? Are you dead set? Focused and passionate about feasting on God's word so that you might be strengthened and sustained in faith So that you might fight sin and pursue holiness. So that you might gain wisdom and discernment and then also increase in wisdom and discernment. So that you might endure suffering and trials. In the right way, in the godly way, so that you might mature in the likeness of Christ. And since I mentioned this one in passing, I'll say this again, so that you might find comfort and consolation for your heart. In times of trouble and your battle against sin and your ongoing battle against temptation and your ongoing struggle against the flesh and the ongoing battle against Satan and his lies. Going to the Word to be comforted and to be consoled. There's lots of really good illustrations for the Word of God in Scripture. I'll go through just a few of them To end. Really trying to put the focus on God's Word here. Is that coming across at all? Gracie, is that coming across? Focus on God's Word hungering for God's word, feasting on God's word, being tuned into our need for Christ so that we don't fall prey to Martha's problem, which is being more concerned with her serving Jesus than Jesus Jesus serving her through his word. I want us to be on that Mary program. Always listening to Christ. and passionate about that. Anyway, back to some of these illustrations of the Word of God. In scripture the Word of God is illustrated and pictured as a hammer That crushes stone, and it can crush our hearts and convict our hearts so that we would look to God for healing and restoration. In the Bible The word of God is like a fire that purifies us. It's like the fiery judgment of God that comes into our hearts and can purify our hearts. Getting rid of sinful impurities. In the Bible, the word of God is like fine gold and precious gold, and it's like silver. It's of great value for us, of exceedingly great value for us, eternal value for us. In the Word of God. The Bible, the revealed word of God is illustrated, is pictured as sweet honey, even the honeycomb It tastes good. It's delectable. It's good nourishment, sweet nourishment for the soul. In the Bible, the word of God is like a seed that gives life. It gives spiritual life in our hearts and then it Grows and cultivates that spiritual life inside of us so that it might bear fruit. It comes from the seed to the fruit. In the Bible, the Word of God is a lamp. That lights our way through this world so that we know how to live according to God's will. In the Bible, the Word of God is a sword that will enable us to fight the battle within It is a sword, the sword of the Spirit. In the Bible, the Word of God is bread that sustains us, a staple of life. It is bread for the soul. In the Bible, the Word of God is like a rock that supports us, like a rock that protects us, like a rock that gives us security. In the Bible, the Word of God is a mirror that will speak the truth to us about who we really are. It is a mirror that shows us who we are. It shows us we are sinners, that we might look to God for grace. It shows us that we are weak, that we might look to God for strength. It shows us that we are foolish that we might look to God for wisdom. It's a mirror. Hebrews 4, 12. For the word of God is living and active, and it is sharper than any two-edged sword. Piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. No creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. God's word is the way he reaches the deepest parts of our soul and convicts us in the deepest depths of our heart. And he helps us and he ministers to us and he changes us within. God's word is the way that he does that. It's sharper than any two-edged sword. It's living. It's active. And it, Hebrews 4. 12, discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart. You see, brothers and sisters, that's really the only way we can truly examine our own hearts Is the word of God examines our own hearts, and then like a shepherd, it it leads us and enables us to examine our own hearts. It's the word of God that cuts to the heart. It's the word of God that quotes Exam uh discerns the thoughts and intentions of the heart. End quote. So that we're able to discern the thoughts and intentions of our heart as the word shepherds us and enables us To do that. The word of God. The word of God is what we need The word of God is what we hunger for. The Word of God, the Word of Christ is the way we commune with Him daily through prayer. And through the Word. That's the primary means of grace. That's the primary avenue of our communion with Christ. Are you more concerned with serving Jesus than Jesus serving you? Or are you more concerned and more tuned into your daily, desperate need for Jesus? And then in that context, as He allows, yeah, we serve others And we serve God, but that's not the one thing that's necessary. What's the one thing that's necessary? Listening to Jesus and having fellowship with him. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your goodness. Thank you for your grace. Thank you for your power. And thank you for your word. In Christ we lift this prayer. Amen.