Words we'll examine this morning are Luke nineteen, verses twenty-eight through forty. Luke nineteen, twenty-eight through forty. As you're turning there, just a reminder of where we are at historically, today is known as Palm Sunday, or the triumphal entry of Christ into Jerusalem. And in this entry into Jerusalem, it's preparing for Passover, which is when we know that Christ goes to the cross, he dies for our sins. And then three days later, as we celebrate on Easter Sunday, that he raises from the dead, defeating sin and death, giving us the victory over those things likewise. And in this moment in history, we see, as Jesus rides into Jerusalem, this praising of him, this worshiping of him. They're calling him king. There's this idea that he is the victor. But then in just a few days we know that they turn him over to the magistrate. They get him punished and charged under lies, and then they have him crucified. How quickly things change from Palm Sunday to Good Friday. How quickly things just ch seem to shift over, and all of a sudden now the Messiah is being crucified. He's being put to death. Well, just a few days prior, they're worshiping him. Shouting his praises, recognizing him as the king. That's what I want us to examine this morning, to look at the story of Jesus' triumphal entry. But what I want to draw special attention to is that this is God's story. And nothing can stop God. This is his story. It's how he's worked it out throughout history. It's what he promised would happen in the Old Testament. It's what he's ensuring happens even here today. This is all under God's control. This was his plan of redemption for sinners like you and I. Think about one of the one of your favorite novels. It's a good book. It's a made-up story, but you just you're engulfed by it And every time you flip a page, or or maybe you're like my wife who has to stay up late at night because she just gets to the good part of the book and has to finish the book even though there's four or five more chapters, right? Just have to keep reading because you just got to figure out What's going to happen in the end? And by the time you get to the end of it, you're going, wow. I'm so amazed. I I just never saw that connection from chapter two of how that character was going to get involved in the situation and how they were going to be the hero and and how the author just worked everything out so wonderfully. That's a good Novel. That's a good book. When you're just engulfed by it, and then by the time you get to the end of the story, you are like, wow, that's amazing. I didn't expect that. That was just wonderful. I loved it. It was great. Well, likewise, how much greater is Yahweh in telling the story? How much greater is the creator of the universe in telling stories? How much greater is the story of redemption for sinners like you and I? How wonderful it is that as we see the fall in the garden , And and just destruction and death going throughout all the universe. And that that this issue of sin is just prevalent, and and we see the Old Testament, and it seems like God gives us a uh a hope. He gives us a a a focus and maybe there's a chance that that Israel can get it figured out and what happens is they're doing well and then they they mess it up and they sin and they they just can't seem to get it right and they do it all over again. They they get back and and then they mess up again. And we just see this rhythm over and over again. There's this idea as we're getting into the New Testament of the Bible. It's like, what possibility do we have for this story to turn out good? I know the author's been saying it's going to be good. I know the promise that there's going to be salvation. I know the author has promised that all things will be redeemed, but it just doesn't seem to work. But then we know the Christmas story of the Messiah coming onto the scene. Christ being born, truly God and truly man. Here's this child. And all of a sudden it's like, maybe. Maybe this is it. The hope is there. The people are getting excited again. This is this is that story that we've been promised for so long. And they're following him, and they see Jesus doing the miracles in his earthly ministry. We see him preaching and teaching and doing wonderful things. And here we get really excited as he's riding in on the donkey into Jerusalem and he's being pronounced king. It's like this is it. This is the hope we've had. This is the redemption that's been promised. And then Friday comes. And he's put to death. And he's murdered. Just try to imagine you are one of the disciples in that moment. You're really excited Sunday, and then Friday comes, you're scared, you're running away from the enemies, and you see this guy who you believed was the Messiah put to death on a cross. Just imagine how dark that moment in history is for you. You just say, I thought I had it all figured out. I thought this was it. This was the hope that was promised. But it appears as though everything's ruined. There's no way we can come back from this. And we know the story of Esau, the resurrection, the light that pierces through the darkness. The new life, the new hope that we have. Well, friends, I paint all of this picture to show you that God's not caught off guard by any of this. There's many times that the enemies thought they'd beaten God. Think how the Pharisees felt that they had won when they put Jesus to death. Satan thought he had done really well. The God man is dead in the tomb. He really thought he had maybe got a victory over God. But we know the author of the story. We know the story that he is telling. We know that it is good. And we know nothing can stop him. Nothing. I want to encourage us as we see the triumphal entry of Jesus in the worshiping of Him, and that the Pharisees plead with the disciples to stop, or plead with Jesus for the disciples to stop worshiping him. That Jesus, You can't stop the worship of me. If you do, the rocks will cry out. Well, friends, likewise. Nothing will stop the worship of God today. No wars No enemies, no trials, no tribulations can stop the worship of our Lord Jesus Christ. In the year 2026, we continue to worship him And if something attempts to stop us, the great storyteller, author, God will continue the praise of him. So let us look at the story of Jesus' entry into Jerusalem. And let us see how nothing stops God. Join me in looking at Luke 19, starting in verse 28. It reads, and when he had said these things, he went on ahead, going up to Jerusalem. When he drew near to Bethej and Bethany, at the mount that is called Oliver He sent two of the disciples, saying, Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a colt tied, on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here. If anyone asks you why are you untying it, you shall say this: The Lord has need of it. So those who were sent went away and found it, and just as he had told them. And as they were untying the colt, its owner said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it. And they brought it to Jesus, and throwing their cloaks on the colt, they set Jesus on it And as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road, as he was drawing near, already on the way down the Mount of Olives. The whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen. saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. Peace in heaven and glory in the highest. And some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to them, Teacher, rebuke your disciples And he answered, I tell you, if these were silent, then the very stones would cry out. This story here is a wonderful example of how God tells a story that isn't quite the way we would tell it. Right? This isn't how we would tell the story. If we were talking about how Jesus is going to be king, we'd give him a big army, a big white stallion to ride on. We'd give him all the power, all the might, he would ride into Jerusalem, everyone would bow down to him, no one would challenge his authority, and he would be in control. Problem solved, right? That's not the story that God tells. We see that God orchestrates things very differently than how we think He should. How silly it is for us to think that maybe God should take advice from us on telling a better story. Maybe if the creator of the universe just heard my opinion and what I think would make a good story, then things would be better. But that's not the case at all. The one that created the mountains, the rivers, the ocean. He tells the best stories, and we're trusting him in his tale. Let's look at how God orchestrates all things to work out May we never look at the stories of the Gospels and say, man, how lucky it was that there just happened to be a cult tied there. How fortunate that all things just worked together that the people were there in Jerusalem to worship Jesus. Let us not do that for our own lives either. Say, oh wow, it just worked out. I can't believe all things just happen to fall into place at the right time in the right order. No, may all of this remind us of how God is in The first thing that we see God orchestrating is prophecy. Look with me in verse 30. It says saying, just as Jesus speaking to them, Go into the village in front of you, where on entering you will find a cult tied, on which no one has ever yet sat. Untie it and bring it here. It's a unique example of the prophecy. We'll see how that's fulfilled. But here's Jesus telling his disciples to go and find the colt, find a young donkey. A cult that 's not been ridden, it's not been used for labor. But try to imagine how you would feel as a disciple. Jesus tells you, go and find this young donkey. And untie it. Take it. And if someone stops you, you say the Lord needs it. You're like, well, no, I gotta have some proof of this. I gotta show them. I gotta prove to them that I'm allowed to have this. I gotta give evidence and justification of why I'm taking the cult. Or even this, if you were a disciple, you'd be like, no, Lord, let's get a bigger horse. Let's get a stallion, something that has some muscle to it. Something with some brilliance in its mind, not a dumb donkey, not a little a little colt. Let's get something that's mature and strong and just show how powerful you are. But we see that's not what God does here. Let me just remind you, and this is a short list of all the prophecies in the Old Testament that Jesus fulfills in his earthly ministry. Alright, so these are prophecies from the Old Testament that Jesus fulfills. So in the Old Testament, we see that Jesus is promised to be born. There's a promise of a Messiah, a Savior to be born to redeem the world. We actually see that in the very beginning of Genesis 3. 15. It's the promise of the seed from Eve that will redeem the world. You can just write these down. We're not going to go through all of them, but another prophecy of the birth of Jesus is in Isaiah 7, 14. And Micah 5, 2. Alright, so here's the promise. Many, many, many years before Jesus, Jesus will be born. And then we see Jesus fulfilling that promise. We see that in the life and ministry of Jesus. How's Jesus going to live his life? What's he going to do? Hosea 11:1 talks about how Jesus will flee to another land. Isaiah 9, 1 through 2, and Isaiah 35, 5 through 6. This promise that Jesus will do great miracles, great wonders amongst the people. We also see the promise of Jesus' death. His death is proclaimed that this man, the Savior, that's going to come and save you Will die. Now that's a challenge for us to comprehend how God can use the death of someone as the saving mechanism As the Savior, as the Messiah, can die, that's foreign to us. He must be powerful. He must be alive. But Psalm 22, 16 talks about the death of our Christ. But there's also these smaller, maybe less significant prophecies that we see God proclaiming in the Old Testament that Jesus then fulfills. If you'll look with me, hold your place, or just listen to me, and turn to Zechariah 9:9. Zechariah 9. 9. We think, why who cares about this colt? What's so important about this donkey that Jesus is about to ride on? Well, Zechariah 9. 9 tells us, rejoice greatly, O daughter of Zion. Shout aloud, O daughter of Jerusalem. Here it is. Behold, your king is coming to you, righteous and having salvation is he, humble and mounted on a donkey, on a colt, the foal of a donkey. Now you're you you maybe you're hearing that and say, all right, all right, Pastor, that's not that big of a deal. Right? That's not actually a prophecy. That's just that's just Zechariah talking about just a few Verses prior, how the enemies are oppressing them, and then this is Zachariah then saying, Don't worry, your king's going to arrive. And he just happens to mention that he's going to ride on a donkey, a colt. Not that big of a deal. Oh, it is a huge deal. That's not what kings ride on. Kings don't take the weak donkey, the young, the young colt of a donkey to ride on. No, the the king rides on the grand stallion. It shows the might and the power. So when Israel and Zechariah hear this prophecy that the king is going to be mounted on a donkey, on a colt, a foal of a donkey, they're saying. But that's not right. That's not what we want. We want the mighty king, the one that's coming back from victory in battle The one that is just as big, his head is held high, and we have to look up to him because of how big his stallion is. But here's a chariot saying, no, it's going to be a colt. And then when we get to Jesus' triumphal entry and he's prophesying and telling them to go get a cult, now we're starting to see God's story being connected throughout history. This doesn't show the physical strength of Jesus, but it does show that he is the king. That's what Zechariah 9:9 says. Behold, your king is coming. So this is a prophecy to Israel. How do you know that your king has arrived? How do you know that your king is come? Right? And Zechariah says, your king is coming. Righteous in having salvation is he. How do you know it's him? He's what? Humble and mounted on a donkey. In this very moment, Jesus is fulfilling the promise of the King of Israel coming to them. This is the proof that Israel doesn't need to go looking for another king This is the evidence that the hope that they have had that there's going to be a great leader to come and to save them and to bring them victory has arrived in Christ. And what's that proof and evidence? Well, there's many of them throughout the life of Jesus, but here's a prime example that is Christ coming into Jerusalem, the triumphal entry, riding on a colt of a donkey. This is very proof that Jesus is the Messiah and the King that they've been waiting for. This is the very proof that Jesus is the righteous one that they they need, and it is the one that brings salvation. For Israel. And in fact, this is the very problem that the Pharisees have with Jesus. It's not the king they wanted. It's the king they need, but it's not the king they wanted. They wanted the warlord, the political power. The one that's going to ride in, gonna overthrow Rome, set up Israel as the most powerful nation in all the world. And here's this guy on a donkey. With a few followers shouting his praises. He's never been to battle. He has no political office. Can you see the frustration of the Pharisees? The frustration with the Pharisees is that their expectations of what God was going to do and how he was going to accomplish it was all based off their own opinion and own beliefs. It wasn't based off the very word of God. They weren't relying on the promises God had given them. From their forefathers. They said, no, if we are going to be the leaders, if we would write the story, it's the warlord, it's the political power. But that's not Jesus' story. That's not how God has orchestrated how this is all going to unfold. Christian, are you guilty of acting like the Pharisees at times? You have the better story. You've heard the promises of God, but you think you have a better way. You've heard, yes, it is good for a man to be married to one woman and that they should become one. And you know that's the truth. You know that promise is there, but you have a better way. Yeah, well, I won't marry another woman, but I will let my eyes drift and chase after others. Or have you heard the promise that salvation is only in Christ? There's no other way to come to the Father. And you like that, you agree with it, but maybe you could add just a little bit of this worldly wisdom to try to get that salvation. Maybe you should add, yes, Jesus, plus I need to make sure I'm doing a lot with my hands to earn my salvation. Yes, Jesus, but maybe I could sprinkle in a little bit of the Jewish law to make sure that I'm extra. saved just in case I need that. Have you heard the promises of God, but you think you have a better story to tell? You say, I I like that story, but I think it's better told this way. Well don't be like the Pharisees there. Don't think that your story is better. Don't think your way is superior to God's. Don't assume that if God's not following what you think is best, then he must have it wrong. You must know the word of God. You must trust what he has said. You must hear his promises and believe that he is faithful to keep his promises And to look forward to the day that they are fulfilled in a way that you could never imagine. Friends, if you don't recognize how amazing it is that we are saved not based off of what we have done, but based off of the work of Christ in to faith in him, then you may not see how amazing and miraculous that really is. No other religion, no other religion in all the world Sh is talking about and pointing out how man is foolish and wrong and sinful and they have no way to solve that problem on their own. All other religions maybe address man's foolishness and sinfulness, and then points to man doing X, Y, and Z to get that salvation fixed, to get that problem of their foolishness and sinfulness. But here's Christianity presented saying, yes, you are sinners, and you have no way to accomplish this on your own. You need the work of Christ. You need the atonement of the blood of Christ. You need the forgiveness that is only found in Christ. You cannot accomplish it on your own That's foolishness to the world and to all other religions. But here we are, rejoicing in our Savior, riding in on a donkey. Something that appears foolish to the world, but we know is the promise that we hold to. It's foolish to say that the only hope is in Christ. It's foolish to the world to say that you cannot solve your own problems. But the promise of God is that that's our only hope. Are you going to rejoice in that? Are you going to celebrate that the only hope we have is in Christ? And the author of the story has made it known to us. And we celebrate it that we have been saved by the blood of Christ. This is God orchestrating the prophecy that gives us the promise. Which is then while when we get to the God orchestrating history, we know that He is in control. That brings us to our second point. We see God orchestrating the prophecy. And we saw examples of that in the Old Testament. There's many, many more. If you want to spend the rest of the weekend looking at the prophecies that Jesus fulfilled, you can do it. There's a lot of them. But here we saw that the prophecy of Jesus, the king, riding in on a donkey and a colt. Jesus fulfills that. That's what he tells his disciples. But let us see how God orchestrated history for that to all work out. It's not by chance that the colt is tied there. It's not just a fortunate situation that we got lucky enough that the colt is tied there. No, it's God orchestrating history. Look with me in verses 32 through 36. So Jesus tells them, Go and ask for the colt if, or go get the colt if anyone has a problem. Tell them the Lord has need of it. Verse 32. So those who were sent went away and found it just as he had told them. And as they were untying the colt, its owner said to them, Why are you untying the colt? And they said, The Lord has need of it, and they brought it to Jesus. Throwing their cloaks on the colt, and they said they set Jesus on it, and as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road. So just look how history has worked out perfectly here. Then there's the colt, just as Jesus told them it would be, and just as God has prophesied in Zechariah that the king would ride in on a colt, here it is that the colt is tied there. Well, just have fun with me to be in awe of how amazing this reality is. Join me in just being amazed that God has worked out history for that cult to be there at that time. Now it's one thing that God orchestrated that the colt was tied where it was told to be. Right? That's that's God he orchestrated that, that the owners of the colt have it there, and that Jesus could tell his disciples to go and get But can we back up in history just a little bit? Because that cult had to be born. However long ago that was, at the age of that cult, we don't know that. But it was There's a time period. So God orchestrating history so that that colt is born at that time to those owners in that town, so that when it was the right time in history, that colt would be tied there. That the prophecy is fulfilled as Jesus instructs his disciples to go and get it. You're starting to see how amazing this is? You're starting to be like, whoa, whoa, that's how our God works. Nothing's by chance, nothing's just, we got lucky. And then you can start to go back in that lineage of that cult's family, of how that cult ever got there. It's the wondrous work of God throughout history. He orchestrates history to make the great story that he is telling. Have we ever thought about the the reality that there's a great multitude and crowd in Jerus in Jerusalem at the time Jesus Enters. Right? Well, why is that? Do we just get lucky that Jesus just happened to arrive the week leading up to Passover? Are we just in a fortunate situation? Or do we recognize that this is God's structure of his story that Jesus would enter into Jerusalem during the week of Passover so that The connection of the passing over of the sins in Egypt, or passing over of the Israelites in Egypt, is drawing that connection to the passing over of our sins and the atonement lamb of Christ. As he hangs on the cross for us. Then now God passes over our sins because they've been laid on Christ, just like the Lamb in the Passover example. Or the reality that the multitudes are there. In this holiday, in the celebration for the Jewish people, there would be an influx of people in Jerusalem, a multitude. No, that's that's God working throughout history. He's organized this, he's structured this, that that the hundreds of thousands would be in Jerusalem for this moment. For the praise and worship of Christ as he arrives in Jerusalem. Jerusalem, but also for the hundreds of thousands to be witnesses to the death of Christ on the cross. We didn't just get lucky, it's not just fortunate that that happened. What about this? The orchestration of God in history that the Pharisees are arguably at their most wicked religious practices of the time. Right. If Jesus would have come this maybe a a a few generations earlier, the Pharisees maybe would not have been all Stirred up in their emotions and stirred up in their religious traditions and practices that they had perfected under the current status. And they maybe would not have recognized and persecuted Jesus. Jesus as they did, which was needed for our salvation. Just look with me, we we didn't read this, but look with me in verses forty-five , in verse forty-five of chapter 19. Luke 19, 45 is this, and he entered the temple and began to drive out those who sold, saying to them, It is written, My house shall be a house of prayer, but you have made it of den of robbers. That's Jesus going into the temple and he's casting them out. He's frustrated. He's angry at how they have turned the place of worship of Yahweh into a place uh into a market. Into a business. They've corrupted the worship of God. That hasn't always been the case. But God, in his control and orchestration of history, has timed this that now Jesus is entering into to Jerusalem here in 33 A. D. when this corrupted form of unrighteous worship or religion is happening. And that's how God is bringing all of this story together for this moment in time. The Pharisees are frustrated with Jesus. They're mad at him because of the perfect situation, both politically, religiously, historically, within Jerusalem at that perfect time. This is God's telling of the story. He's orchestrating it perfectly. So, friends, may we be also amazed at how God orchestrates such history in our own own time. Think about how you are sitting in this pew right now. Think about it. I mean how did we get to this point? For many of us, it was because we were born into families that took us to church that we heard the truth of the gospel. For some, it was because God had orchestrated this perfect timing in our lives. where a coworker or friend in our darkest moment shared the gospel with us. And like that, it clicked. We're brought new life. Think about your own story. And then try to make some of those connections throughout your life. Just the amazing work of God that you have been saved. In Christ. Not because of your own work, but just and it wasn't just uh wow, you just happened to be so lucky. You just happened to hear uh a preacher, you just happened to To hear someone proclaiming the truth, you just happen to have a Bible. No, this is God's work in your life throughout all of history. Start drawing that back. Into your family lineage and and maybe the preachers. Imagine this, the preacher that you heard the gospel from, his story, and how God worked in his life to get him to that point that you then heard him preaching the gospel. As you start to have fun , it's true. Have fun with that. Just start being amazed at how God works throughout history to get us to this point. To be amazed that God, while we think it's all corrupt, everything's going bad. There's no way God can do this. There's no way He can b bring us victory and hope. In all this chaos, God is still in control. He was in control, and arguably the most wicked and ungodly moment in history. As the Son of God is murdered on the cross, there's no greater sin that could happen. He's in control in that moment. He orchestrated everything to happen in that exact moment. Can we trust and believe that he's still in control today? Your life may feel as though it's chaotic, and it is at times. It may feel as though the enemy is persecuting you, and this is maybe the hardest time of your life. Do not think that God is not in control. He is. May not make sense to us. We would tell the story different, but the great storyteller has orchestrated history for this moment. He's placed you here in 2026 for a reason. Don't bail on it. Don't assume there's something better, there's something different. Trust that he is in control. And when we do that rightly, when we recognize that God has given us prophecy and promises that He keeps and fulfills, when we recognize that He is the one in control of even history , Then we also recognize that he orchestrates his worship. It brings us to the recognition that he orchestrates his worship. And nothing can stop the worship of God. Nothing can stop the worship of the Messiah. Look with me in verses 36. through 40. It says, and as he rode, that's Jesus, he's riding on that colt, the donkey, and as he rode along, they spread their cloaks on the road. And he was drawing near, already on the way down the Mount of Olives. The whole multitude of his disciples began to rejoice. and praise God with a loud voice for all the mighty works that they had seen, saying, Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord, peace in heaven, and glory in the highest. Let's just pause there. And let's just recognize what his disciples are singing. How they're rejoicing. Was it probably embarrassing for them to be singing such things? Maybe. Maybe. There's plenty of people. We see the Pharisees frustrated at them. The religious leaders are not happy with what they're singing and saying. So could you think of some of the shame that's maybe on them as they're rejoicing and shouting and excited about this guy that's riding on a donkey? But we see they don't see him as foolish. They don't think that he's unworthy. They're actually taking off their cloaks, a sign of high respect and laying it down. And then in this imagery they're saying, This king deserves our praise and our worship. This king is so much higher and worthy of our praise that he should not even be walking on the same dirt as we are. Do you see the worship of Jesus in this moment? Now, unfortunately, we see these same, this same group that's singing his praise in just a few days. will will change their attitude. But in this moment, let us recognize how how the disciples recognize a a little bit of who Jesus is and what he is about to to do. They don't fully understand It, but in this moment they see him as the king. But they're worshiping God. They're worshiping God, and they're saying this in verse 38: Blessed is the king who comes in the name of the Lord. They're recognizing this Jesus is coming in the name of the Lord and he is the King. They're seeing the prophecy fulfilled in Zechariah 9. And here it is: peace in heaven and glory in the highest. This is recognizing the most high form of praise. This is the ultimate praise. And they're recognizing that their world is about to change. Now, unfortunately, I believe the disciples still have this mind that it's going to be an earthly victory in the way they want it written. They don't fully understand the story that God is telling, but here we do see them praising him. But look at verse 39. Verse 39, and some of the Pharisees in the crowd said to him, Teacher, rebuke your disciples. Here it is: Grumpy Pharisees. Right? Be careful. Some of us act like them a lot. Here's the grumpy Pharisees. Hey Jesus, get your disciples and check. Get them under control. They should not be acting this way. They should not be praising you like this. And what happens is the Pharisees are saying, Jesus, you're not God, so you don't deserve that praise. That that only belongs to Yahweh. And they're upset at Jesus, and this is part of the rebuke of Jesus and what they use to persecute. But here they are, the disciples, the religious leaders, they also have an authority of political authority. Like they they're not the civil magistrate, but they do have political power, they have religious power, they are probably the most Respected Jewish men in all of Israel are coming to Jesus and telling him, get your disciples to be quiet. So a lot of power is coming against Jesus. A lot of authority is telling them to be quiet. And how does Jesus respond? Does he go, oh, you're right, I'm scared. I don't want that to happen. Or you're right, we shouldn't be caused in such a chaos here in the civil square. We want to be nice. And because you have authority over me, we're going to listen to you No, what does Jesus say? Right here he says in verse 40, and he answered, I tell you, if these were silent, if these disciples were silent, the very stones would cry out. What Jesus is saying to the Pharisees is, you're not going to stop the worship of God. You're not going to prevent God from receiving the worship that he rightly deserves. And in that very moment, he is connecting for the Pharisees. And for us to see that He is the Son of God, the second person of the Trinity, that He deserves this worship. And the Pharisees can cut off the heads of the disciples, and that will not stop the creation from recognizing who Jesus is and worshiping him rightly. We should be in all of this. That nothing stops God from receiving the glory and praise that He deserves. This is common throughout language or throughout the scriptures. Job 12, 7 is one of my favorite imageries here. And Job in this time, he's saying, like if you have doubts, If you're unsure of who God is, go talk to the birds. They'll tell you. Go see the mountains. Go hear the river sing the praises of God. That's kind of the theme Jove has it so much. And I love I love nature. I love I love that imagery that if you can't understand Yahweh And who God is, and you don't have the words to worship Yahweh, go listen to the birds sing the praises of Yahweh. They will do it if you can't. We should be in all of this. Psalm 148 is all about the praise of the Lord. And what he does is he just lists out nature. Nature will praise the Lord. So just humor me for a second. That foolish cult donkey that Jesus is riding on is in the form of worshiping Yahweh in a way we just don't understand. At the time. Right, I can't he's not singing amazing grace. Right? He's not bowing down. But as the creature, that foolish donkey colt, is worshiping the Creator in the way that he has been designed. Here's these Pharisees, the creature, rejecting the worship of the Creator. How foolish they are, not the cult. Revelation 5, 13, I love this. It says, I heard every creature The very creatures in heaven and on earth and under the sea. He lists out this, and this is what they are singing, to him who sits on the throne. And to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and might forever and ever. What we are to understand, beloved. It 's like the creation is going to worship the Creator. That this universe will sing the praises of God. You can join in And be a part of that concert, that choir singing the praises, or you can rebel against the Creator, but you're not going to stop the worship of God. The enemy can attack us. The enemy can try to shut us down, can try to silence us, but they're not going to silence the creation worshiping the creator Think about it. What so we're singing the praises of Yahweh, we're singing the praises in the the gospel of Jesus and and the enemy comes in and says, No, you can't do that, and we continue to sing the praises of Christ. continue to preach the gospel and let's say the enemy gets real severe and they say, okay, we're going to kill you. What happens to our praise when they kill us? It enters glory. It enters into the heavens. And we join all the saints in worshiping Yahweh. We join all the saints in singing the praises of the Lamb, but now we get to be in the presence of the Lamb. Thank you, enemies. You made my day. Right? What's going to stop us from singing the songs of God? Nothing. We must see that God orchestrates his worship. What he calls for is righteous worship. And what he gets is righteous worship. Friends, my call to you and to myself is let us join in in that. Let us see Jesus riding in on this colt. Let us see Jesus going to the cross to bear our sins. Let us see Jesus victorious before. Victoriously being raised from the dead, having victory over the grave. Let us see Jesus ascended into the heavens. Let us see Jesus seated at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth. And let us worship him rightly, not fear the world, not fear the enemies, but rejoicing in his mercy and his grace. Oh how sweet it is that when we were weak and sinners He came to die for us How great it is that he victoriously enters Jerusalem as the king and the savior, the Messiah that was promised to us. And how wonderful it is that there is nothing holding us back from him except for our hatred and hardened hearts. Go to the cross. Worship the King as he rightly deserves. Come to faith in him. For some of us, that word faith and belief is confusing. We think we've got to walk an aisle, we have to do something, we have to accomplish something Or maybe you're sitting here this morning and saying, Pastor, I can't I can't come to faith. You don't know what I was doing at 9 30 this morning. You don't know the thoughts I had why I've been sitting here in this Pew. God does. And Christ died for that. Christ came to save the sinner that you are thinking that you are unworthy of right there. Christ is here for you. Coming to faith and belief is the reality of recognizing that the only hope you have is in Christ. that he died, raised, and reigns today. And that your only salvation is in him. Come to him. Believe in your hearts now. There's no action required. Believe is something that happens in the heart. Then you confess it with the mouth, and that's when we get to celebrate with you in baptism. But do not delay. Do not think you'll get better. Do not think you'll resolve your problems. But see that the King has arrived and the worship of Him is deserved. Let's go to Him in prayer. Gracious Heavenly Father, we rejoice in your goodness. We praise you that you are writing and have written the greatest story ever told. Remind us of this, Lord. Remind us that you are in control. Remind us that the enemy is weak. You have beaten them. Remind us of the victory of Christ. May we give you the praise and glory and honor that is rightly yours. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the salvation in Christ. Lord, I ask that we are strengthened by this. For anyone here that does not know the truth, has not come to faith, has not been born again, that the Spirit is at work within them right now. Give them faith, Father. Give them eyes to see the hope in Christ. Give them the hope that is in the eternal glory. Give them the recognition that their sins are forgiven in Christ, and that they can be your children because of His work. We pray all this in the name of Christ. Amen.