Let's go ahead and open God's Word to 2 Corinthians 5, verse 15. Second Corinthians chapter five, verse fifteen, today talking about our purpose. And I want us to hear this not only our purpose as a church collective, but also your purpose as an individual. That's very important. Both of those things are critical to biblical Christianity. Our purpose as a church collective and our purpose as individuals, each one of us. And then if you want to go further into this idea of your purpose as an individual, Understand this for all of life. All of life. So we're looking at our purpose as it relates to how we live at home and with family. But we're also talking about our purpose in terms of how we relate to the larger society and culture around us. Your role in the home, whether it's a child or spouse or parent, but also your role as a citizen. As a citizen And then finally, our purpose, your purpose as an individual, as a child of God, in the local church. God calls his children to worship him To serve him, to fellowship with other Christians in the context of local churches. That's the way God has organized his kingdom outwardly, outwardly manifest on earth. He's organized his kingdom in local churches And those churches are growing and spreading all over the world to establish more local churches. But when we think about our purpose, it's not only for the church collective, it's also for the individual. And when you zoom into your own heart, when I zoom into my own heart as an individual, it's my purpose at home or with family, it's my purpose in society and culture, it's my purpose as a member of a local church When we think about living out our purpose for God, what we're really talking about is swimming against the current. Are you with me? Swimming against the current. The world around us, the culture around us, is eager to get further and further and further away from the things that please God. But our purpose is to swim the other direction and to press into more and more things that do please God and do bring God honor. Read this verse, and then we'll pray before we launch into the body of the message on our purpose. 2 Corinthians 5:15 He died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised He died for all, that those who live might no longer live for themselves But for him who for their sake died and was raised. Make no mistake about it, brothers and sisters. Our purpose is to live for Jesus, not ourselves. Let's pray. Father, we know that apart from your salvation Not only would we not know our purpose, but we would not care about our purpose. Certainly would have no energy, no power to be able to live for you and not ourselves, but because of Jesus We have this purpose. Because he died for our sins. Because he was risen to eternal life. And thank you, God, because he has given us of the Holy Spirit We have a purpose. We know what that purpose is. And by your Spirit and by your word and by your grace at work within us, we're able to live out that purpose. I pray that you would help us. Come under the authority of your word this morning that you would teach us , teach me, and correct me, and correct us where that needs to happen. But I also know that we each need encouragement, so I pray that by your word you would encourage each one of us and strengthen each one of us where we need it. We need repentance in our lives. So we pray that by your word you'd stir us up to repentance. Father, we pray that you would help us in our time of need. It 's in Christ we pray. Amen. Living for Jesus, living for Christ, is first and foremost A matter of receiving grace. First and foremost, a matter of receiving grace. Now, notice that's on your outline, but notice the sentence is living for Christ. It's not just coming to Christ. Of course, we know that coming to Christ is a matter of receiving grace. Amen? But now that you come to him by receiving grace, you also must walk in him, continuing to receive his grace. The grace of God at work in the believer. Is the number one ministry for the Christian. This is to have God minister to us, to have God minister his grace, administer his grace to us. In our hearts and minds. Living for Christ is first and foremost a matter of receiving grace. Just living for Jesus This imitating Christ could also be called godliness. And so just for topic, we can just say that that's our topic this morning, also. Our topic is godliness. And what we're going to do is look at, number one, the fruit of godliness. The fruit of godliness. So if you picture a fruit tree, This is on the outside. This is what results. This is what grows, the fruits of godliness. But then we're going to talk about the root of godliness. And you can't see the root of the of the tree. It's underneath. But the fruit depends on the root. You have the fruit of godliness. We'll talk about that And we'll have the root of godliness, the thing that makes it work, the thing that holds it up, the root of godliness, and then finally we'll talk about the nutrients of godliness. Because the roots that are in the ground don't create their own nutrients. The root must draw nutrient. The root must draw water from outside of itself. The root receives, the root draws in, and therefore the root can grow up and produce fruits. Now, if you get that picture in your mind's eye, you'll be able to grasp the nature of Christian living. It's first and foremost A matter of receiving nutrients from the ground, receiving the grace of God, the root of godliness is produced in the heart and then bears the fruit of godliness in the way that we live and interact in the world. It cannot start just with the fruits. Has to start underneath. Has to start in the hearts But we will work our way down. We'll start with the fruit in the outline, and we'll work our way down to the root and then to the nutrients. So, first of all, The fruit of godliness, the fruit of living for Jesus and not ourselves, is this Christ like love , self denial Comma. Obedience. Comma? How many commas is he going to have? And service, the fruit of godliness, Christ-like love Self denial, obedience, and service Now at every point that's going to require turning from sin. So the whole thing is flavored with repentance. This is what godliness looks like. This is what Christ's likeness looks like. This is what sanctification will look like outwardly. This is what it looks like. This is what it means to live for Jesus and not ourselves. Christlike love, which is a a love that's not self-serving. It's a true love. It's a love that gives of itself in order to bless others. That's what a Christ-like love is, a sacrificial love and self-denial Not living for myself, but rather we're living for God, to love God and to love others. Obedience? That means obeying commands. Everybody knows what obedience is. Everybody knows what disobedience is. Because when you're in charge of people and they're disobeying you and not obeying you, you blow a gasket. But you know what just obedience is. Obedience to God, not just following the opinions of the world. And then service. Service. Now, what is the context of this passage in 2 Corinthians 5? Paul is explaining his ministry. He is explaining the nature of gospel ministry. He's explaining the role of the ministry of the Word in the world and in the church. Not just his ministry, but the ministry of the other apostles and the ministry of those who traveled around with Paul. And what he is doing. Is contrasting true gospel ministry with the false teachers who had infiltrated the church. And that's what false teachers do: they infiltrate the church They try to draw a following to themselves. They have their own ideas, their own teachings, they're about their own glory, they're about their own financial gain. They they infiltrate the church They try to draw a crowd to themselves, and then what they try to do, if they reach their wicked goal, they try to rip that group out of and away from the true biblical church That's what false teachers do. They want to do the opposite of what God is doing. God wants to bring people into the church. God wants to build up the church. False teachers infiltrate, they want to rip people away from the church for their own glory, for the sake of their own movement. All ofin this context of really the whole New Testament, all of the all of the writings is dealing with True biblical gospel ministry, in contrast to the false ministry and the false gospel of false teachers. Now, in that context One aspect of the true Christian message is that those for whom Christ died will live for him and not themselves Those for whom Christ died will live for him and not themselves. And that's what he says. He died for all. That those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. Might no longer live for themselves, which tells us what? We used to live for ourselves, but now we've been saved by the Lord Jesus Christ Based on his death, based on his resurrection, putting our faith in Christ, we have been saved. Therefore, we no longer live for ourselves, but for him who, for their sake, died And was raised. You mean to tell me that there are people who don't teach that? And call themselves Christians and call themselves pastors and call themselves churches? Yes, that's exactly what I'm telling you There are many false teachers all throughout church history that will that will basically basically the quote un quote unquote gospel that they preach is an intellectual decision. That gets you into heaven, but then you can go and live however you please. And that is not the true Christian message And it's not kind to teach that. It's not kind to preach that. That's not the loving thing to do. To lie to people and give them a false assurance. Listen, brothers and sisters, this is real. Souls are at stake. Souls are at stake, and when souls are saved through faith in Christ, they are changed and they no longer live for themselves, but for Him who for their sake died and was raised. That is the context of this verse. And that's the message of this verse. Saved people, brothers and sisters. are changed people. The old has gone, the new has come. In fact Just two verses later, in 2 Corinthians 5, listen to this in verse 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a shouted out. New creature, new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. Therefore, beloved, in a world and culture, living for self And every day is telling me, and every day is telling you, live for yourself in that culture, in that world. We strive by the grace of God to live for Christ and not ourselves. Are you with me? To live for Christ And not ourselves. Ephesians 5, verses 1 and 2. Therefore, be imitators of God as beloved children, and walk in love, as Christ loved us and gave himself up for us A fragrant offering and sacrifice to God. Discipleship is another word for this. Discipleship. Maybe you've heard that word, disciple or discipleship. Discipleship is the result of salvation. Salvation happens in the heart. It's a spiritual thing. You can experience it. If you've been saved, you've experienced it in your heart. You know the change of heart You know the change of mind. You know the newfound joy. You know the newfound freedom. But that's invisible. Real? Spiritual. Real, but invisible That's salvation. Discipleship is the result of salvation, and discipleship is simply the process of learning to live for God in all areas of life. Learning to honor God in all areas of life. Now, if you've been trying to walk that, if you've been living that out, you know that doesn't happen overnight. You know that's a process. You know there's battles involved. You know there's growth and maturity involved. You know sometimes there's persecution involved. There's all kinds of things, but this is a process of learning to honor God in all areas of life Not seek the honor of the world, not seek honor for ourselves, but to seek God's honor in all categories, in all spheres of life. That's discipleship. Are you living as a disciple? Have you been saved? Saved people are changed people. If you have a lump of clay and you want a beautiful picture Changes need to take place. I tried to come up with the simplest illustration for this. Saved people are changed people. If you want to go from a lump of clay to a pitcher that you can use. Changes must take place. It must be formed and fashioned and squeezed and shaped and whatever else, baked and glazed, whatever. But changes need to happen And if you have been saved, you are no longer this lump of clay, living for self and slave to sin, but brother, sister, you've been made new into a beautiful vessel. Useful to God and useful to others. Praise the Lord indeed. And you see in the verse. That none of that is possible apart from what? Apart from the death and resurrection of Christ. You see You two things going on in that verse, the death and resurrection of Christ, and then on the basis of that, by the power of that, we can be changed and learn how to live for God and not ourselves. So that's why he gets all the glory. We are recipients of grace. There will be discipleship. There will be fruit. Fruit of godliness. Christ-like love, self-denial, obedience to his commands. And service in all areas of life. And again, the thread that runs through all of that is repentance. It's repentance. Because We don't turn to the Lord, and then two weeks later, we're fully matured in all of those things or any of those things. There's got to be an ongoing process of repentance and learning and maturing. Thank God that he matures us. Amen? That's the fruits. But now what does that fruit grow out of? The root. What is the root? The root of godliness. If you wanted uh some peach trees so that you could grow your own peaches, and so you you went somewhere, I don't know where you where you went, some kind of orchard somewhere You purchased you purchased ten peach trees. But then when it came day to pick them up, you came with a chainsaw and you cut them right in half, right in the middle of the tree, and loaded them up, and then took them to your house and laid them on the ground. Would they bear peaches for you? No. And why not? Try to give you the simplest illustrations in the universe. Because what? What'd you what happened? There's no root. Where there's no root, there'll be no fruit. And that's what I'm telling you. You sh you only want the fruit. You only start with the fruit, focus on the fruit, you'll dry up and die. You will wither and die, and all you'll be left with is an outward form of religion. Peach trees, dead peach trees laying on your on your front yard. So the root the root of godliness, faith Comma. One person got it. Hope. Comma. Amen. I heard you. My peanut gallery back here. Faith, hope, love Two more. Faith, hope, love, gratitude, and humility. You know, in all of these points, whether it's fruit or root or even the nutrients, there's only so much we can say in one sermon, and each each one is only getting one section in one sermon, trying to summarize the main things, okay? Faith, hope, love, gratitude, and humility in the heart. That's where we're going. We're in the heart. We're no longer looking at a tree and the fruit on the outside, the outward appearance, the outward manifestation. Where our mind's eye is like a cross-section cutting the ground away so that you can see the root. In the we're in the heart, in the ground, the roots That grows up and produces Christ-like love, self-denial, obedience, service, and repentance is going to be in the heart faith, hope, love, gratitude, and humility. There's so many different verses we can draw out, but I've just picked a simple one, a short one, a vivid one, a vivid one to be representative on this point, and this is John 14, 15. Jesus says, if you love me, you will keep my what? Commandments. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Now keeping the commandments will be on the outside. How we live, how we talk, how we worship, how we serve. But that keeping of commandments begins on the inside with love In fact, love in the heart is the first obedience. That's the prime obedience. That's the prime obedience is love for God in the heart. Loving him with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength. Loving God most. Loving God above all things. Just worship unto God Which of all of the things that we love and all of the different ways that we love, we love God with a unique love, and it's the love of worship, worshiping Him As our Creator, as our Redeemer, as our loving Father in heaven, as the eternal infinite God of the universe, Father, Son, Holy Spirit, if you love him, if you love me, he says, you will keep my commandments. So, if I'm not keeping his commandments, and if I don't care about keeping his commandments, in fact, I don't even want to know what his commandments are, what does that say about my heart? I don't I don't love him But if I do love him, I will, because of his grace and because of his spirit, I will want to obey his commandments. And therefore, I will want to learn his commandments and learn the meaning of his commandments, and I will cry out to him daily for help to keep his commandments. Because apart from the help of God daily, there'll be no true keeping of His commandments. If we love, then we'll keep. And love is in the heart. And then that grows outward. So you have the root and you have the fruit. You have the reality in the heart, and then you have the fruit. So the focus has to be on growing in our love for God. That's got to be first. Church, it's the first and greatest commandment. There's no other commandment like this. To love God with all of your heart, soul, mind, and strength. That's where the focus has to be. Growing in your affection for God Almighty. Growing in your love for God Almighty And then what will grow from that will be the outward obedience and the outward fruit. Because outwardly it's easy for people to put on a show of devotion outwardly. We see this all throughout scripture. It's easy to put together an outward show of devotion. In the Bible, that's called hypocrisy. There's two different ways of being a servant. Essentially, two different ways of being a servant. One way is being like a stage actor who goes up on the stage And he plays the role of a servant so that he would be seen by others and applauded by others. That's the literal cultural background for the word Jesus uses hypocrite. is an actor, a stage actor, who on the outside appears as a servant of God. Another picture of being a servant, another kind of servant, is not a stage actor, looking for applause, but just a child who loves their parent. That's it. I just picture a young girl who decides in her heart she wants to stay up late and do a bunch of chores around the house and literally the only motive in her heart is I love my mom, I want to help her That 's a different kind of service than the stage actor. Right? What's the motive? Love. I love my mom. I want to help my mom. I want to honor my mom. So what do I do? I stay up and I serve for her. And no one sees. And no one applauds. And she doesn't need anyone to think more highly of her. She's not worried about her glory. What is she worried about? She worried about her mom. The one that she loves. The one who loves her Now the mom loves first. She didn't love first. The mom loves first. Let's not be stage actors. Let's not be going through the motions. Let's be people who are striving every fiber of our being and energy in our hearts to grow in our love For God. Love Him. Cherish Him. Honor Him. Strive to grow in your devotion to God. He'll take care of the outward obedience and the outward fruit. The irrefutable key to this is understanding your identity in Christ, because it's in In Christ and through Christ, that God has revealed his love and that God has made us into his children. And it's in Christ and through Christ that God has given us hearts that love him So the key, the secret key, the irrefutable key to this kind of living is understanding your identity in Christ. Remembering who you are in Christ is a part of this. Appreciating what you have in Christ is a part of this. And if we can grow in these two simple things, remembering who we are in Christ and appreciating what we have in Christ. What will happen is we will have hearts that are jam-packed to the brim, filled with love and gratitude toward God. You see, the love and gratitude produces the obedience. But it's seeing what God has done for us that produces the love and gratitude. Are you with me on that? Is that too complicated? Do I need to take that down lower? The outward obedience, the fruit, is a result of love and gratitude in the heart. But the love and gratitude in the heart Is the result of remembering and appreciating what God has given to us, what God has done for us in Christ. So we must keep our hearts focused on Christ, our identity in Him. We are not simply trying to get people to add religion to their lives to feel better about their lives. That's not what we're out to do. We want people in their souls to turn from sin and be reconciled to God forever. That's salvation. It's so dangerous because the flesh loves religion. Human history, any culture, any location testifies to this. People love religion. The flesh of natural man loves outward religion and the attention and the feelings that come from it. I want us to be a church that's radically intensely focused on spiritual realities, the soul. The salvation of the soul, the invisible God Almighty who made the heavens and the earth on eternity and what's going to happen when we die. Not on the outward, not on the style, not on the mood. We're not trying to entertain everyone. I'm just trying to get us on the same page here We want souls to be saved, to come into a relationship with God and be filled with love and gratitude, and thereby bear fruit unto God. If you put your faith in Jesus Christ, you belong to God. You are not your own. You were bought with a price, the blood of Christ. You are filled with the Holy Spirit, and you are a child of God. And no one can take that away from you. You belong to God. And it's all because of Jesus Christ, his death, his resurrection and his Holy Spirit. In fact, first Corinthians six, nineteen and twenty, do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you? Whom you have from God? Two are not your own, for you were bought with a price. Therefore, glorify God in your body. Your purpose is to no longer live for yourself, but for him who for your sake died and was raised He died for all, that those who might know that those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. Well, the fruits of godliness Is Christ-like love, self-denial, obedience, and service, always seasoned with repentance. It's my gesture for seasoning I guess more like this. The root of godliness is now you're burrowing down into the heart. Faith, hope, love, gratitude, and humility. Just make sure we're growing in those, and to be growing in those we must keep our identity in Christ central. Now finally the nutrients. The nutrients. Because the roots don't produce their own water and the roots don't produce their own nutrients. Needs it from the ground. I think this is the longest summary. The nutrients. What feeds the roots so that the roots might produce fruit? Well, here you go: the nutrients of godliness God 's grace, you should have been able to guess that one. God's grace Through God 's word. God's grace. Just picture it coming into your heart. Through God 's word. God's grace. Through God's Word, by the working of God's Spirit Right? You can just picture the Holy Spirit from heaven coming to your heart with a package It's God's word that He gives to your heart that brings God's grace into your experience. God's grace through God's word by the working of God's Spirit. All centered on beholding the glory of God's Son. We've already alluded to that in that uh that section, or I guess you can call it that rant. About this irrefutable key to all of this is our identity in Christ and keeping our hearts focused on who we are in Christ and what we have in Christ. Beholding the glory of God's Son. And I'll give you homework here. I didn't include a section in the sermon on this. I've written about this several times. I've preached on this and taught on this several times. 2 Corinthians 3:18. Beholding Jesus in the gospel is the thing that transforms us into his likeness. 2 Corinthians 3:18. That's the transformative power of the gospel. Beholding Jesus in the gospel is the thing that transforms us into his likeness. Now, what happens if we cease to behold Jesus in the gospel? We cease being conformed to the likeness of Jesus So the nutrients that the roots our heart must feed on is we must be hungry for God's grace, soaking in God's grace, receiving God's grace through God's word. That's why we preach God's word, and our Sunday school teachers teach God's word. And the Tuesday precepts teach and studies and discuss God's word. We're not up here to tell stories and tell jokes and Have their place, and we use illustrations and all of this, but we must be ministers of God's word because it's God's word, by the working of God's Spirit, that God's grace comes into the heart And isn't that what we want? For ourselves and for others? A supernatural experience of God's grace in the heart. Are you with me, church? God's grace Through God's word, by the working of God's Spirit, all centered on beholding the glory of God's Son. Now I'll come back and we'll close on this. I'll come back to the first thing I said Living for Christ is first and foremost a matter of receiving, receiving grace from Him, not doing things for Him I believe there are many millions of Christians who, when they hear Our purpose is to live for God and not ourselves, to hear it the wrong way. I, in fact, believe that every single Christian, including myself, starting with myself, every single Christian is tempted to hear. Live for Jesus, not ourselves, the wrong way. And the temptation for us all, but for many, for millions, they've it's more than a temptation, it's just a uh it's a sin they've fallen into or at least the pattern of immaturity they've fallen into. When they hear that, when they hear live for Jesus and not myself, their mind immediately goes to, well, that means I Must do things for him. And that's the way they think about Christian living. It's first and foremost, what am I doing for him? And it's a works mindset. Now, part of the fruit is obedience and service. But our mind should not immediately go to the essence of Christian living is me doing things for God. That's wrong. That's absolutely wrong. The essence of Christianity is not us doing things for God. The essence of Christianity is God doing things in us. I'll die on that mountain. I don't want to die on that mountain, but I'll die on that mountain. This is biblical Spirit-led Christian living. The heart is not fixated on my works for God, but God's work of grace within me. It's an easy way Easy way to understand this. Every morning you wake up. Does Jesus need help from you that he must cry out to you? Or do you need help from Jesus and you must cry out to him? That's all I'm saying. For that to become a pattern of life, so that when we hear statements like live for Jesus and not ourselves, our mind and our heart doesn't immediately go to that means what I'm doing for him. No, no, no, no, no, brothers and sisters. Let our hearts go first to what He is doing within us. You see, the problem is we're not aware of our ongoing need. We don't, it's all not saying you, I'm saying us. People, human beings, believers who have the spirit, but we also still live in the flesh. Not according to the flesh, but in the flesh. And our hearts, to one degree or another, have been desensitized to our need for ongoing grace. Desensitized to our need for ongoing grace Why do I need ongoing grace? Why does he keep talking about I need God's work of grace within me every day? Why is that the essence? Yeah, I need I need grace. I need grace. I need grace. Why? Because you still have sin. This is not complex. This is not rocket surgery. That one was for my wife. Every day we wake up, it should be first thing that crosses our minds of just how much we need Jesus today. And that's what's going to drive us to prayer. That's why it's so hard to this is hard for me, it's hard for everybody. It's hard to integrate a consistent, heartfelt prayer into our lives. Is this reason? Because to one degree or another, we've our hearts have been dulled and desensitized to our ongoing need for grace So we we see more and more our sin, our weakness, our need for wisdom. Then we'll see more and more daily our ongoing need for grace, and we'll understand that that's the essence of Christian living. Is that I need God to administer His grace to my heart every moment, every day, to be hungry and thirsty for God's work in my heart. Heart. That's the nutrients. That's the nutrients. Just a few passages, and I'll close this in prayer. And 90% of the letters of the New Testament, there's a prayer or a blessing that's spoken over the recipients. Now I'll just read a few of these from 2 Peter 1-2. Peter writes, May grace and peace be multiplied to you in the knowledge of God and of Jesus our Lord. What does it mean to have grace and peace multiplied? Why would Peter say that? Why would Peter pray that? Because Christians need to have grace and peace. multiplied to them. That just means we need God to give it to us and give it to us and give us more and heap it upon us and increase his grace to us. Jude 1, verse 2. Jude writes, May mercy, peace, and love be multiplied to you. Because we need those things to grow. And then Romans 1:7, but Paul says this exact thing seven other times, maybe eight. Seven other times, and then in addition, Romans 1:7, where Paul prays this: Grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. The fruit of godliness, and I hope that we're all praying for these and striving to live these out, is Christ-like love, self-denial, obedience, and service, teasing the whole way with repentance. The root of godliness underneath is the heart that is filled and growing in faith, hope, love , gratitude, and humility. But the only way we'll be growing in those things in the heart is the nutrients of godliness. Let's make it our aim. Make it your aim. To cry out for God's grace, to seek God's grace. Those who seek His grace will find His grace But the nutrients of godliness as God's grace come to our hearts through God's Word, by the working of God's Spirit, all centered on beholding the glory of God's Son. When you hear practical application, probably the first thing that I think of and you think of is things that we do outwardly. But the most practically relevant thing the Christian can do is to behold the glory of Jesus Christ in the gospel. Because it's by beholding the glory of Jesus Christ in the gospel that you will receive the nutrients of godliness and be built up and strengthened in the root of godliness And as a result, bear the fruit of godliness outward in life. He died for all That those who live might no longer live for themselves, but for him who for their sake died and was raised. And that is our purpose Purpose as a church collective, purpose as individuals, purpose at home and with family, purpose in relation to society and culture, and purpose Inside and in relation to the local church of the Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. God, we thank you for your grace. Help us to hunger for it And help us to avail ourselves of the means of grace over and over again and never get bored of your word, never get tired of your word, never be focused more on our works. As opposed to yours, but help us our hearts to be always focused on your work within us that would lead to to the fruit of being rich in good works and growing in godliness. Help us in all things to seek your glory and not our own, and to depend on Jesus and not ourselves. It's in Him we pray. Amen.