Today is Old Testament poetry and wisdom. So we're looking at Job, Psalms, Proverbs, Ecclesiastes, and the Song of Solomon And you have this chart. If you didn't get one of these charts, grab one off that lec turn in the back. And what you have on here is the author. The historical setting, and then major themes. Alright, so that's we're just going to go book by book, look at the author, the historical setting, major themes, and I do have some things that aren't on this chart. Um what I really like to do for each book is as concise as I'm able to do Like the major theme, the major point of the book. So I'll give you that for each book and then a representative passage. Usually how the book begins kind of sets the stage. So I want to at least look at how each book begins. Alright, let's go to Job. Job, you see author, unknown. That's easy. Right, so that's Easy to lecture on that. We don't know the human author of Job. Obviously, it's in the canon of Scripture, so we know the ultimate author is God. Bringing it into the Bible as the Word of God. The setting, the general setting, the time of the patriarchs, that means in general, the time of Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob. We don't know anything beyond that. And that comes from a lot of internal evidence in the book. Any good study Bible will summarize that the evidence for you of why the view is that this is in the time of the patriarchs. Um and then a good commentary would really dig deep into the evidence from the book of why that's the setting. So around, I mean this is so general, around 2000 BC. Now, before we get into those major themes, let me just give you that concise Raider 's Digest. As condensed as I could get it, topic or theme. Job teaches us wisdom for times of suffering. Anguish of soul and feeling abandoned by God. Alright, Job gives us wisdom Gives us insight. It gives us instruction and also encouragement for times of suffering. Anguish of soul and feeling abandoned by God. Have you ever experienced any of those three things? Times of suffering Times of anguish of soul, like an internal mental or psychological, what many today would call depression. Um a bitterness of soul or feeling abandoned by God. Sometimes people can feel like that for a whole season of their lives. And Job gives us wisdom. He gives me and you wisdom for times of suffering, anguish of soul, feeling abandoned by God. Now look at the major themes. Of course you'll see some overlap and you just want I just want to have more detail on these major themes and more of what's going on. Number one, Job deals with the suffering of the righteous. And the importance of faithfulness. The suffering of the righteous and the importance of faithfulness. Where does that come from? It comes from the fact that the book starts by telling us that Job was a righteous man. He was a believer. He had a relationship with God, and he was obedient. In other words, he was Righteous by grace through faith, the same way you and I are, but then he suffers greatly. And what comes out is the importance of faithfulness for Job. That he keeps his belief in God, that he keeps his profession of faith. And no matter what he goes through, no matter how much he suffers, how low he feels He's not sleeping. He's just miserable. Will he continue to believe in God? Or will he turn against God? So number one, the suffering of the righteous and the importance of faithfulness. Number two, the role of testing our trust in God through trials. The role of testing our trust in God through trials. Trials in our lives can be a tool of God. They can be an instrument of God. And the two number one examples that come to mind, well, three come to mind: Adam in the garden. A time of testing. Will he obey this command? And he failed. And then Israel's time in the wilderness, Scripture tells us that was a time of testing to see what was in their heart, to see whether they would obey the commands of God or not. It's a time of testing they failed. Then you have after Jesus' baptism, he's led by the Spirit into the wilderness to be tempted and tried and tested. For 40 days and fasting for 40 days. And of course, he did not fail, but he succeeded. He overcame temptation. There's the importance of God testing us, trying us. To expose what's in our hearts and to discipline us. Number three, this is such a big one, and this really amps up toward the uh the last. section of the book, The Inscrutable Wisdom, Power, and Providence of God. The inscrutable Wisdom, power, and providence of God. That just means that ultimately exactly what God is doing is beyond us. We can know something of what God is doing. And because of his word, because of the Holy Spirit, because of our growing in knowledge and wisdom and discernment over the years. Because of what God has done and what God has taught us, we can know something of what God is doing. We can know something of His wisdom and His power and His providence, but we can't get to the depths of it We can't get to the depths of it. We have a better chance at counting every star than we do of tracing out the inscrutable wisdom, power, and providence of God The only thing that the thing that's the turning point for Job and the thing that's the resolution for Job is when God comes to him. God reveals himself to Job in an incredible supernatural way. God talks to Job. God rebukes Job. And if that didn't happen, yeah, you wonder what you wonder how the book would have ended. There would have been no resolution. Number four, the limitations of our grasp of wisdom. And the limitations of our grasp of of the working of God in people's lives. The limitation of our grasp of wisdom and the limitation of our grasp of What God is doing in someone's life. Now this is important because Job's friends, Job's friends who come to him as his counselors, as his helpers. And if you look closely at what they're saying, what they're saying is not off the wall. But they make things worse for Job. They increase the suffering because they are claiming to know exactly what's going on. They're claiming to have the answer, the fix for Job. Um and they don't. They they don't fully understand what's going on. They do have some wisdom, but their wisdom is limited, and so they're not applying it to the situation in the right way. And we all should have the humility. Um and a profound sense of just how limited our our wisdom is when we're trying to help people and counsel people. Because people's situations are difficult. and complex and they're they're they're going through suffering internally And often physically as well, and then often relationally with family or friends. There's just so many layers to people's sufferings and difficulties. We've just got to be humble We don't want to be the kind of people who are always trying to just give a quick fix, a quick solution. If you do this, everything will be better. Oh just do this and everything will be fine. Well here's the problem, you sinned in this way. If you would just admit that sin and make this change, everything would be fine. Which essentially that's a lot of the counsel that Job's friends give to him. And so we'll see that as a a major Job is a huge book, and that's a major part of it, is the limitations of his friend's grasp of wisdom, and therefore They make Job's suffering worse. Number five, the ultimate faithfulness of God to his people. As the foundation of hope. The ultimate faithfulness of God to his people as the foundation of hope. The book ends with what happening. Do you all remember? Job's life restored. Restoration is r what'd you say? Job's life is restored based. Yeah. Restoration restored, restoration, to even greater blessing and prosperity than the book began with. But there's a lot that happens in between that. Job's suffering is intense. And and um we learn a lot, we learn a lot about the complexities of human suffering and all the anguish and bitterness that it can bring and And then how to deal with so-called friends or counselors who are making things worse, how to how to be patient and yet how to be honest with them. But ultimately, God is the answer, God is the resolution. Job does repent at the end of the book. Job repents and he puts his his faith and trust in God afresh. He's humbled to a deeper level than he's ever been humbled, and he intercedes for his friends. Which is a really ironic twist at the end. Job intercedes for his friends, and Job is restored. So again, the main The reader's digest summary that's not on here. Job gives us wisdom for suffering, for anguish of soul, and for feeling abandoned by God. Let's look at a couple, let's look at uh chapter 1, verses 1 to 12, and then we'll see if there's any questions. Before we go to Psalms, although we're not going to have too much time to stop in between these, but I want to at least at least give you a chance to ask a question or two about Job. Job one one through twelve. Can somebody read this whole section for us? Job one one through twelve. There was a man in the land of Oz whose name was Job, and the man was plainless, one who feared God and turned away from evil. There were born to him seven sons and three daughters. Uh the uh he possessed seven thousand sheep. 3,000 camels, 500 yokes of oxen, and five hundred female donkeys, and very many and and very many servants. So there This man was the greatest of all the people of the East. His sons used to go and hold a feast in the house of the Each one on his day, and they would send and invite their three sisters to eat and drink with them. And when the days of the feast had run their course, Job would send and consecrate them, and he would rise early in the morning and offer burnt offerings according to the number of them all. For Job said, It may be that my children have sinned and cursed God in their hearts. Thus Job did. Continually. Now there was a day when the sons of God came to present themselves before the Lord, and Satan also came among them The Lord said to Satan, From where have you come? Satan answered the Lord and said, From going to and fro on the earth, and from walking up and down on it. And the Lord said to Satan, Have you considered my servant Job that there is none like them on the earth as blameless a blameless and upright man who fears God and turns away from evil? Then Satan answered the Lord and said, Does Job fear God for no reason? Have you not put a hedge around him and his house and all that he has on every side? Have you blessed the work of his hands and his possessions have increased? You have blessed the work of his hands, and his possessions have increased in the land But stretch out your hands and touch all that he has, and he will curse you to your face. And the Lord said to Satan, Behold, all that he has is in your hand. Only against him do not stretch out your hand. So Satan went out from the presence of the Lord. Thank you. And so ultimately Job, who is a believer and greatly blessed of God, is going to endure these sufferings from the adversary or the accuser, which is the meaning of Satan. Here in this in this context in Job, it's not a proper name. Later in scripture Satan becomes a proper name, but here it's it's the adversary or the accuser. You see this heavenly council, this window into God's heavenly court is heavenly council and you have these angelic beings and you have the accuser, the adversary, which is like a courtroom. Position, the one who brings charges against you, like the district attorney would bring charges against you Job is going to suffer greatly. He's going to lose family, servants, possessions. Ultimately his health will be covered in these horrible sores all over his body, these boils, and he suffers greatly. Now he will have sin in the course of the book, which is why at the end he needs to repent. God calls him to repentance and he does humble himself and he does repent. But he does not Cursed God. He does not curse God. What's verse eleven, the adversary's charge against God is The only reason Job believes in you is because you're giving him these good things. But if you take away these good things, he will curse you to your face. Job never did that. Job never lost his faith and cursed God to his faith face. Never. It's like us. We sin. Even as believers, we can fall into habits of sin. We can fall into a season of sin. Um but that's not the same as completely giving up your confession of faith, cursing God to his face, accusing God that he's not good. It's different things here. So what the accuser says is going to happen does not happen. For all of Job's struggles and for all of what he does need to repent of. But you see how it starts. Job is the greatest of all the people of the East. He's well known. He's extremely prosperous. Uh the most prosperous, he employs a lot of people, he provides for a lot of people physically and spiritually also interceding and praying for his children. Any thoughts or questions on Job before we go to the Psalms? Yeah, Vince. So when it says it uh seems the accuser of the brethren, um Does that uh still happen where Satan goes and says before the Not in heaven. Not in heaven. Not in heaven. No, he's been cast down, he's been cast out of heaven. He has no rightful charge No legitimate charge against people who are in Christ because all our because our standing is righteous before God in Christ and because all the penalty for our sin has already been paid. Now he can he can accuse us and we can in our own mind psychologically we can Fall prey to the accusations and to the judgments of Satan and feel like we're not forgiven or feel like we're not saved. But in But in a true sense, in an objective sense, which means outside of us, there's no charge that can be brought against us that could stand in God's court. Good question. Great question. Anyone else? Any questions on Job? I just think when you get that doubt, I mean I mean you you very intentionally have to say, get away. Yeah. Because yeah, it really Can wreak havoc. It absolutely. That's the perfect phrase. It can wreak havoc. Man, it can really mess with our minds. And then it can have an impact in our faith and our disciplines. But it is an exercise of faith. It's an exercise of faith to resist the devil and to silence his lies through faith and with the word of God It should be a huge part of our prayers that we're asking God to help us to do that. Because Satan wants to discourage us, he wants to divide us, he wants to distract us. And all of that is because he he doesn't want us faithful and living for the glory of God. Right. He would love for us just to just to curl up in a ball in in this pit of loneliness and doubt and s and uh self-absorption. So we've You in other words, like Robin said, it'll wreak havoc. It'll wreak havoc in us. Alright, let's go to Psalms Now, all of Psalms is poetry. There's fifteen of the Psalms that are wisdom. Psalms. I won't give you those, but you can Google it. Most count fifteen Some would do it differently because there's certain sections of certain psalms could be considered wisdom literature. But this genre of the Old Testament is the wisdom in the Psalms or poetry and wisdom. And Psalms fits within that As for the author, as for the author, David, seventy-five of them. Now look at that footnote on your page, because in the songs themselves 73 are attributed to David. Then in the New Testament, there's two more that are attributed to David. That in the Psalms, they're not. Does that make sense? So in the Psalms. Psalm two and Psalm ninety-five are not attributed to David as a psalm of David, but in the New Testament references them. And ascribes them to David. So at least seventy-five were penned by David. Some of the anonymous ones, which is forty-eight of them. In theory then, some of those anonymous ones could also be written by David. We just don't know. You have 12 Psalms of Asaph, 11 of the sons of Korah. You have two by Solomon. You'll see them at the bottom of this block, this box of author. Two by or one by Moses rather. You had to get Moses in there. Moses deserves at least one psalm. And then everyone's favorite Bible character, Ethan the Ezrahite. Ethan the Ezrahite? Psalm eighty nine and forty eight anonymous The setting of the Psalms from David's reign to the time of the restoration from Babylon. There are there's a handful of restoration psalms, which is really cool. These Psalms, so they range from David's reign to that time. Which is roughly a five hundred year difference. Pretty long time. Give you that reader's digest condensed summary that's not on your chart , focusing on the wisdom psalms, not all of Psalms, but Psalms, but the wisdom portion gives us wisdom to grasp and respond properly to God's revelation in both nature and in his word. Now there are of course there's other themes, other other aspects of wisdom, but there is a focus in the wisdom psalms on Grasping and receiving, responding the right way to the way God has revealed Himself in nature and in His Word. In Psalm One nineteen is the classic the humongous psalm. It's all about receiving and responding to God's word and God's law the proper way. And delighting in God's law. Delighting, loving, meditating, contemplating his commandments and his precepts and his rules. Because of what that tells us about God and his character, and because of the way that helps us and teaches us in our own lives to obey God and live for Him. So The reader's digest on the wisdom psalms, at least one major focus, is going to give us wisdom to grasp and respond properly to God's revelation in nature in the Word. Let's go to those major themes. Of the Psalms now, Psalms as a whole is what I'm giving you these major themes for. Wisdom, prayers, and praise. To the full range of human emotion. Alright, wisdom, prayers, and praise. For the full range of human emotion, which is going to include physical suffering. You see lots of that in the Psalms. Mental anguish. See lots of that. Fear of death. Literally fear of death. I don't mean just in general that all of us are going to die and we we always live in the face of death. We're not promised tomorrow. I mean literal fear of death. fear of death, warriors surrounding you, Saul coming after you to kill you, just tried to just try to chuck a spear through you at dinner, and now you're fleeing for your life. So literal fear of death. Times of exuberant joy. Times of contentment and peace and rest and thanksgiving. So for the full range of human emotion, Psalms will give us wisdom to deal with those experiences. Prayers for in the midst of those experiences and also praise. What's the proper kind of praise? Number two, major theme in Psalms The universal, eternal, and absolute kingship of God. The kingship of God over all things. If we really zoom out and say what's the topic of Psalms, that's going to be it. The kingship of God. Any wisdom that comes is is to be understood in that context. God's sovereign authority over everything He made the heavens, he made the earth, he made everything in it, he's the king over everything. He's the lawgiver, he's the judge, God is king. Number three, you have messianic psalms. You'll have messianic prophecies that also teach us about the Messiah and the kingdom. So number three, the coming of Christ to establish God's kingdom and to disciple the nations. And then you see I put on there hope with an exclamation point. Because that's the perspective of hope. That's the mindset of hope. At that time the people of God are looking forward to the Christ. looking forward to the kingdom. Their hope is on God fulfilling his promises of salvation, fulfilling his promises to David and This is the way God is going to establish his kingdom to the four corners of the earth is by sending the Savior, sending the Christ. And you have this messianic prophetic theme throughout the Psalms. Where eventually you'll have this this Christ, this human anointed, and appointed King of God. Will now reign over the world just as God the Father reigns over the world, which is what happens in the New Testament. So, number three, the coming of Christ to establish God's kingdom and disciple the nations, the foundation of hope. And number four, you have songs and reminders for God's people. There's lots of that in the Psalms. Lots of that in Scripture. Reminding us of what God has said. Reminding us of what God has done. And Also connected to that is a reminder of our duty to remember him, to trust him, love him, worship him, and serve him. We all need to be reminded. We all need to be reminded of what God has done for us, what got who God is And his love for us, what God is doing in the world, God's plans for us, we all need to be reminded of those things. Otherwise we just drift off into ingratitude and apathy. And we also need to be reminded of our duty to Him. We need to be reminded, we need to be exhorted, we need to be encouraged to love God, to serve God, to turn from sin. But the the sight of God has to come first. It's the preaching of God, the reminding of God and who he is and what he's done and what he's said and what he's given us, and then the response i is believing and out of the belief. We obey him. You have lots of songs and reminders in the Psalms to this end Let's look at um Psalms one and two, which almost well every Scholar commentary, pastor, sermon that I've heard Treats Psalms one and two together as the introduction to the whole book So Psalms 1 and 2 together as like a prologue. Or when you sometimes when you buy a book, there's an introduction. It doesn't have a chapter title, it just says introduction, and it introduces everything that's coming after it and sets the stage for what's coming. So that's what Psalms 1 and 2, that's how they function. Can I have someone read Psalm 1 for us? Blessed is the man who walks not in the council of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners. nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree planted by streams of water that yields its fruit in its season And its leaf does not wither. In all that he does, he prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff, and the wind drives the wind That the wind drives away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. Thank you. The first psalm is actually a wisdom psalm. It does that same general thing that the book of Proverbs will do. You have the righteous over here and they're living this way and they're learning from God. And then you have the wicked over here and they're living a different way. And they're not living for God. They're not listening to God. They're not learning for him. They're doing their own thing. They will come into judgment, but the righteous will not come into judgment. They'll enjoy the favor and blessedness of God. So the first psalm is a wisdom Psalm starts with a beatitude. Blessed is the man or blessed is the one. And then I won't read the whole thing again, but basically, blessed is the one who refuses evil, but rather lives for the Lord and delights in the law of the Lord. And then who wouldn't want to read Psalm two for us. Psalm two verses one to twelve the whole thing. I have another volunteer Okay. Why do the nations rage and the people plot in vain? The kings of the earth set themselves and the rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed saying, Let us burst their bonds apart and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens last. The Lord holds them in derision Then he will speak to them in his wrath and terrify them in his fury, saying, As for me, I have set my king on Zion, my holy hill. I will tell of the decree, the Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. Ask of me and I will make the nations your heritage and the ends of the earth your possession You shall break them with a rod of iron and dash them in pieces like a potter's vessel. Now therefore, O kings, be wise Be warned, O rulers of the earth. Serve the Lord with fear and rejoice with trembling. Kiss the sun, lest he be angry, and you perish in the way, for his wrath is quickly kindled. Blessed are those who take refuge in him. Thank you. So the first psalm is a wisdom psalm, and the second psalm is a messianic psalm. You go from this wisdom of the righteous versus the wicked, and this call to righteousness and the fear of the Lord, and then you go right into the Messianic Psalm, where what's What we're supposed to do is serve the Lord. Verse 11, serve the Lord. But the way we do that is through honoring the Son. Kiss the Son. Honor the Son. Submit to His. Submit to his lordship. That's the way we will serve the Lord with fear. I love this beatitude that this ends with verse 12. Blessed are who take refuge in him. Refuge in who? Refuge in the Son of God. That's what he said. Refuge in the Son of God. So this saw the Wisdom Psalm and Messianic Psalm together is the prologue, the introduction for the whole book. And it starts at the Beatitude, Blessed is the one who walks not in the council of the wicked, dot dot dot, dot dot dot, but rather his delight is in the law of the Lord. And on his law he meditates day and night. That's where we start, practically speaking, to seek the Lord or to encourage someone who doesn't know God to seek the Lord. Come and hear God's word, go and read God's word. Come and hear, go and read. Hear, read, hear, read. Seek God in his word. So this is the beatitude at the beginning of this introduction. Delight in God's law, meditate on it, meditate on it day and night. And then the beatitude At the end of this introduction, as blessed are all who take refuge in him. Take refuge in God's Son is the way to serve God in fear. Verse Chapter 2 verse 1 and 2. Why do the nations rage and the people's plot in vain? The kings of earth set themselves and rulers take counsel together against the Lord and against his anointed. You see that? And the anointed, the Hebrew word is the one that is for for Messiah. The Messiah, the Christ, the anointed. All those words are exactly the same thing. Just either the Hebrew version, the Greek version, or the English version. The Messiah is the Hebrew version. The Christ is the Greek version. The anointed is the English version. But it's God's anointed son. It's God's anointed king. These verses are quoted in Acts chapter 4 as being fulfilled in Christ, where you have the nations raging and the peoples plotting, the kings of the earth, and the rulers. Counsel setting uh taking counsel together to set themselves against the Lord and his anointed, and the book of Acts teaches us that's fulfilled, and the the lost Jewish leaders And the Roman authorities plotting and scheming together to set themselves against God and Jesus Christ. That's Acts chapter 4. 25 to 26. And then verse 7, I will tell the decree. The Lord said to me, You are my son. Today I have begotten you. That's cited as fulfilled in Christ. That's cited in Acts. 13, that's cited in Hebrews 1, that's cited in Hebrews 5. And of course the idea of Jesus as the only Son of God is a is a major theme throughout the whole New Testament, those are just where this specifically is cited as fulfilled in Christ. He is The anointed one, verse two. He is the king, verse six. He is the son, verse seven. And he is the one we are to take refuge in, verse 12. You see why these kinds of psalms get the name Messianic Psalm. It's a Prophecy of Christ and his salvation and his kingdom. I guess you could tell if you want to get me excited, one of the things you could do is just put a messianic psalm right in front of me. So you start thinking about this. So we're psalms the whole book starts with this prologue of a wisdom psalm and a messianic psalm and that sets our mindset for the whole rest of the book. Any questions on the Psalms? Real quick, just again, the reader's digest condensed version, the focus in the wisdom psalms, which there's 15 of them. is to grasp and to respond properly to God's revelation in nature and in his word. And then you have those major themes on the right for the whole book. Any any thoughts or questions on the Psalms? Could we say that the reasons uh given here, which are obviously true, are the reasons that uh the I mean it seems maybe obvious that Psalms are included in the canon of scripture for those very reasons that's why God has told us so we would have that those things. Yeah, whatever's in there he wanted us to have. Yeah. I mean Psalms really does more than any other book give you like a world view. It gives you like an a a 30,000-foot view of the whole story of history, the whole plan of redemption, the whole story of Israel. So it's it's a very it's a very important book. Not the biggest book. Most chapters, but it's not the biggest book. That would be Jeremiah. But it does have a central role, and it's very important to understanding scripture Psalm 110 is the most quoted, most referenced Old Testament passage in the New Testament. Psalm 110. It's the messianic psalm, the kingship of Christ, the kingdom of Christ. And as it gives you that's extremely important for just off the top of my head I'm trying to respond to your question. So another thing that Why it's in the canon and what's very helpful for is understanding the relationship between the Old Testament and the New Testament. Understanding the nature of fulfillment of how Christ fulfills The promises of God. I give you a homework. Read Acts chapter two and just look at how important the Psalms are in Peter's Sermon on the day of Pentecost and working from the text of the Psalms to explain the resurrection, to explain the ascension of Christ. As the fulfillment of Scripture. So Psalms is important in many ways. Alright, let's push on to Proverbs. I'll try to speed up a little bit. Those were the two biggies. Those are the two, obviously, those are the two biggest books of the poetry and wisdom, Job and Psalms. Now Proverbs The condensed summary, the again, I'm giving you these condensed summaries, they're not on your outline here. Proverbs deals with maturity, responsibility, and basic morality. Alright, maturity in life Responsibility in life, and basic morality, just wisdom for everyday life and dealings. That's what Proverbs is. The author is Solomon, you can look at those two verses I've put down there. And there'll be most study Bibles, definitely commentaries. You're gonna see that people there are those who believe Solomon's not the author. He's the primary author, but then there was someone who came later and was the final editor, the final compiler of it, which is probably the case. Not something I'm going to get distracted by this morning, but when you read through the Proverbs, it's it could not be clearer that this is coming from Solomon. And when it's not coming from Solomon It's it's uh listed who it's coming from. And it could be the fact that Solomon is the compiler who's including these other things. Instead of a compiler or an editor that comes later and includes Solomon. Either way, Proverbs, Solomon, chapter 30, verse 1. Wait a minute. No, I should I should I should say one one. Oh no no I see what I'm doing. Sorry, yeah. Those um cross references Are not verses that say that it's Solomon. Those cross-references are verses that give you the other two authors. One's name is Agar. Chapter 30, and another one's name is King Lemuel, chapter 31. And King Lemuel gives an oracle that he actually got from his mother. That's what those verses are. The verse for Solomon would just be the first verse, and then other verses where it says the Solomon, the Proverbs of Solomon Setting, Solomon's reign, but perhaps again compiled later by an editor. And then major themes. Number one, the call and blessings of godly wisdom. What's the call of wisdom? The call of wisdom is God calling us away from foolishness. to wisdom, to live godly lives, to pursue godly speech, to not live a life of crime, to not live a life of laziness, to to work hard. That's the call. God calls us to wisdom Wisdom is calling out, and then also the blessings of godly wisdom. There is a a blessing, a certain contentment and joy and prosperity of life and enjoying life and fellowship with God as we pursue wisdom. Number two, the fear of the Lord is the foundation of knowledge and wisdom. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. Knowledge Is grasping God's truth Wisdom is applying that truth to our lives. The fear of the Lord is the foundation of both. Number three, practical wisdom. The Proverbs gives us practical wisdom for all of life, both inwardly and outwardly. That's important. Both inwardly and outwardly. In other words, wisdom in the Proverbs Is geared toward inner character and an inner ethical compass, if you will. But also it's geared toward behavior, our speech. What we do, where we go. So practical wisdom for all of life, inwardly and outwardly, both character and behavior, for young and old, for the wise and the simple, in ordinary life and ordinary dealings. Alright, so don't cheat people. Don't gossip about people. These kinds of things. Don't be stingy, but help the poor was in there. So there's all I mean just all kinds of practical insights and instruction. For all of life, inwardly and outwardly. Stay away from the adulterous woman. Right Give yourself to your wife. Be faithful to your wife. Practical wisdom, practical wisdom, practical wisdom. Number four And this makes us think of Psalm 1. This is the wisdom from Psalm number 1. Number 4, the stark contrast between the wise and the righteous and the fool and the wicked. So you'll have lots of promises. And blessings regarding righteousness and wisdom. And you'll have lots of warnings, lots of don't go there, lots of here's why you stay away for the foolish Foolish things and for wickedness. Just for the sake of time. I'll read chapter one, verse seven. The fear of the Lord is to begin to give knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. But the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. So fear of the Lord is The starting block. That's where we start to get headed in the right direction of attaining wisdom Fear of the Lord is acknowledging God's authority. It's reverencing God. It's this humble, sober , sincere. Humbling of ourselves under the authority of God. That's the fear of the Lord. And when we do that, we will not despise his wisdom, we will not despise his instruction, but rather we'll seek it out. Well seek it out. God teach me wisdom. Give me instruction. So you have the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, but then you have on the other side fools despising wisdom, despising instruction. They don't want knowledge They got it all figured out. Let's go down to Ecclesiastes. Ecclesiastes Written by Solomon, and the time of Solomon's reign would be the setting. Your condensed summary. Ecclesiastes gives us wisdom for feelings of despair. The di uh feelings of despair or dealing with the despair of materialism and the the seeming futility of life. The wisdom for dealing with despair and the uh feelings of despair and the despair of materialism And wisdom for dealing with the seeming futility of life. And how to avoid so obviously how to avoid despair, how to get out of despair. When you if you don't know the Lord and You start to look around and you start feeling like life is meaningless, this is all futile, there's no point to this, we're all just gonna die, we're all just and this is it. You can start feeling a despair. And uh It can really be crushing. Well, Ecclesiastes gives us wisdom and instruction for dealing with that. We'll go to these major themes. Number one, wisdom for the complexities. and perplexities of life. I couldn't pick which word to put, so I just put both of them. Because there are some things that are complex And there are things that will be perplexing to us the more we learn, the more we look into things. And it can really mess with our heads and Bring us to a sense of cynicism or skepticism and feelings of despair and like this is all meaningless because this is all temporary Ecclesiastes gives us wisdom for these complexities and the perplexities of life. One of the perplexities it's dealt with um Uh is looking around and seeing people have given themselves over to wickedness And yet sometimes they're prospering and enjoying a whole lot more safety than those who've given themselves to righteousness and those who've given themselves to the Lord. That's a perplexing thing. That that can That can be troubling to some. Number two, the futility of mere materialism and the fleeting nature of everything in the world, including our own selves. The futility of mere materialism. The material world itself is not bad. God created it. God created it good. Yes, there is sin and evil and suffering in the world. But material World m bodily existence in and of itself is not bad, but living as if the material world is all there is will bring despair. When we start to realize that everything is fleeting, everything we work for is fleeting, everything we have is fleeting. And our bodies are fleeting. We live, we die, some suffer more than others, but then that's it. You really start thinking about that. It can mess with your head, and so Ecclesiastes gives us wisdom and instruction for dealing with that. Number three , Ecclesiastes I think this is the main point of the book in terms of practical application. Ecclesiastes deals with the necessity of God for finding true meaning and true joy. the absolute necessity of God for meaning and joy to exist, and then the the necessity of having a relationship with God To enjoy that meaning and to have that joy, we need God, not more things Number four, the reality of coming judgment and our accountability to God. The reality of coming judgment and our accountability to God. In fact, we can go there. This is how the book ends. Turn to Ecclesiastes chapter twelve. Look at verse one. Of Ecclesiastes 12. Remember also your Creator in the days of your youth, before the evil days come and the years draw near, of which you will say, I have no pleasure in them. It is such a thing where people in their senior years can turn to the Lord and be saved. God is able to do that But what's more common is you reject the Lord, you reject the Lord. Over time, your heart just gets harder and harder and harder and you get grumpier and grumpier and grumpier. So here the admonition is remember your creator while you're young. So that the sufferings and difficulties of life don't overwhelm you and you're just completely in despair. I have no pleasure in anything. You're just you're lost in despair. And we've all known people like that. And the last two verses of Ecclesiastes, Ecclesiastes 12, verse 13. The end of the matter. All has been heard. Which is a way of saying, okay, boil it down. Here's the conclusion. Fear God and keep his commandments, for this is the whole duty of man. For God will bring every deed into judgment, with every secret thing, whether good or evil. It's uh twelve chapters of dealing with all of these complex issues and difficulties in life and how do we have joy and meaning uh in life under the sun And the closing word is a reminder that God is going to bring everything into judgment. So we want to make sure that we fear the Lord, put our faith in him, so that on that day we are saved. Finally, Song of Solomon. It's Wisdom for Romance and Courtship. Wisdom for Romance and Courtship. Authored by Solomon, Setting is Solomon's Reign, and real quickly on these three major themes because we are out of time. Practical wisdom for romantic love. For courtship and for marriage. Practical wisdom for romantic love, something of the nature of romantic love in there is part of that. And courtship and marriage. Number two, insight into the joys and struggles of those things, because those things are gifts from God. They are blessings and they bring they bring blessings. But we are sinners and we live in a sinful world. They will also bring new trials into our lives that we didn't have before. There's new ways we have to repent that we didn't have to repent before. There's new Difficulties. Once we enter into romantic love, courtship and marriage. So we have insight into the joys, instruct insight into the struggles practical wisdom. And then number three, because there are some who take the Song of Solomon to be an allegory of God's love for his people or an allegory of Christ's love for the church. And so, on that interpretation, a major theme would be insight into the love, the bond, and the fellowship of God towards his people. And I think that's the perfect note to end our class on is just reminding us all of God's love for us. A love that we didn't work for, we didn't have to pay for, we didn't have to earn, we didn't have to do community service to get God's love But he has a free love, an infinite love, a love that's always accessible to us. Let's go to him in prayer. God, thank you for your love. Thank you for your wisdom. I pray that one of the things you'll stir up within us in the coming weeks and the coming months is a desire, a hunger for practical wisdom from your word. And I pray that we pour ourselves Pour our energies into and pour over your word to learn wisdom, to humble ourselves, and to live for you and not ourselves. It's in Christ we pray. Amen