All right, let's go ahead and turn to Psalm one thirteen. We continue our series to the Psalms with a special focus on Psalms that stir us to praise the Lord. That's the great concern with Psalm 113, that we would praise the Lord and bless his name. Let's begin with the reading of the passage, Psalm one thirteen. Praise the Lord. Praise, O servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord from this time forth and forevermore. From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised. The Lord is high above all nations, and his glory above the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God, who is seated on high, who looks far down on the heavens and the earth? He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people. He gives the barren woman a home, making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the Lord. Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we by faith come before you, gathered as your children. I pray that you would awaken our minds to spiritual things. We pray that this morning you would awaken our minds and stir our hearts to heavenly things, to eternal things, to the things of Christ. Father, we collectively are begging you to minister your word to our hearts by the power of your Spirit. We need your help. We come to you for mercy. We come to you for grace. We come to you for spiritual strength and fortitude. That we could never muster on our own. Father, we come to you, you alone as our Maker, as our Savior. As our Father, as our shepherd, as our future, as our present, as our only hope in this dying world. Father, we come to you through faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. And as those filled with your Holy Spirit, minister your word to us now. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen. Psalm 113 has one great concern. The great concern of Psalm one thirteen is that You and I would praise God, firstly for His Supreme Majesty, and secondly, that we would praise God. for his surprising mercy. This is the central concern, the pointed concern of this psalm Not just to teach us about the praise of God, but that we would praise God for his supreme majesty and for his surprising mercy. His supreme majesty, he is the highest He is the greatest. He has the most power, the most authority. He's over the heavens, over the earth, over the government, over us, over our hearts. He has supreme majesty. We should praise him. Secondly, he has a surprising, a shocking, and a surpassing mercy for the afflicted The one who is the highest comes to those who are lowest and helps them. This God must be praised. This is the great concern of the Psalm. And in preaching the psalm, my prayer would be for me and for you in preaching the psalm is that the great concern of the psalm will be the great concern of our hearts. that our hearts would be consumed with praising God, consumed, overwhelmed, and driven along by praising God for His supreme majesty and also His supreme. And his compassion to the lowly and to the forgotten and to the afflicted and to the helpless and to those in need The highest, the most powerful being in the universe comes to them. And here's a great theological term for you this morning. He helps them. Praise God. Praise God above, who's not left us below to fend for ourselves. Praise the Lord God Almighty Praise the Lord and bless his name. Praise him for his supreme majesty and for his surprising mercy. Now you should probably uh already know that this great concern of the psalm, which is supposed to become the great concern of our hearts. Is not the great concern of the world around us. Amen? It's not the thing that we naturally pursue. It's not the thing that we're naturally consumed with in daily life. You know, uh in the eyes of the world, the true child of God will stick out like a sore thumb. Praising the God, the God who made us, worshiping God, obeying God. For his supreme majesty and for his what else? His surprising mercy. Well, the uh the flow of the sermon is just gonna follow those points because the first portion of the psalm is a call to praise God. And then the second portion of the psalm is about his majesty over all things. And then the third portion, the final portion of the psalm is about God coming to help the afflicted, and it gives us two representative examples of that. Firstly, praise the Lord. Praise the Lord all day, every day. This is the first point that the Psalm makes is that God should be praised all day, every day. Look at verses 1 through 3. Praise the Lord. Praise, O servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the Lord. From this time forth, forevermore. That's one phrase. When do we praise him? We praise him from this time forth and forevermore. You never graduate from that, beloved. Never move on from that. Never think there's something higher in life to attain to than praising the Lord from this time forth. Praise him and forevermore praise him. Be encouraged. Be encouraged. And be exhorted. Praise God. And then he says this in verse 3. From the rising of the sun to its setting, the name of the Lord is to be praised. Praise the Lord all day, every day. Now the only way whether that that makes sense to you is if you understand that all of life, and whatever you're doing Wherever you're doing it, it's to be an act of worship to God. It's to be done out of love for God is to be done in such a way that reflects that you are a person who in your heart honors God and wants to please God and wants to obey God so that he would be worshipped and he would be magnified and he would be praised. Through the way that we live. Praise the Lord all day, every day is the first point he makes. Please don't see worshiping God as just one piece of the pie of your life It's not one section of life we apportion off and say, well now here I'll worship you, but over here I live by these principles. Praise the Lord all day, every day. Now, if we're going to praise the Lord, first of all, we must know his name. The word name is a big thing in these verses. Verse 1 It says, praise the name of the Lord. And then verse 2, blessed be the name of the Lord. And then verse 3, the name of the Lord. is to be praised. Well what's his name? Well it's in the passage. Lord, capital L, capital O, capital R, capital D. God's names representative of his character. And this is God's covenant name that he revealed specifically to whom through a burning bush Theophane. You remember? I know that you do. So this rhetorical. To Moses. This is the revelation of God's covenant name to Israel through Moses as a mediator. He's the I am. He's the great I am. I am who I am. This is uh Exodus three, God reveals his name, the Lord Yahweh, sometimes called, sometimes even called Jehovah. It's the it's an attempt to just interpret or translate that Hebrew in a different way, pronounce it differently. This is God's covenant name, representative of God electing Israel as his chosen nation, redeeming them from slavery in Egypt, making them into a nation that he would call his own. Giving them the law, giving them the worship, giving them the prophets, giving them the covenant promises. His name is the Lord. We must know his name. He is the great I am. Now, from our vantage point in history, we have a fuller revelation of God's name, a fuller revelation of who God is. And in conjunction with that, a fuller revelation of God's salvation. We know God as Father And as Son and as, say it with me, Holy Spirit. In these last days, God has spoken to us through his Son, the exalted Lord Jesus Christ. And that exalted Lord has poured out his Holy Spirit into our hearts. This fullness of redemption is also the fuller and clearer revelation of who God is. He is the Father who sent the Son. He is the Son who accomplished our salvation. And He is the Holy Spirit who applied that salvation into our hearts. Father, Son, Holy Spirit, we praise the name of the Lord. We're to be baptized into the name of the Father, Son. Son and Holy Spirit. Matthew 28. This is our God. This is our Maker. This is our Redeemer. God. Father, Son, Holy Spirit. He is who He is. He will not change. He's not giving us a full revelation. So when we praise God, to praise God Right at the center of understanding what this actually means is Jesus. It means Jesus. You praise Jesus, you praise God. You praise Jesus as one who's received the Holy Spirit. You're praising God. You've been saved by God. Praise the Lord all day, every day. According to God's revelation. Because there's a lot of so-called worship in the world. There's a lot of religion. People have always loved religion. It's one thing to say that you praise God. But do you praise God according to what God has revealed about Himself? Now that's the critical issue. And that will always be the critical issue. Do I make up a concept of God and then worship that concept as God? Or do I humbly receive God's revelation of Himself and worship Him according to what He's revealed? That will always be the issue. That will always be the critical component in whether worship is true worship or false worship and idolatry. We must know his name, what he's about, what he's done, if we're going to praise him. Secondly, we m we must humble ourselves before him. Intellectual knowledge of who God is and what God has done doesn't make us into worshipers. We must humble ourselves before God. Turn our hearts to Him in praise and worship Him. Comes from the word servants. Praise the Lord. Praise, O servants of the Lord. In the original context, that's the most likely referring to servants in the temple of God. Maybe a choir or musicians. those who served in the temple and helped with the worship, servants of God in the temple. Under the new covenant, we're all servants of God in the temple. The church is the dwelling place of God on earth. The church is the house of God. There's no special group set apart in the church. Oh no, no. These are the servants of God. No, we're all servants of God If we humbled ourselves before Him and come to faith in Christ, we're all servants. And we're pilgrims. We're pilgrims on earth because this is not our final home. We're passing through earth, onward and upward to the celestial city, where Christ is. And we will be with him one day. And one day he's coming back also to give us resurrection bodies. They will be with him in glory forever. To praise the Lord all day, every day, not as just one piece of the pie, not as something we ever move on from. We must know his name, what he's revealed about himself, what he's done. We must humble ourselves before him and see ourselves as servants. We understand we're not entitled to heaven. Amen? You understand? We're not the master of the house. The church is not the master of the church. Christ is the master of the church. We're servants. We're all Humble servants saved by grace. All of us. There's one boat. We have different roles in that boat, but there's one boat. Sinners saved by grace, who Lord willing have been humbled, gospel humbled by the gospel, so that we have this peculiar compassion and love toward each other that shines like a light in the world around us. That's a picture of what the local church should be. A group of gospel, humbled people, full of joy and gratitude and compassion and grace because of what God has done in our lives. Humble servants. Humble servants is what we want to strive for. Now, we must know his name. We must humble ourselves. And the third and final point in this section Is that we must enjoy opening our mouths to bless the Lord, to speak well of the Lord. Praise the Lord, verse 1. Praise those servants of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Verse 2. Blessed be the name of the Lord. Blessed be the name of the L So you're praising the Lord, you're blessing his name from the rising of the sun to its setting. The name of the Lord is to be praised. We must be a people, wherever we are, who have the boldness, who have the who have the clarity and the conviction and who enjoy opening our mouths and speaking words of favor about God and to God. Bless the name of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord. Open our mouths to sing the Lord's praises and to share what is Magnificent about him. Don't be ashamed of God. Don't be ashamed of Jesus. Don't be ashamed of the Holy Spirit or of the Word of Scripture. Open our mouths and share the good news and sing the good news. If you can sing it, sing the good news, I'll just share it and preach it. You can sing it. But we must be a people who open our n open our mouths, who praise the Lord and bless the name of the Lord. Speak well of him. You speak well of your children. Hopefully you speak well of your spouse. Hopefully you speak well of your friends. Speak well of the Lord. Speak well of him. He's done magnificent things. Speak well of the Lord. Don't be ashamed. Don't clam up. The world needs to hear God's servants speaking well about God. Speak well of him. In other words, bless his name. Bless his name. Honor him with your words. But it's it goes beyond that. Praising God truly starts in the heart. It starts in the heart. And then that phrase will pour out of the mouth. But it doesn't end there. Child of God, it doesn't end there. It spreads from the heart outpouring through the mouth to the way that we live, to our interpersonal relationships. The way we treat others, the way we speak about others, the way we act in our home. Husbands, the way you treat your wives should be an act of worship to God. Worship God begins in the heart. It pours out with the voice through the lips. And then it impacts the hands. And it impacts the feet and the way we live. And that's in every sphere of life. At home, in the church, out in the world, at work, at school. Lives should be an expression of worship. At the center of that, the in the center of our Local church, the body life of the local church, right at the center, the hub, is the congregational worship, which is meant to encourage us and to equip us to send us out to live for God in all of life. We come here as a congregation once a week on the Lord's Day, centrally, other times too. But to become encouraged and equipped. And congregational worship is personal I know God is in heaven and we're on earth, but by faith we stand before Him. Did you ever think about Sunday morning in that way? As a congregation, By faith, we gather together and present ourselves before God in heaven by faith, not by sight, by faith. We gather before the throne of God who presides over us through his word and by his spirit. This is what worship is. We gather before God. It's personal. We're not putting on something for you. We're gathering together to do something before the presence of God. That's what worship is. And it's real. It's not pretend. God really exists. And yes, he's invisible because he dwells in heaven, in the heavenly sphere. And we can't see him, but he can see us. And he welcomes us. And in fact, it's really not us gathering. It's him gathering us together as his children into his local church. Worship. Worship is the center of discipleship in the hearts for the individual, but also for the church. As a group, our worship is the hub. Worship is personal, it should be powerful, it should be transformative for the soul. Worship is personal, it's powerful, it's proclamation. In other words, it's part of our witness to the world around us, our public worship. Worship is personal, powerful, it's proclamation, it's also a privilege. This is a grace gift from God to be citizens in the kingdom of heaven. The congregational worship and the fellowship of the saints in Scripture is likened to a royal wedding feast. Have you ever been invited to a royal wedding feast? The real wedding of the king's son or the king's daughter? Do you think you would accept that invitation and be happy about it or would you just be begrudging it? Oh, gotta go to this wedding feast. You would be on Cloud9. You'd be telling everybody. It would be so happy and so blessed at the privilege that you get to attend a royal wedding feast. The worship of the church through Christ and in the Spirit around the throne of God It's the feast of feasts. It's royalty of royalty. Worship is a great privilege. It's a gracious gift. And we can't praise the Lord all day, every day, as a gathered congregation. But you can't worship the Lord all day, every day You actually can do that, living by faith in Christ, striving to walk by the Spirit with a heart that honors God. Well, that's the first point. And that is the central concern of this psalm to become our concern, the central concern of our hearts and of our minds, and of our schedules, that we would praise God all day, every day. Secondly, the first reason we praise him for his supreme majesty. Are you still with me, church? Praise him for his supreme majesty, verses four through six. The Lord is high above all nations, which is another another way of saying this, the whole world. All peoples, everywhere, the whole world. He's high above all nations and his glory above the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God who is seated on high, who looks far down on the heavens and the earth It's a picture of God on his heavenly throne. It's a picture of God, the central revelation of God is in heaven. Heaven is a created place. And in heaven is God's central revelation of Himself, where He reigns. On a throne in supreme majesty over all things. And now in these last days with the exalted Son of God at his right hand. And he's now reigning and ruling through his son Jesus Christ. Supreme Majesty, he rules over all things and every nation. He rules over all things and every nation. I'll give you a broad encouragement from this, and then I want to give you a personal comfort from this. First, a broad encouragement is that God is in control of everything, not the United States government. or any other government, or any other collection of govern governments, or the state governments God is sovereign king over all things. Therefore, beloved, do not worry. Do not be anxious. God knows your needs Worrying cannot add another moment to our lives. Worrying is not going to advance the kingdom of God on earth. God is in control. Let God be praised. Judge things that are going on in the world by the truth of Scripture, not by appearance. Judge by the truth, not by appearance. Judge by the truth of Scripture, not by personal feelings. Judge the world around us by the truth of Scripture, not by popular opinion. Judge by the word of God, not by man's word, not by your word, not by my word And walk by faith, not by sight. This is the only way to understand and to appreciate. This is the only way to find encouragement from the truth. That God reigns and God is in control and he has supreme majesty and he is not giving up that job and he is not sharing that job and he's not he doesn't need to call committee meetings to figure out how he should do that job. God is King, God is supreme, God is ruling, and brethren, I want to tell you he is working out his purposes exactly the way he wants to, exactly the pace that he wants to, and he will not fail. God is King, supreme power, supreme authority, supreme majesty. God is king. We have such a small view of God today. It's a big view of ourselves and what we're capable of and how great we are. And we brought God all the way down to this itty-bitty vending machine of blessings. He is the king of the universe. He made the universe. He rules. Supreme Majesty. That's why we worship Him and sing about Him and ask Him for help when we need help. God is great. God is not small. God is great. Worthy to be praised. Hopefully that's a broad encouragement for you that God is in control. Maybe that's a bittersweet encouragement as it starts to seep into your heart that you are not in control and you never will be, so give up the illusion that you are in control and humble yourself before God. Supreme majesty is a broad encouragement, but it's also a personal comfort. Because he is the God who rules over all things, but he's also your personal source and your only source of forgiveness He has the authority to remove your sins before his holy throne that you might be pure and blameless and righteous in his eyes and dwell with him forever in the bliss of the heavenly realm. Only God has the authority to take our sins away before his throne. Someone does wrong to you, you can forgive them in terms of your relationship, but you cannot remove their sin as they stand before the holy judge of the universe. Only in your relationship on an earthly level can you forgive that sin. It's a personal comfort to know that the one who says, I forgive you, actually has the authority and the power to do that. It's not just to make us give us a little vague spiritual positive self-help feeling. This is an actual thing. As sinners We stand guilty before God and are under His judgment. And God is the only one with the ability to remove that guilt. And how does he do that? The cross of Jesus Christ. The blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ. If anyone asks you that on the street, how does God for remove your guilt? Go right to the cross of Jesus Christ. The perfect sacrifice. He took our guilt upon himself. He took our sin upon himself. And he hung on the cross, and hanging on the cross with our guilt upon him, and with our sin upon him, he received God's holy judgment against our sin. Substitute is the word you should be thinking of. He says substitute sacrifice. He died for our sins. This is how the guilt of our sins gets removed, and we're brought into a relationship with God that will never end. One day we'll be with him forever in the fullness of glory. Praise the Lord. I mean, if there's not reason to praise him, we've got nothing else. We've got nothing else. Praise the Lord. Personal comfort. Source of forgiveness, therefore source of hope. True and lasting hope, and out of these counterfeit hopes that the world tries to sell us on Every which way, and not to counterfeit hopes that our sinful hearts lust after and tend toward what was that lyric? Prone to wander Prone to leave the God we love. That's referring to the flesh that's at war with the spirit. Broad encouragement, yes, with God ruling over all things and He's in control. That's not just a worldview. I mean it is, but it's not just a worldview. This should be personal comfort coming into your heart. This is my God. He forgives my sins. He's given me hope. Supreme majesty. And then verses 7 through 9, third and final point. We also praise him. For his surprising mercy. I was going to put uh surpassing mercy. Trying to bring into the view that uh his mercy is like nothing we could we could ever conceive of. There are good deeds people do on earth. There's different ways you can show mercy to people. Help the afflicted. And show kindness. But God's mercy so far surpasses anything that we know on earth. It just confounds human reason Surpassing mercy. But I went with surprising mercy. And I thought of surprising mercy because I thought of the earthly ministry of Christ He comes as the King of Israel. He comes as the Savior. He comes as the restorer, the ultimate prophet. The ultimate priest, the ultimate king. He's going to restore the nation. And the way he showed mercy to the outcasts I mean to say the least, really threw people for a loop. I mean it they just were not understanding the true nature of The kingdom of God. They didn't understand the true nature of the Savior. God 's mercy to the afflicted, not to the elites, to the forgotten, to the leper. Guys, to the leper To the Gentile, to the tax collector, to the sinner, to the prostitute, the mercy of Jesus on earth was a hand grenade in organized and traditional Judaism and it completely blew it up He came down. He comes down to help the afflicted. Surprising mercy. Look at verses 7 through 9. He raises the poor from the dust and lifts the needy from the ash heap to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people. Very simple image there. It's a poor person living in dirt, living in the slums, and the God who is higher than all things comes all the way down and exalts that poor person. To royalty, to make them sit with princes, with the princes of his people. In verse 9, another example, I believe these are both representative examples, he gives the barren woman a home Making her the joyous mother of children. Praise the Lord. Even though this is why it's surprising also. Um He's the highest being, a being of perfect holiness, and yet he comes down to help the lowest. Those who are afflicted, those who are in need and often despised and looked down upon and completely forgotten in the world, and God comes and God helps them. Now in the historical context, this is talking first and foremost about Israel and God's choosing and redeeming of Israel and making them into his chosen people. Giving children to the barren had basically become synonymous with God's choosing of Israel as his special people. The covenant promises first came to Abraham. And his wife was Sarah, and she was barren, and God intervened and gave her a child. Isaac, thank you. I was waiting for someone to say it. The child of promise. Isaac married Rebekah. Rebekah was barren, and God intervened. Gave her children. And of those children, one was Jacob. Jacob married Rachel. Rachel was, help me with it. Rachel was barren, and God intervened and gave her children. And it's from Jacob, whose name was changed to Israel, that the twelve tribes came. Of Israel as a nation, barrenness, mother of many children, and a joyous home. So this was a this This way of God's intervention became part and parcel with thinking about God's grace toward Israel and making them his chosen people. And likewise exalting the poor. Likewise God's exalting of the poor. When you think of Israel in bondage, harsh. oppressive bondage in Egypt. And from there God hears the cry of his afflicted people and in faithfulness and in remembrance to his promises, he comes down and And he saves them, brings them out of Egypt, and makes them into a nation. This is a surprising mercy for Israel. A surprising mercy for Israel. I'm going to close on this point, but I want you to flip around to some passages with me. The first one is Psalm 136. Psalm 136. All we're doing right now is meditating on God 's surprising mercy. First of all, coming to Israel, which we've already alluded to. Surprising mercy. Psalm 136, beginning in verse 23. It is he, the Lord, it is he who remembered us in our low estate, for his steadfast love endures forever, and he rescued us from our foes. For his steadfast love endures forever. He who gives food to all flesh, for his steadfast love endures forever, give thanks. To the God of heaven for his steadfast love endures forever. Key phrase in verse 23: He remembered us in our lowest state And he saved us in verse 24. Our foes. And he rescued us. Surprising mercy for this people. People chosen out of all the nations in the world because of God's covenant promises and covenant faithfulness. Secondly, turn to Luke four seventeen. Luke four, seventeen. Surprising mercy extended to the whole world in Christ Now, as a church, that's what we're about. Put it in a nutshell for me, Pastor. What are we about? God extending his mercy to all the world in Christ. Luke 4 :17. Through 21. And the scroll of the prophet Isaiah was given to him. The him is Jesus. And he unrolled the scroll and found the place where it was written: The Spirit of the Lord is upon me because he has anointed me to proclaim good news to the poor. Which in Scripture is the summary way of talking about those who are afflicted and yet look to God as their refuge. They're afflicted in one way or another, and they look to God as their refuge. Good news to the poor. He sent me to proclaim liberty to the captives and recovery of sight to the blind, to set at liberty those who are oppressed. to proclaim the year of the Lord's favor. And he rolled up the scroll, gave it back to the attendant, and sat down. The eyes of all in the synagogue were fixed upon him, and he began to say to them Which is a way of just saying that he started to teach about this. It just gives us a summary of what he said. But he began to say to them, Today this scripture has been fulfilled in your hearing. He proclaims himself. The preaching of the gospel for us is preaching Jesus. The preaching of the gospel for Jesus is also preaching Jesus. He proclaims himself as the fulfillment of God's salvation. Now it would go and if you re in your devotional time tonight, right, as you close your as you wrap your day up in the scriptures, read the rest of the chapter, he draws out the the uh point that this salvation is For the Gentiles also to bring the Gentiles in, and very soon in this same section of Scripture, they want to kill him for it. We're teaching that this mercy is to go to the whole world. But friends, that's what we're about as a church. Not just mercy for us. It can never be just mercy for us and enthralled with that. It must be that in addition to mercy for all, mercy for others. Mercy to Israel, mercy to the world in Christ. Number three, this is a mercy that's brought to the world through preaching. Turn to Matthew, this we'll be turning now backwards. Turn to Matthew 11, verse 2. This is still during Christ's earthly ministry. He began to equip others to go out and preach this message. And bring this message of good news of salvation and God's mercy to all. And it's through the preaching that that message reshape to the world. And it's gone. Throughout the whole world there are still unreached people groups in the world. There are still churches and missionary organizations training up and sending out missionaries to reach unreached people. people groups, the gospel is still going forward. It's going forward victoriously. It's going forward unstoppably. And at the center of that is the preaching of the gospel. Matthew 11 2 through 6. Now when John, just John the Baptist, heard in prison about the deeds of Christ, he sent word by his disciples, said to him, Are you the one who's to come? Or shall we look for another? It's a little bit of doubt creeping in for John the Baptist, right? Are you the Savior or are you not the Savior? Did you bring God's mercy or did you not bring God's mercy? And Jesus answered them, You go and tell John, what you hear and see, the blind receive their sight, and the lame walk Lepers are cleansed, and the deaf hear, and the dead are raised up, and the poor, the poor have good news preached to them. Blessed is the one who's not offended by me. Don't be offended by this. Don't doubt who he is. Don't doubt what he's doing. Don't be a skeptic. Don't be a cynic. He is the Christ. He is the Savior. He has mercy for all. The good news is being preached. You know, one of my prayers is for this church, and maybe my central prayer for us as a church, is that this church Would remain a biblically faithful church till Christ returns, preaching the gospel till Christ returns, loving each other till Christ returns. I'm not sure that's going to happen. I don't know the secret providences of God, but that's my heart for this local church that we'd be faithful, faithfully preaching the word of God, offering salvation to all who would come. Mercy, surprising mercy to Israel, extended to the world in Christ, brought through, brought to the world through preaching. And finally, finally, First Corinthians one, first Corinthians one This surprising mercy is by God's power and God's wisdom, so God gets all the credit and God gets all the praise. Trying to circle us back to the original point and the central point of this psalm. 1 Corinthians 1 22. This mercy of God, mercy of salvation, the forgiveness of sins. A relationship with God that will never end is brought to the world through preaching, extended to the world through Christ, brought to the world through preaching, and it's experienced by God's power and God's wisdom. God gets all the credit, God gets all the praise. First Corinthians one. 22. Jews demand signs, in other words, prove it to us. Greeks seek wisdom, in other words, worldly philosophy, right? But we preach Christ crucified. A stumbling block to Jews, and foolishness to Gentiles. But to those who are called, both Jews and Greeks, Christ, the power of God. And the wisdom of God, for the foolishness of God is wiser than men, and the weakness of God is stronger than men. And now it gets even better. He's gonna say it gets really good. It's been good, it gets even better. Verse 26. Now consider your calling, brethren. Think about your calling. Brethren, not many of you were wise according to worldly standards, not many were powerful, not many were of nobility. But God chose what is foolish in the world to shame the wise. That's a surprising mercy. God chose what is weak in the world to shame the strong. That's a surprising mercy. Mercy. God chose what is low and despised in the world, even things that are not, to bring to nothing things that are. That is a surprising mercy. Verse 29 tells us the reason behind it all, so that no human being would boast in the presence of God. It's because of him you're in Christ Jesus, who became for us. wisdom from God, righteousness, sanctification, and redemption, so that, as it is written, that the one who boasts Boast in the Lord. Boast in the Lord. Bless the name of the Lord. Praise the name of the Lord for his surprising mercy. For his supreme majesty. And do it all day, every day, because he is worthy to be praised. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for Jesus. We thank you for your word. Pray that you would take our hearts, take our minds. And take up our whole lives and make them as living sacrifices for you, that we live for you and not for material things that will be gone one day. Father, we pray that you would do this in the power of your spirit. In Jesus we pray, Amen.