To the last of the series, Beholding the Beauty of the Lord, Songs of God's Glory. Last week, Pastor Matt. took this series to its uh biblical conclusion, I guess I could say. That is the greatest way to behold the beauty of the Lord, the greatest way to see the glory of God is to see the incarnation Son of God who explains God, and so you were in John chapter 1 last Sunday. We're back in the Psalms this morning and conclude the series with Psalm 145. Likely you saw, as I did, some of Queen Elizabeth's funeral this past Monday and what led up to that. A state funeral is a funeral for a person of national importance, a a funeral that the entire nation observes and in their way, it English way, it it certainly fit the magnitude of Queen Elizabeth's significance the procession of the Queen's body, the arrangement for public viewing, the participation by the public at large, the details, the execution. The program, the words said, all fit for their queen Well, we have something on a greater scale to consider this morning. Something of greater importance. So if there was interest at all in Queen Elizabeth's funeral because of her importance, let there be interest in the praise of the one Who ordained her number of days, the Lord God, King of the universe. Let us behold his beauty Let us see his glory. Let us give him the praise he is due, praise fit for the King. The priority of praise, we see in verses 1 through 4. David writes, I will extol, extol is another word for praise, I will extol you, my God, O King. O King, or calling God King in the Psalms, is only used here. That phrase, O King. And David understands then Who's in charge? Remember, he is King of Israel, but I will extol you, my God, O King. So his practice as King of Israel, he understands, was supposed to image. the greater king, to image the Lord's righteous rule. I will extol you, my O God, my King, my God, O King, I will bless Your name forever and ever. Every day, verse 2, I will bless you, and I will praise your name forever and ever. So notice that Forever and ever means something concrete. It means every day. Do you see that? Forever and ever. And then every day I will bless you. I will praise your name forever and ever. So every day the Lord is worthy of praise, and David was committed to expressing such praise. Not just to say this, I do it every day, but to actually express. such praise. Ongoing praise was a priority for three reasons we see in the next couple of verses. One, because God is worthy, verse 3, great is the Lord and highly to be praised. God is worthy. Ongoing praise is a priority because there's more to be said than you've ever said about him. Okay? Look at verse 3, the file the the second part. His greatness is unsearchable. God's greatness goes beyond what we Do now know and understand, and even what we can know and understand. Paul admits that in Romans eleven, thirty-three. O, the depth of the riches, both of the wisdom and knowledge of God, how unsearchable are his judgments and unfathomable his ways. One person wrote, When humans, like you and I, utter words of praise for God, it is though they are drawing a sunset with only a pencil. That's good imagery. You know a beautiful sunrise or sunset. You could sketch it with a pencil, but it would only do so much for the glory of that sunset. So we honor the Lord in our never-ending search to know him. Listen, pencils in hand. I'm not going to stop using it. Even if I can't understand him, I'm going to keep praising him, pencil in hand, and that hunger leads to more knowledge, so I can praise him even better, and it leads to more praise. And it's an essential influence on the next generation. So ongoing praise, thirdly, is a priority because children need to know the Lord. Verse 4. One generation shall praise your works to another. And shall declare your mighty acts. Now, don't forget the lesson at the conclusion of Joshua's life And to remind you of it, let me read from Judges chapter 2, verse 7 and verse 10. The people served the Lord all the days of Joshua. And all the days of the elders who survived Joshua, who had seen all the great, but it did not go from the generation to the generation. May God Grace us and give mercy to us in this. May God open your hearts to believe, lest a generation rise up that knows little of the Lord. And his works. David, for one, was committed to not love. David likely thinking with regard to works of God's faithfulness to establish Israel in strength now in the promised land. But I wonder, verse 5, what do you think of? What should we think of? I think we should think of God's faithfulness to fulfill his prophetic promises in sending the sending of his son. which he promised to David there would always be one on the throne, but through the prophets of the Old Testament, Jeremiah, Isaiah, and others. God is faithful to his prophetic promises in the sending of his son and in God's work of blessing the world through the person and the work of Jesus. So, on the glorious splendor of your majesty, yes, I think it's good for us to think back to the message last week in John 1 that indeed the Son of God shows us the glory. of God. The Son of God explains him to us. And then to realize all of that according to God's Prophesied word happened exactly as he wanted. To meditate, by the way, is to focus on, to think through something. So let me just give you an example of inspired meditation in Scripture. It's in Romans 5, verses 6 through 8. Paul gives a principle, and then I think under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit he meditates on it. While we were still helpless at the right time, Christ died for the ungodly. That's the principle. But think about that. Christ died for the ungodly. Paul thinks about it. For one will hardly die for a righteous man. Though perhaps for the good man someone would dare even to die, but God demonstrates his own love toward us, in that while we were yet sinners, Christ died for us. On the glorious splendor of your majesty and on your wonderful works, I will meditate. Verse 6: Men shall speak of the power of your awesome acts, and I will tell of your greatness. God's greatness is indeed shown through acts of power. David likely thought of God's help in battle against the enemies, as he testified to Goliath. He witnessed over and over that the battle is the Lord's. God protected David from King Saul, gave victory over the Amalekites, over the Philistines, over Moab over the Arameans, over the Ammonites, etc. In 2 Samuel chapter 8, verse 6, it declares, the Lord helped David wherever he went. And David was not a lone voice of praise. What does he say? Men shall speak. Verse 6. Verse 7, they shall eagerly utter the memory of your abundant goodness, and will shout joyfully. Of your righteousness. So you notice in verse 7 the word they collectively, and so yes, the assembly is an opportunity to do that week by week. But notice the word eagerly, so it's not just coming together, it is coming together with eagerness to give God his due. We do that individually, but to do that together is special. They shall eagerly utter the memory of your abundant goodness and will shout joyfully of your righteousness Together, God's people recall, God's people celebrate his works on their behalf. just as I do, just as we do by assembling week by week, together raising our voices in songs that celebrate the Lord and His works These men, in David's day, remembered the Lord's work to give victories, righteously defeating nations who worshipped false gods. Verse 8. The Lord is gracious and merciful. We're still thinking about his works, slow to anger, and great in loving kindness. And this verse uh these same characteristics are put together often in the Old Testament, and they all are echoing something that God declared about himself on Mount Sinai to Moses when Moses asked, Let me see your glory. I don't know what Moses expected to see, but he he saw the hind parts of God's glory, whatever that visibly meant to him. But here's what he heard. The Lord passed by in front of him and proclaimed, The Lord, the Lord God Listen, compassionate and gracious, slow to anger, and abounding in loving kindness and truth. The first part of what God revealed to him It was his grace, his mercy, that he's slow to anger, great in loving kindness, verse 8. God wants us to know that about him. Verse 9: The Lord is good to all, and his mercies are over all his works. Think about it. All creation this very day is benefiting from the sun and in some cases, in some areas, from the rain. From food that comes from the land. And without the things that God has provided, we we would dry up and waste away. All of us would Drop down to verse 15, and this is stated again: the eyes of all look to you, and you give them their food in due time. So there is a goodness of God to all creatures. All your works, verse 10, shall give thanks to you, O Lord, and your godly ones shall bless you. So notice that the Lord's works, which is what we're looking about in this first, looking at in this first point, the Lord's works give thanks. They testify of God's greatness and of his goodness. Such as Psalm 19:1 has the same theme. The heavens, a work of God, are telling of the glory of God, and their expanse is declaring the work of his hands. So God's works, what He has made, sun, rain, how the world, how the environment works together to allow us to have food and sustenance and exist on this planet, all of that. Resounds and leads us to join the thankfulness to God. But then he mentions your godly ones That's Israel. In the Psalm, that's Israel. We could apply it to believers today, but in this psalm, David is thinking about Israel. The Lord is to be acknowledged by all, and especially by those who are his people. So should all people everywhere on this earth give thanks to God? Question mark, and the answer is absolutely all everywhere. should give thanks to the Lord. Since the creation of the world, Romans 1. 20, his invisible attributes, his eternal power, his divine nature have been clearly seen, being understood through what has been made. In the following verse, even though they knew God and could see evidence of him, they did not honor him as God or give thanks. So should all people, absolutely. But especially today Christians should. Those who have recognized, those who have received God's work of sending the Son. We especially have recognized, received his mercy, grace, his love, and so we assemble. To pray, to praise, to learn, to give thanks. But remember that verse 2, every day, every day, every day. So it's not just the assembly, it's the lifestyle The reason for praise, God's works, another theme, God's kingdom. Verse 11. They shall speak of the glory of your kingdom. David is still thinking of the men, shouting out, They shall speak, and all believers shall speak of the glory of your kingdom. And talk of your power to make known to the sons of men your mighty acts and the glory of the majesty of your kingdom. Your kingdom is an everlasting kingdom, and your domain endures through all generations. Now David is likely thinking God's people Israel as the kingdom. He's probably thinking of the promise that God made to him, Your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever, your throne shall be established forever. 2 Kings, I'm sorry, 2 Samuel 7, 16. Israel indeed was a manifestation of God's kingdom, but God's kingdom is his lordship, his sovereignty over all. Adam was a manifestation of God's kingdom. And that he was given rule over the earth. The chosen people of Israel, yes. Jesus in his first coming manifested God's kingdom over all, over death, disease, nature. The church is a manifestation of God's kingdom. But it will be when Jesus returns that God's kingdom will be established in its full sense. on earth. Revelation chapter 11, 15. The seventh angel sounded, there were loud verse voices in heaven saying, The kingdom of the world has become the kingdom of our Lord. And of his Christ, and he will reign forever and ever. So we, with more understanding than David had Speak of the glory of the Lord's kingdom and talk of his power. We talk about it presently as we speak about what he's done historically. We speak about what he is doing. Through the church in spreading the gospel. We talk about it, speak about it, praise God for it, and what He will do when Jesus returns. God 's kingdom. We praise Him for that. And the third reason for, by the way Before I go to the third reason, we'll be looking at what Jesus said about the kingdom in Matthew 13. Matthew collects the the parables about the kingdom. We'll be looking at that this evening. So I hope you can The reason for praise, a third theme, God's ways. God's ways. And I would summarize this by saying what we're going to read about is the fact that he is a hands-on. Attentive, involved God. Hands on, attentive, and involved in life Verse fourteen, you see that as we go through. The Lord sustains all who fall and raises up all who are bowed down. God's ways are to help those in difficulty who look to Him. Verse 15, the eyes of all look to you. You give them their food in due time. So that's echoing what we just saw about Uh he his uh saw earlier about his works of helping all and giving all um sustenance on this earth. You open your hand and satisfy the desire of every living thing. So God's way is to provide the daily needs of all creatures. That says something about him. Remember we've said we we see the character of God in what he does. Well we see his Love for all people in the way that He provides for all people through the way He's made the earth. Psalm 104, 27 and 28. They all, creatures God has made, they all wait for you to give them their food in due season. To give them, you give it to them, they gather it up, you open your hand, they are satisfied with good. Verse 17, the Lord is righteous in all his ways. That's where I got the word ways for this third point. under under Roman numeral two. The Lord is righteous in all his ways and kind in all his deeds. I really I think verse 17 should uh should speak to us. If we want to be godly, we need to be right. There is right and wrong. We need to be doing the right thing. We also need to be kind. We need to do the right thing with kindness. He is righteous in all his ways and kind. In all his deeds. His way is right, his way is kindness. Verse 18: The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth. Deuteronomy four seven. What great nation is there that has a God so near to it as the Lord God our God whenever we Call on him. You remember the picture of Elijah challenging the prophets of Baal, and they call out and they dance and they cut themselves trying to get the attention of a imaginary God. And Elijah prays, and God answers with fire on that altar. The Lord is near to all who call upon him, to all who call upon him in truth. Psalm 73, verse 28: The nearness of God is my good. I have made the Lord God my refuge. Psalm thirty-four, verse eighteen. The Lord is near to the brokenhearted and saves those who are crushed in spirit. Does that not excite you to learn that about your God, the nearness of God? The fact that you can pray and He hears if you're in Christ? That he stoops to help you from his lofty throne, as we picture it from the imagery in Scripture. He is near to all who call upon him. It's an amazing truth in verse 18. Don't gloss over it. Don't take it for granted. Put it in your heart. Celebrate it in the moments we have right now, but remember it. Verse 19, he will fulfill the desire of those who fear him. I think because those who fear the Lord desire his glory to be shown. And so what we're praying about when we're fearing him is his glory in our lives. And so such prayer is heard and such prayer is answered. He will also hear their cry and will save them. You and I have stories. Testimony about God's blessing in difficult times, where we would say He saved us. The Lord keeps all who love Him. But all the wicked he will destroy. You know that revelation to Moses on on Mount Sinai, uh it goes on to talk about not just his compassion, but the fact that he does not He is not a God who doesn't judge. He will judge. And we see that here in verse 20. He keeps all who love him, but the wicked he will destroy. Now don't miss in verse 20 that he controls the destiny. Of every person, of all, in life and in death. Verse 20 leads us to humble ourselves. Psalm 10, 16, and following say this: The Lord is king forever and ever. Nations have perished from his hand. O Lord, you've heard the desire of the humble. You will strengthen their heart. You will incline your ear to vindicate the orphan and the oppressed so that the man who is of the earth will no longer cause terror. The Lord keeps all who love him, but all the lick wicked he will destroy. So we praise the king Whose works and whose ways show hands-on consistent righteousness Love, care, mercy, nearness, attentiveness, power, provision, help Men, that's the kind of husband you want to be. Imaging God as a married man. Fathers, that's the kind of father you want to be. Imaging God as a parent. That's the kind of God we have as believers. So whatever we've drawn with our pencils, however we've come to understanding him in greater and greater ways, we praise him. And that's where we end, verse 21, the commitment to praise. My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord. David is determined. In Psalm 71, he says, My mouth is filled with your praise. And with your glory all day long. My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord. Let me encourage you in this practical way, wherever you're reading in the Bible, Glean the reasons from that passage to praise the Lord and do it as you're reading. Don't say, hey, this would be good to praise God for this and move on. No, no, praise Him right there as you're reading. Our minds are wonderful. They can do that. So glean the reasons to praise the Lord, praise the Lord. And then something I like to faithfully do is to carry those thoughts with me through the day. Or if you have a devotional time at night through the next day by recording them in some way. Now I'm not going to dictate to you any law about how you should record them. If you want to hear about my brilliant three by five card method, you can come to me and I'll talk to you about it. But record and remind yourself, because we are a forgetful people, as great as our minds are. The mouth, my mouth, will speak the praise of the Lord. And all flesh will bless his holy name forever and ever Well, that is the reality at the coming of Jesus. That is the reality at the end of the book of Revelation. But until that day comes. You need to make it a reality in your life to be a voice of praise in the present, whatever the day holds. It honors God, and it is a powerful testimony to His worthiness. One of the greatest examples of a commitment to praise is found in the lives of Paul and Silas. So I steer you toward Acts chapter 16, beginning in verse 22, and I won't read the entire passage. It's familiar to you. Paul and Silas are on a missionary journey, and the crowd rose up together against them, and the chief magistrates tore their robes off them and proceeded to order them to be beaten with rods. When they had struck them with many blows, they threw them into prison, commanding the jailer to guard them securely. And he, having received such a command, threw them into the inner prison and fastened their feet in the stocks. But about midnight, Paul and Silas were praying and singing hymns of praise to God. And the prisoners were listening to them. My mouth will speak the praise of the Lord. And all flesh will bless his holy name forever and ever. May your commitment to praise be a witness to the glory of the Lord Implications always important. How will you deal with this in your life? Implications should lead to applications, actual obedience. I would say From verse two and verse twenty-one, be one who praises the Lord I've been going through some um files, trying to whittle down, you know, to what a home office will look like. And uh and I found this this quote I'm going to change it just slightly. But when you were saved, you joined the choir. And however you express praise to God, it is what we are to do. Be one who praises the Lord. That's what God is using David to Lead us to conclude. Secondly, be one who meditates on the Lord's works. Verse 5. We saw that. So slow down. Have a time of reading scripture. And I and I don't if it helps you to put a amount of time on that, that's fine. But what I like to say is unrushed. I like to say that to myself. Don't be Rushed. When I sit down to read scripture and to pray and to praise, I have an audience. I have an audience. I'm not going to rush through that. So be one who meditates on the Lord's works. Slow down enough to do that. Be one who testifies of the Lord. Be ready to speak of him. If you believe it, it's it's it's it's certainly natural to speak of what you believe. Maybe hard in certain circumstances. God can help with that, but be one who testifies especially to the next generation. Be one who openly gives thanks to the Lord, verse 10. Be one who looks to the Lord, verse 15. In your thought life. In your prayers, be one who calls upon the Lord, verse 18. Be one who fears the Lord, verse 19, knowing that he is near always. I used the illustration recently. It might have been Wednesday night But we of course Jody and I help together we we give care, oversight to to my mother, and we have um In her living area , a baby monitor that allows us to hear and see. And we have in her bedroom, her private area, a an intercom so we can hear if anything is needed. But there's always this reminder that when you walk in the door, you are on camera, and you what you say, and any loss of patience you might have is there for others. To hear. The Lord is near. He is always our audience. Be one who fears him. Be one who loves the Lord, verse 20, that you would please him. And listen, if if this is not the desire of your heart, if this is not the practice of your life and you don't really care that it's not, then you need to be saved, and I I would love the opportunity to speak to you about that. You may have questions about what it means to be a Christian. You may have questions about why is this important? Well, I'm one. There are others, but I'm one who would sit down with you. You can glean the contact information for me or Pastor Matt from the bulletin or from the card in the seatback cushion, uh seatback, and uh and contact me over love for you to do that. Right now let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we are thankful to you for Revealing yourself in the Psalms, to giving us tastes of your glory. Sites of it, descriptions of it. We get glimpses of your beauty, and even though Yeah, we might be holding pencils in our hands. It's good that we get the greater picture and continue to do that. So I thank you for this series. I thank you for how you've led us to meditate upon you and give you your due. And I do pray that it would have an ongoing effect. That we would be voices of praise to you first and foremost, but in the presence of others as well. That the generations to come would know how great, how good you are. And Father, I pray for any here who are without Christ. And especially those whom your spirit is working on, I pray, Father, you would draw them to Jesus as Lord, as Savior. And if they need help, if they need questions answered, I pray that they would reach out. They would ask for time together. And thank you if that happens. But we praise you. We praise you for your works. We praise you for your kingdom. We praise you for your ways. Help us to be godly in our ways. That we might be good citizens of your kingdom. That we might show the good work you're doing in us in Christ. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.