Well friends, the words in which we'll examine this morning come out of 2 Timothy chapter 4, verses 1 through 2 Second Timothy chapter four verses one through five. The title of my sermon will become quite evident quickly once we start reading, but it is preach the word. Preach the word. So as preparing for the sermon and thinking through it, it became evident that really this is kind of a behind-the-scenes look at who we are as a church and what we do as ministers of the gospel. If you want to know what my heart is in being a pastor, and I believe I can say this for Pastor Matt as well, and even Jason, is that we will preach the word. Sorry Jason, that came off wrong Especially Jason actually is preaching the Word of God. That is our primary focus here. This is our primary purpose as ministers of the gospel. This is our primary duty. And Lord willing, as long as He has called us here in North Hartford. Or wherever he has called us until the last breath we have on this earth, our command is to preach the word. If you know me, or you're getting to know me, you'll know that I I have some, I'm maybe a fanboy of some people, and Dr. Lloyd Jones is one of them. But he has this quote that I think should should give us an insight to who we are as the church. What is our purpose as the church? How should we be thinking about things in this world as the church? Here's what he says. The primary task of the church and of the Christian minister is the preaching of the Word of God. The primary task. Number one, doesn't mean it's the only task, but the primary task of the church and of the minister of God is to preach the word of God. I think one of our major problems in the world today, and in the church even Is that we do believe that the Bible is the Word of God, but we don't fully believe, we have doubted that the Word of God actually has power, actually motivates, actually changes, it actually does something in the World. Because of our lack of confidence in the Word of God, the lack of understanding of what the preaching of God's Word has does to the soul. We then have lost the value of it. We have then desired church to be something other than what God has commanded it to be. This morning, my my goal, my purpose of preaching is that you understand the preaching of the Word of God. You understand why we gather here Sunday morning weekend. I hope you you see the purpose of why we get up here and sometimes we're crazy, sometimes we're passionate, our veins are bulging. Because we actually believe that the Word of God radically pierces the heart of all people and changes them. I want you to see that this is what the church is about. Notice in this quote here that he says it's the church's responsibility to preach the word. It's the primary goal of the church to preach the word. We have these different functions in our society. We have the family. And the family has specific tasks and purposes that God has given it. And then we have the church. Which is the preaching of God's word, proc proclaiming the gospel, proclaiming the word of God to the ends of the earth. That's the role of the church, and there's overlap there. And then we see this third realm, which is the government Believe it or not, God has designed the government for a good purpose. But notice who has the responsibility to preach the word of God. It's the church. It's the church. It's the church. Because that church, God's bride, should be influencing every other sphere in this world. Should be reaching into the families and raising them up to raise their children to be good business, to be good employees In the glory of God. Should be reaching into the civil government and crying out to them, saying, Follow the word of the Lord. Repent of your sins and turn to the Lord and follow after him. We're reaching to all spheres of life. And this is the role of the church, is to preach the word of God. Now I'm not basing that off of This quote here. I'm basing off of what we will see in 2 Timothy chapter 4. Just to get us caught up where we're at is this letter is being written to Timothy from the Apostle Paul. And Paul is writing this letter to Timothy because Timothy is a young pastor, a young preacher of the gospel that needs to be encouraged in this time. We see that in 1 Timothy, Paul's giving instructions of this is how you should organize the church. This is how things should be working out as you gather together as the church. But in the second letter of Timothy, Paul focuses in on Timothy himself. Focuses in on the Word of God and how Timothy is to yield it and wield it as a sword. And here we see in this last chapter of 2 Timothy, this last word that Paul gives to Timothy, he gives him a charge. And this is how we know that the purpose of the church, the purpose of the preacher, is this commandment right here. So join me as we read 2 Timothy chapter 4, starting in verse 1. Paul says to Timothy, I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead, and by his appearing and his kingdom. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove, rebuke, and exhort with complete patience and teaching. For the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching. But having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions, and will turn away from listening to the truth. And wander off into myths. As for you, always be sober-minded, endure suffering, do the work of an evangelist, fulfill your ministry This is the last commandment. This is the charge that Paul gives to Timothy. He could have charged him with anything else. He could have said, I'm charging you to have really good meals whenever your church gathers together. I like that idea, yeah, yeah. I like a good meal He could have said, I'm charging you to have the best VBS program for kids in the summertime He could have said, I'm charging you to go into every prison cell and help every widow and help every needy person. Friends, these are all good things. But that's not what the charge to Timothy was The charge to Timothy was I charge you, preach the word. So let's ask ourselves What is preaching? We hear this term quite often. You know, every Sunday you come to hear the preaching, uh the minister preach. And you go online and just type in sermon or preaching, pastor preaching, you will come up with page after page after page of some really good stuff and some really crazy and wild things. So let us ground ourselves, let us, as God's church, as Jesus' bride, to understand what is preaching. We must make a slight uh separation here between teaching and preaching. Uh we see in scripture, just up in chapter three, We see that all scriptures breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. So we see a list of things there. So we can't assume that preaching and teaching are the exact same. Because we actually see that when Paul gives the charge, he says to preach the word. Not teach the word, preach the word. Teaching is a good thing. Scripture is used for teaching. But there must be a difference between preaching and teaching. I believe, simply put, the easiest way for us to understand it Is that the teaching is focused in at the mind of someone. The teaching is focused in at the mind of the individual. Think about your math teacher. Right? Your math teacher, if you're in school or were in school, maybe you didn't remember ever listening to your math teacher. But think about this, the math teacher is not trying to change something about you and and make you just become passionate and on fire for math. Mark Evans, I know you do that for your students. You want them to be passionate and live it out. But really, they want you to understand the concept and let it sit in your brain and allow you to be able to use it and function with math. And we see this in Scripture. There's great biblical teachers, and a lot of what we do is just teaching. We want you to understand the information and the facts and the truth about God and His Word and who Christ is. But that is not preaching. Preaching is dynamic. Preaching is dynamic that it does not just address the mind, which it does. It does not just address the heart, which it does. It does not just address the soul. Oh no, friends. It addresses everything. Preaching is like this dance that is happening between the heart and the soul and the mind. And as the preacher proclaims the word of God, the Holy Spirit takes the words and it molds and shapes and goes in between every aspect of who we are. We see that we know God more through his preaching, but also we are transformed and changed through his preaching We see that our souls are pierced open and revealed. Our hearts are splits and the great surgeon, Christ, comes in and does a great work within us. through the preaching of his word. Preaching should not just be about you getting the next fact or the next piece of information. Friends, I do not want you just to go home today and say, I got all this information about God and shut your notebooks and not change your life. I want you to be transformed by the gospel. I want you to feel the words of God being taken by the Holy Spirit, working in your hearts and your minds and your souls, that you wake up and you say, I have to live different. Because of the preaching of God's Word. Because when I read God's word, it changes who I am. If you know Pastor Matt, one of the ways he communicates is through the next book he's going to write. He likes to talk in the titles of the book he's going to write. And I've learned that either he is the greatest author of all times, or this is just his way of communicating. So we'll be talking. He said, oh man, that would be a great book title. This would be a great book title. And I have quite a list if you want to see them. And he actually works out the chapters, so he is at work in them But one day, as I've just been discipled by my lovely pastor Matt, I was sitting and reading, and I can't even find the book I was reading, and I said, oh man, that would be a great Book title. I did it. Followed in your footsteps. And that great book title was Overwhelming the Soul. And I believe that is what preaching, the purpose of preaching, is all about. Is the preaching is to overwhelm your soul. May the gospel and the word of God come flooding into our lives. And we be drowning and suffocating in it. Because, on one side, it's revealing It reveals the dark caverns of the sinner's heart. And you're just overwhelmed by your guilt, seeing how disgusting and terrible your sin is. But it doesn't end there. The waves of the Word of God, the gospel coming over you, reveal the dark caverns of the sinner's heart, but it also reveals the grand universes of God's glory. The grand universe is plural of God's glory. That you are so overwhelmed, you are so broken because you are a sinner, but you are so overwhelmed by the glory of God, how he has sent his son. To die for a sinner like you and for like I. And that he died on the cross, taking our sins, paying the penalty for our sins, and that then we become righteous like Christ when we have faith in him. May our souls be overwhelmed by this truth. And friends, my goal, whenever I step behind this pulpit Whenever I proclaim the word of God, whenever I'm tasked with preaching the word, it's to overwhelm your soul with your need for Christ and for your glory and understanding. Of the goodness and righteousness and mercifulness and forgivefulness of our Lord. May we be overwhelmed with the preaching of God's word. We see this in Hebrews chapter 4, verse 12 and 13. Hebrews chapter 4 verses 12 and 13. For the word of God is living and active. Sharper than any two -edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and of spirit, of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intention of the heart. And no creature is hidden from his sight, but all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. The word of God pierces us open. Now, as we read this, as we start to understand and get a biblical understanding of what preaching is all about. We must ask ourselves, who is the preaching of God's word for? For some of us in here, we say it's for the sinner. For those that don't know Christ. for those that have rebelled and haven't recognized the glory of Christ. And this is why we invite our friends to come to church because we want them to hear the gospel. Good. Good job. It's true. The sinner needs the preaching of God's word. But friends, may I also implore you to recognize that even the saint needs the preaching of God's word just as much as the sinner. You and I need the preaching of God's word day in and day out. We need to gather together every week and hear the preaching of God's word because it is good for our souls. It is the mode and mechanism God uses. To sanctify us and make us look more and more like Christ each day. I don't care if you have rejected God or you have walked with God. Seventy years ago when this church was formed, or even before then, you need the preaching of God's word. And I'm going to argue that the preaching of God's Word, gathering together to hear the preaching of God's Word, is The most important thing you can do each week. How do you want to radically change the world? Sit under the preaching of God's Word How do you want to you you're struggling? How should I raise my children? How do I educate them? How do I raise them to the glory of God? Start getting in church and hearing the word of God preach week in. In the week out. How do I love my neighbor better? Listen to the preaching of God's word. How do I love God more and follow after Him more and be more obedient to Him? Sit under the preaching of God's word. Why? It's because we actually believe that the Word of God changes who we are. We actually believe that the Word of God can mold and shape us, transform us. And how are we going to do that? Is because we must know the Word of God. We must hear the Word of God preached. We must wrestle with the Word of God. And we'll see what preaching does, and we'll see how it shapes and molds us into the image of Christ and how it transforms every aspect of our lives. So what is preaching what is preaching? It's the overwhelming of the soul. It's the dynamic dance between the information and the gospel going into our minds, our hearts, and our souls that God uses to transform So why is the church commanded to preach? Why is the church commanded to preach? We saw here that earlier that I've divided those three sections of society: the family, the church. in the civil government, we see that the church is commanded to preach because the church is God's instrument. It's his bride that he's using To fight back the enemy. It's the very mechanism that God is using here on earth to build his kingdom. So, who better is to yield the word of the Lord than the church? We want the church to be the preaching element. We want the church to be the one yielding the sword of God. So that the civil government can yield the sword of the civil authority rightly, and the family can yield the staff and rod according to God has instructed them. We cannot mix this. We must see that the church is commanded to preach the word of God because it is his design to radically change the world. There's nothing more important than the preaching of the word. And we see this. Let's jump back into 2 Timothy 4. We see the reason why the church is commanded to preach. The first reason is that we stand in the presence of the sovereign reign of Christ. Right now, as we sit here, as I stand here, as I'm preaching the word of God to you, I must recognize, and you too must recognize That we are just standing before the Holy God. We are standing before the holy, sovereign Lord who controls all things. We are standing before the great King who reigns over all. If he has commanded us to preach, then we must recognize that it is a high calling and a great command. We must recognize that we cannot just get up here and preach whatever we want. This is not a TED talk. This isn't story time by Anthony. This isn't let me make you just laugh and have a good time. Well hopefully I do that at times. That is not the purpose of preaching The purpose of preaching and the command for preaching is because we're standing before God. And He has called us to do this. Matthew 28, we see the great uh the uh the great commandment to go, right? To go and preach, make disciples, it to proclaim the gospel to the ends of the earth We must see that our God reigns and he is king and he is Lord, and that he deserves gospel preaching. He deserves biblical preaching. Well, that's not the only reason the church preaches. Then, based off of this, is we must recognize that Christ will judge all men. Christ will judge all men. Now sometimes we've pushed this out really far into the future and say, that's only at the return of Christ. We can only think about the return of Christ. So we've got a long time, brothers and sisters. We don't need to focus on that. And I say how foolish we would be to fall for such a lie. And we all recognize that we live lives that will break down. We all face death at some point within our lives. For some, it may be 50, 60, 70 years, 90 years for some of the kids in here. And then for others, that's those days just become shorter and shorter. And then have we recognized That is, for el humans living in a broken, sinful world, we don't know when that day is. We can't just hope it's only when we're gonna be ninety, it's only when we're a hundred could we recognize that people unexpectedly, according to our standards, die every day. Day. And they will face the living God on that day So friends, we must be preaching the Word of God, believing that each and every person that sits under the preaching of the Word of God will face the Creator of the universe someday. We must preach with passion, with might, with excitement, when we're crying out to you, crying for the sinner to turn. And recognize that they are sinners and rebels against the Holy God. And we cry out and say, Turn to the living Lord. Turn to Christ who has died in your place. And and we're we're sweating over this. Recognize this because we actually believe you will. Truly face him someday, and he will judge according to your works. We actually believe that you will stand before God and he will look at you and he will say Yes, enter into my kingdom because you have been cleansed by the blood of Christ, or he will say, get away from me and be banished into the just discipline you will receive for eternity. May preaching come out of the preacher's mouth with passion because they believe that sinners will face a holy God someday. And this is what Paul directs us to. He says, I charge you in the presence of God and of Christ Jesus, who is to judge the living and the dead. He's going to judge us all someday. And the preaching of God's word is calling the sinner to change their lives, to turn to Christ. The preaching of God's word is to change the rebel into a child. The preaching of God's word is to take the saint and sanctify them into the image of Christ, knowing that all of us will stand before the Lord someday. So my call to you this morning is do you recognize that? Do you believe that you will Stand before God. Do you believe that you will be judged for your deeds? And guess what? We have all failed the test if it's according to our deeds. We will receive the just punishment for our sins. But the call doesn't end there. This is the preaching. This is the heralding, the proclamation of the gospels that Christ died for sinners like you and I. And he's called us to place our faith in him and to follow after him. This happens in a moment. There's not a process, there's not an examination that must happen. It is in the heart. If your heart has been overwhelmed with your sin and has been overwhelmed with the glory of Christ, believe in him today, right now. This is our call to you. This is what preaching is all about because we believe that you will face the just judge someday. And it may be soon for some of us. The third reason the church is commanded to preach is because we believe, we believe, that Christ has established his kingdom and he will return to dwell within his kingdom. He has established his kingdom. His work on the cross was finished. He has established his kingdom, and he's using his bride, the church, to build his kingdom, and someday he will return. to dwell with his people forever. We read this right here, Paul calls to Timothy and by his appearing and his kingdom Friends, do we actually believe that God rules his kingdom? Do we actually believe that God will come and dwell in his kingdom? If so, we must preach the word with boldness. We must call saints to live in the reality that Christ is King today. Today. The overwhelming of the soul that comes from the preacher's mouth shall be that you are living in the kingdom of God, so now you should live as though you actually believe that and follow after your king. Listen to his commandments. Seek him. Seek his guidance. Live joyfully in this kingdom because it's beautiful and wonderful. And while it's not perfect now We see the already, not yet of his kingdom. , We look towards the day when Christ will come and establish his perfect reign here on this earth, and we get to enjoy the reality of his kingdom on his creation. The preaching of the Word of God is to motivate the saints to live in this reality. I pray that in our preaching you are often being challenged of your sin and turning to the Lord, and you're also being challenged to live in the reality that Christ is king now. This is really the this is all I got as a preacher. This is all I have. If you are a sinner in need of a savior, Christ is that savior. Now live in obedience to him. I got nothing else. If you want something else, Dave. Get someone else. Because it's not me. This is what we have from the Word of God. It's the gospel. It's the gospel that sinners are made saints, and those saints then live glorious lives in Christ. All of Scripture proclaims this. All of Scripture can be preached to proclaim those truths. And this is what and why the church is commanded to preach. It's because we must recognize that we stand in the presence of the sovereign reign of Christ. Christ will judge all men. John 5, 22, 23, if you want to see that Christ will judge all men, and he will return to his kingdom. And he will reign it here on this earth. So now let's understand what does preaching do to the soul of man. What does preaching do to the soul of man? We see it's the overwhelming aspect of preaching that that's changing us, that's molding us. There's four things that We see Paul tell Timothy, and this is why he's charging Timothy to preach the word, because Paul and Timothy both believe that these four things will happen through the preaching. Of the word. The first one, it reproves. And let's just look back in verse 2. Preach the word. Be ready in season and out of season. Reprove. Reprove. Simply put, this is the correcting. This is the correcting. Uh it's the i is the preacher is preaching the word of God. He's he's trying to address the the wandering mind. He's trying to address the the things that are s in the mind and the theology of the people that are hearing it that are starting to drift off into myths and wonders. I have a wonderful brother in this church that uh he has often said to me that he was limping as he left the church on Sunday after preaching. You're like, uh oh, limping. And he's using that his toes got stepped on. The preaching of the word actually calls us the the stepping on of toes that, oh, ooh, let me just feel that pain. Like, oh yeah, I actually haven't been as loving to my wife as God's word has instructed her to be. Mm. Let me feel that for a moment. Let me feel that and and sit in that and and be corrected by the preaching. Oh, you're right. I haven't placed Christ as number one in my life all the time. I'm seeking after worldly desires and after worldly passions. Let me feel that sting. Let me stub my toe on this beautiful gem of truth so that I'm corrected. We see that this reproof and this correction is is seemingly quite minor in the end. It's It's not a great heresy. It's not a great wandering into sin, but it's the wandering off the path that just needs a nice shepherd's staff to get you back onto the path. And and and Paul is telling Timothy why to do this in verse three says, For the time is coming will people excuse me, when people will in not endure sound teaching but having itching ears, they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions. I hope you see that day is here. I believe that day was in Timothy's time and we too are living in that reality. That the pride of man, the sinfulness of man, is seeking the teaching that will appease their pride. And the internet has only magnified the reality of this thing. We now see it. It's easy to get things that will just make us feel good. Sure, get a divorce and marry someone else and just say God called you to do that. Oh, oh sure. The church can doesn't have to preach the word of God. They can just mention Jesus, but really preach whatever they want and not address sin because it just makes people feel good. No, no, these are the lies that the world is telling us. This is what often we are actually attracted to. Let's be honest. We would all be real happy if we came in here and we just preached you all are doing really good. Keep it up. You're great best That's it. Good job. But is that the truth? Is that the reality? Yes, you are great because of the righteousness of Christ, but we're being sanctified, right? And then for some of us, we have to just call out and say, Repent of your sin, turn to the Lord. It's going to stub our toes. We're going to feel that pain, that reproving, that correction that happens. And recognize how this just happens naturally in preaching. I don't need to have the reproving sermon. Okay, this Sunday. is now the Reproving Sunday. I've heard a lot of your problems, and now I'm going to address you by name and say, here's this person's problem, and now we need to address it. No one's signing up for that. It's because the preaching of God's Word, the Word of God, addresses every aspect of life. That is, we're just faithfully preaching it week in and week out, going through verse by verse through the Bible. The Holy Spirit will use the word, will use the preaching to correct our false doctrines, to correct us as we're wandering off into myths and things that are tickling our ears. So that's the first purpose of preaching and what preaching does within us. The second thing that preaching does within us is rebukes. We see that right away in verse 2. It reproves and then it rebukes. This is a bit stronger. This is the disciplining action This is the sharp swat of the rod that the or the staff that the shepherd has to do sometimes to the sheep. There's sometimes as the sheep are are walking and the shepherd's with them that the the shepherd can reprove and just Just correct slightly and just allow the rod to sit on the shoulder of the sheep and they get back on the path and they keep going. But there's other times that that sheep needs a a stiff and hard swat of that rod to go back in the line. Now I'm not going to physically hit any of you. Not my role. But may I use the Word of God sometimes to give you that spiritual SWAT you need. I needed that. I need that at times. Just following after sins and passions that that I've just completely have have become absent-minded and and lost in these These temptations and these sins, and then sometimes that preaching of the word just swats me and puts me back on course. Oh, does it hurt? Yes. But it is good for us? Absolutely. We'll get there shortly in our sermon series through Jude, but uh let's just look at Jude quickly to see that this isn't abnormal, that this is what The pastor is to be doing is to be preaching the word of God to rebuke, to discipline, to make major corrections in the lives of the sheep. Why? It's because we love you It's because God loves you. It's because the word of God and the power of the Holy Spirit is keeping you from wandering into your very death. We see here in Jude verse twenty-two it says, And have mercy on those who doubt. Save others by snatching them out of the fire. To others show mercy with fear, having even the garments hating even the garments stained by the flesh. This language here of save others by snatching them out of the fire has a very abrupt sound to it in the language that you're you're almost grabbing them by the scruff of their neck as they're about to walk into the pit of fire. The pit of hell, and you're ripping them back. It's going to hurt them. They're not going to like it in that moment, but as they realize that they were about to walk into the death And you pulled them out. That is worth and is good for them. Our preaching is to do that. At times we need to be ripped out of the death. We need to be ripped and hit hard. To come back and put our eyes back on a Christ. Preaching should be doing that within our souls at times. The third purpose and reason for preaching, what it does within our souls We have kind of two negatives, right? Well, I got positives coming for us. Or Paul has positives for us, I guess. This is to exhort To exhort, or simply put, to encourage, to motivate, to lift us up. Well, friends, I hope you hear that kind of preaching from this pulpit quite often. That we just need to be encouraged. Yes, we're sinners. Yes. But man, we have been made righteous by the blood of Christ. Yes, we face trials and pains and temptations, but we have the Holy Spirit living within us that gets us through these trials, these pains, and these temptations. Oh, I hope your heads are lifted high when we talk about the glory of God. I hope your eyes are fixed onto Christ as we talk about his kingdom and the work of the church within this world. I hope your heads are are taken off of the world's Problems and put onto the glory of God as we talk about how great our God is, how powerful He is, how victorious He is Oh, may we be motivated from the preaching of God's Word. May we live lives that are transformed Why is this? It's because right here, Paul is telling Timothy that it's going to get difficult. For the time is coming, verse 3 again, for the time is coming when people will not endure sound teaching. But having itching ears they will accumulate for themselves teachers to suit their own passions. That's not easy. News flash, a preacher does not want that. But we must be prepared for that in verse 4. And will turn away from listening to the truth and wander off into myths. As for you, always be sober-minded, enduring suffering. We need this motivation because we will face trials. We are going to face suffering. This is to the preacher. If the preacher is going to face suffering and trials, so will the flock. The preacher is the one to stand up here, take the word of God through trials, through temptations, through pains, through suffering, and herald the gospel, herald the glories of Christ to the sheep. So that you see the fields of green grass in front of you. So that you see that there is a glorious hope in front of you. To see that there is a great and glorious king that reigns over us. May the preaching motivate our souls, may it exhort us to live lives differently. So we see that the preaching does to the soul is that it reproves, it rebukes, it exhorts, and then lastly, it complains. Where do I get this from? A, all of Scripture, but B, right here, Timothy says, as for you, verse 5, as for you, always be sober-minded, enduring suffering, do the work of an evangelist. Fulfill your ministry. So we see that the preaching of the Word of God involves reproving, rebuking, exhorting. And then he finishes it with be an evangelist. Do the work in the evangelist. Proclaim the gospel. Call sinners to become saints by placing faith in Christ alone. Let's look once again at Romans 10. Just so you don't think I'm making this up. Maybe preaching the actual word of God. Romans 10 10 talks about for with the heart one believes and is justified, and with the mouth one confesses and is saved. Alright. This is good. Now let's look at fourteen. How then will they call on him in whom they have not believed? That makes sense. We're calling you to come believe in Christ. We're calling sinners to come believe in Christ, and they're going, Who is Christ? What are you talking about? So he continues on. And how are they to believe in him of whom they have never heard? Well, this makes sense We want them to believe. We must tell of who it is. We must teach and preach. And then here it is. And how are they to hear without someone preaching? This is the work of the evangelists. This is part of the preaching of the Word of God every Sunday. As we are heralding Christ, we are proclaiming Christ as King, as Lord, as Savior of the lost. And we are calling the sinner, come and place your faith in him. Nothing else. There's not another work or another function that we're trying to do here. We're just calling them. We're overwhelming the soul with the sin of who they are, and then we're also overwhelming their souls with the glory of Christ and his work on the cross. cross. And we're saying, come, follow after the true and living King. Come and follow after the only Savior of the lost. Come and stop being an enemy of God and allow Christ to make you a child. Of the living God. This is what we do as preachers. We do believe, friends, I hope you believe with me, is we do believe that the preaching of God's word converts sinners into saints. I've said this before a few different times in my preaching, is that this is what I want the world to know of North Hartford Baptist Church for. Is that we preach the Word of God because we believe the Word of God and we live by the Word of God. If people love us If you're here for the first time and you say, I want to go back there, I hope it's from the preaching of the Word of God. , Not because of me, but because we love and preach this word right here. And I hope, well some of you may not like this, I hope that if you hate us, you hate us because we believe and we preach the word of God. Not because we're snobs. Don't hate us because we've been rude to you. May we not be people like that. May we be Christians that are loving our neighbors and are are living to love them like Christ that are proclaiming the gospel and in the end they say, No, we hate you and your God because you believe the Bible and I say, Yep, you're not going to change us because of that. May that be why they love and hate us, because we believe the word of God and we preach it. May we trust that the Word of God and the preaching of His Word changes hearts. To bring the sinner to be saints. May we believe and trust that the preaching of God's word is important for you and I It's why we take turns up here preaching so that Pastor Matt and Jason can sit and receive the preaching of God's word. And then this is why I don't preach as much because I need the preaching of God's word more and more in my own life. It is Matt's blessing to me to allow the preaching of God's Word to flow over me, to overwhelm my soul. May none of us believe that we are ever too old, too mature, too Christian-y to receive the preaching of the word May we never seek the church to do something other than preach the word. Should we do BBS? Yes. Should we have fellowship meals? Absolutely. I want a good meal. Should we do basketball camp? Yes. Kids camp? Yes. Missions to the world? Yes. But should they never become the primary task and focus of the church May the preaching of God's Word be the focus of this church. If at any point any one ministry, function, activity ever distracts from the preaching of God's Word, may we reject it wholeheartedly. May we say nope? The preaching of the word is more valuable, more important than anything else. Yes, we should go feed the homeless. Yes, we should fight against abortion and go to the abortion mills and support Alpha's glory. Yes, we should clothe the needy. Yes, we should go to prisons and visit. Yes We should go to the world and proclaim the gospel. Yes, we should put on camps, but it will never take away from the preaching of God's word. And I am assured to tell you that that is what the pastors of this church believe. That we love and we support other ministries, we want them to flourish, but it is the word of God and the preaching of his word that can Be the only driving force behind those other ministries. If you're feeding the needy, but you're dying from starvation from the Word of God, you will die hungry. If you are clothing the naked, yet you are not being overwhelmed and clothed in the armor of God and the truth of His word, you are suffering and you will fail to actually clothe those in need. If you're fighting against the the murder of the innocent in the wombs of their mothers, yet you are you are being suffocated and drowned out because you're not hearing and being overwhelmed by the preaching of God's word, you too will die out Friends, we must sit under the preaching of God's word. We must seek and love it. You should come, gather together as a body of believers for one purpose, and it's to receive The preaching of God's Word. Yes, we will sing songs. Yes, we will pray together. Yes, we will have children's ministry. We will have all these other ministries. But the primary focus of this church is the preaching of God's Word. And to receive the preaching. And this then allows us to go to the into the ends of the earth for the glory of God. May we cry out to the Lord. May we seek his preaching and his word day in and day out. Let's pray. Holy Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you that you've drawn us as a people, brought us together. For your glory, and that you care for us. You nourish us. Lord, I ask that you give all of us in this room a passion for your word. Father, I pray for the lost in here. The rebel against you. May they see their sin. May they see their rebellion. May they be overwhelmed with this reality now. May they see the glory of Christ. May they have faith in you. May the Holy Spirit work in their hearts right now. May they turn to you right now Lord, I ask that you mold and sanctify the saints in here. Grow us, sharpen us, give us a joy for your word. Give us a joy for the preaching. Give us a joy for your kingdom and your work you've called us to. May we give you glory in all things. We pray this in Christ's precious name. Amen.