I have uh I have been wrung into service, so uh we will go ahead and get started. and Uh good evening. It's so good to be with you all. It's so good good and a special joy for me to get to teach grown-ups for a change. It's uh A little bit different, and you all have chosen to be here, so there is a little more joy in the air of the room as uh as we open up God's word, but it is a joy for me to get to open up God's word with you all. Uh let me pray for us. And uh just invoke the Lord's blessing. Uh hello to you who are joining us online as well. I'm gonna pray for us and just ask for the Lord's blessing on our time together, and then we will go ahead and get started. Let's pray. Father God, we thank you for the privilege and the joy that it is to gather together, to open up your word, and to behold your truth. God, I pray that you would calm and quiet our souls, fix our eyes and our hearts. on you. Lord, would you clear away distractions? Clear away all of the things of the weak that weigh on us. And Lord, they do weigh on us. Would you clear those things away and help us to see clearly the glorious realities of the gospel and how the truths of the gospel inform our lives? And our worship as kingdom citizens. God help me in the things that I teach and say this evening to be clear. Guard me from saying anything that would be untrue or unhelpful. as we consider these truths from your word. God, may we be blessed under your word. And would we walk away with a greater view of who Christ is, of how glorious the gospel is and what it looks like for us to be worshipers unto you. We do pray and continue to pray for Matt as he is on spiritual renewal. I pray that he would be well served by the time he spends stepping away of history and focusing A fresh and anew on you. Thank you, Lord, for uh the pastors that you have gifted to this church and entrusted to shepherd us. And thank you for the ways that they Are so faithful in that task, and we pray that you would equip them and give them grace to continue to be faithful. God, we pray that you would bless our time together, bless our fellowship, bless us as we sit under your word. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen So uh when Pastor Matt asked me if I would be willing to teach tonight, his exact words in the text he sent me were, uh, you can teach whatever you would like to. Which is a very dangerous thing to tell someone. Uh and so my reply to him was, Okay, sounds great, I'm gonna be uh you know, busting out my prophecy charts and we're gonna go to town here. We're going to uh you know, chart out the end times so very perfectly and specifically and we'll figure out whether or not the dragon's a helicopter and all that. Um which was a joke. But as I thought more and more about uh what I did want to teach from and what text I did want to uh to walk through, I realized, oh I actually do want to uh spend some time in the book of Revelation this evening. So let me invite you to open up your Bibles to Revelation chapter 7. Revelation chapter 7. We're going to be looking at verses nine through seventeen. I've titled this uh this time uh Principles of Kingdom Worship So we will not be charting out the exact sequence of events of Christ's return this evening, but we will be thinking about worship. Principles of kingdom worship. Let me write that up here. Because I asked for the whiteboard, and if I don't use it, I'm gonna feel bad. Principles of Kingdom of I do this thing in my classrooms at uh Perry Hall Christian School. where I try to say things while I write things on the board, and I always end up s either writing something wrong or saying something wrong. So I'm just going to try to write this. I say as I'm doing it now. Revelation chapter 7, verses 9 through 17. So hopefully you've had plenty of time to turn there. Um When we come to the book of Revelation, we're often tempted to uh one, maybe be a little bit uh terrified of what we're getting ourselves into. We often have this tendency to treat it as some sort of secret message that needs decoding. And that makes a certain amount of sense because it is a a text and a kind of literature that's very unfamiliar. to us. It reads nothing like most of the other books of the Bible, and it reads uh nothing like most of the literature that we interact with today. And so we can kind of have this fear, we can kind of approach it as though it's some sort of secret message that needs decoding. We can become so caught up In seeking to, from the text of Revelation, discern the exact timing and sequence of the events of Christ's return Which does have its time and its place. That's an important thing for you to consider. It's not the most important thing, but it is important because God's Word speaks to it. But we can become so caught up That we fail to see that ultimately the message of this book is a message of worship, a message of triumph, and a message of comfort for the people of God through the conquering Lamb Christ Jesus. John writes under the inspiration of the Holy Spirit this revelation and gives those to whom he's writing and to us today This divinely inspired peek behind the curtain into the big picture story of human history. And he shows both them in their context and us today that if we are in Christ The end of our story is a cosmic eternal victory through our conquered, conquering, pardon me, risen Lamb. Revelation is meant to show us that the final chapter of our story is not whatever tri sufferings, whatever sorrows that we're walking through today. The end of your story, Christian, is resurrection. The end of your story is eternal life with God in the new heavens, in the new earth. And that's the central message. that I believe uh God intends for us to receive from this book. And so in the text we're going to walk through this evening. Revelation chapter 7, verses 9 through 17. You have it up there because I said I was going to use the whiteboard, and I did. John gives us this glimpse into the heavenly throne room. And he shows us a picture of the worship of the kingdom of heaven before God's throne. In the midst of judgment being poured out, these seals being broken, and the symbolic uh judgment being poured out, we have this aside from that where we're given this vision of redeemed blood saints standing before the throne of God, surrounded by angelic beings, this glorious, glorious vision of worship. We're given a picture of fully consummated kingdom worship. And what I'd like to do this evening is spend some time meditating. On this vision, spend some time meditating on the fully realized, fully consummated reality of kingdom worship. And think about how this text points us to some principles that ought to inform our own worship as kingdom citizens. living in the here and now today, though we don't yet get to experience all the joys of the fully consummated eternal reality, we do experience it in part. Because we are now redeemed, we are now forgiven through the blood of Christ, we now have new spiritual life, and we now embody and live out in part What will then be fully realized through the gospel of Christ and through our eternal redemption, through our eternal life in Christ's kingdom. So, by looking at what is not yet a full reality, we will learn and think about how we ought to live in the present reality of our kingdom citizenship as citizens of the kingdom of heaven. And particularly how this text and some other texts that we're going to go to informs how we ought to worship. And specifically, how we are called to worship within the context of our local church, within the context of the redeemed community of saints expressed in local church bodies. Now before we get into the text, I just want to very briefly, because I think this is always important to uh very clearly define and articulate the terms we're using. When I say worship, don't merely think singing. Sometimes that uh that gets into our uh our vocabulary and our vernacular and the way we use words, we think of, you know, the the singing portion of our Service is the worship portion, and then when the word is open and being preached, well that's no longer worship. Uh that is not at all the case. All of what we do when we gather together As the people of God ought to be worshiped. When we think of worship, think of worship as all that we do to render honor and glory to our covenant God. One of the texts that I go to is Psalm 29, verse 2, which compels us to ascribe to the Lord glory and honor. Ascribe to the Lord the glory due his name. So worship is ascribing to God the glory that He has owed and exalting Him for His greatness, for His goodness, for His glory. Which happens yes through music and yes through singing, and that's such a joyful reality, and it's it's something that's near and dear to my heart, but it happens not only through music. It happens through the preaching of the word. It happens through prayer. It happens through fellowship. It happens through the way we one another. It happens through the reading of God's Word, both privately and corporately. And so this evening we're going to consider from this text some principles of kingdom worship. How does the fully consummated, fully realized picture of worship? In the kingdom of heaven in eternity, how does that inform the way we think about our own worship as kingdom citizens today? So let me read this text and then we will walk through. I have, I think, seven points. We'll see if we get through all seven. Feeling ambitious. But we'll get through as many as we can in the time allotted. Revelation chapter 7, verses 9 through 17. After these things I looked, and behold, a great multitude which no one could count, from every nation, and all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before the throne and before the Lamb, clothed in white robes, and palm branches were in their hands, and they cry out with voice, saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb And all the angels were standing around the throne and around the elders and the four living creatures, and they fell on their faces before the throne and worshipped God, saying, Amen. Blessing and glory and wisdom and thanksgiving and honor and power and might be to our God. Forever and ever. Amen. Then one of the elders answered, saying to me, These who are clothed in robes, who are they? And where have they come from? I said to him, My Lord, you know, and he said to me, These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. For this reason they're before the throne, and they serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them They will hunger no longer, nor thirst any more, nor will the sun beat down on them, nor any heat, for the Lamb, center of the throne, will be their shepherd, and will guide them to springs of the water, of life, and God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. So some principles of kingdom worship. We're going to have these as uh statements. So kingdom worship. Is first we're going to see that kingdom worship is corporate Kingdom worship is corporate. John sees in his vision a great multitude gathered around the throne of God. This great multitude is so many that they can't be numbered in his vision. He can't count them, try them, try to count them, and it's just not going to work. And together, this great multitude is before the throne of God. Exalting him, crying out in a loud voice, singing his praises as one unified body. Together they are gathered, proclaiming the same truths about God, to God. In the new heavens and in the new earth, Christian, we will be together with all the redeemed saints from all ages worshiping before God's throne as a corporate body. Our identity will not primarily be an individual one, but a corporate one, as the redeemed people of God. And church, we experience a foretaste of this reality, a foretaste of this corporate identity and corporate flavor to our worship. When we gather together as the body of Christ in local churches. When we gather together as one unified body We express and experience in part what's going to be true in an even more glorious way in eternity, which is that we are one corporate unified body in Christ. Our worship must be corporate. Private worship is good. Private worship is necessary. Your time in your prayer closet that no one else knows about and then no one else sees is important and is vital to your spiritual health and life. But so is your gathering together with the church. We need the gathered body. Not just because we want high attendance numbers. Not just because it's uh it's a uh a social norm to gather together at the church. It's really not a social norm because I mean how many groups of people really gather together on a weekly basis and hear one person talk and then sing? Christians and maybe a few other cults, but primarily followers of Jesus Christ do that. We need the gathered body not just because we want attendance, not just because it makes us feel good, not even because You know, it's our constitutional right to assemble. No, we need the gathered body because assembling together is essential to how we express our identity. It's essential to expressing our identity as citizens of God's kingdom. And we may know this truth already, and intuitively, of course, of course we need to gather together. Of course, our worship should be corporate. But I think especially in uh in the season of time that we find ourselves with this pandemic and so many other things, we need to hear it again and again. Uh the reality of COVID has in many ways compromised our ability to gather. Uh And obviously we want everyone to be safe and wise and cautious. And uh we are saddened, deeply saddened that there are some who still uh for health reasons, uh for caution 's sake, are not able to gather with us together, or for other health reasons, uh, some are not able to gather with us together in the corporate body. Uh When this whole pandemic is over and in the rearview mirror, we need to be cautious because I think there will be many who are tempted to rethink and redefine what church is. And think that what you can get alone online in your home is the same thing as what you get when you gather together, and it is not. There's something fundamental To our identity as followers of Jesus Christ, that gathering together corporately expresses Online church might be a necessary reality for some in this season, and uh even for some for a long period of time for health reasons or other things, but church, if you are able to gather together If you are not impeded by by health or other circumstances, online church is not a viable replacement for the gathered body You need the gathering of the church. You need the reality of corporately coming together as the people of God. One side implication of this uh that I have on here that doesn't come specifically from this related to This reality of our worship being corporate, the gathering of the body of Christ for worship is primarily and fundamentally a reality for believers. Our service of worship is not primarily for unbelievers. Yes, we absolutely long for unbelievers to come, to be in our worship service, to hear the truth of God's word. God's word actually assumes that there will be unbelievers in our midst. I would point you to 1 Corinthians chapter 14, verses 24 and 25, which talks about how If unbelievers come into your midst, they should be by what is being spoken, by the word that's being spoken, fall on their faces and declare that God is among you. And so there's this assumption that unbelievers will be coming, will be hearing the word of God. But the corporate gathering of the body is primarily for believers. It is primarily for the purpose of exalting the glory of God together as redeemed saints. So, firstly, we see that kingdom worship is corporate. Secondly, kingdom worship is unified, but kingdom worshippers are diverse. Kingdom Worship is a weird way to enunciate that. Kingdom Worship is unified. Kingdom worshippers are diverse. Our worship as redeemed saints ought to be Unified. First of all, notice what our unity, though, does not consist of. Our unity does not consist of, or primarily stem from, our cultural similarity or our linguistic background. John looks and sees a great multitude from every nation and all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before the throne. You can't get much more diversity than that. How many different ethnic backgrounds do you have in your church? Yes. That's uh that's quite a bit We have all of them, apparently, in the kingdom of heaven. So our unity does not consist of our cultural identity, our cultural similarity, our linguistic background. It doesn't consist of shared kind of cultural values. It doesn't even consist of the fact that we like each other. Primarily Our unity, fundamentally, our unity as kingdom worshippers comes from Christ. Our unity comes from the fact that we have all been united by faith. To the same Lord, the same Savior, we all partake of the same spirit, and we're all members of the same body. So our worship ought to be marked by unity. And we see this unity in several ways in the text. Firstly, we see it just in the reality of the gathering itself. They're gathered there together. Not socially distant, I certainly hope As we've already seen, they're gathered together. We also see the unity reflected in the fact that they are all together confessing the same truths about God. Verse 10, they cry out with a loud voice, together they're saying, Salvation to our God who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. When we gather together, uh there's such a joy for me in the uh the singing of the singing portion of our worship service. Because it's the time in our service where together we're all saying the same true things about God together. What a glorious thing. Glorious thing to express these deep, abiding, eternal truths about who God is and how we have been united and renewed and restored unto God through faith in Christ. By singing the same true things about God together. When we confess these truths in song, when we sit under the Word of God and hear His Word preached together, when we pray for one another, these are all ways we express. The unity that is ours in Christ. Kingdom worship is unified And there's two ways that I want us to think about kingdom worship uh relating to our unity. We can see that our worship is both an expression of our unity and an aid to our unity. It's an expression of our unity, and it's an aid to our unity. So it expresses our unity by confessing together through song, through hearing God's word preached. That we agree on the same truths about who God is as he's revealed himself in his word and how we are made right with God through Christ. It expresses that truth together. And by those same truths coming off our lips when we sing, by those same truths entering into our ears when we hear the word preached, we're expressing our unity. But it's also an aid to our unity. As we gather together for worship as a corporate body by Committing ourselves to gathering as the body, and by partaking and worship together, this is a means of grace that God intends to use to grow us in our unity. to grow us together as one body, which is the language that Scripture uses to describe the church. And the more we are committed to gathering together and to, by God's grace, participating in worship together, the more we will grow in our unity. The practical application of this is that if you are struggling to love someone, commit to worshiping with them. If there's someone in the congregation that you feel disconnected from, if you feel disunified from the body, don't let that keep you from gathering with your local church. That will only make it worse. Commit yourself to the body life and to the corporate worship of the church and trust that God intends to use that to grow you in unity with your fellow brothers and sisters. We see in God's word that there are dire consequences when our worship fails to reflect proper unity Consider uh 1 Corinthians chapter eleven, verses 17 through 22, where the uh the church at Corinth is gathering together and they're partaking of the Lord's Supper in a way that reflects The exact opposite of unity. Disunity, that's what we call that. They're gathering together, and some people are gorging themselves with food at their feasts, and some are not getting anything. Well that reflects division. That reflects disunity just in the physical reality of some people getting food and some people getting nothing That does not reflect unity, that reflects disunity. And it was truly a matter of life and death for the people at Corinth. Lack of unity in our worship and lack of unity in our own hearts compromises our gospel witness. It compromises our ability to say that we have been redeemed and made new by the same Christ, and we have faith in the same Lord. So maybe express our unity with one another by gathering together. And if we feel disunity, may we commit ourselves to worship with one another. There are so many things that threaten our unity in any age, not just in this age. It's not as though sometimes we talk about our age now as if it's the most dire thing ever. Sin has always existed. And we've always had problems, and we have different problems now, and we have different things that threaten to compromise our unity now. But the gospel abides. May we trust and rest in the realities of the gospel that unifies us. Before we move on from this point, notice the unity we have in Christ and yet the diversity of the worshippers. This great multitude before the throne of heaven is a multitude from every nation, from all tribes and peoples and tongues standing before God. Together as equals before God, redeemed saints from all nations, from all tribes, from all ethnic and cultural backgrounds. Church, God's plan for the church is global. God's plan for the church transcends ethnic barriers. God's plan for the church is more powerful than the deepest roots of racism in our own culture or in any other culture. God's plan for the church transcends economic barriers. God's plan for the church transcends all that might divide us naturally and ethnically. And certainly we know that, and certainly uh we confess that as true and hold to that as dear, but I think especially for a church that is relatively monolithic culturally, we need to remind ourselves of those realities. And be especially attuned to them. Because it can be an easy temptation in a church that is in a pocket of our county where there's Not as much diversity. It can be easy to uh vest our unity in things that aren't Christ and in things that aren't the gospel. It can be easy To find our unity, even in subtle ways, more in our cultural affinity or our shared political views, or fill-in-the-blank thing, it can be so easy to find our unity in those things. Rather than in Christ. May we guard ourselves against this temptation. And may we be a church that recognizes the global reality of God's plan for the church and God's plan to bring the gospel to the nations. Both the nations that are out there in the world across continents and the nations that are in our own backyard. So kingdom worship is corporate, kingdom worship is unified, while kingdom worshipers are diverse. I've gone through two points and I have 31 minutes. We'll see what happens. Thirdly, kingdom worship is holy. Kingdom worship is holy Those worshipping around the throne, again in verse nine. Standing before God are clothed in white robes. They're dressed in white robes. And this symbolism of white robes Reflects the fact that those who are worshiping before the throne of God and therefore kingdom worshippers and therefore kingdom worship is marked by holiness. is marked by holiness. And we see later on down in the passage in uh in verse 14, the basis of this holiness. And we see that the basis of this holiness that marks the people of God is not a result of their individual efforts at becoming holy. Their robes have not been made white due to a great deal of scrubbing. Uh as a three and a half month experienced father, I have uh I have found that children uh When you dress your child in something that is white, the thing you have dressed them in will not stay white. And uh as a dutiful father, it is often my job to uh to Do all I can to attempt to make it white again. To take the toothbrush that is marked out from our regular toothbrushes and the stain remover and Exert great effort in making it white again. And even despite my best efforts, there are still sometimes uh marks. God is gracious for that. But that's not the holiness that we have as Christians. That's not the holiness that is ours. It's not the holiness that comes through greatly exerted efforts, at least not primarily. Yes, we strive after holiness. But these redeemed saints have white robes because their robes have been washed in the blood of the Lamb. We see that in verse 14. I said to him, My Lord, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes. And made them white in the blood of the Lamb. Church, our holiness is a blood-bought holiness. Not through our own individual effort, although we do strive after holiness. We do exert effort. We are called to be holy as God is holy, but fundamentally our holiness Before God is a result of something God does, not something we do. We have been bought by the blood of the Lamb, we have been washed holy, made clean. in his blood. And that's the reason. That's the basis upon which we're able to stand before the throne of God and offer worship. Because Christ, our great high priest, has made us holy. And so therefore, our worship, when we gather together, should be marked by holiness. Now, our worship, one of the chief ways it's marked by holiness, is by its Christ-centeredness. Which we will focus on in just a moment, Lord willing, if we get through all the other points. But our worship ought to be marked by holiness, both as individuals and corporately. Consider several implications of this reality. One, consider how corporate worship ought to be an aid to our growth in holiness. Just as it aids our growth in unity, through participating in the worship of the church, through gathering together, this is a means of grace that God intends to use. to grow us in our personal and corporate holiness before God. By focusing on the truths of the God , sitting under God's word, by singing and reflecting on the truths of His Word. The Holy Spirit intends to grow us into the reality of what is already true about us in Christ. There's always this already and not yet reality of our lives as Christians. In one sense, we are already holy, perfectly, completely, fully. The blood of the Lamb has been shed. We add nothing to that reality. And yet in this life, we are progressively becoming more what we already are. Not adding to this thing So this you can see what I see, obviously. So this thing. We don't add to this, but we progressively in this life are sanctified and molded more and more into that reality. So, church, if you feel you lack holiness If you feel as though the besetting sin in your life, gather together for worship Gather together for worship. God intends to use it to grow you in the reality of holiness. God intends to grow you through the worship of the church. Into what you already are in Christ. Secondly, consider the reality that your local church, whether it is This body, this fellowship at North Harford Baptist, or somewhere else, consider the reality that your local church needs your personal holiness. Your local church is served by your personal growth in Christ and your striving after holiness by God's grace. See, a lack of holiness in our conduct creates this discrepancy between what's true of us in Christ and the reality of what's going on in our lives and what's revealed by our conduct. And we know from passages like Romans chapter 6 that discrepancy ought not to exist. Are we to consign? Are we to continue in sin so that grace may abound? No, may it never be. May that discrepancy between what's true about you in Christ and that and what's going on in your life, may that not exist. Christian, not only your personal ability to worship God, but the worship of the body is deepened, is strengthened by your growth in holiness. So when obedience to Christ feels difficult, when ongoing sin seems just absolutely impossible to tackle, when being with the Lord in private worship seems like this tiresome chore. Take heart. Your church needs you. Your church needs your holiness, and you are serving your local church by faithfully striving after the Lord. You are aiding the worship of the church, the corporate worship of the church, through your private worship and your private growth in the realities that are already yours in Christ. So kingdom worship is holy. It is to be marked by holiness. It is to be a means by which we grow in holiness. Fourthly, I almost said thirdly, we're on point four, not point three. Fourthly, kingdom worship is reverent. Kingdom worship is reverent. My wife always uh tells me that I uh am very bad about starting a sentence And then taking a sip of water midway. So I'm trying to get better in my teaching at you know taking sips of water during natural pauses, which that felt like a natural pause. In this text Those standing before the throne of God, the elders and the four living creatures, we see in verse eleven, they fall on their face before God as they worship. This falling on their face is something we don't necessarily do as often in our worship, maybe sometimes, but this is a posture of reverence It's a posture, a physical posture that recognizes the majesty and the glory of that which is before us. Well, our worship ought to be characterized by this sort of reverence for the awesome glory of the one we are worshiping. When we sing together, we are singing to the God of the universe. When we hear God's word preached We are hearing the words of the eternal Almighty God who has graciously revealed himself in human language. I mean, how crazy is that? May we be struck by the reality of who we are worshiping and the fact that we have gained access to him, not by anything that we do, but by faith in Christ. May we be struck by that reality, and may our response be one of reverence. Worship as kingdom citizens is to be marked by reverence. Now, a few points here that are important. Firstly, reverence is not bound to a particular outward style. Sometimes when I hear the term reverence and talking about reverent worship, We might think of a particular musical style, perhaps, something you know very slow, very somber, very traditional, perhaps with uh with an organ or some bagpipes. Reverence for God and worship, though, is not first and foremost a reality of our outward style. Now, that's not to say that our outward style does not matter, and I'll say something about that in just a moment, but fundamentally Reverence for God is a matter of the heart. Fundamentally, reverence for God has everything to do with the posture of your heart before Him. Do you see him rightly for who he truly is? Have you grasped the depth of his majesty? Have you beheld anew his glory and his greatness? Have you seen your helplessness as a sinner who stands before holy and awesome God only on the basis of what has been done for you in Christ? That's where reverence begins. Not in the outward form, but first and fundamentally in the heart. Now I'll say that and also say that our outward style and our outward expression of worship, not just musically, but in all aspects of our worship, it does matter. God has not made us as disembodied souls who float around. God has made us as embodied creatures who have physical bodies and He designs that we use our physical bodies in ways that glorify and honor Him. So we ought not to just be careless or haphazard or think that anything goes with the outward form that our worship takes as The person who is charged with uh most of the song selection for Sunday morning and Sunday evening, except when the pastor occasionally vetoes what I pick. So you know who to throw your tomatoes at if you if you don't like a song that we sing on Sunday. Um but as the person charged with that, uh my aim and my desire when it comes to musical style is Uh I I care way less about the distinction between if it's traditional or contemporary. Those words really well, they mean things, but uh We invest a lot more meaning in them than we ought to. My goal is that musical style outwardly ultimately serve the truths of the text, ultimately lift high the truths rather than obscure them, rather than distract from them. We know that outward expressions of reverence matter because the way that we are uh we're we see this reverence expressed in this passage and in others. is through what happens outwardly. I mean, these creatures and the elders before the throne fall on their faces. We have other passages in the Psalms that compel us to lift up our hands before God. So we know that our outward expression of worship does matter what we do with our mouths, what we do with our bodies. That's why it's a good idea to stand when we sing, not just because, you know, physically we need breath support. But because it's a way to recognize that we are acknowledging truth, it's why, you know, the uh we don't do this at this church, but many churches will have you stand when the word of God is read in the preaching of the word. Um That's not just a random tradition that happened. It's not essential to worship, and it's not an essential thing we do, but it's a way of recognizing that what we are hearing is God's word. But all of these expressions of worship and all of the different outward expressions our worship takes, whether we have a guitar, whether we have an organ, whether we have a drum set, whether we have an accordion. Ultimately, all of these things must flow fundamentally from a heart that is reverencing and honoring God. Outward styles of music have changed and are going to continue to change, and that's okay. And we must think carefully about what styles of music or what styles of communication of God's Word will ultimately serve the truths that we proclaim. But reverence for God that should mark our worship fundamentally is a matter of the heart. So, our first subpoint under reverence. I did the thing. And I made it worse by drawing attention to it. Um but okay. So reverence for God is not bound to a particular style. And secondly, reverent does not mean joyless. Related to the previous point, when we hear the word reverent, we also may see in our minds some sort of very stuffy, very somber, very ultra-serious service where no fun is allowed. Thank you very much. But that's not at all the picture we see in God's Word. That's not at all the picture that we see in this passage In verse 10, we see that the redeemed saints from every tribe and nation surrounding the throne of God are crying out with a loud voice. Well generally I don't use a loud voice when I'm sorrowful. I use a loud voice when I'm expressing joy. Not only are they shouting with a loud voice, they're waving palm branches. That's a way of denoting joy and triumph and victory. They're celebrating the realities of the gospel. They're celebrating the Lamb of God. They're happy to be worshiping God. They are expressing deep and abiding and soul-stirring joy in what is theirs in Christ. And they are reverent. Church, don't think for a moment that reverence and uh and joy are somehow at odds to one another or opposed to one another. Don't think for a moment that we may either have a joyful worship service or a serious worship service. We must have a worship service that is seriously joyful. Worship ought to be, should be a celebration. We are celebrating the truth of the gospel. And we do have to be careful here, uh, because I think we see often That churches can adopt kind of the outward style of joy without the substance of joy in Christ And if we have that, then we have we are mistaken. If we have a substance that's joyful and celebratory, but we don't make explicit and clear the realities of the gospel, that is the you know foundation of our joy. Then we're probably doing something wrong. We're probably obscuring our message. If it's not clear at all through our worship or through our preaching, why in the world we're joyful to begin with, that probably should be clear in the worship of God's church. But our worship is to be marked by a reverent joy that celebrates the realities of the gospel. And we can't make worship a celebration if it's not clear at all what we're celebrating when we gather together. So kingdom worship is Corporate, it's unified, it's holy, it's reverent. Fifth kingdom worship is Christ-centered. We may actually get through these points after all. We've kind of seen this in all that we've looked at thus far, but kingdom worship, fundamentally , must be centered upon the person and work of Jesus Christ. What are they singing about in the new heavens and the new earth? Well, they're singing about Christ, verse 10. They cry out with a loud voice, saying, Salvation to our God, who sits on the throne and to the Lamb. The theme of their song, the theme of our song that we will sing in the new heavens and the new earth. Is the theme of salvation in the person and work of Christ. We see this elsewhere in Revelation. You can turn back to Revelation chapter 5, verses 11 through 13. Then I looked and I heard the voice of many angels around the throne and the living creatures and the elders, and the number of them was myriads of myriads, corporate reality again, and thousands of thousands, saying with a loud voice Worthy is the Lamb that was slain to receive power and riches and wisdom and might and honor and glory and blessing. In every created thing which is in heaven and on earth and under the earth and on the sea. And all things in them I heard saying, To him who sits on the throne and to the Lamb be blessing and honor and glory and dominion forever and ever. Christ is the one that we worship. And our worship, to the songs that we sing, to the prayers that we pray, to the word that is preached, must be explicitly and clearly Christ-centered. And uh and has the person again who you may want to throw tomatoes at, because I'm the one who picks the songs primarily, uh, this is a great burden. And I By God's grace, seek to make this a guiding principle that we embody in our worship. Because if the songs that we sing in worship Could be sung by a Muslim or a Jew without anything being disagreed upon Then probably our worship is not explicitly Christian worship. If the word that is preached could be agreed upon, if a moral message could be agreed upon by a Muslim or a Jew or an atheist for that matter. Then our worship is probably not explicitly Christian worship. Church, we must be Christ-centered in our lives, in our hearts of worship. And uh one just very small application of this that I think is is instructive and that I seek to uh to carry with me when it comes to choosing songs is why we ought to strive for uh for excellence and for beauty in the songs that we sing, in the lyrics that we sing. We also should not settle for poetry that is that is vague or that's unclear. Try to ask myself, uh, could this song apply equally to Jesus or to my wife And uh not need to have anything changed? If so, it's probably not a good song for corporate worship. And this doesn't mean that, you know, songs that are uh that use Uh more vague imagery or imagery or poetry are bad. It doesn't mean that uh you're not allowed to enjoy what's played on the radio in your car and worship to that privately. I think that is totally legitimate. But when we gather together as the people of God, we want to sing and see and savor the glorious truths of the gospel. Lots of have lot a lot of things has been said about you know the so-called worship wars and it's kind of conceived of as this battle between do we like hymns or do we like contemporary songs? The far more important distinction, I think, is song is the distinction between songs that are oriented towards truth and oriented towards gospel. And songs that are vague or unclear or shallow in the message they present. And there are plenty of contemporary songs and plenty of hymns. That have really lousy lyrics that we probably don't need to be singing in the as the gathered body of Christ So our worship is to be Christ-centered. May we never tire of rehearsing to ourselves the glorious truths of people. We don't move past them, church. The gospel is for you today, whether you've been walking with Jesus for three weeks or for three years or for 30 years. So our kingdom worship is corporate, it's unified, it's holy, it's reverent, it's Christ-centered. Six, it's Christ mediated. Again, related to this, but we ought to ask ourselves the question of well, why can these redeemed saints stand before the throne of God? Especially when we uh when we think of a passage like Isaiah chapter six, where Isaiah is in the throne room of God and he cries out, Woe is me, I'm a man of unclean lips. In other words, I'm not supposed to be here. Why can these saints stand before the throne of because they've been washed in the blood of the Lamb. Because Jesus Christ, their great high priest, has offered himself up as a once-for-all sacrifice for sins. So just as the people of Israel worshiped God on the basis of a mediator, the Levitical priesthood, our worship as Christians is a mediated worship. But our mediator is not an earthly priest, it's not a pastor, it's not a worship leader. Don't think for a moment that you need a specific worship leader to worship God. What you need is your high priest, Christ Jesus. We see these glorious realities in passages like Hebrews chapter 10, verses 19 through 22, which for the sake of time we won't turn to. But we draw near to God as Christians on the basis of Christ's work as our high priest. Romans chapter 5, verse 11, Paul is rehearsing these great truths of the gospel and the peace that we have with God through Christ. And he says at the end of that section that we rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ. I've been uh with my students at Perry Hall. We've been walking through kind of a a unit on how to study the Bible, how to do inductive Bible study, and uh one of the things I've been trying to burn into their brains with varying degrees of success is that the prepositions of the Bible matter. And the preposition here that we rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ matters a great deal. We can't go around Jesus Christ to worship God. We can't go over Jesus Christ to worship God. We only worship God, we only rejoice in God through our Lord Jesus Christ. Not on our own merits, but through the mediating work of Jesus Christ, our great high priest. And this is yet another reason why we must make Christ central In our service of worship, we must make Christ central in the truths we proclaim, in the word we sit under, in the prayers we pray as the gathered body of Christ. Finally, oof, we're gonna get through all seven. Thank you. I see that clap. I see that hand. Finally, kingdom worship is a source of comfort. Kingdom worship is a source of comfort. Look again at verses thirteen through seventeen. Then one of the elders answered, saying to me, These who are clothed in the white robes, who are they? And where have they come from? I said to him, My Lord, you know. And he said to me, These are the ones who come out of the great tribulation, and they have washed their robes and made them white in the blood of the Lamb. For this reason, they are before the throne of God, and they serve him day and night in his temple, and he who sits on the throne will spread his tabernacle over them. They will hunger no longer, nor thirst any more, nor will the sun beat down on them, nor any heat. For the Lord in the center of the throne will be their shepherd, and will guide them to springs of the water of life And God will wipe away every tear from their eyes. We can read a text like that and we can get so caught up on a word like tribulation, and what exactly is that? And is it actually a seven year period, or is it an ongoing reality? Will you know Christians be there or not? We can get so caught up on a word like that And immediately launch into a thousand questions about the exact timing of Christ's return, that we miss all of the glorious truths and realities that are there for us. Let's set that aside for a moment. And see in these verses what great comfort there is for God's people. What great comfort there is for those standing before the throne of God in his presence for eternity. He's their shelter. He satisfies their deepest needs. He shepherds them. He leads them to true and abiding joy. We see that symbolized by these springs of living water. He wipes away every tear and sorrow. All that is sorrowful and wrong and bad becomes untrue in the presence of God. And if we're in Christ, that's the reality that awaits us in eternity. So while in this life we endure suffering, we endure trials, we endure pains, difficulties. hurt feelings, marital conflict, cancer, criticism, anxiety, depression, fear of the opinions of others, and so many other things in the sin-cursed world. That's none of those things are the end of our story. The end of your story, Christian, is one of comfort and joy in the presence of God. And in the midst of this life now, we need to reflect on the realities of what awaits us in God's eternal presence. We need to reflect on the glorious truths that we will be with the Lord and we will be numbered among those saints who are sheltered under the presence of God. God will tabernacle with us. And all of the hungers and the longings and the pains we feel now will be no more. Church, may we be comforted in the here and now with the realities of what awaits us in eternity. This point is made explicit in several passages in Scripture. In 1 Thessalonians chapter 4, verse 18 Paul rehearses the truth of the return of Christ and the resurrection that we will experience and the eternal life that we will have, and he says at the end of that, therefore, comfort one another with these words. Comfort one another with what awaits you in eternity. But this is not only a future reality. Again, it will be in the future made perfect, made complete. But our worship now as the gathered body of Christ, as the people of God, ought to be to us a source of comfort and joy. As we gather together, as we reflect on the truths of the gospel, as we reflect on what awaits us in the eternal kingdom, as we reflect on our identity as kingdom citizens. Only on the basis of Christ's work for us may we be comforted. Think of verses like Matthew chapter 11, 28, where Jesus calls those who are weary and heavy-laden To come to him and to find rest, to take his yoke, which is easy and light, and to find rest for our souls. Yes, that's a future reality. Yes, that is ultimately pointing forward to eternity, but it's a present reality for you, Christian, as a member of the body of Christ. As a redeemed kingdom saint. Think of a passage like Psalm 30, verses 11 through 12, where David expresses the comfort he experiences through drawing near to God in worship. You've tore turned my mourning into dancing. So do you feel sorrow? Do you feel the weight of a sin cursed world upon you? Gather together and worship the Lord. Gather together with your local church and find joy and comfort and peace. In the worship of God with God's people. It may feel like at times gathering together with people is the absolute last thing you want to do when you're experiencing suffering, when you're experiencing trials, when you're experiencing difficulties, when you're experiencing pain. It may feel like being around other humans is the absolute last thing you want to do in those moments. But Christian, worshiping with the people of God is exactly what you need. Come experience the comfort of Christ expressed and mediated to you through your local church. And if we're a worship where or if we're a worship, if we're a church, where worship does not uh lead us to comfort, where worship does not offer this kind of spiritual comfort that is ours through Christ. We need to examine ourselves. And we need to ensure that our corporate worship points to and embodies these heavenly realities of comfort, of peace, and of joy. So kingdom worship is corporate, it's unified, it's holy, it's reverent, it's Christ-centered, it's Christ-mediated, it is a source of comfort, just as a final piece of application. Christian, your local church needs your participation in worship. Your local church needs your worship. Christian worship with your local church. That doesn't just mean thing. It means thing, but it means so many other things. Your church needs you to sing loudly to God as part of the body. Your church needs you to sit under the Word of God. Your church needs you to pray. Your church needs you to fellowship. Your church needs you to partake of the Lord's Supper. Your church needs you to hear the reading of Scripture. Your church needs you to rejoice and celebrate when we witness baptisms. Because by doing those things, you express in part a glimpse of the reality of what awaits us. In the eternal kingdom of God, before his throne, worshiping the Lamb. Let's pray together. Father God, thank you. That we are able to worship you on the basis of the finished work of Christ. Thank you for this body. Thank you for The worship that we express and experienced. You are worthy of all of it and so much more, God So may we be a church that strives to honor you with our worship. Corporately, God, may we express joy and peace. That is ours in Christ. And may we experience more and more the comfort that you offer to us through the gospel. God, may our body, may our fellowship, and may those in our community, in our county, in our state, and in our country be Reflections, imperfect as we may be, Lord, may we be reflections of this heaven reality heavenly reality by your grace. Through your spirit at work in us. Thank you, Lord. We pray all these things in Jesus' name. Amen.