Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. Psalm 9 Your Bible probably has a subheading before Psalm 9. Mine says, I will recount your wonderful deeds. It's a psalm of worship. It's a psalm of praise. Recount means to like list, right? To remember what God has done and to list it, but doing that as a song of praise and worship. And I want to give a quick side note before we read the Psalm. In the Psalms, you have a lot of fighting. You have a lot of war. And that's the kind of language that salvation is talked about. David talks about being saved from his enemies and God bringing judgment against his enemies. It's because of the kind of kingdom that Israel was. Israel was a kingdom. It was a nation on earth. It was God 's kingdom represented in a nation and part of salvation for them was military victory over surrounding nations. You see Against the Philistines. You see it in the Exodus. That is their salvation from Egypt. And not every citizen of Israel was a true child of God by faith, but in one sense, they were all saved from out of Egypt. And so when you see that uh warfare and fighting language, it's because of the kind of kingdom that Israel was. The kingdom of God in the church age is different than that. It's not like that. Anyhow, let's read Psalm 9. I will recount your wonderful deeds. I will give thanks to the Lord with my whole heart. I will recount all of your wonderful deeds. I will be glad and exult in you. I will sing praise to your name, O Most High. When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish before your presence. For you have maintained my just cause. You have sat on the throne, giving righteous judgment You remember that was the very first devotional I did from the Psalms was an overview about God as King. He reigns in heaven, his throne is in heaven, the earth is his footstool. And that's what that's referring to here, that God reigns over all things from his heavenly throne. You have sat on the throne giving righteous judgment. You have rebuked the nations, you have made the wicked perish, you have blotted out their name forever and ever. The enemy came to an end in everlasting ruins. Their cities you rooted out. The very memory of them has perished. But the Lord sits enthroned forever. He has established his throne for justice, and he judges the world in righteousness. He judges the peoples with uprightness. And the Lord is a stronghold for the oppressed, a stronghold in times of trouble. Verse 10 And those who know your name put their trust in you. For you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. Amen? It's good news. It's good news. Verse 11, sing praises to the Lord, who sits enthroned in Zion. Tell among the peoples his deeds. For he who avenges blood is mindful of them. He does not forget the cry of the afflicted. Be gracious to me, O Lord. See my affliction from those who hate me. O you who lift me up from the gates of death, that I may recount all your praises That in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation. The nations have sunk In the pit that they have made, in the net that they hid, their own foot has been caught. The Lord has made himself known, he has executed judgment But the wicked are snared in the work of their own hands, and the wicked shall return to Sheol, all the nations that forget God. The needy shall not always be forgotten, and the hope of the poor shall not perish forever Arise, O Lord, let not man prevail. Let the nations be judged by you. Put them in fear, O Lord. Let the nations know that they are but men. Let's pray.