Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. All right, Psalm 7. This week looking at verses one through seven, the message is that we must take refuge in the Lord. And I mean that as a daily way of living, as a daily devotion, that we must take refuge in the Lord Refuge in the Lord. We will never outgrow our prayer life. Uh we'll never outgrow our devotional life in time and the scriptures and what I mean by that is if we want to be growing spiritually, growing in our love for the Lord, growing in our love for other people, we must Be growing and staying in prayer and in our devotions to God's Word. So we must take refuge in Him. Yes, for salvation and coming to Jesus, but daily. We must take refuge in Him. Psalm 7, verses 1 through 7. O Lord my God, in you do I take refuge. Save me from all my pursuers and deliver me Lest a lion, lest like a lion, they tear my soul apart, rending it in pieces, with none to deliver O Lord my God, if I have done this, if there is any wrong in my hands, if I have repaid my friend with evil, or plundered my enemy without cause, let the enemy pursue My soul and overtake it, and let him trample my life to the ground, and lay my glory in the dust. Arise, O Lord, in your Anger. Lift yourself up against the fury of my enemies. Awake for me. You have appointed a judgment. Let the assembly of the peoples be gathered about you. On high. If you remember from way back, we talked about three different uh angles of reading any psalm, or three different layers to reading any psalm. The first layer would be the original context. So for example, if it was a psalm of David, which this is, you can read the psalm and try to and think about what David was experiencing, what David was going through. What was that situation? That's one layer. Another layer is to apply the principles in the Psalm to our own lives, which is the way I'm taking it tonight. Well, I've taken most of them that way, and these short devotionals, that's pretty much the best way to be helpful. Applying the principles to our spiritual lives In our prayer lives, in our situation. But the third layer is to understand that every psalm, just like any Old Testament scripture, is prophetic. It's pointing forward to Christ. Pointing forward to what he went through. He suffered on a cross. He suffered at the hands of enemies. He cried out to his father, and he ultimately was delivered in resurrection. So we should always have those three layers at least in the back of our mind. The original context, number one, how it applies to us, and what we're going through, number two. And number three, how does it point forward to Christ and to his situation? Tonight's very simply wanting to highlight a reminder that we must take refuge. Refuge in the in the Lord. Number one for spiritual protection. Spiritual protection. Look again at verses one and two. O Lord my God, in you do I take refuge. That's where I got the encouragement from. or the title from that we must go to the Lord and take refuge in him. Ref a refuge is a a shelter. It's a place of protection. It's a place where you be Safe from harm. It's a place where you find safety. And so we go to God. Oh Lord my God, in you do I take refuge. Save me from all my pursuers and deliver So going to God, taking refuge in God and trusting in Him to do the work. Trusting in Him to save. We do have spiritual enemies. There might be situations in your life where there are actual prayers But even if that's not happening, we have spiritual enemies that we're fighting against. The devil, his temptations, our own sinful flesh that wage war against our soul. And we can't defeat those things on our own. We can't overcome temptation on our own power. We can't repent of sin on our own power, but we go to God for refuge and He can help us. Also look uh on the same point that we go to him for spiritual protection, look at verses six And seven, very vivid in this way that he's calling God to rise up and do whatever is necessary in this situation, trusting that the Lord knows what's best. Verse 6, arise, O Lord, in your anger. Lift yourself lift yourself against the fury of my enemies. Do you see what he's calling Calling upon God to fight against his enemies for him. He's asking for God to step into the battle, for God to fight the battle. Awake for me. You have appointed a judge. I love that phrase, awake for me. He's calling upon God to awake for him. And we should do that. We should call God. God wants us to do that, to call him to come to our aid. Let the assembly Assembly of the peoples be gathered about you. Over it. Return on high. So we must go to God As our refuge, he is our refuge for spiritual protection. But secondly, and this is the final point for this devotion, as we go to him for spiritual protection, there must be a humble repentance. In our hearts. Because there's never a day that goes by where we haven't sinned. There's never a day that goes by where we haven't erred. And We need God to discipline us. So look at verses 3 to 5. Right in the middle, right in the midst of this cry for refuge, for God to come and fight for him. He says humbly and with the spirit of repentance, verse 3, O Lord my God, if I've done this, if there's any wrong in my hands, if I have repaid my friend with evil, or pledge Let the enemy pursue my soul and overtake it, and let him trample my life to the ground and lay my glory to the dust, which is just a a figurative way of saying, let him kill me. Let my enemy win. So putting his hands in the judge putting his life in the judgment of God, trusting the situation to God's judgment. God knows what is best. And if this is God's way of disciplining him, if this is God's way of, if this is God's chosen judgment for the situation, David says, I'm on board I agree with that. So David understands that it's not just his enemies that are sinners. It's not just his enemies that deserve judgment. But David knows that he is a sinner and that he He deserves judgment. Any good from God is because of God's grace, because of God's mercy. Not because David thinks that he deserves it. So you know some of David's at least the highlights of his horrible sins. But David understood the mercy of God. God. He understood that salvation was by grace through faith. And he understands in this situation that yes, there are four forces of evil against us. Him and he's crying out to God for help. God is his refuge, but he is not oblivious to his own sin. He is not oblivious that he needs to be a man of humble Humble repentance. And so let that be our reminder as we take refuge in the Lord, daily, daily going to Him for spiritual help and spiritual protection and spiritual power. Let us be Humble, blessed are the poor in spirit. The kingdom of heaven is theirs