Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. You know, one of the uh one of the things that all of us will go through in life are difficult times, times of sorrow, times of trouble. Times where the situation is so difficult and the the feelings of uh maybe pain or loneliness or anxiety or or s just times of trouble. Well in those times, they could be times where you draw closer to the Lord than ever by faith. to depend on him in more ways, right? To lean on him and pray in ways that you didn't have to before? Or Those things can drive us away from God and cause bitterness and cause resentment. Obviously that's not the direction we want to go Psalm 10 is like that. And you'll see it as soon as I begin reading this. But the point is, the point of application that I just want to say is that the psalmist is going to God, not running away from God Psalm 10, beginning in verse 1. Why, O Lord, do you stand far away? Why do you hide yourself in times of trouble? In arrogance, the wicked hotly pursue the poor, and let them be caught in the schemes that they have devised. For the wicked boasts, of the desire of his soul. And the one greedy for gain curses and renounces the Lord. In the pride of his face the wicked does not seek him. All his thoughts are There is no God His w his ways prosper at all times. Your judgments are on high out of his sight. As for all his foes, he puffs at them He says in his heart, I shall not be moved. Remember who he's talking about here, right? The wicked, right? The wicked, the atheist, the rejector of God He says, In his heart, I shall not be moved. Throughout all generations I shall not meet adversity. His mouth is filled with cursing and deceit and oppression. Under his tongue are mischief and iniquity He sits in ambush in the villages, in hiding places. He murders the innocent. His eyes stealthily watch for the helpless. He lurks in ambush like a lion in his thicket. He lurks that he may seize the poor. He seizes the poor when he draws him into his net. The helpless are crushed sink down and fall by his might. He says in his heart, God is forgotten. He has hidden his face. He will never see it. Well arise, O Lord, O God, lift up your hand. Forget not the afflicted. Why does the wicked renounce God and say in his heart, You will not call to account? It's just another way of saying he's not going to be accountable to God. Living as if he's not accountable to God. Verse 14, and of course you've Heard that and you've met and known and talked to people who believe that. They they can live however they want and they're not accountable to God. Absolutely false. Verse 14 But you do see, for you note mischief and vexation, that you may take it into your hands. To you the helpless commits himself. You have been the helper of the fatherless Break the arm of the wicked and evildoer. Call his wickedness to account till you find none. The Lord is king for ever and ever. The nations perish from his land. O Lord, you hear the desire of the afflicted. You will strengthen their heart. You will incline your ear to do justice to the fatherless and the oppressed, so that man Who is of the earth may strike terror no more. Let's pray