Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. All right, Psalm 4 is a congregational prayer, and most of it in the middle is words to the congregation. You'll see that. But it is a prayer. And you'll you'll see that as soon as we start. So what I want to do is read through it and just pluck out some tips and encouragements. regarding prayer. Verse 1, answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness. You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me and hear my everybody prayer. But now, who does he begin addressing in verse 2? Men. O men. So you see how it's congregational prayer. O men, how long shall my honor be turned into shame? How long will you love vain words and seek after lies? But know that the Lord has set apart the godly for himself. The Lord hears when I call to him. Be angry, but do not sin. Ponder in your own hearts, on your beds, and be silent Offer right sacrifices, and put your trust in the Lord. There are many who say, Who will show us some good? Lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. You have put more joy in my heart than they have when their grain and wine abound. In peace. I will both lie down and sleep. For you alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. She probably guessed why I want to pluck out just a few principles of prayer and encouragements for prayer as we look at this, because if between verses two and seven, if you look at the different aspects of how he's addressing the congregation in this prayer. There's a lot that's going on and there's a lot to talk about. But the first principle comes from verse 1 that when we pray, we should remember God's faithfulness in the past. We remember how God has been good to us in the past. We remember how God has provided for us in the past. We remember God's faithfulness in the past. Look at verse 1. Answer me when I call, O God of my righteousness. You have given me relief when I was in distress. And so the call is present tense. Answer me when I call. But then he has this statement about the past. You have given me relief when I was in distress. Be gracious to me now and hear my prayer now. Prayer is going to God and calling upon God, asking God to hear you, believing that God will hear you, and in your heart, trusting that He is faithful. That's the foundation of true prayer, and that's why prayers are heard and are answered. Boy, I would love to do an entire sermon just on this phrase in verse 1: Oh God of my righteousness. This is the story of the Bible. There is a way for sinners to be righteous before God, but that righteousness must come from God. He's the God of our righteousness He's given us righteousness. He's justified us, taken our sins away. So when you pray, be mindful of God's faithfulness in the past. Maybe it's answered prayers. Maybe it's difficult situations that you were in that God helped you through. Maybe it was a need that you or your family or friends had and you saw God provide that need. Maybe it was praying for someone's salvation. and God save them. I mean you have a long list of things that you could think back on God's faithfulness and let that stir you up to pray. And then again w just don't have time to Open up everything that's in verses two to seven. But there is something of a central prayer that I if I had the time, I would work to isolating this as the central prayer of this psalm, but really the central prayer of of God's people Uh and uh on the whole. Verse six, the second part, and I'm again I'm stripping away that context, but just For the sake of being short, lift up the light of your face upon us, O Lord. And so the light of God's face is obviously a metaphor That represents God's favor. It's a prayer for God's favor. It's a prayer for God's blessing. It's coming to God. God bless us God be good to us. God, show us who you are. Shine the light of your face upon us. Show us who you are. Show us your power. Show us your mercy. Show us your grace. Show us, God, show us who you are. Be good to us. That's the central prayer. No matter what's going on, and all these other details and situations that he's dealing with in this congregational prayer, this is the hope. This is the cry. So praying Based on God's faithfulness, praying for God to be good and to show Himself to us. And then verse 8: in peace. I will both lie down and sleep, for you alone. You alone, O Lord, make me dwell in safety. And when we come to prayer, we have a heart that trusts in God alone as our reference. We trust in God alone as our peace. Verse 8, in peace. No matter where I am, whether I'm lying down, sleeping, waking up In danger, it's you alone, ultimately, Lord, who's my safety. So we can come to prayer. And every time we come to God in prayer to call upon him, to cry out to him, we know he'll hear us, we know he'll answer us according to his wisdom. Because of his faithfulness. It's because of who he is. It's not how good our prayers are. It's not how excellent and spiritual we are at praying. It's God's faithfulness. And we should always, always, always be praying for God to shine the light of his face and favor and grace and power upon us. Because we desperately need it. And we trust in him alone. We trust in him alone. Not money, not reputation, not friends, not things, not stuff made of plastic and metal and wood. God alone. Is our hope and peace and salvation? Let's pray