Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. Psalm 13 How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? How long must I take counsel in my soul and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me? Consider and answer me, O Lord Lord my God. Light up my eyes, lest I sleep the sleep of death, lest my enemies say I have prevailed over him, lest my foes rejoice because I am shaken But I have trusted in your steadfast love. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord, because He has dealt bountifully with me. It's an amazing psalm where you can see the difficulty that's going on in David's life, the threat that's going on in David's life, and then the resulting anguish in his heart. that he has and yet number one he's going to the Lord. He's not running away from the Lord. He's not getting bitter at God because there's difficult things going on. The suffering around him is not causing him to be angry. Angry at God. How long, O Lord, will you forget me forever? How long will you hide your face from me? So, when it seems as though, or when it feels as though God has left you That's not true. He hasn't left you. But the point is, don't leave him. Don't go somewhere else for help. Go to God You see the difficulty. How how long must I take counsel in my soul, verse two, and have sorrow in my heart all the day? How long shall my enemy be exalted over me Consider and answer me, O Lord my God. He 's determined to wait on God for an answer to his problems. There's nothing in there's no category for David where there's something in the world that's going to heal his heart. There's no uh amount of money or there's no person. There's no material goods that he could go to or people that he could go to that's going to help him. In his heart only God can help him I love the way this psalm ends. After the difficulty, after the suffering, after the anguish, verses five and six is real It's a great paradigm, a great window into the basics of how the child of God lives. Look at verse five and six, and then we'll c Close. Number one, faith. But I have trusted in your steadfast love. That that's faith. Trusting in God's love. Trusting in God's mercy. Trusting in God's care. Putting faith in God no matter what's going on around. Around us, and no matter what we feel within us, trust in God. That's faith. Number two comes from the second half of verse five. Joy. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. David still has a song to sing. And in the midst of sufferings, our sufferings, we still have a song to sing, the song of salvation. Rejoice in your salvation, he says. My heart shall rejoice. Now that is intriguing to me because in verse two he says he has sorrow in his heart all day long, but simultaneously his heart is rejoicing for salvation. That's a heavenly perspective. In the midst of earthly suffering and earthly sorrow, and his own weakness and his own sin, he's still able to rejoice in God's salvation. David knows what hopefully we all know that nothing can take away God's salvation from us. And God will never take away his salvation from us. There's no enemy of God that's more powerful than God that can take away salvation. So, number one, faith. I've trusted in your steadfast love. Number two, joy. My heart shall rejoice in your salvation. I will sing to the Lord that goes with me. That because he has dealt bountifully with me. Thirdly, gratitude. He's still thankful for what God has done For him. He's still thankful. He's still mindful of what God has given to him. He knows how God has dealt with him. How has God dealt with David? In mercy. In grace and extreme benevolence in in despite David's weakness and sin. And rebellion. Just like our weakness in sin and rebellion, he's dealt bountifully with us, he's preserved us. So he's grateful, and that that grounds him That grounds him. So let us have faith in God's steadfast love. Let us rejoice in God's salvation and sing to the No matter what's going on around us, we can have a song in our heart that comes out of our mouth, singing to God for what He's done for us in Christ. And let us be mindful, let us be grateful, because He has dealt bountifully with us. Let's pray.