Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHarford. org. We're going to look at all of Psalm 8. The Psalms you know the major theme is God's God as King over all things. But as you look at the Psalms themselves, there are prayers, they're songs, their cries out to God. And so there they're different kinds of psalms. This one happens to be a psalm Psalm of worship, beginning in verse one. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name! You have set your glory above the heavens out of the mouth of babies and infants. You have established strength or power because of your foes to still the enemy and the avenger. It might be confusing as you think, what in the world does that mean? I'll say it's something Briefly about that. Verse 3: When I look at your heavens, the work of your fingers, the moon, the stars, which you have set in place, what is man that you are mindful of him and the Son of Man, that you care for him. Yet you have made him a little lower than the angels, and crowned him with glory and honor, and you have given him dominion over the works of your hands. You have put all things under his Feet, all sheep and oxen, and also the beasts of the field, the birds of the heavens, and the fish of the sea, whatever passes along the paths of the seas. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name! in all the earth. So clearly worshiping God, highlighting God's power, his power to overcome his enemies even using uh the unexpected out of the mouths of babies and infants. So the small, the weak, the unable, can't do anything for themselves, babies and infants. Probably the way Israel saw themselves in from a worldly perspective up against their enemies The Philistines, Egypt, for example, but God has established his power against his enemies to You know, get worship for his name. Verse one, how majestic is your name in all the earth. And then Uh later in that same verse, you've said your glory, and all the way down to verse 9, again, the same exact word, how majestic is your name and all the earth. In the Bible, God's name represents all that God is. So to say how majestic is your name to God is basically to say how How majestic are you, O God. You are worthy of praise. You are beautiful. You are powerful. It's your majesty, your kingship that brings us to us to worship. And quickly here you see the different aspects. He begins in verse 3 with creation, right? The universe. The heavens, the work of his fingers, the moon, the stars, which he set in place. We worship God because He made the universe. That's an incredible, incredible power. I mean, it just blows my mind every time I think about it that God made the universe. But then in in the context of the universe, all that there is, right, these amazing things The sky, the stars, the sun, the moon, the order of it all, the faithfulness of it all, that it stays in place, which is based on the faithfulness Faithfulness of of God. God. In all of these wonderful things, God has made man a little lower than the angels. Man has been With glory and honor. He's given man dominion over the creation. He's put all things under his feet. So he's worshiping God, and we should worship God for the creation, but also for the fact that he cares for us. He cares for us. Verse 4, what is man that you are mindful of him, and the son of man that you care for him? Son of man that you care for him. If there is one word I would want us to take away from this, not that it's the most important word, I just think it's a a particular Encouraging one is the word care. God cares for us. He cares for his creation, but he cares for man In a general sense, and in the center of that he cares for his people, those who've come to him through faith in Christ. So, O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name In all the earth. O Lord, our Lord, how majestic is your name in all the earth. Verse 1, verse 9. That is a worship that, even when we're not saying it verbally, that should always be in our heart. Hearts. That should always be in our hearts to be in all of God and who he is and the fact that He cares for us. Father