Psalm eighteen, beginning in verse twenty-four. So the Lord has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hands in his sight. With the merciful, you show yourself merciful. With the blameless men, you show yourself blameless. With the purified, you show yourself pure. And with the crooked, You make yourself seem tortuous, for you save a humble people, but the haughty eyes you bring down. For it is you who light my lamp. The Lord my God lightens my darkness. For by you I can run against a troop, and by my God I can leap over a wall. This God, his way is perfect. The way , the word of the Lord, proves true. He is a shield for all those who take refuge in him. For who is God but the Lord? And who is a rock except for our God, the God who equipped me with strength and made my way blameless He made my feet like the feet of a deer, and he set me secure on the heights. He trains my hands for war, so that my arms can bend a bow of bronze. You have given me the shield of your salvation, and your right hand supported me, and your gentleness made me great You gave a wide place for my steps, and under me, and my feet did not slip. I pursued my enemies and overtook them, and did not turn back till they were consumed I thrust them through so that they were not able to rise. They fell under my feet. For you equipped me with strength for the battle You made those who rise against me sink under me. You made my enemies turn their backs to me, and those who hated me I destroyed. They cried for help, but there was none to save them. They cried to the Lord, but he did not answer them. I beat them fine as dust before the wind. I cast them out like the mire of the streets You delivered me from strife with the people. You made me the head of the nations. People whom I had not known served me. As soon as they heard of me, they obeyed me. Foreigners came cringing to me Foreigners lost heart and came trembling out of their fortresses. The Lord lives, and blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation The God who gave me vengeance and subdued peoples under me, who delivered me from my enemies. Yes, you exalted me above those who rose against me. You rescued me from the man of violence. For this I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations, and sing to your name. Great salvation he brings to his king, and shows steadfast love to his anointed, to David, and to his offspring Forever. You know, one of the things that's clear you see in the heart of David is that he knows that all of these victories came from God. He knows that it's not because of his strength. He knows that it's not because of his wisdom. It's God working in his life to save him, to help him, to strengthen him, to lead him, to guide him. And David knows this in terms of the actual battles that he's thinking of. Well, God gives him salvation. But David knows this on a spiritual level too David knows he needs the mercy of God. David knows he needs the forgiveness of God. David was a man who trusted in God. He was a man of faith. Was he a perfect man? No. He was a man just like me, just like you. He was weak. He had sinned in his life, he had to repent, and he had to grow, but in his heart he had true faith. Faith in God as his Savior. I love this verse thirty the end of verse thirty He is a shield for all those who take refuge in him I love that image of taking refuge in God. With all that's going on in the world, all the all the difficulties in life, all the turmoil, sometimes even inner turmoil and doubts, we can go to God for refuge. He will protect us. He will help us He will shelter us. And I love this verse 46. The Lord lives And blessed be my rock, and exalted be the God of my salvation. The Lord lives. Well that puts the God of the Bible in strict contrast with Every other notion of a God who do not live, who do not exist. The Lord lives. He really exists. And he is blessed. We should bless him and lift up his name, the God of our salvation. And I love finally verse 49. For this I will praise you, O Lord, among the nations, and sing to your name. God deserves To be praised. God deserves for for us to sing to him, to sing of who he is, to sing of what he's done, to sing of what he's promised. To sing of all his greatness and goodness and glory, to praise him and to sing to his name. Let's pray.