Psalm eighteen to the choirmaster, a psalm of David, the servant of the Lord, who addressed the words of this song to the Lord on the Day when the Lord rescued him from the hand of all his enemies and from the hand of Saul. Guilt of our sin. We thank you that you've rescued us from the enslaving power of sin in our hearts and our minds. We pray that you would sanctify us, purify us, purify our lips, our Our minds, our ears, our eyes. Father, we pray that you would use us in mighty ways for your name, for the name of Christ, for the gospel of Jesus. Father, we pray that you We thank you that you've given us the hope of eternal life, the forgiveness of sins. Pray that you would bless us this evening as we come to your word. In Jesus' name, Amen. Psalm 18, beginning in verse 1: I love you, Lord, my strength. The Lord is my rock and my fortress and my deliverer, my God, my rock in whom I take refuge, my shield, the horn of my salvation. My stronghold. I call upon the Lord who is worthy to be praised, and I am saved from my enemies. The cords of death encompassed me, the torrents of destruction assailed me Me, the cords of Sheol entangled me, the snares of death confronted me. In my distress I called upon the Lord. To my God, I cried for help. And from his temple He heard my voice, and my cry to him reached his ears. Then the earth reeled and rocked. The foundations also of the mountains trembled and quaked. Because he was angry. Smoke went up from his nostrils, and devouring fire from his mouth, glowing coals flamed forth from him. Down. Thick darkness was under his feet. He rode on a cherub and flew. He came swiftly on the wings of the wind. He made darkness his covering, his canopy around him. Thick clouds, dark with water. Out of the brightness before him hailstones and coals of fire broke through his clouds. The Lord also thundered in the heavens, and the Most High uttered his voice, Hailstones And coals of fire. And he sent out his arrows and scattered them. He flashed forth lightnings and routed them. Then the channels of the sea were seen And the foundations of the world were laid bare at your rebuke, O Lord, at the blast of the breath of your nostrils. He sent from on high. He took He drew me out of many waters. He rescued me from my strong enemy and from those who hated me, for they were too mighty for me. They confronted me in the day of my Calamity, but the Lord was my support. He brought me out into the broad place. He rescued me because he delighted in me. The Lord dealt with me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my hand He rewarded me, for I have kept the way of the Lord, and I have not wickedly departed from my God. For all his rules were before me, and his statutes I did not put away from me. I was I was blameless before him, and I kept myself from my guilt. So the Lord has rewarded me according to my righteousness, according to the cleanness of my Hands in his sight. Let's pray once more. Father, we know that you watch over us, and I am mindful as we read through this psalm that you provide for us a righteousness That we could never attain on our own. You give us the righteousness that is by faith, by faith in Jesus, based on his sacrifice on our behalf. You give us righteousness by your grace, received through faith We're thankful that you see us in that light. We're thankful that you count us as blameless in your eyes because of Jesus. That you are the rescuer, that you are mighty, that you are powerful, that you will hear and answer when we call upon you. Father, we love you, Lord. We rest in you. We sing your praises in Jesus' name. Amen.