Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarrettville, Maryland. Visit us online at northharford. org. The weekly psalm for week one is Psalm 1, the whole thing. I'll give you a moment just to get to Psalm 1. And it's a message on the righteous and the wicked. There's a lot to say about the righteous and a lot to say about the wicked. If we were to sum it up, the righteous is simply those who live for God. The wicked is simply those who live in rebellion against God. Psalm 1 is a message on the righteous and the wicked. Specifically, the message is there are only two paths to follow in life. Either the righteous path or the wicked path, which one will you choose? Which one will I choose? The message is really a call. It's a question. The righteous and the wicked. I'll read the psalm slowly enough for us to contemplate it as we read, and then I'll give just a few points on it. Psalm 1, verse 1. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners, nor sits in the seat of scoffers. But his delight is in the law of the Lord. And on his law he meditates day and night. He is like a tree. Planted by streams of water that yields its fruits in its season, and its leaf does not wither. In all that he does he prospers. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous. For the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. Now, if this were a sermon and it's not, it's a brief devotion. But it would be pretty easy to outline a sermon on this four marks of the righteous. The first mark would be they avoid what displeases God. They avoid uh situations that could cause them to displease God. Blessed is the man verse one who walks not in the counsel of the wicked. He doesn't listen to the advice of those who would be a bad influence. nor stand in the way of sinners. He's not spending significant time with um sinners in such a way that it would lead him into sin. He doesn't sit in the seat of scoffers. He's not taking his place in the midst of those and with those, hanging out with those who mock and who make fun of God and the people of God. He avoids what displeases God. Another mark of the righteous in verse two is that his heart delights in God's word. Verse two, his delight is in the law of the Lord. It's one of the ways of referring to God's word, the way God speaks. And on his law he meditates day and night. It's a habit. It's a delight. It's uh something he longs for. So he avoids what displeases God. And then his heart delights in God's word. Another mark of the righteous is no matter what happens in his life, no matter what happens to him, bad things, difficult things. He still has the joy and the work and the power of God, and nothing can take that away from him. Verse 3, he's like a tree planted by streams of water That yields fruit in its season. Its leaf does not wither. It's a picture of life. It's a picture of thriving, flourishing life. It's contrasted with the wicked. The wicked are not so, but are like chaff that the wind drives away. So no matter what happens to the righteous Nothing can take what he has in God. True joy, true peace, the work and the power of God in this life. But it's the opposite for the wicked. No matter what if we don't have God, no matter what we gain in this world, no matter how much we gain in this world, ultimately we lose it. We can't keep it So uh that's another mark of the righteous, no matter what he has, or no matter what happens to him, no matter what he doesn't have, he still has the Lord. And the final mark here is He 's received into God's presence rather than being sent away in judgment. The righteous man, the righteous woman, the righteous child is received into God's presence. instead of being sent away in judgment. And that comes from verses five through six and six. Therefore the wicked will not stand in the judgment, nor sinners in the congregation of the righteous, for the Lord knows the way of the righteous, but the way of the wicked will perish. So the righteous and the wicked. There's only two paths in life, the righteous path and the wicked path. And honestly, one of the ways to summarize the whole entire Bible is How do I live the righteous path? How do I live for God? How do I come off of this path of wickedness and get on this path of righteousness? Well, the answer to that is the person, Jesus. We come into a relationship with Jesus. To be, I'll give you these quick. This will be on the the final exam at the end of the semester. On what it means to be righteous. It means two things. To be righteous means, number one, you stand innocent before God And number two, it means you live in obedience to God. That's two aspects. That's what a righteous person is slash does. He stands innocent before God, and he lives in obedience to God. So to be righteous, to stand innocent before God, you need to be forgiven through faith in Jesus Christ because of his death on the cross. He shed his blood. He took our penalty so that we could be counted innocent. Righteous by faith stand innocent before God. And we live in obedience to God. Well, how does that happen? The Word of God and the Holy Spirit of God. That's it. That's where the power is. That's where the guidance is. That's why this righteous person is meditating on the law of the Lord, delighting in it day and night. Because it's through God's word that He'll help us and empower us to live obediently. So the righteous and the wicked, this is how the book of Psalms, which is a massive book, begins. two paths, the righteous path, the wicked path. And if we think about that in the context of all of Scripture, the righteous path is really the path of a person, Jesus Christ. Here he is, the righteous one, the obedient one, the one who can forgive us. He can get us onto this path. He'll keep us on this path and take us all the way to the end. And the Psalms is about Jesus Christ as the whole Bible is.