Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. This week is Psalm fourteen and if you have a subtitle like I do it probably says something like this the fool says in his heart there is no god or the fool Fool says there is no God. So the wise person is the one who accepts the reality of God based on God's revelation. So if there were to be an exhortation based on this Psalm it would be go to God for the truth because God is the source of truth. We don't look inward, treating ourselves like we are the source of truth. And we certainly wouldn't look out into the world, treating the world as if they are the source The source of truth. of But go to God for truth because God is the source of truth. And if God is the source of truth and we say there is no God, well that's foolish. Here we go. Verse 1 through 7 Of Psalm 14. The fool says in his heart, There's no God. They're corrupt, they do abominable deeds or wicked deeds. There's none who does good. The Lord looks down from heaven on the children of man to see if there are any who understand, who seek after God. But they've all turned aside. Together they've become corrupt There's none who does good, not even one. Have they no knowledge? All the evildoers who eat up my people as they eat bread. And do not call upon the Lord. There are there they are in great terror, for God is with the generation of the righteous. And you would shame the plans of the poor, but the Lord is his refuge. Oh, that salvation for Israel would come out of Zion when the Lord restores the fortunes of his people. Let Jacob rejoice. Let Israel be glad. The beginning of the Psalm gives a really vivid picture of the lost world Of the enemies of God, therefore the enemies of God's people, the kingdom of darkness, the kingdom of man, the children of man, evildoers, the violent, they corrupt, they don't do good, they don't seek God, they're living their own way. They're living their own way and oppressing others and doing violence, living for themselves. But in the midst of living in a world like that, God God's people have hope. They have hope of salvation in God. That this world is not the final chapter. We don't just live in a world of darkness and corruption and violence and oppression and immorality, and then that's that No, there's hope, there's salvation, there's heaven, there's fellowship with God. Everything here is preparation for eternity. Everything here is just the first chapter of a great Great story. For God will redeem his people and will save his people and will bring us to glory, obviously, through whom? Through Christ. His death and his resurrection, and of course his ascension, which is his enthronement in heaven. So the fool says in his heart there Well that's what the fool says in his heart verse one. What does the wise man say in his heart? Well, the first thing he would say is there is a God. There is a God. Proceed to make up his own definition of God. He submits to what God says about himself. Be wise, fear the Lord, seek his salvation, and trust in him He is our hope in this dark world. And he will not leave us and he will not forsake us. Let's pray