Hello and welcome to the broadcast. This is the Ministry of North Harford Baptist Church in Jarretttsville, Maryland. Visit us online at NorthHartford. org. Let's go, Psalm 12. A good psalm for prayer and meditation whenever the people of God are few or seem to be few. You. Alright, when you maybe feel like you're alone, or you feel like no one's coming to faith, or you feel like the people of God are the extreme minority and feeling weak. This is a good psalm. To pray through and think about. Here we go. Psalm 12, beginning in verse 1. Save, O Lord, for the godly one is gone. The faithful have vanished from among the children of men. Obviously exaggerating there to make the point, but nevertheless true in some sense Imagine that feeling, that sense. The faithful have vanished from among the children of man. Everyone utters lies to his neighbor. With flattering lips and a double heart they speak May the Lord cut off all flattering lips, the tongue that makes great boasts. Those who say, with our tongue we will prevail. Our lips are with us. Who is master over us? That's such uh that's the spirit of man, right? The spirit of the kingdom of of men. That God will not be our master. There is no master over us, there is no standard over us, we are a law unto ourselves, we are our own Master. That is the boast of verses three and four. Verse five, Because the poor are plundered, because the needy groan, I will now arise, says the Lord. The words of the Lord are pure words, like refined silver in a furnace on the ground, purified seven times. It can I get pure. And that's the verse I'm coming back to when we're done here. About the words of the Lord. Verse 7: You, O Lord, will keep Keep them. You will guard us from this generation forever. On every side the wicked prowl, as vileness is exalted among the children of man Sound familiar? I mean it calls for prayer. And you see in the verse sevens, uh maybe the two uh most memorable practical applications here to pray for preservation and protection. We pray in the midst of a lost world In the midst of a culture that's hostile to God, hostile to God's truth, and therefore hostile to God's people, you, O Lord, will keep them. That means God alone can preserve us. God alone can preserve us God alone can preserve our faith and our hope and our trust. And then it says, you will guard us from this generation forever. God alone will protect us. protect us. God alone can do it. So we look to God for His preserving power and His protection through His providence and through His mercy. We should pray. And this is A good psalm, and those are good prayers whenever you feel, maybe at school or at work, or just in general, like the people of God are few. Now quickly, verse 6. The words of the Lord are pure words. You know, I'm going to try to hop on it whenever there's a little passage about the nature of the of God's word. The nature of God's words. And here the imagery is pretty clear. I mean it applies off the page, right? Pure. Like silver we find in a furnace on the ground. Purified seven times. It cannot get purer. It's been purified to the fullest. This is the nature of the The things that God says, the words that God speaks. It brings us back to Scripture. It brings us back to this book that God has authored for us and gives us So that we would know the truth about ourselves and wouldn't have to rely on our own speculation or the imaginations of the world. how to live. God has spoken to us, and his words are pure, they're perfect, and they will never change.