Returning to Matthew chapter five, if you are not there yet. Beginning with verse twenty-seven, there is an outline on the song sheets. You'll see that as we look at two sections of this part of the Sermon on the Mount. I want to begin at verse 20 just to remind you of the context of what particularly chapter 5 is about. The rest of it. In verse 20 he says, For I say to you, Jesus, I say to you, that unless your righteousness surpasses that That of the scribes and Pharisees, you will not enter the kingdom of heaven. And we shouldn't look at Jesus saying there that, okay, we've got to do better than them so that we have more to show for ourselves and make it to heaven. No, he's showing the The ineptness of a righteousness, even the scribes and Pharisees' righteousness, to merit salvation and forgiveness of sin. But we need to also understand God's definition of true righteousness better than they did. Verse 20 is an alarming statement because in Jesus' day the scribes, particularly the Pharisees, were looked to as examples of righteousness. They knew the law. They did. They knew it well. And they carefully followed it as they understood it. In doing so, they made their own rules as to how to follow it. You're probably aware of that. Jesus' assessment of their understanding of the law and thus their example of following it was that it was woefully lacking. If you're a student of Scripture, you know there's a pun there because Jesus gives woes on the Pharisee for the fact that they were so interested about the outside appearance and not the heart. So they're understanding their example, woefully lacking. They focused on their actions as they should have, but neglected the attitudes, the thoughts. The intentions of the heart. We saw last week that they quoted the commandment, you shall not commit murder. But did not speak to anger in the heart, that which would lead someone to murder. And this week we see that they quoted God's law against adultery, but again Failed to deal with the heart. They quoted Moses ' instruction concerning regulations for divorce, but did not reverence God's original intent For marriage. And so we don't want to fall into that. We want to hear what Jesus says about this. We want to have the understanding of Jesus regarding true righteousness. Because that's what we need to teach our children. It's also what we see we fall short of and shows us our need of a Savior. If you're here and you've never trusted Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior, Then Jesus will be showing you how you fall short. If you hear and you have trusted Jesus Christ as your Lord and Savior, then you will see again why you are thankful to have Him as your personal savior. Well, first we look at adultery. Jesus gives a definition. You've heard that it was said, you shall not commit adultery. I'll go on in the verse in just a moment. Adultery is when A married person engages in sexual intimacy outside the marriage relationship. So husbands, wives, when you said I do or I will, depending on Your vow. In a promise to your spouse on your wedding day, you said, I don't, or you said, I won't, to every other woman or man. In the world. And for those of you not married, I want you to know that purity is not only the commitment of marriage, it must be your commitment before marriage You're not free to follow your desires sexually until you decide to settle down, until you decide to get married. You are to save yourself. For that person, and then keep yourself for your future spouse, and then keep yourself for your spouse. House when you are married. Let me say one of the greatest assurances that you can give, if you're unmarried, a few Spouse as to your faithfulness in marriage is a demonstration of your commitment to God's will before marriage, and especially in your relationship. your courting relationship, your relationship leading up to marriage, that you continue to follow the Word of God with that future spouse. It is a great demonstration Of your commitment to God. It is a great foundation for trust in the marriage. And so the married and the unmarried. Are to understand and trust Jesus' definition of adultery. Now, the scribes and the Pharisees were content With the letter of the law. For them, the seventh commandment was one that was violated physically when one shared his or her body with another. If you didn't commit the physical act, you had obeyed God's law not to commit adultery. But they should have seen the connection between the seventh commandment and the tenth commandment, which you might remember has to do with coveting. And in that, coveting by the way, not to desire, not to crave, in that it speaks about the things of your neighbor, including your neighbor's wife. Now think about that. Coveting is something that we do mentally on the inside, not physically. It certainly can lead to something you do physically, such as stealing something of your neighbors , such as adultery, taking uh his or her spouse in a way you should not But you don't have to move, you don't have to act, you can be perfectly still and covet. It's played out. In our minds, in our hearts, not our bodies. And so the connection that the Pharisees failed to see, Jesus states very plainly in verse Verse 28. For not only can adultery be committed physically, it can be committed mentally as well. Look at the verse. But I say to you, we noted Jesus' authority last week, remember, I say to you , He is giving us true righteousness, his definition, God's definition, the definition, that everyone who looks at a woman with lust for her has already committed adultery with her. Her in his heart. So when you look at a woman or a man other than your spouse, For the purpose of desiring him or her in sexual intimacy, when those thoughts are played out in your mind, you have committed adultery in your heart Some of you will not forget when I I don't know if it was candidate or president Jimmy Carter was asked the question, have you ever committed to dog He gave an honest answer. He had not physically, but he said, in my heart many times. I appreciated his honesty in that answer because he understood the biblical definition, Jesus definition. Listen, those kind of thoughts That are played out in the mind are reserved for one person, just as your body is for your spouse. All others should be to you as a sister, as a brother. You don't think of them in sexual ways. Such thoughts are adultery in the heart. So how do we deal with it I don't have to tell you that we live in a world that gives opportunities every day, inside, outside your home, on your device, to commit adultery in your heart. And don't expect, listen, don't expect the fashion industry to somehow have revival and become more modest because they're going to make money anyway. Whether it's the baggy clothes of the 80s or the tight-fitting clothes, which seems to be the case mo most often. Don't expect the entertainment industry industry to be your help in this and to change its ways. No, you will have to set up a fence as far as what is acceptable and not Money will rule the entertainment industry. One of the latest examples of that uh sent to me, and I had heard of it already from from Dr. Albert Moller's broadcast each morning, but Netflix decided to to offer on its uh network the movie cuties, which I don't know too much about, but it is about pre-adolescent girls and what they do and the desire that is there for that type of entertainment So don't expect the entertainment industry to change its ways. You will have to live in this world. In a way that pleases the Lord, guarding your heart and your mind. And so we need Jesus' instruction. And he gives it to us. Verse 29. If your right eye makes you stumble, tear it out and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body. To be thrown into hell. And if your right hand makes you stumble, cut it out and throw it from you, for it is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body. To go into hell. I want you to imagine with me that we've set up a clinic inside these doors in the fellowship hall for the purpose of removing eyes. and hands, and that at the conclusion of the service, anyone whose eye has ever focused on a person other than their spouse to desire them sexually Any whose hand has ever aided in that sin, they should line up and get ready for what can take place inside. I want you to listen to me. That's how seriously Jesus wants us to deal with adultery as he has defined it. It's a dramatic figure of speech designed to show us that drastic action needs to be taken to uproot and remove the causes of adultery. The things that make us stumble in our heart that we might guard our life as well That Jesus did not intend this literally, I think, is indicated by the designation right eye, right hand. Removing one eye and one hand will not stop adultery. in the heart. If you were a right eye luster, you'd become a left-eyed luster. We know that. But but the point is these the right is always thought of as the hand of strength, most people. So the right eye, the right hand indicate the strongest, most helpful to us. Removing sin that dishonors God becomes priority, no matter what must be. Given up. Does that make sense? Jesus is telling us to deal with it. The phrase makes you stumble literally means To put a snare in the way. Now, a snare is a stick for bait that lures an animal into a trap and then springs the trap when the animal takes the bait. Jesus is saying, don't allow your eyes or your hands To be setting snares in your path. Don't put yourself. Baiting the trap of saltery in the heart. Take immediate, decisive action to uproot such temptations The verbs in this section indicate this. Tear it out, he's saying. Cut it off, he is saying. Throw it from you. So the principle is this in applying it. Remove the snare, the temptation. But don't just relocate it. Get rid of it. Destroy it if necessary and if possible. Destroy media that is a snare to you. Don't leave it in the house. Put filters on your phone and computer. for internet use if that's an issue for your eyes. Steer clear of certain places or certain people if you need Make a practice of looking at people's eyes. Treat them like people made in the image of God, not like objects to assess sexually. Become accountable to someone if you need to be in this. Someone who will ask you, have you intentionally looked at a woman thinking of them sexually? And you have to give an answer yes or no, because you'll be honest with this person. Have you unintentionally seen women and thought of them sexually? Or could be Men, I understand that. Have you had thoughts of women other than your wife in a sexual way? Have you experienced temptation? Listen, if you need that, find someone That will ask you those questions in private, but someone you'll get honest with. That's what would honor what you Jesus is saying here. For you that might be the equivalent of lining up to get an eye taken out, to get accountable to someone. I can assure you that it's a biblical approach. It will be a blessing to you. Notice the danger of lust back in verse 29. It is better for you to lose one of the parts of your body than for your whole body. to be thrown into hell. Many people have and will make a tra tragic choice. They will continue to choose the pleasures of sexual sin rather than the joy of knowing and obeying Jesus. Jesus. They'll come to a passage like this and not want to give up their lifestyle and so won't repent of it. So great on the road thrown. And are resurrected and Jesus returns. That's what we'll take place. For it to ask a person to be forgiven of adultery, physical Or mental adultery. Yes. Praise God, yes. Praise God, yes. But listen, repentance is necessary You must purpose to go and sin no more. It's not, okay Jesus take care of that part of my life. I just can't help it. That's not a saved person's attitude. We don't think like that because we care and we must Jesus is teaching what faithfulness to one's spouse, that that faithfulness to one's spouse is more than physical. It is mental So when you made a vow, if you're married and you made a vow to your spouse regarding faithfulness, the vow includes your thoughts and thus the things that feed your thoughts. Your eyes, your hands. Thoughts of physical intimacy, you just repeat, should only be about one person that is your spouse. So take drastic action to uproot anything that tempts you otherwise and get benefit. When that's not possible, you flee the temptation with all When that's not possible, you cry out to God in prayer for the strength, the discipline, your eyes, and your healing. And then Jesus speaks about marriage in another way. And bringing up the topic of the rules. Another aspect of true righteousness is our understanding of marriage. And the Pharisees' concern here, it seems that it was that divorce be carried out properly. It was said, whoever sends his wife away, that is to divorce her, let him give her a certificate of divorce That was a a um a practice given for Moses to practice with the Israelites. We'll talk a little bit more about that. But the Pharisees in quoting this, or in following this, are thinking that if that is done Then the law has been obeyed. If we take that that God gave Moses and apply that, then the law has been obeyed. Let him get a certificate of the Jesus' concern is an understanding and a return to the heart of God's design for marriage. So it is not enough to say it was good enough for the Pharisees Then let's just do divorce in a in a proper way. No, Jesus is saying that's not good enough. That's inadequate. That's wrong. A wrong way to think about it how to live righteously with regard to marriage, divorce, and remarriage. Because divorce and remarriage do not represent God's original design. In fact, they lead, according to verse 32, to the sin of adultery. Look at it with you. But I say to you, there is his authority. Again, that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchaste , makes her commit adultery. And whoever marries a divorced woman Commits adultery. Let's think about God's design first. God's design is faithfulness to your marriage And I'd like you, if you're able to turn page or find these passages to do so. I think it's important. Matthew chapter 19 and verse 4. is the first one. Jesus speaks about marriage and the Bible does often. I think it's helpful for us to see this Matthew chapter 19 verse 4, he goes back to the book of Genesis and speaking about marriage and says in Matthew 19, 4. He who created them from the beginning made them male and female, and said, For this reason a man shall leave his father. And mother, and be joined to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. So they are no longer two, but one And so the physical bond, one flesh bond, and I would say also the way to say it is the social intimacy, the physical and social intimacy of marriage, this relationship should not be violated or severed by anyone. That's God God's original design. God's design is faithfulness to the spouse of your choice. And of course According to God's design is death and only death that should break this vow. Romans 7 and verse 2. Turn there if you will. I'll give you a moment to get there. I think it's important to see these passages. Romans 7 and verse 2. For the married woman is bound by law to her husband husband while he is living. But if her husband dies, she is released from the law concerning her husband. See the word bound, the word release. And what made the change was the death. So then, if while her husband is living, she is joined to another man, she shall be called a but if her husband dies She is free from the law so that she is not an adulteress, though she is joined to another man. If she is joined to another man while her first husband is living, the point is she She commits adultery. Death is what breaks the one flesh relationship. And Paul in 1 Corinthians 7, verse 10, gives his summary Which, of course, is an inspired summary of Jesus' teaching on the subject of divorce and remarriage. An interesting passage, 1 Corinthians 7, verse 10. He says, but to the married I give instruction. Not I, but the Lord. And so he is bringing into his life Letter to 1 Corinthians, a summary of what Jesus has taught. I give to the married instructions, not I, but the Lord, that the wife should not leave But if she does leave, she must remain unmarried or else be reconciled to her husband, and that the husband should not divorce his life. I want you to understand that that is Paul's inspired understanding of Jesus' teaching on marriage and remarriage. That the wife should not leave her husband, but if she does leave, she must remain unmarried, or else be reconciled to her husband, and the husband should not leave her divorce is what. So to summarize, you're not to leave your spouse. If you do, you are not to be married. To do so while your rightful spouse is alive I believe according to Jesus in Matthew five and according to Paul and according to Paul both in First Corinthians seven and Romans seven. is to commit adultery. Now God's design for marriage is stated in Genesis. It is stated in Jesus' teachings. It is stated in letters to the New Testament churches as we've just read. And listen, it has not changed. And so God's design is the same. Faithful To the marriage vow, faithfulness with one spouse for life. And it is the duty of the church, it is the duty of the No matter what an individual's experience with marriage has been, if you are a believer, it is your duty to uphold And teach God's design for marriage and pray that our children and our children's children will embrace God's design. Man's desires are what we look at next, because often they are at odds with God's design. This is the disciples voice, the popular view in Matthew nineteen, going back to that passage. They say in Matthew nineteen and verse seven Because they had questions, and this is an opportunity they had to ask them. Why then did Moses command to give her a certificate of divorce? And send her away. That's the Far what the Pharisees were leaning on in their understanding. So they asked Jesus the important question Question, why did Moses command that? So Jesus answered, Matthew 19, 8. He said to them, Because of your hardness of heart Moses , permitted you to divorce your wives. But from the beginning it has not been this way Because of your hardness of heart, Moses permitted you to divorce your wives. But from the beginning, in other words, God's design, it has not been this way. Man deviated from God's design, and Moses required. Hiring a man to give his wife a certificate of divorce was not condoning the divorce, it was regulating it in the interest really of the wives. Jesus' main point is that man has rejected God's design. We see evidence of this in Matthew 5, 31. And that the scribes and the Pharisees' definition of righteousness with regard to marriage was merely doing things properly. Jesus is going back to religious eyes. Jesus then is speaking to people who heard from their religious leaders that divorce was allowable for many reasons. but that the husband must give the wife a certificate of dismissal. So divorce was taking place in Jesus' day. And the Pharisees were condoning that as long as What God gave to Moses, because of hardness of heart, was being practiced in Israel. Now there was another group of Pharisees who contended with that understanding. They thought that only adultery was a legitimate cause. And these two groups of Pharisees debated the issue. But I want you to realize something. Just the fact that they're debating the issue as to who can get a divorce says something about the nature of man's heart. Man's question is often and I listen, I understand there There are maybe some of you who've been in extremely difficult situations and maybe because of crimes being committed, maybe for your own safety, you had a divorce. I understand that. Talking about that right now. I am asking you to agree with God's principles concerning marriage. But man's question often is simply when is it okay to divorce? I want to know if it's okay. What's the right way to do it? When's it right to remarry? Man's desire in all of those questions often is to justify himself, to find someone maybe who even agrees from scripture that if they can do this. So that they can go that way. But Jesus is saying The true righteousness is to honor God's design, and so to consider how to save our marriage if all possible In verse 32, we see Jesus, the fence of God 's design. Look at it there. But I say to you, authority that everyone who divorces his wife, except for the reason of unchastecity, makes her commit adultery, and whoever marries a divorced woman commits adultery. Now Jesus' clear intent in verse 32 is to show that divorce was leading to adultery. If you read it And just understand what he's saying. That's what he is saying. That divorces were leading to the sin of adultery. That is a divorced woman, and you think about it, have to think about it contextually in Jesus' day didn't have many choices financially. Because most always there were some examples of women earning money, certainly, but not to the extent of men. So to survive financially, she could remarry or she could return to live with her parents. Most remarried, and thus their first husbands divorced. Led them to enter the second marriage. Since the first husband was still alive, Jesus is saying this was adultery. As we saw in verse 7. It's adultery for her and the man that married her. And Jesus is putting at least part of the blame on the first husband. Who divorced her and put her into the position of seeking another marriage? The divorce should not have taken place. The remarriage should not have taken place. The two should have sought to preserve Now Jesus does mention one exception here. Except for the reason of unchaste. The word un that's translated unchastee is used in Different ways uh for sexual sins in the New Testament. And there's wide debate on its meaning here in this verse. I believe a key to understanding It doesn't show up in the book of Mark or in Book of Luke in parallel teachings of Jesus on Mary. Mark chapter 10, verse 11 and 12. He said to them, Whoever divorces his wife and man And if she herself divorces her husband and marries another man, she is Committing adultery. Mark did not report except for the reason of unchasting. Nor does Luke in Luke chapter 16, verse 18. Everyone who divorces his wife and bears. Marries another commits adultery. And he who marries one who is divorced from a husband commits adultery. Again, you don't see, except for the reason of The clause is included one other place, but also in the Gospel of Matthew, Matthew chapter nineteen nineteen. We were there a little while ago. Matthew nineteen verse nine, Jesus says, I say to you, whoever divorces his wife except for immorality, is translated unchasting. Chapter 5 of the New American Standard. Whoever divorces his wife except for immorality and marries another woman commits. So I think the question to ask that must be asked is why is the clause found in Matthew and not in the other gospels? We know that Matthew was writing the gospel for the Jews, particularly to a Jewish audience, this this Gospel was written. My conviction is that the exception is Jewish in nature. That's why it doesn't show up in the Gospels that were primarily uh targeted toward the Gentiles. It deals with something quite unique to Jewish culture. And I believe the best answer is what we find in Matthew chapter 1, verses 18 and 19, and you'll recognize these passages as the narrative of the birth of Christ. The birth of Jesus Christ was as follows. When his mother Mary had been betrothed to Joseph, before they came together, she was found to be the child. And Joseph, her husband, being a righteous man and not wanting to disgrace her, planned to send her away. secretly. Well that phrase is equivalent to divorced code because the only way to break the betrothal which they had committed to was through a divorce. So the Jewish betrothal, which was a binding commitment that could only be broken formally through divorce , uh and and could only could be broken for the reason of unchaste. But since the man and the woman had not entered into the one flesh marriage union, the two of them had left. Such divorce during the betrothal period becomes the only exception to Jesus. Instruction. Some would argue that the word unchastity can mean more than just premarital sex and Joseph. fault Mary had committed. That it covers adultery as well, and so therefore in Matthew five we should take it in fullness of its meaning. Well yes it can mean more than have it with sex, but it is used specifically in that way in the scripture. In John chapter 8 And verse uh forty-one, the enemies of Jesus say , We were not born of fornication, the same word is unchasting. Where the word for unchaste is used alongside the word that is translated adultery in that, as it is, which both are used in our text It's evident that sexual intimacy by the unmarried is meant by the word unchaste. For example, in Hebrews chapter thirteen, four it says, marriage is to be held in honor of among all, and the marriage bed is to be undefiled for fornicators, that's the word of chastity, and adulterers. God judge Fornicators, those who violate their body before marriage. Or it could be someone who's not married violating uh the marriage that two are in. But that person is committing fornication, they're not married, but they're having sex sexual intimacy with the marriage of the person. But anyway, there's a distinction Between fornication and adultery. Adultery would be the married person giving his body to someone else, whereas Jesus the body else. mind. So in Matthew chapter five, verse thirty two, I believe that the exception applies to a Jewish situation before the consummation of marriage, not after I hold to that and I've held to that ever since I've done Bible study on this passage. But I have to be honest with you, there are good Bible students who do not Hold the same view that I hold. But I think that it does justice to the text, and I believe it does justice to the teaching of righteousness in this text. Where two have become one flesh, only death breaks the vow. According to Jesus, true righteousness means commitment to God's design for marriage. And the one fall cover. The Pharisees had compromised God's design and so we must not. But listen, there are difficult circumstances. There are just Difficult questions. There are differing convictions among believers, and you all have differing histories with regard to marriage. While we uphold God's design, and I have done this Consistently, I do it with love and I do it with care for each one, whatever their circumstances would be. Because we minister to them. We will help the current man be successful. And honoring to God while we uphold his definition of what marriage should be, and especially for those young coming up This is what we teach , that marriage is with one person in life. The implication Well Jesus is teaching about true righteousness. Righteousness that flows from the heart. Hearts that don't look upon others as objects of sexual. Listen guys and girls, especially guys, we know that's an issue. And it's likely been an issue to one degree or another for for each one of us. So this is something we have to leave here taking seriously. And if you need some accountability, we offer that. Or you may know someone, speak to about that. Hearts that do not look upon us By the way, whatever your history, be committed to the one you're married to. And the response for any who have fallen short. Well It's not a clinic inside the fellowship that believes the eyes of God. It's repentance to a God, to admit To agree with His will to seek His glory in our lives. And it is faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Thankfulness that you have trusted The fact that his death covered everything brought to any sense that has to be with His own Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ means we follow His Lordship. We accept His teaching for ourselves. Our children, our grandchildren. Faith in the Lord Jesus Christ means we look to Him for help. The mercy and grace in time being of the right hand of God. Let's pray. Well, Father, we thank you for your teaching through your son on this mountainside, showing us true righteousness, and I pray that our hearts would say yes, that our hearts would say yes to the original intent and definition of marriage. Our hearts would say yes to that being what we teach at as a congregation, our hearts saying yes as to commitment and purity to our spouse not only physically that we would save ourselves, but that mentally we would be dedicated to our spouse. We do need a problem with that. Indeed those who need counsel, those who need seek counsel pray that they would humble themselves and know that that's that's a part of sanctification. That's a part of what local churches offer gladly, freely, confidentially if need. Craig those active conversations could take place enablement to take place in this city. Thank you. See this day next.