Tonight we are going to be in Psalm fifty-one. It's one of those classic psalms. I remember early in my ministry, I would try to do this once a year, whether it was in a Sunday school class or a Wednesday night class or in a sermon, but uh looking back at my notes and records, I haven't done this in quite a while, so I'm excited to do Psalm 50 one really the repentant heart. But specifically it's the repentance in a believer's heart. Repentance in a believer's life. And we know that because of the one who's Penning this scripture. The one who's authoring, from a human perspective, the one who's authoring this psalm, and that's David. And David was a believer. David was a child of God And David had to repent, because David, like me, David, like you, still sinned. He's he's perfected now. David has been made perfect as his soul dwells with God in heaven Psalm 51, Repentance in the Believer's Life. We'll read it in just a second, but really wanting to summarize what repentance looks like. In the believer's life, there's so many aspects we're going to get into in this psalm. It's a sizable psalm, not the biggest one, but it's also there are lots of psalms smaller than it. But summarizing what repentance looks like in the life of a believer is you'll have a humbled brokenness But it will be coupled with crying out in prayer for restoration. You'll have both of those things. The Spirit of God, the power of God will humble us And will break us and will bring us to a point of conviction. We're brought low, and so we're humbled in brokenness and the misery of our sin. But We're not sinking in despair, running away from God. We're looking to God and crying out for restoration, crying out for God to help us in our time of need. When we sin the most grievous sins in our lives, that's the time among all times, above all times, where we need to believe in the grace of God. And call upon God for mercy. So there'll be a humble brokenness coupled with prayer for restoration. Let's read Psalm fifty one, then we'll get into the outline here. Psalm fifty one, beginning in verse Uh actually beginning before verse one, I'll read the subheading or what it's called a superscription before verse one. Psalm 51 to the choir master, a psalm of David. when Nathan the prophet went to him after he had gone into Bathsheba. Now verse one, have mercy on me, O God According to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned, and done what is evil in your sight, so that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Let me hear joy and gladness. Let the bones that you have broken rejoice Hide your face from my sins and blot out all my iniquities. Create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me, or a steadfast spirit, that could be, within me. Cast me not away from your presence. Take not your Holy Spirit from me. Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. Then I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness O Lord, open my lips, and my mouth will declare your praise. For you will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. You will not be pleased with a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and a contrite heart. O God, you will not despise. Do good to Zion in your good pleasure. Build up the walls of Jerusalem. Then will you delight In right sacrifices, in burnt offerings, and whole burnt offerings, then bowls will be offered on your altar. Let's pray together. God, we pray that through this text of Scripture and by the work of your Spirit, you'd help us to understand What repentance should look like in our hearts and lives. Help us to understand through what David is writing in David's situation what brokenness is. What true godly sorrow is, what biblical repentance is, but help us to apply it to our hearts, to our minds. God, would you show us our sin? Would you search us? Would you try us? Would you convict us of our sin and humble us? And if we need to be broken tonight, would you break us? So that we would look to Christ for help, so that we would lean on Christ for forgiveness so that we would appreciate all the more the great salvation you have given us in Christ, O God of our salvation. I pray that you will use the scripture to minister to us this evening, to build us up in the most holy faith. Faith in the Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Well, we know this is repentance in the believer's life because look at the superscription again. This is the Psalm of David. After in a specific situation in his life, uh when he committed adultery with Bathsheba, and you know that there was other sin connected with that. That led to Um lying and trying to cover it up and it led to c conspiracy, murder, and having uh a man killed, and God sent him a prophet. Uh to convict him of his sin and bring him to repentance. Now God may not send me a prophet every time I've sinned. He's not going to send you a prophet, but he's given us his word He's given us his sure and certain inspired word to speak into our lives. So we don't need Nathan to come to us. We have God's voice coming to us in Scripture to convict us of our sin. That's why we have to be uh in a steady diet of the word. Through your own reading, your own devotions, listening to Good solid stuff on Christian radio, good solid Christian books that will build build you up listening to sermons, faithfully attending Sunday school. And uh God will use his word. The two pillars of the Christian life are faith and repentance. That's not just what gets us started, but that's the road we're on. Faith and repentance. They're the two pillars of the Christian life I'm going to read a uh a short passage from this classic book uh by the Puritan Thomas Watson on repentance. It's called The Doctrine of Repentance. And he says The two great graces essential to a saint in this life are faith and repentance. These are the two wings by which he flies to heaven Faith and repentance preserve the spiritual life as heat and radical moisture do the natural life. He goes on to say that repentance is never out of season. Isn't that a good reminder for us? Repentance is never out of season. It is of frequent use just as the craftsman's tool or the soldier's weapon. In other words, you don't put repentance down for a season. Faith and repentance, I've also heard them called the two oars of the Christian life. Um Watson calls them the two wings by which we fly to heaven. They're the two pillars. But this is the way the Christian life operates. We're always looking to Christ. Always trusting in him, always finding our rest in him as a mighty and merciful Savior, and in that context, always turning away from sin. And you 're looking around the room, this just seasoned saints in this room, mature believers in this room. So you know what it's like for when you get into a season Where you stop giving an effort of turning from sin. And you know those dry spells, and you know those cold spells. You know when you're going through the motions and you're just waiting on the Lord. Praying to the Lord, crying out to the Lord, what's going on? Where's the spiritual life? Where's the joy? Give me that restoration. That's something of what David's going through here. Seven signs of a repentant heart Seven signs of a repentant heart from Psalm 51. Number one, the repentant heart ha has a uh a pressing need for mercy. A pressing need for mercy. It has a deep sense, I need mercy. And what does that lead to? It leads to something very practical. Praying to God for mercy. This is from verses 1 and 2. A pressing need for mercy. The psalm begins with the cry, Have mercy on me, O God. According to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions. Wash me thoroughly from my iniquity and cleanse me from my sin. Isn't it true, Pastor John, Pastor Anthony, Jordan? You've you've preached some. Teachers in here. Isn't it true that there's some passages of scripture we're just wrestling over illustrations to come up with to try to make the truth visible to try to make the truth understandable. But then you have passages like this where the most vivid illustration in the world is in the passage. We don't have to worry about it. We don't have to think about it. The picture here is of God dispensing mercy upon us, pouring out mercy upon David, such that it blots out his transgressions. You know what blot out is if you ever do laundry and you have some kind of stain. How many times have I said My my Jordan now, not this Jordan, my Jordan. Throw it in the laundry room. You gotta shout it out. You got to get shout on it immediately or you or that will not come out. Amen? Jordan, it won't come out You've got to get some shout on it. You want to be able to blot that out, to erase it, to get rid of it. What else does he say? To wash me thoroughly, to cleanse me from my sin. To blot out the transgression. So that's your illustration. And when we see sin in our lives, not just grievous, public, scandalous over-the-top Sin, like David called in. But when we see sin in our lives, brothers and sisters, this should be our prayer. God, be merciful to me. I'm a sinner. I have sinned. And it could be Outward sin with actions. It could be sin in the mind with thoughts. It could be sin in the heart with desires and motives and fantasies. It could be sinned with the words. to other people. It could be sins of the words about other people. But when God shows us our sin, we must go to Him for mercy and pray for mercy. It's a critical component of Christian living. And that's the practical application under this pressing need for mercy is crying out in prayer. This is a prayer that David is writing. He's writing down his prayers. Plural. Multiple prayers here. The first one is for mercy. It is um it's it's got to always be there in our minds Not just when we fall into some kind of grievous sin, but as Christians, as children of God, it's got to always be in our minds. That we are recipients of grace. We are recipients of mercy. And we that's not something we just did one time back in the day, but that's just the way we live. We're always dependent upon the mercy of God. We're always seeking out the grace of God. We're always trying to rest in the love of God. And we should eat, sleep, and breathe, crying out for mercy. And when we're crying out in prayer for mercy or anything else, make sure we're praying in the name of Christ. Praying in the name of Christ because he's our representative, he's our mediator, he's our great high priest, and our prayers are are based on Uh, being purchased by his blood. So we're praying in the name of Christ, on the basis of his blood that's purchased us and made us children of God, and we're praying with the aid of the Holy Spirit. We're praying with the aid of the Holy Spirit. So we're praying to the Father in the name of Christ with Him as our representative on the basis of His blood. Um because that's the basis of mercy, grace, uh the love of God and salvation. And we're praying with the aid of the Holy Spirit. That's how we pray. That's how we pray. At least that's how we should pray. Another sign of the repentant heart, not only, number one, is there a pressing need for mercy, but number two, there's a piercing conviction of sin. A piercing conviction of sin. And I chose that word carefully. Oh, we picture our hearts And in our hearts we uh have this sin, and the the truth of God comes and the spirit of God comes and Like a javelin pierces our hearts with conviction so that we would be sorrowful, so that we would be broken and turn to God. Verses 3 to 5 is where you see this piercing conviction of sin. For I know my transgressions. And my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned, and done what is evil in your sight. So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me. The picture here is of David's sin showing itself to David. David's sin is presenting itself to David loud and clear. So that David would see his sin and be broken by it. Now it's God is the one who's doing that in David's life. That's the grace of God. Let's work. Backwards up through we'll go verse 5, verse 4, verse 3. Verse 5: Behold, I was brought forth in iniquity, and in sin did my mother conceive me He's articulating in this verse something very simple, very simple, very basic theological truth: that he is a sinner by nature. That's not something he became at a point in time. David is a sinner by nature. The children of Adam, the heirs of Adam, are sinners by nature. That's why we need salvation. He understands that. Being a human after the fall, he is a sinner by nature. And going up to verse 4, against you you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. Now, if you know the background of what happened, that sh should get your attention because he sinned against a lot of people. So why would he say, Against you and you only have I sinned? Well, because he's thinking about what makes sin sin. What makes sin sin is that it's against God. Not that it's against people. Yes, that's a horrible byproduct of sin. That is part of sin. Um hating others, injuring others, not loving others. um giving false witness about others. There are sins against other people, but the things that make it the thing that makes it sin is that it's against God. That's the definition of sin, is going against God. It's offending God. It's breaking God's law. And David is not going to stand in judgment and have to answer to Uriah the Hittite. David is going to stand in judgment and have to answer to God, his maker. That's what he means. That's what matters. And you see in the end of verse 4, this mindset of walking in the fear of the Lord. This is part of walking in the fear of the Lord, he says So that you may be justified in your words and blameless in your judgment. He's acknowledging not only the authority of God, but the perfect righteousness and justice of God. Whatever decision God makes will be the right decision, because it's God making it. That's the spirit we need to have. We don't need to be bargaining with God. We need to be acknowledging God's authority and acknowledging that He is just. And he is righteous and he is the judge, and whatever he decides to do is the right thing to do. We're not smarter than God. And God will come into our lives and and do things in our lives that really throw us for a loop. Whether it's his discipline or whether he's just uh teaching us in one particular area of Christian living or whatever it is. And and we have to endure through it, sometimes for years, until we c until we endure through it, and then we can look back and understand God's wisdom. And it's hard to do that sometimes. It's God who gives us the grace to endure through that difficult time until he shows us quite what he was doing. But what God is doing is teaching us in Deeper and deeper ways. He's teaching us in newer ways to depend on him and not upon ourselves. And so David is in the right mindset of the fear of the Lord. God, you're justified. Whatever you say on this, you're justified. Whatever your judgment, you are blameless. You are right. That's the fear of the Lord He says in verse 3, I know my transgressions, my sin is ever before me. Brothers and sisters, isn't that powerful? I mean God is God in his grace has taken David's sin and put it right before his eyes. He brought Nathan the prophet is of David's life to do this very thing. God has brought David to a place of conviction He can't get his sin out of his mind. He can't get his sin out of his heart. It's the opposite of when we were lost, right? Because when we were lost, we didn't see our sin at all for what it was. We didn't care about our sin. So it's the grace of God that enables us to see sin for what it is. Because when we see sin for what it is, and we're convicted of that, then we look to Christ for mercy and grace. We don't want we don't want to try to it's not evangelism to try to get people to hop over conviction of sin and make a merely intellectual decision of faith. That's not how people get saved. At least in scripture, that's not how people get saved. And we cannot be afraid of this. We must pray for this. We must urge and shepherd people to seek this. to be convicted of their sin, to be convicted of their need for salvation Practical application here is the confession of sin and the confession of weakness. The confession of sin and the confession of weakness. That's part of David's prayer. The signs of a repentant heart. Number one, we see a pressing need for mercy, a deep sense of a need for mercy. Number two, a piercing conviction of sin. And number three, another pressing need, a pressing need for sanctification, an acknowledgement of that pressing need for sanctification. Verses six and seven. Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. Purge me with hyssop, and I shall be clean. Wash me, and I shall be whiter than snow. Here's those illustrations again. I just love the vivid illustrations of scripture. This is God cleaning out the hearts. It's God coming and like spray cleaner and and uh a chamois to clean out the soul a little bit, get some of that corruption out of there, to to show us mercy, to show us grace, because sin brings with it misery Sin brings with it suffering and darkness and despair and angst and misery. And God will come and sanctify us. Behold, you delight in truth in the inward being, and you teach me wisdom in the secret heart. A couple things you could highlight there. Number one, inward being And number two, in the secret heart. One of the things you see in this verse, verse 6, is David has an understanding of true godliness. And his understanding of true godliness is it starts on the inside. Now it always makes its way to the outside. Amen. Are we awake tonight? It always makes its way to the outside. You say you have godliness only on the inside, but it's not translating to godliness in the actions and the words and faithful service in the church. If it's not manifesting itself outwardly, then you're deceived, and the truth is not in you. Now let's not go play the comparison game and measure the outward expression in his life to the outward expression in your life and start comparing and contrasting with each other. That's not what we're saying. But if you have the seed, the seed of true godliness inwardly, there'll be some outward manifestation of it And it could be it could be it at the the most immature beginning stage of you simply the the only thing you know and the only thing you can say is I'm a sinner, but I'm looking to Jesus. But that's still some outward manifestation. You know, there are some who put way too much emphasis on the outward and not enough attention to the inner spiritual life But it can go the other extreme too, where you can put all the emphasis on the inner spiritual life, but you're not living out the practical obedience while God calls us to both. God calls us to both. So whether I'm on this side of the spectrum or I'm on that side of the spectrum, I need to be repenting to make sure I'm cultivating inner spirituality. That's what he says. God delights in truth in the inward being, and God teaches wisdom in the secret heart, verse 6, but also living that out practically, which is called discipleship. Purge me , I'll be clean, wash me, and I'll be whiter than snow. A deep sense of pressing need for God to sanctify him. We should all feel that We should all feel that daily that we need God to sanctify us. David knows. Without question, David knows this, that if God does not purify him, he will not be purified. And since he has the Holy Spirit, and since we have the Holy Spirit, we desire to be purified. We desire, we don't desire this perfectly because we're not in heaven yet, but we do desire this truly to be made more like Christ. That's not something I can do for you. That's not something we can do for each other. It's only something that Jesus can do in us and for us by the work of the Spirit through His Word. The repentant heart The repentant heart. There's a need for mercy. There's a conviction of sin. And there's a need, a desire for sanctification. And understanding that that begins on the inside. Are any of these things ringing truth for you? Because in Scripture, these are the things that mark out children of God. These are the things that identify Believers in the Lord Jesus Christ. We don't graduate from conviction when we become believers. In fact, the more mature we get, the better we are at experiencing conviction. Because we know more of God's holiness. And so since we know more of God's holiness, when we see the sin in us, we know more of the depraved, vile nature of sin. It brings a deeper conviction. But also But also at the same time, if we've matured, we're we're not falling into despair because of that, but we've become experts, so to speak, in looking to Christ for salvation and forgiveness. Conviction and faith and rest in Christ and conviction of sin and looking to Christ and rest in Christ, that's The uh the dance for an illustration of Christian living, conviction and looking to Christ for rest Now the practical application, really on all of these, but especially on this one, when we have this Acknowledging and feeling, really feeling our need for God to sanctify us, the number one practical application is we must be diligent to avail ourselves of the means of grace. To avail ourselves to the means of grace. Wherever the means of God's grace are available, that's where we are. And uh means is just the way you get something done. Like the a bridge is a means to the other side. A ladder is a means to the top of the building. An instrument is the means of playing music. That's what means are. The means, the way you get something done. So the means of grace is the way God Administers his grace to our hearts and minds. And the chief means of grace, we should all know this, is the Word of God. Brothers and sisters, have a big view of the Bible. Have a massive view of the Bible and its inspiration and its authority and its power to sanctify us into the likeness of Christ. Have a bigger and bigger view of the Bible The inspired Word of God is the chief means of grace. Avail yourself as much as you can to sound preaching, teaching, reading, singing, praying of the Word of God. The Word of God is the chief means of grace. If you want to be sanctified, you must avail yourself of the Word Number four, fourth sign of a repentant heart. Another pressing need. Lots of pressing needs here, right? I mean that makes sense. David's crying out. God has shown him his need and he's not crying out to God to meet those needs. Pressing need for a restoration of joy. A pressing need for a restoration of joy. Now, if you've never been disciplined in this way, you don't understand this. If you walk with the Lord long enough, you'll understand this one day. Or you'll fall into a sin or you'll fall into a season of apathy, and God will to discipline you and to wake you up, He'll take away your joy. Not so it will take away your salvation, but it'll take away the joy of your salvation to stir you up, to wake you up, to get you to appreciate his goodness and turn you back to him. And this is verses 9 to 12. Hide your face from my sins, blot out all my iniquities, create in me a clean heart, O God. And renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence. Take not your Holy Spirit from me Restore to me the joy of your salvation and uphold me with the willing spirit. Uphold me with the willing spirit. That means, give me strength. Strengthen me once again. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. Now, why would you pray that unless you at that time were void of joy of your salvation? See, David is under God's discipline. David is experiencing the conviction of sin. God has put his sin on display before him. He's pierced his heart. He's broken him. He's filled his heart with a godly sorrow. So that David will cry out for mercy. Now that's what's happening. That's what's supposed to happen. Restore to me the joy of your salvation. He says in verse 10, created me a clean heart. Do you know how you have to feel about your own heart to pray this prayer? How must he feel about the condition of his heart if his prayer is, create in me a clean heart? So what does he think about his own heart? It's filthy, it's dirty. It's impure. It's sin. It's corrupt. It's teeming, teeming with sin and the corruption of the flesh. Create in me a clean heart. That's what David wants. That's what I want. That's what you ought to want. And it's right to go to God and cry out for a clean heart and a clean mind and clean lips. Renew a right spirit, or renew a steadfast, renew a faithful spirit within me. Implied in that or behind that is confession. It's a confession of sin. God, my spirit has not been right. I've not been faithful. I've not been steadfast. If God, if you don't renew a right spirit in me, there's nowhere I can I can't go down the street and get that. There's no amount of outward religion I can perform to get that. God, I need you to renew a right spirit within me. Cast me not away from your presence and take not your Holy Spirit from me. Gives you a window into how David is feeling at this point. God is disciplining him. And David has been separated from the enjoyments, the joy, the rejoicing that comes along with salvation. That's why otherwise you wouldn't be crying out for it. Seven signs of a repentant heart. The repentant heart has a pressing need for mercy, is crying out for mercy, has a piercing conviction of sin. The pressing need for sanctification and an understanding of true godliness. Number four, a pressing need for restored joy, the restoration of joy, a revival of joy. God doesn't discipline his children because he hates them and wishes them harm. Brothers and sisters, children of God, God disciplines us because he is our Father. And he loves us, and he wants to help us, and he wants what's best for us. Isn't that why we discipline our children? Because we love them. And God's a better father than we could ever dream to be. Number five, six, and seven. We'll take these together. All right. Five, six, and seven. Signs of a repentant heart. Number five is this the repentant heart will have something in it of a pledge of revived faithfulness. A pledge of revived faithfulness. In other words, the repentant heart is looking forward, looking into the future after the restoration, because if you're walking by faith, you know that God is going to answer your prayers of restoration. You don't know when. Could be the next day, could be the next month. But David is looking forward after the restoration, and he has a pledge of a revived faithfulness. We'll come back and read it. Let's go right to number six. Number six Sign of a repentant heart, number six. Again, there's an understanding of true obedience. There's an understanding of the kind of obedience that God accepts versus the kind of obedience that God rejects. So that's an understanding of true obedience and true worship. And number seven, the repentant heart has a compassion and an intercession for others. A compassion and an intercession for others. The more God shows us our sin and weakness and our need for mercy, you know, if we're growing, if we're maturing, God's also reminding us That other people are sinners, and other people need mercy, and other people need grace, and other people need patience, and other people need the love of God, the restoration and sanctification of God. Try to do these in short order here. Going back to number five, the pledge of a revived faithfulness. This comes from verses 13 to 15. David says, then, then , see, he's looking to the future, I will teach transgressors your ways. And sinners will return to you. Deliver me from blood guiltiness, O God, O God of my salvation, and my tongue will sing aloud of your righteousness O Lord, open my lips and my mouth will declare your praise. He's looking forward to being a witness for God. Bearing public witness to God. He says, I will teach transgressors your ways, and sinners will return to you. That's evangelism. He's looking forward to evangelism to bring sinners to repentance by teaching them about God and his word. He says, My tongue, verse 14, my tongue will single out of your righteousness. That's what our tongue should do. That's the best thing our tongues can do: single out of something of God's glory, something of God's character. Here it's his righteousness. And he's a righteous judge, and he's holy and pure and perfect in all of his ways and decisions. Judges on earth make mistakes, but the judge in heaven does not make mistakes. He says, I'll declare my mouth will declare your praise. This is a pledge of revived faithfulness. That is not a works centered mentality When you're being disciplined by the Lord, or uh you're being convicted of your sin, maybe a grievous sin like David's And part of your prayer is for is is pledging obedience for the future. That you, God, I will serve you with all of my might. And I will sing to you with all of my heart. And I'll testify to your goodness as much as I can. That's not a self-centered, work-centered. Mentality. God wants us to be his servants. God desires us to be his servants. God commands us to be his servants. And in the repentant heart, looking forward To the time when God does restore that joy is a pledge of faithfulness. Number six, understanding of true obedience, verses 16 and 17. David says, You will not delight in sacrifice, or I would give it. You would not be pleased with a burnt offering. The sacrifices of God are a broken spirit, a broken and contrary heart, O God, you will not despise That's uh one of the classic passages on the brokenness and the sorrow that comes along with conviction and true repentance. And it's a godly sorrow. It's being it's being broken and sorrowful for sin for the right reasons. Not just because it put me in debt. Not just because it didn't it uh for my reputation will get better if I repent from this sin. Not just because I want uh my work situation to get better and I've been messing up at work because of the sin or to get my family all those may be good things. But the true reason, the right reason of this brokenness and sorrow for sin is simply because it's offended God. Simply because it's offended God. And that's what Judas didn't have. And that's why Judas's sorrow was not a godly sorrow, and it led him to suicide, but Peter's sorrow, Peter's brokenness, was a true godly sorrow, and it led him to repentance That's the difference between a godly sorrow and a worldly, self-pitying, despairing sorrow. Understanding of true obedience: a burnt offering isn't gonna fix it. It's a broken and contrite heart that God accepts. And lastly, finally, uh sign of repentant heart. Let me rehearse The first six and then we'll finish on this last one. The repentant heart of a believer. There's a a pressing need, a pressing sense for God's mercy. Number two, there's a piercing conviction of sin. I know there's sin in your life, but the question is, is there the conviction of sin in your life? Number three, a pressing need for sanctification, crying out for sanctification. Number four, a pressing need for a restoration of joy. Number five, a pledge of a revived or a restored faithfulness. Testifying and serving God. Number six, understanding of true obedience, that it's the brokenness, a godly sorrow that's the heart of true obedience. True conviction. And number seven, a compassion and intercession for others. I love that the psalm ends on this note of praying for the people of God, praying for others. Verse 18 and 19, do good to Zion in your good pleasure. Build up the walls of Jerusalem, and then will you delight in right sacrifices? In burnt offerings and whole burnt offerings, then bulls will be offered on your altar. His perspective here has really zoomed out, hasn't it? I mean he's talking about his his inner heart, his inner self, his secret heart, over and over his heart, the inner s the inner man. It's all about that. But now he's zooming out to the people of God, to the city of Jerusalem. To the center of worship, to the center of God's kingdom, the capital city of God's kingdom, and he's praying for uh God's blessing. He's praying for God's favor to be poured out upon the people of God. He's praying for restored and true worship and sacrifices. And it's by the blood of Christ that you and I can do good works that are truly good. It's because of the blood of Christ that you and I can pray prayers that are truly a pleasing aroma to God and acceptable to God. All of our service, all of anything we do in the name of Christ is acceptable to God only because of the blood of Christ. Though there did have to be a sacrifice. The sacrifice of Christ to wash us, to cleanse us, to reconcile us to God, and to enable us to serve Him and worship Him properly. We're all believers. I think we're all believers in this room. Are we all repentant believers? Because I'll leave you with this. There's only one kind of true believer in this life, and that's the repentant believer. The only believers don't have to repent anymore are the believers who've already died and gone to heaven. So please don't be through with repentance. As it was said by Thomas Watson, repentance is never out of season. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for your grace That is available to us every moment, every microsecond. Your mercy, grace, kindness, love, and forgiveness is available to us through Christ and in Christ. I pray you continue to grow us up in these things for your name and for your glory. And help us to encourage and build up each other in these things. Help us to have hearts like David that when we sin, that we are convicted and turn to you for mercy It's in Christ we pray, Amen