Alright. We are doing Esther today. That'll be pretty much the second half of the class. What we're going to do is the timeline of the restoration books. Last week we introduced the restoration books. And this week we're going to look at them again in terms of a historical timeline. Not that you would memorize this, but that it's would be a good resource whenever in your devotions you're in Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, or Haggai, Zechariah, Malachi This could be a tool for you, a re source for you to see what's going on and kind of get yourself situated. So you'll see on the outline, timeline of the restoration books. Probably more commonly called the post-exilic books. These are the books after Babylonian captivity, so post-exilic. I call them the restoration books because that's what they tell us about. The restoration of Judah to the land. The rebuilding of the temple. The reinstituting of the sacrifice. The renewal of the covenant. The rebuilding of the wall. Repentance from different covenant unfaithfulness. And so it's all about the restoration of Judah. And before we get into the timeline , You'll see this key transition passage that I want us to start with. This is an important passage for mapping this out to understand the order of these books in the historical context. By the way, for the guests. of our class. So what we've been doing in this class is going through the Bible section by section, book by book, looking at the historical context of every book. What's going on at the beginning and when is that happening? What's going on at the end? When is that happening? And what's the basic storyline? So obviously by now you've picked up on where we are the post-exilica of the restoration books. There's only one we have to look at in particular, which will be Esther, but just to help get us grounded, Ezra 4, 24 to 5. 1. Now, this is in Ezra, but you're going to see two other names in here that are important. Then the work on the house of God that is in Jerusalem stopped. And it ceased until the second year of the reign of Darius, king of Persia. Now the prophets, Haggai and Zechariah, the son of Edo, prophesied to the Jews who were in Judah and Jerusalem in the name of the God of Israel. who was over them. So you see that the thing that was happening at the beginning of Ezra, the returning to the land and then the rebuilding of the foundation of the temple, the construction stops on the temple, and then he flashes forward to when it picks up again. And so this is a key verse b not only because the the work stops and then it tells us when it picks up again, but it also situates s sh situates Haggai and Zechariah there. But in the book, in those books it tells you what year they're prophesying anyway. So you could make the connection, but within Ezra, this is where you see the connection. The context, the Babylonian exile, Judah, aka the Southern Kingdom, lasted from 605 to 539. Now you remember there were numerous deportations. There was more than just 605. That was the first Deportation. It was smaller. Daniel was deported in 605, for example. Then you have a major one in 598, 597. You have another major one at 586. And then much later you have a smaller one in 582. But 605 is when it officially begins. And then 539 is the decree of Cyrus. Now you're into the Persian, you're out of the Babylonian dominion, you're into the Persian dominion, and the decree of Cyrus begins the refer the restoration. Alright, so let's go through I like things like this. You may you may not like this chart, but I I like mapping things out like this when I'm reading scripture because it helps me understand what's going on. And so when you start in the restoration books, you start with Ezra. Ezra 1 to 4 covers the return to the land. It begins with the degree of Cyrus. There's the return to the land and the beginning of the temple being rebuilt. And you also see immediately when they first get to the land in Jerusalem they rebuild an altar and they reinstitute the sacrifice and the foundation of the temple is built That's Ezra one to four. You can see the timeline there because You have this gap. That's the key transition passage, four twenty-four to five one. You have this gap, this pause. that takes you up to 520. But maybe I should redo that so it's a little a little clearer when the stop occurred. Um Haggai I was trying to make it a flow to uh to the time of Haggai. He said you have Haggai 520 BC, the whole book of Haggai happens in that year, his prophecy, which is a call to complete the temple. He's he says things like you're building your own houses and your houses are super nice, you're pouring everything into your own houses. What about the house of the Lord? And there's a promise of Christ. Zechariah, around the same time, it just It's a two-year period. There's a call to repentance. Also you'll see in Zechariah the promise of Christ. And then Ezra 5 picks up right around that time after that flash forward. And from Ezra 5 and 6, you get a four-year period. That's the completion of the temple. The temple is completed in 516, and that story is told in Ezra. Chapter six. So Ezra five and six corresponds with the ministries of Haggai and Zechariah, at least their books, not their whole ministries, but that crucial part. Esther, and this really is why I did this, because the order in the Bible goes Ezra, Nehemiah, Esther, but Esther happens in between. So that's sort of my motive for doing this chart Esther happens here in the middle. The events of Esther are between four eighty-three and four seventy-three, and you have a plot to extinguish the Jews. But then through special providence, God gives great victory to the Jews. Great victory to the Jews. He does not just stop the plot, but there actually is widespread military victory In the Persian Empire at the end of Esther. And then you can go back to Ezra chapter 7 and 10, just historically. Speaking, there's another flash forward. There's another just like there's multiple deportations into exile, there's multiple waves of returns. Ezra shows up in the book of Ezra in chapter 7 traveling to Jerusalem, which is multiple chapters, where there's just him getting the okay, being commissioned to go to Jerusalem, and then his journey to Jerusalem, what's happening on the way to Jerusalem. Then when he gets there, there's basically a call to repentance from intermarriage. So in general terms, that's a call to covenant faithfulness. Remember that's a big deal. God doesn't want the people just to return to the land and do whatever they want Just like he doesn't want us to come to church and then go out and live however we want. God is restoring them to the land for them to be his covenant people, to love him, to worship him, to serve him, and to live according to his law Nehemiah 45 to around 430. We don't know exactly. The last thing that's dated in the Old Testament is Nehemiah's Visit back to Susa the capital, and then he returns to Jerusalem. The visit His visit when he leaves Jerusalem and goes back to the capital of the Persian Empire, that happens in 433. That's the last date that we have of the Old Testament. But then we know that he returns to Jerusalem, and there's just some things that go on after that, but we just don't know exactly when it ends. Malachi, oh anyway, Nehemized the rebuilding of the wall, and then social and religious reforms. Remember that's a big deal here. Social reforms based on the covenant. Religious reforms based on the covenant. It's a lot with the leadership. It's a lot to do with Not intermarrying so that you don't adopt the pagan gods like Israel did and like Judah did before the exile. Malachi, that last line there, around the four thirties. If you read a commentary or study Bible in Malachi, you'll get anything from around 450 to around 400. His ministry, because of the different issues and context clues in the book. You know it's around the time of Nehemiah. It's in the time of the restoration, but we just don't know exactly when. I say 430s, just because that lines it up with um the end of Nehemiah. Call to faithfulness. And the the biggie in Malachi is the promise of, quote, my messenger, which is literally what the word Malachi means, but it's a prophecy of John the Baptist. And a prophecy of Christ. So you'll have this messenger that God will send to be the forerunner, that final prophet before the coming of Christ and the kingdom of God. The Persian Kings chart is just a bonus for you. When you read these books, you'll see Cyrus Darius, Xerxes, he's called this Ahusweris in Esther, and you'll see Artic Xerxes. You'll see these names in the narrative, so this will help place You know, as you're reading, if you want to know, you're gonna see what's going on historically speaking. Um for me I like the historical timeline, especially you know I used to read these books. And I didn't really fully understand when they were going on, what were the issues, what's the historical context. in this overarching plan of redemption and this overarching history of Israel. Where does this all fit? And then especially with Ezra where you have these These huge flash forwards, just trying to make sense of it all. In First and Second Chronicles, you'll get some passages about the restoration and what was going on and the genealogies of the different exiles So the historical flow of it helps me. Hopefully it helps you a little bit when you go to read these. One thing I definitely need to talk about is the return to exile is the fulfillment of prophecy. This is going to be familiar to most of you. God promised That there be seventy years in captivity. That was given through Jeremiah. But there's debate on exactly what are the seventy years. If you study on this or listen to any sermon or lecture on this, if you have a even a study Bible There's not going to be a clear-cut view that everybody has on what exactly are the 70 years. So what I want to do is read some of these passages on the 70 years and then I think I gave you yeah the three main the three main views so Jeremiah twenty-five eleven to twelve and also it's also mentioned in twenty-nine ten. Right here I just have the chapter twenty-five one This whole land shall become a ruin and a waste, and these nations shall serve the king of Babylon seventy years. Then after seven years are completed, I will punish the king of Babylon and that nation, the land of the Chaldeans, for their iniquity, declares the Lord, making the land an everlasting waste. So that's pretty clear, right? Pretty clear. Prophecy of 70 years of serving the king of Babylon. Flip it over. This becomes a big thing for Daniel when Daniel perceives that that time frame is coming to an end. And then he'll have this prayer to God, and then God will God will send an angel with an answer to Daniel's prayer, which is where you get the even more controversial, the even more difficult 77s, it's been called the 70 weeks Anyways, that that comes in the context of it begins with Daniel perceiving that the seventy years is A coming to an end. Daniel nine two. In the first year of his reign, I Daniel perceived in the books the number of years that according to the word of the Lord to Jeremiah the prophet, so obviously he's referring back to Jeremiah, the prophecy we just read. Must pass before the end of the desolations of Jerusalem, namely seventy years. Now it's said a little bit different. This is part of the argument. Obviously it's referencing Jeremiah and it's referencing the 70 years, but instead of saying Serving the king of Babylon says the desolations of Jerusalem. So it's the city itself being desolate and destroyed. And that would include the temple, which is the center of the city. Basically the defining characteristic of the city would have been the temple. But not so it's said in a different way or a different aspect of the seventy years is said. First you have this service to the king of Babylon, now you have Jerusalem being left desolate and under judgment Ezra 1-1 in the first year of Cyrus, king of Persia, that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. The Lord stirred up the spirit of Cyrus, king of Persia, so that he made a proclamation throughout all his kingdom, and also put it in writing. This is a really big deal. That's why I didn't want to get out of the post exilic books without talking about this seventy years. It's a really big deal starting with this prophecy in Jeremiah, because now we know for certain when the When the restoration happens, it's not a random historical event. This isn't arbitrary. This is God fulfilling his promise. This is God keeping his word. And it helps us to understand how the exile was discipline and judgment against Judah. It w it wasn't to exterminate them or to extinguish them as God's people, but in judgment to discipline them, preserve a remnant. Bring a remnant back to the land, restore them as his people, and then from that finish his purpose with Israel, which leads into Christ and the kingdom of God. It's important that we understand that God mapped this whole thing out first. This is fulfillment of prophecy. So in Ezra 1. 1, you see again it's the first year of Cyrus, just like in Daniel 9. 2, in the first year of his reign. And then also Ezra 1. 1, he says that the word of the Lord by the mouth of Jeremiah might be fulfilled. Now we see God's special providence. God stirred up the spirit of Cyrus so that Cyrus would make a proclamation make a proclamation Throughout his kingdom, and then put it in writing, and that's that decree of Cyrus is focused on the restoration, the return to the land. So again, Jeremiah It's prophecy. We know it's 70 years. And now we have God is going to fulfill that prophecy through Cyrus. Zechariah 1, 12. Which is later. It's nineteen years later than the angel Of the Lord said , O Lord of hosts How long will you have no mercy on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah against which you have been angry these seventy years? And then again, Zechariah 7:5 , say to all the people of the land and these priests, when you fasted and mourned in the fifth month and in the seventh month, for these seventy years. Was it for me that you fasted? So I don't have you know the the final definitive perfect answer resolution for you this morning, but just encourage you if you want to know more about the different ways Um scholars and theologians map out what the 70 years are. It's an interesting study. I encourage you to follow up on it. But here you have it's 520. The people have been restored to the land, some restoration has occurred, and yet it's still spoken of as if they're within the 70 years. These, how long will you have no mercy on Jerusalem and the cities of Judah against which you've been angry these seventy years? And then again 7-5, these 70 years. And the idea is because they were still rebuilding and the temple, specifically the temple had not been rebuilt and therefore it's the view that the period of judgment was ongoing. So quick just to summarize, I mean there's lots on these things there's always lots of detail and arguments and counter-arguments and everything. I just want to summarize the different views on what the 70 years are Since it is such a big topic in this part of the Bible, one of you is six six oh nine to five thirty-nine Now that is exactly 70 years. And 609 is the beginning of Nebuchadnezzar's dominion. Right? So it's it's broader than just their time in exile. The exile didn't begin until 605. And then again in 598, 597, and then some waves after that. This is looking this view looks not at the time in exile. But this looks at the dominion of Babylon where even though they were not conquered And occupied and taken into exile, still they were not the dominant kingdom who exercised dominion. It was Nebuchadnezzar and Babylon who exercised dominion over them. And there's a difference. You think of Dav David's kingdom and Solomon's kingdom, which was the high point of Israel They definitely conquered lots of nations and lots of cities, and they conquered and they occupy And that land becomes their land, that nation becomes part of Israel's spreading kingdom. But some, especially on the coast of the Mediterranean Sea, when you're looking at Israel, it would be the west coast. Some of those lands, Philistine lands, they were not able to conquer and they were not able to occupy. However, they still had dominion over them, and so tribute was paid. from those cities and from those nations to Israel. So this view looks at the dominion of Nebuchadnezzar and Babylon, not the exile. It is exactly 70 years. Number two This is 6. 05 when the exile begins to 539 when it ends. Although again there's waves of exiles and there's waves of returns, but approximately 70 years from the first deprecation to the decree to return, so that's taken the 70 years as an uh an approximation, which is not out of the question when you look at biblical numbers And then number three, this also would be exactly seventy years 586 to 516, exactly 70 years from the destruction of the temple to the completion of the new temple. So don't just pick the one you like the most. Go back and read and study and figure out figure out where you stand. Alright. Now let's get to Esther. That's what we're really here for, the Book of Esther. One of the most important themes In the post -exilic literature is the special providence of God. God stirring up the heart God moving this person, God moving in the hearts of these people to do this. And in Esther, again, there's no difference. Esther that's on full display, the special providence of God working in people and through people to accomplish his will. And it's even more so accentuated because You don't get a straightforward reference to God or any of his names, any of these like explicit theological categories But you have behind the scenes the special work of God moving everything and plotting and planning everything. I shouldn't say plotting because that has a negative connotation. It's Haman that does the plotting to extinguish the Jews It's God who does the planning to accomplish his purpose despite Haman. You see irony. So you see the special providence of God, just the irony is a very important thing in understanding Esther, the irony of Haman, this enemy of God, working, setting himself to work against the Jews, and with this plot to annihilate the Jews. Not just in Susa where he is, but the whole kingdom, which is a a massive kingdom. Jews I mean, just Jews all over the kingdom too spread out. Haman has this plot to extinguish them and here comes God and it's just so ironic the way God thwarts Haman's plot and brings Haman to judgment. So Esther, let's go on your sheet. We go through each one of these, the story, the beginning, the end, and some highlights, and we have some passages for each. So the story of Esther is the story of God foiling a plot. To extinguish the Jews through Mordecai and Esther God is foils a plot to extinguish the Jews through Mordecai and Esther. Now, if we know the story of what's going on, we know God is not going to let that happen. Because God has a plan for Israel. We are we already know from prophecy of Jeremiah that he's going to not only restore them, but from other prophecies, he's going to Establish them and bring the Savior from Israel. So if Israel is annihilated and extinguished Then where is the Savior going to come from? So we know God is going to preserve Israel until the Savior comes and establish the new covenant. And bring that final restoration. So I'll just say it one more time, and then I have two subpoints, two addendums to put on this plot. God foils a plot to extinguish Israel. This is so important. Through Mordecai and Esther, not just Esther. If you haven't read this in a while, you go ahead and read it again. You 're going to be surprised at just how important Mordecai is to this story. It's Mordecai and Esther. And here's your two subpoints or your two addendums to that. Not only does he foil the plot. But he gives great victory to the Jews. He gives great victory to the Jews. We get those numbers. In the book. And not only does he give great victory to the Jews, but here's that second subpoint, that second addendum. He exalts Mordecai to second in the kingdom. He exalts Mordecai to the That you have Xerxes, the most powerful, from a worldly perspective, the most powerful man in the world at the time. And then you have Mordecai. It parallels what happens at the end of Genesis, where you have Pharaoh from a worldly perspective, the most powerful man, the most powerful kingdom in the world at the time, and then who? Joseph. Um so he follows the plot, he gives great victory to Jews, he exalts Mordecai to second in the kingdom. And there's going to be there's a new holiday, a new holy day, purim, or purim, that is instituted because of this Victory in honor of the victory and remembrance of God in this great victory. But because of Mordecai's status and also because of Esther's status, they're able to institute this as an official kingdom wide holy day in remembrance of the Jews' victory. It's a really great story. It's it's uh It's one of the most captivating narratives in all of Scripture. And it's Pretty easy to understand the broad strokes of what's happening, God foiling this plot. So just a few representative verses. Chapter three thirteen to fifteen. Chapter three Thirteen by fifteen. So chapter three is Haman's plot against the Jews. Chapter 3 is Haman's plot. So we're just picking up the end of chapter 3, verses 13 to 15. Letters were sent by couriers to all the king's provinces. With the instruction to destroy, to kill, and to annihilate all the Jews, young and old. Women and children in one day, in the thirteenth day of the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar, and to plunder their goods. You know, this is in the book, but just for time's sake, I don't want to go there right now. But basically, once this letter goes out, you have almost a year to prepare for this. This is happening like a l 11 months earlier It's either ten ten months or eleven months earlier. I think it's eleven months earlier where this is this letter is going out. And so this is gonna be going out to the whole kingdom, which is massive. We'll get to that in just a few moments because we learn that in the book too. But look I mean this is this is insane. This is just wickedness. But this is the plot to destroy, kill, annihilate the Jews, young and old, women, children, in one day, and to take all of their goods as your own. Plunder their goods. And then verse 14, a copy of the document was to be issued As a decree, that's a royal decree, a royal decree. Every province by proclamation to all the peoples to be ready for that day. Couriers went out hurriedly by order of the king, and the decree was issued in Susa, the citadel, that's the capital city, and the king and Haman sat down to drink, but the city of Susa was thrown into Confusion. Yeah, because that's a major decree that's going out, and you have Jews living in Susa. And for a lot of the people, this would have been out of out of nowhere. Out of nowhere. Now, that's Heyman's plot. Now Let's skip forward just to get the overarching what happens here. Chapter 9, verses 5 and 10. See where this thing goes. This is that victory. Chapter 9 verses 5 and 10. Alright, you have almost a year or 11 months of whatever the after the letter goes out. Here's the plan. Now a lot has happened between chapter 3 and chapter 9, but here's what happens in chapter 9, verse 5. The Jews struck all their enemies with the sword. killing and destroying them, and they did as they pleased to those who hated them. In other words, those who came against them. In Susa, the citadel itself, the Jews killed and destroyed 500 men, and also killed Parshandafa and Dalfan and Asfatha and Purafa and Adalya and Aridatha and Parmashtha. Are these ever going to end? What's going on here? Parmashtha and Arasai, Ari invite Vezatha, the ten sons of Haman, and the sons of Hamadatha, the enemy of the Jews, but they laid no hand on the plunder. So Ultimately what happens is the decree, since it's a world decree, and the law of the Medes and the Persians, that cannot be revoked. But what God did was allow or what uh yeah what God did through all the special providences. What happened was another decree was issued that the Jews were allowed, even encouraged, really told to defend themselves and fight back. So I have to imagine that in some cases that would have been a deterrent from some other would-be enemies of Israel, but for those who decided to still try and annihilate the Jews and come against them. The Jews were enabled to fight back, allowed to fight back, they organized, and they were given great victory. Over in Susa five hundred and then also the ten sons of Haman, and then go down to verses fourteen. 14 to 16. So the king commanded this to be done. A decree was issued in Susa, and the tons, the ten sons of Haman were hanged. The Jews who were in Susa gathered also on the fourteenth day of the month of Adar, and they killed three hundred men in Susa, but they laid no hands on the plunder. Basically that's letting us know they just defended themselves Alright, the p Haman's plan was for people to come against the Jews, wipe them out, take their stuff. The Jews is just self-defense. And it's uh so they don't go after their stuff, they just defend themselves, and it's 500 men and then 300 men, so you know this is just warriors that are coming at them They're not going after the women and the children and plundering all their goods. So it's in Sousa the Capitol, it's a two-day affair. It's a five hundred casualties. And then 300 casualties and hanging the sons of Haman. Now, verse 16 is a key verse, very key verse to understand the scope of this victory. Now the rest of the Jews who were in the king's provinces. Also gathered to defend their lives. See there, defend their lives, and got relief from their enemies and killed 75,000 of those who hated them, but they laid no hands on the plunder. To those who hated them, those who decided to come against them, God gave Jews great protection and great victory, 75,000 They killed, but then they didn't go after their families and their their plunder, their goods That's a huge turnaround from chapter three, where remember Haman's plan was kingdom-wide to wipe out the Jews. And just so we can see Really the fulcrum, the the hinge, is so hard because there's so many important things that happen in this book that makes this narrative so good. But chapter seven, verses three to six, chapter seven, verses three to six. It's really a lot of building building and building and building and building to this to this point. When Esther makes this request to the king You have uh verse uh what do I say we'd start? Verse eight. No, verse three, verse three. Verse three, then Queen Esther answered, in other words, she answered the king, who is willing to grant her any request The queen answered, Queen Esther answered, If I have found favor in your sight, O king, and if it please the king, let my life be granted me for my wish and my people for my request. For we have been sold, I and my people, to be destroyed, to be killed, and to be annihilated. If we had been sold merely as slaves, men and women, I would have been silent, for our affliction is not to be compared. For our affliction is not to be compared with the loss to the king Then King Ahusweareth, said the Queen Esther , Who is he and where is he who has dared to do this? And Esther said, A foe and enemy, the wicked Haman. Then Haman was terrified before the king and the queen. It was this feast uh Where is it just Esther, basically just Esther, the king, and Haman, Esther set this whole thing up. She had requested this, but it's all leading to this. This is the turning point when Esther makes this plea to the king, and now the king is turned against Haman. And then that starts the narrative going in the other direction. Instead of Mordecai being hanged, Haman is hanged, instead of the Jews being annihilated, the Jews are given a great victory. Um Mordecai instead of being hanged, he he actually takes Haman's place as second in the kingdom. So it's really, again, that irony is really on full display here. So you have The beginning really I mean lots are going on, but the beginning you have Haman's plot. At the end you have Haman is hung on the gallows that he intends for Mordecai And instead of his plot being fulfilled, God's plan is fulfilled. And instead of the Jews being extinguished, they're given a great, great victory. And that's the basic story of Esther. I think one application for us is to remember that in our lives God is always at work. He's always at work behind the scenes in our families, in our discipleship, and we have threats to us. We have things we're worried about. We have enemies that could come against us, persecutors of the church, so many things we don't understand, so many things we can't see, but we have to remember that God is with us. We have to remember that God is working out his perfect plan in our lives. And there is a way to draw great, great encouragement from the book of Esther when we remember God's special providence. We remember God's presence with us. And it can keep us on that spiritual mindset that we don't get too distracted and wrapped up in the externals and in the way things appear. There's a great personal application here, great encouragement, I think. from the book of Esther. And that's you know, it's broader i i it is from a historical point that we can say no matter what we see in history, no matter what we see in global affairs, we know that God is in control. But we we need to take that down to our own lives as well. to our own homes, our own families, our own sufferings and struggles, our own temptations and dwell, to say, God is in control. I'm trusting in God and He'll provide at the in the in his way Behind the scenes and his timing and his way, God will provide and he'll take care of things. Any thoughts or questions on this basic Story of Esther before we go to real quickly the beginning and the end. Yeah, Vince. In uh it's not off topic and it's a quick one. Uh in uh that where 's the they uh got rid of their um foreign wives was an act was one of the covenants made at that time or considered a covenant Oh there's definitely a renewal of the covenant. Okay. Yeah. At that time. Which is a mate one of the major covenant renewals in scripture. Okay. You have uh you have a renewal of the covenant at the end of Joshua in Shechem. Right, they enter the promised land, then there's a conquest, and there's a allotting of the land, then you have a covenant renewal. That's their first entry into the land and and now so you sort of have a parallel when they're Re-enter the land when there's the second Exodus, there's this restoration, you also have a covenant renewal. Yeah Anybody else any thoughts or applications maybe or questions on the book of Esther? That basic storyline or any of those passages. Yeah, Meg? This isn't so like whatever. But um in when the Jews when um Haman is mentioned And synagogue all the people go. Oh, really? Yeah. You know, he's one of the biggest baddies in all of scripture. He really is. Because uh Esther's not a huge book. Acts of evil and rebellion, Haman is right up there with the worst of 'em. With this this is I mean, you don't see anything like this in all the scripture. His His plot and he he schemes to get the king to issue this decree to annihilate all the Jews just because he felt disrespected by Mordecai. Uh this is the insanity of that wickedness. So yeah, I never knew that. That's interesting. They give a a disrespect when when they say him when say his name. Uh anybody else any other thoughts or applications or questions on this basic story of of Esther? Pretty easy to remember that story, right? That's not I mean some books of the Bible, you know, what's everything that's going on is can be complicated or maybe there's just so much going on, like in in Genesis, there's so much that happens Esther is pretty easy to remember. You have Haman has this plot to extinguish the Jews, God through Mordecai, and Esther gives great victory. Now the beginning of the book, some of the most of the important things in Esther are dated. So we know if you go to chapter 1, verse 1, it's happening in around 483. Let's look at 1, 1 to 3. Not only will see Where this is situated, but you'll see the scope of this kingdom. This is insane. If you pull out your phone, open up your maps And zoom out, go over to this area of the world and zoom out and just look at how big of an area we're talking about of dominion. Now, in the days of Ahasuerus I usually don't mind saying biblical names. I actually think it's a challenge. I like it. It's kind of fun. If you're in my Wednesday night class, you know that, but I don't like saying this name. It's hard for me to say. I want to say Aswaris or say I want to change it into something that's easier. Ahaswaris, who reigned from, check this out, from India. to Ethiopia, over a hundred twenty-seven provinces. That's pretty big. That's huge. Territory. I mean this is a lot of land, a lot of people, a lot of cities, and smaller kings, lesser kings. I swear it's is An earthly perspective, King of Kings, we know Capital K, God is the King of all kings, but that's what it meant to not just be the ruler of a nation, but to be the ruler of an empire, to be the ruler of a kingdom. And that's where the era of history that we're in. You have these great commit uh kingdoms exercising dominion over lesser kingdoms and lesser kings. India and Ethiopia, over 127 providences And he sat on his royal throne in Susa the Citadel. Susa the Citadel, a fortified city, a great city, the capital of this sprawling, world-dominating kingdom. In the third year of his reign. So there we just know from the Traditional historical datings, we know that puts us in 483 BC. In the third year of his reign, he gave a feast for all his officials and servants. The army of Persia and Media and the nobles and the governors of the provinces were before him when he showed the riches of his royal glory and splendor. and pomp of his greatness for many days, a hundred and eighty days. So a major feast with all of your top leaders, the military, from the the Medes and from the Persians. This was the Medo-Persian Empire, just the Persian Empire for short, really. Um a great feast in the year four eighty three. And if you know the story, you know there's some drama that happens with the Queen and the current queen is she's out. And then you go into the narrative with Mordecai and Esther, but just to set the stage of the incredible power, the incredible scope of this kingdom and because of the Assyrian captivity of the northern kingdom of Israel and then the Babylonian captivity of the southern kingdom, Judah, and then when you had the change from like one kingdom to the next, laws change, rules change, you would have had Jews traveling pretty much to to many different places to resettle, to regroup. The center and the main one is Judah and Benjamin and some others from other tribes, but Judah and Benjamin coming back to Judah And Jerusalem. So you would have had Jews, not like in two or three places, but you see even here they're in the citadel, the capital, but you'd have Jews around this from India to Ethiopia. That gives us context on Just um you know, on what the nature of Haman's plot. And then it makes sense when you get to the end and you see that kingdom wide there's seventy five thousand soldiers, seventy-five thousand men who came against the Jews and God gave them victory. So this is this is huge. Anyhow, four eighty three for the beginning. The book ends around four seventy-four with the institution of Purim. So 483, the great banquet, great celebration in Susa starts with this feast, 180-day feast. I've never been in the feast like that. I've you know our feasts are what like half a day at best? I usually want to leave early. It's too much going on, I can't handle it. I get stressed. But this is a major feast. In Susa, in the capital, but at the end of the book you have a new Jewish holiday. So it's a pretty cool pretty cool juxtaposition to look at the beginning. Great banquet in Susa, 180 days, but then in four hundred-four You have the institution of a new holiday for the Jews, and it's based on what happened in the book. So just to look at that holiday, we can look at 9, 19 to 24. Nine nineteen to twenty four. That's basically the end of the book. There's a chapter ten To Esther, but I don't even know why this is chapter ten. It's a paragraph at best. It's really just um a summary statement. Chapter nine nineteen Therefore the Jews of the villages who live in the rural towns Hold the fourteenth day of the month of Adar as a day for gladness and feasting, as a holiday, as the day on which they send gifts of food to one another And Mordecai recorded these things and sent letters to all the Jews who were in all the provinces of King Ahusweris, both near and far. obligating them to keep the fourteenth day of the month of Adar, and also the fifteenth day of that same year of that s of fifteenth day of the same year by year The reason it's a two-day is because even though kingdomwide, it looks like there was just on that fourteenth day, victory is given to the Jews. In the capital, there is more going on. In the capital of Susa, there is that first day I forget if it's five hundred I think it's five hundred casualties the first day and they seize Ha Haman's sons, but then on the next day There's a second wave of attacks and there's another three there's more fighting. So it's a two-day fight in cap in the Capitol. And so that's why this is The fourteenth day and the fifteenth day, verse twenty-two, as the days on which the Jews got relief from their enemies, and as the month that has been turned for them from sorrow into gladness, and from mourning into a holiday, that they should make them days of feasting and gladness days for sending gifts of food to one another and gifts to the poor. And obviously part of that would have been the story of how this happened, which is how we get the book of Esther, of God's providence through Mordecai. And through Esther and turning Haman's plot completely on its head and giving Jews this victory definitely is worthy. of a holiday, verse twenty-three. So the Jews accepted what they had started to do, and what Mordecai had written to them, for Haman the Agagite, the son of Hamadatha, the enemy of all the Jews had plotted against the Jews to destroy them, and had cast poor, that is, lots, to crush and destroy them And that's earlier like it's one of those things that happens pretty quickly in Haman's plot in chapter three. It's like it happens so if you if you blink you'll miss it. But there's something about the casting of lots as to when to decide what day to choose. To execute this plot. And so again, this irony of you see Haman is plotting and he's using the poor, he's l using the lots. to come up with a day to execute this plan. And at the end of the book, after the victory, the new holiday is is basically the reverse of that. It's Purim, it's the lots, the casting of lots, because God was the one at work to accomplish his plan. Again, irony even in the in the naming of this And that's what it says. Plotted against Haman had plotted against the Jews to destroy them, and had cast poor, that is, cast lots, to crush and destroy them. Now quickly 29 to 32, verses 29 to 32. Then Queen Esther, the daughter of Abbael, and Mordecai the Jew. gave full written authority confirming the second letter about Purim. Letters were sent to all the Jews To the 127 provinces of the kingdom of Ahiswaris in words of peace and truth. See, there's every single province. Looks like you have Jews in every single province. Verse 31, that these days of Taurim should be observed at their appointed seasons, as Mordecai the Jew, and Queen Esther obligated them. And as they had obligated themselves and their offerings with regard to their fasts and their lamenting, the command of Queen Esther confirmed these practices of Purim, and it was recorded in writing. So pretty pretty cool bookends. Um the book begins with this great banquet in Susa where all the generals and all the leaders came from the kingdom to Susa for this celebration of king of the king's greatness. Ahuswaris is greatness. That's what they're celebrating. And you have leaders coming from the provinces to the capital. At the end of the book you have Letters from Mordecai and Esther going from the capital to all the provinces to celebrate God's victory, to celebrate God's greatness. It's uh again an irony, a contrast. things are different. Things are different than what they seem. It look from a worldly perspective, who does it look like isn't in control? It looks like Xerxes is in control. It looks like the world belongs to him. But it in the end we know that it's God and This would have been a great, great day of feasting and celebrating and thanksgiving. Certainly these new holidays Chapter 3, let's look at that verse. Chapter 3, verse 6 and 7. Again, chapter 3 is the plot. Esther chapter 3, Haman's plot. And here's verses six and seven. But he disdained to lay hands on Mordecai alone, so as they had made known to him. The people of Mordecai. Haman that means they he m Haman found out Mordecai was Jewish. That w that's what it means as it made known to him the people of Mordecai. Haman sought to destroy all the Jews. the people of Mordecai throughout the whole kingdom of Ahuswaris. In the first month, which is the month of Nisan, in the twelfth year of King Ahuswares, they cast poor, that is, they cast lots before Haman day after day, and they cast it month after month till the twelfth month, which is the month of Adar. So exactly what that meant and what this process looked like We don't know, that's not something that we do in our culture is cast lots to make a decision. Like are we are we gonna do it here, cast lots, we can do it there, cast lots. But whatever the cat the lot fell To that particular day when this plot was supposed to be executed, the lot fell to the month of Adar. And it's this this casting of Pur, the casting of lots that when Purim is given its name, it looks back to this, just to remember this irony of how God foiled this plot of Haman. To see God's special providence, quickly, just a few highlights here. A few highlights. Chapter 2, verse 8 and 9. His special providence in Esther obviously is a big one. She got the book named after her. Chapter 2, verse 8 and 9. So when the king's order and his edict were proclaimed, and when many young women were gathered in Susa, the citadel, in custody of Heggai. Esther also was taken into the king's palace and put in custody of Heggai, who had charge of the women. And the young woman, Esther, the young woman, pleased him and won his favor. And he quickly provided her with cosmetics and her portion of food, and with seven chosen women from the king's palace, and advanced her and her young women to be the best place in the harem. So she was given a place of authority. She was given a she was given other women under her charge. Skip down to verse fi and you see this favor, this providential favor is given to her. Verse 15 When the turn came for Esther, the daughter of Abihal, the uncle of Mordecai, who had taken her as his own daughter, to go into the king, she asked for nothing except What Haggai the king's eunuch, who had charge of the women, advised. Now Esther was winning favor in the eyes of all who saw her. And when Esther was taken to King Ahusueras into his royal palace in the tenth month Which is the month of Tibeth in the seventh year of his reign. You got all that? You memorize all that? World pal when did when was Esther taken into the royal palace? The tenth month, the month of Tibeth in the seventh year of his reign The king loved Esther more than all the women, and she won grace and favor in his sight more than all the virgins, so that he set the royal crown upon her head And made her queen instead of Vashti. Another irony that happens in this book. Then the king gave a great feast for all his officials and servants. It was Esther's feast. He also granted a remission of taxes to the provinces and gave gifts with royal generosity. You have God's special providence and favor to Esther to get her to this place. So when it's time for her to make this request To give the Jews a fighting chance, he obvious he is so willing to grant her that request. The back that didn't just happen out of nowhere. God had been working this whole time to give Esther this place and favor in the eyes of the king. And then there's more that happens that goes into that, but that's the foundation of it. You also have God's special province to Mordecai. Providence to Mordecai. Chapter 2 21. Chapter two twenty-one. Chapter two twenty-one to twenty-three, it's kind of hidden right in between Like the meat of the Esther narrative and then the meat of Haman's plot, you have this Short section, but if you go back and read Esther tonight, this is so important. If this doesn't happen, there's some other things in the story that completely fall apart. Here's what happens in chapter 2 21 to 23 will end on this. In those days as Mordecai was sitting at the king's gate, Big Thon and Teresh, Two of the king's eunuchs who guarded the threshold became angry and sought to lay hands on King Ahuswaris. What's this? This is an assassination plot. And this, verse 22, this came to the knowledge of Mordecai. And he told the Queen Esther, and Esther told the king in the name of Mordecai. When the affair was investigated and found to be so, the men were both hanged on the gallows, and it was recorded in the book of the Chronicles in the presence of the king. Now that comes up later. It is extremely important. But you have God's providence To give Esther the place of favor with the king, and then God's providence and Mordecai overhears or figures out this plot. So you need both of those things. For Mordecai to then tell Esther, and Esther has an avenue to get this news to the king so that that plot can be foiled, and that again is extremely, extremely important later on. I encourage you to Go home and read it. All right, let's pray. Father, we thank you. Thank you for your providence and your special providence, not only in the past. But also in the present, for all that you're doing, for your people, for your kingdom, for the glory of your name, help us to believe in it, to believe in you, to seek your will. And to strive to grow in grace and to increase in the knowledge of you and your word. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.