Anthony, welcome back to the podcast. You ready? I am now. Just in the middle of opening up my Bible. So we're on the series about our core values as a church. Last time we talked about the glory of God and the praise of his glory. And this week we're talking about salvation. So the salvation of souls. And um I want to launch right into it, okay? Um before I read the Bible verse to get us started. Just some orienting comments on salvation for the listener. Salvation in a general sense means being rescued. Alright, being rescued from danger. So in the Old Testament we'll see some earthly salvations. Israel saved from Egypt, that's a kind of salvation. David saved from his enemies is a kind of salvation. Judah being restored from Babylonian captivity was a kind of salvation. But ultimately the salvation we need is the salvation of our souls to be saved from sin. To be saved from death, to be saved from Satan's tyranny in our heart, ultimately to be saved from the judgment of God. on the last day. And so I have some verses. You have some verses that will put some meat on those bones, really uh flesh this out for us and the details. So the the three verses that I have point out the fact that our experience of salvation as believers can be talked about as past, also can be talked about as present, and also can be talked about as future. And but that doesn't mean we're going to go through all my verses first. I'm going to do my first one, go back, go over to you, and then come back over to me. But My first one is Ephesians chapter 2. Ephesians chapter 2 is addressing believers and it's addressing them talking about their salvation as something in the past. It has already happened. You have been saved. And so Ephesians 2 verse 5, even when we were dead in our trespasses, Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved And then also verse 8, for by grace you have been saved through faith, and this is not your own doing, it is the gift of God. Very clear, you have been saved. You have been saved. Both times he says how it happened By grace you have been saved. By grace you have been saved. And that's through faith. In other words, faith is the way we receive this salvation that comes to us. by the grace of God. And verse 5 begins, even when we were dead in our trespasses, which makes clear that we are no longer dead in our trespasses. Because we have been saved. And whatever sense this is talking about, it's completed. We have been saved And the way of salvation is by God. It's not by our works, it's not by just having the right mindset, but it's truly the work of God that we are saved. Which it was helpful in that actually is my first verse from the Old Testament, it's Beckh 2. 4. And there it says, righteous shall live by faith. So this isn't a new thing. This isn't like God had a plan of salvation for people before Christ. It didn't quite work out the way he thought it would. So then he sent Jesus and now we are saved by faith. No, this has always been his mechanism of salvation. What's unique now is post-Christ we now see where the fulfillment of our faith is and where the mechanism of our salvation lies is in the reveal of God through his son Jesus. So you're saying that The only way a person could ever be saved, whether they live before Jesus or whether they live after Jesus or whether they live during when Jesus was on earth. You're saying it's always been by faith, never by works. Yeah, always. And so uh their faith before Jesus, while they didn't understand it, was fulfilled in Christ, and now we post Christ can look back. But Everyone that's in heaven, everyone that's been saved, has been saved by Jesus. Amen. Yeah, by virtue of his blood sacrifice, by virtue of his righteous life. Yeah, absolutely. That's great. That's core to the Bible. I mean, that's the Bible. That's Christianity. And it goes all the way back to Genesis 3. 15. We have the first promise of a savior, the promise of a redeemer. And from that point on, putting your trust in God's promise of a redeemer. is what saves from sin, removing sin 's guilt, um from death, because it brings the gift of eternal life, and from the judgment of God, because there's no condemnation. for those who um are united to God by faith. And and that magnifies the wondrous work of Christ even more. It's already amazing that we're saved post-Christ. But when I understood this concept, I was more in awe of what Christ had accomplished. That this is Romans 3 that God and his forbearance passed over um the sins of the past, have passed over former sins, so that in Christ he would both be just and the justifier So in Christ, he'd pass over the sins of Abraham and the fathers. In their faith, he had passed over those sins. They didn't receive the punishment then. They're in paradise. And then when Chris comes on the scene, now all those sins are paid for. Right. It blows my mind to see how wonderful that is. Yeah, it is wonderful. It's a crucial part of Romans, like you pointed out. It's and that And Paul emphasizes this in Romans 3, that Jesus' death on a cross at this salvation is a demonstration of God's righteousness. Because he the punishment for those sins that were overlooked in the past Did come. Yeah. It was dished out. Alright, now I want to go to my second verse, which is salvation in the ongoing present for the believer. So just like Ephesians, this is written to Christians, it's written about the gospel, it's written about salvation. 1 Corinthians 15 verse 1. Now I would remind you, brethren, of the gospel I preached to you, which you received. in which you stand and by which you are being saved if you hold fast to the word I preach to you unless you believed in vain. So here by which you are being saved. A present experience, an ongoing experience, and the practical point is the aspect of salvation that Paul is getting to. The aspect of salvation that is is ongoing present and that is being saved from sin 's mastery over our hearts and over our lives. It's called sanctification. It's this process of being conformed to the likeness of Christ. This process of the Holy Spirit, killing sin within us, of the Holy Spirit, uh cultivating holiness within us. And we are in the present ongoingly being sanctified, being saved from sin 's mastery, from Satan's mastery over us. So before I shoot it over to you, just want to, you know, this has to be Made clear for us, for the listener, that if you have faith in Christ, you have been saved. You have been reconciled to God. The guilt of your sin is erased. You are an adopted child of God eternally. That cannot change. However, you also are being saved because you're not in heaven yet. You have not been perfected yet. You still have sin living within you. You still have the flesh. Fighting against the Spirit, and so you are being saved. You're being sanctified into the likeness of Christ. That's strengthening too, to think about that while I'm on this earth I'm saved by the blood of Christ, yet I'm still struggling with temptation and sin in my life. But to see and to hear that we're being saved, that 's the Spirit is at work today in us. uh is is strengthening. We it allows us to fight against sin more. It allows us to say, alright, I'm not I'm not an utter dis in utter failure and destruction. I can I'm being saved. Like God is still at work. in us today. Um it's strengthening to me to hear that. And that verse from First Corinthians fifteen primarily was about the gospel and and it's by st still believing in the gospel, still looking to Christ through the gospel by which we're being saved. So it is the gospel that saves us initially And it's the gospel and the power of the gospel that continues to sanctify us. And I want to come back to that in just a second for some practical application. But That's what you pointed. I think you said by the blood of Christ or something like that. Um it's on the basis of Christ's life, death, and resurrection. That any of these happen, past, present, future, whatever. It's all on the basis of Christ. Another verse on this, 1 Corinthians 1, 18 For the word of the cross is folly to those who are perishing, but to us who are being saved, it is the power of God. That's why we have to preach the gospel. to the church, to believers, why we need a steady diet of the gospel, because it's the power of God in the gospel by which we are being sanctified, by which we are being saved. practical application I wanted to talk with you about is just clarifying for our own hearts and for the listeners of things that don't save. Going to church Reading your Bible doesn't save us. Praying doesn't save us. Doing good deeds doesn't save us. Being in a Christian family. cannot save us. Good intentions. You can add to this list, but the only thing that saves us in any tense, past, present, future, is the Lord Jesus Christ by his life, death, and resurrection. And and especially after the Corinthians passage and what you're saying, that's also the only message we have for the world. Amen. So we can't say, oh, we preach the gospel and we're rejected, we go Oh man, that we must something's wrong there. Maybe we remove sin, maybe we don't talk about Jesus. That's offensive to people. We don't want to do that. Clean it up. Yeah, we want them to be saved. No, that's not it's a f i it's uh the foolish fallover. It's It's a stumbling block for them. We stand on the truth and we trust that that's the only way of salvation and we can't change our message. just to appease people. In my flesh and in my immaturity, I want to try to use other things to attract people. to the church to attract people to God. And that's a sign of uh an underlying unbelief to v to one degree or another. But to trust God, to trust the power of the gospel, to trust the Spirit, to build the church. uh according to God's purpose and to not turn to entertainment, not turn to enjoyable social Gatherings. Um but to to trust God, to trust the gospel. Yeah. What's your next verse? I'm gonna shift a little bit. I want to start addressing the soul. Shifty. Shifty Pastor Anthony If we're okay with that. Um, because we're talking about salvation, and you brought up the salvation from enemies and From if it was Israel, they say often our mind is on the physical, because that's what we see, that's kind of our our senses are is all physical. Um but As humans, we're not just physical. We are physical. We have bodies. But then we also have souls. And so our we are about the salvation of souls. Well, why do we say salvation of souls and not just salvation of you know individuals or because if we live in it and don't recognize the gospel saving the soul into the eternal then we could just put our focus on humanit humanitarian aid stuff. And that's that's success. We're saving people from hunger and homelessness and mistreatment. All those things are good to do, but we are about the salvation of the souls. So the soul is the spiritual aspect of who we are. It's the being that we are. Um and it is the one thing that will be eternal because then the physical will be made new um in in our resurrected bodies. But the soul is eternal. So I think of Psalm 2033 It's a very classic one, but uh there it says he restores my soul. It doesn't say he restores my body when I'm tired, when the enemies are around me, but he restores our soul. the very being of who we are. And then Psalm 42, 11 likewise reads, Why are you downcasts, O my soul? So here he's saying like the my inner being says is downcast, the you know the the pain and the sorrow and the mourning of life. He's he's recognizing that's what he's downcast. Oh my soul. Here it is. Hope in God, for I shall again praise him, my salvation and my God. To think about our salvation, past, present, and in the future sense. is our very being of our souls is is being saved. Our bodies will still deteriorate here in this life. Well not mine, but yours is getting close each day. I'm on my way, man. Breaking down slowly. I feel it. But yeah we do and we go Well then I'm not being saved. Why does my body hurt? Why why why am I on why am I on my deathbed if I'm being saved? It's because your soul, the eternal uh sense of you, w is what is saved Um and that's so important for us to focus on. Um I have a couple verses but I want to follow up on on your point first. Um I'm just looking up a a verse to You don't have a moment. To read. No. I'm deteriorating. Just to pick up right where you left off, 2 Corinthians 4, 16. So we do not lose heart. Though our outer self is wasting away, our inner self is being renewed day by day. That's a vivid picture, that's an encouraging picture that yes, we are aging, we are eventually going to die bodily unless Christ returns before that happens. But inwardly. Because of the Spirit and because of God's work, we're being renewed, we're being saved, we're being sanctified, we're being strengthened by the Holy Spirit. And yes, there is, like you said, going to be. a bodily resurrection. But that is dependent on you know if you on whether your soul is saved. So there's more here than we can get into, but there is going to be a general resurrection of all people. And the way Jesus expresses it in the Gospel of John is some will be risen to judgment, some will be risen to life. to eternal glory. That's the resurrection that we want. So there will be a bodily resurrection. But whether we're risen to judgment or whether we're risen to life in the in the blessed presence and the favor of God, that depends on whether our soul is saved, whether spiritually we are reconciled to God. And the Bible talks this way. So now Still on this idea of the salvation of the soul, but now we're on that future tense. 1 Peter 1 Where's that verse? First Peter one verse nine. Obtaining the outcome of your faith The salvation of your souls. That's intriguing, right? Because when he says obtaining the outcome of your faith That's something we're moving toward. That's a goal. That's an outcome. That's a result. We're walking with God Walking by faith, obtaining the outcome, moving toward the outcome of our faith, which is the salvation salvation of our souls. Wait a minute. I thought my soul was already saved. Yeah, in some sense it was. In sense some sense it is being saved. But in another sense, it will be saved, and that's the ultimate goal. And so what that's looking forward to is the day of judgment. The day of judgment. There's going to be a bodily resurrection. All will stand before God in judgment. And what we want on that day is to be rescued from the judgment of God, to be spared from the judgment of God, aka To be saved, for our souls to be saved. One more verse on this and then I'm shooting it back over to you. Matthew 16 Verse 25 and 26. For whoever would save his life will lose it, but whoever loses his life for my sake will find it. For what will it profit a man if he gains the whole world and forfeits his soul? Or what shall a man give in return for his soul? And the answer to that rhetorical question is nothing. You can't trade something back in and get your soul back if you forfeit it Yeah, and show one from it, but oh sorry Matthew ten twenty-eight is kind of similar language here. He says do not fear those who kill the body but cannot kill the soul. Rather fear him. Good fine man. Good fine. We can destroy both soul and body and hell. So it's we're still working on that same premise there Like we recognize that there is going to be a moment. I I I don't know if I can say a day that we will stand before the Lord. I guess so, but historically, like there's going to be a moment where we will stand before the Lord. And those that have not been saved and are not going to be saved will be cast in a lake of fire. And those that have been saved by the blood of Christ will be saved from that lake of fire. and will spend eternity in glory. Um that's sobering. Yeah, it is. It's sobering. It also takes what we're doing here as a church into a very serious realm. We're not just playing religion. We like each other. We get together. Want you to have a good time. Just come and have fun. Be part of something. Yeah. Oh yes. No, we're talking about the salvation of eternal beings Facilitate public good deeds for me so I can feel good about myself. Yeah. It's it really becomes about us and it becomes about just the feeling and we go sure that feeling is there but ultimately we're talking about eternal yeah and when we start to think about people we go wait we are actually We are addressing beings that have an eternal aspect to them. And it's an eternal damnation or some eternal glory. Well let's start being a little more serious about Christ and the gospel. And that doesn't mean um we become void of joy and tenderness and warmth In fact, the more serious we are about eternal things, the more we'll be transformed by them. We'll be liberated from anxiety And w God will start to fill our hearts with more and more joy and freedom and tenderness and compassion toward each other and toward the world around us. Um but there can be this false dichotomy, this false uh divorcing of Joy and w from separating that off from being serious and being sober-minded. These are these are eternal things, eternal consequences. Um Did you have any more verses on salvation before we go to like a a concluding discussion? By talking about joy, I think when we rightly understand uh that we're eternal. Actually it brings more joy to us. Now we have an understanding, a right comprehension of God and his design for humanity. But we can enjoy this life as it's designed to be. So it this isn't the totality of life, but in this moment God has given us it and all the blessings He's given us now, we can enjoy them. We can enjoy each other as we're designed to. um because we have a right understanding of the eternal as well. And it just gives us a desire and a passion for others to be saved, I think even more. Yeah. Um so to start wrapping this up, one thing I want us to do is Um try to express as clearly as possible what we need to be saved From. I don't want that to be theoretical. I want this to be concrete, practical. So I'll try to summarize it. And then you if you could just supplement it, fine-tune it, whatever. So what we need to be saved from Essentially is we need to be saved. And we don't have time. There are verses on all these, but we don't have time to do all of them. But we need to be saved from sin. uh Satan and the judgment of God. Which and under judgment of God you could you could put death, eternal death, hell, lake of fire. But we need to be saved from sin. So W we have in our lives and on our records sin against God, we need that to be wiped out. We need our guilt to be erased. So we need to be saved. from that sin. We need to be saved from the rule of sin in our hearts, which you could also call Satan's tyranny. If uh Ephesians chapter two begins like this. We're dead in our trespasses, we're dead in sin, and we're enslaved To Satan, he's our master, even though when I was lost, I wouldn't have admitted that. I didn't know that. So we need to be saved from sin, from its guilt, and we need to be saved from sin 's ruling power from Satan's tyranny in our heart and then again we need to be saved from the judgment of God. So sin, Satan, and the judgment of God. And of course I like it to be in threes. And that has a nice ring to it, sin, Satan, and the judgment of God. But you need to get if you're explaining this to someone, you need to get this idea of saved from death, like an ultimate consequence. of death, we are saved from that because we'll be risen to eternal glory at the end of at the end of all time. And so I know there's a lot there, but That has to be communicated. This is the offer of the gospel. This is why Jesus came. This is what we preach as a church. The free offer that even though you are a sinner and guilty And even though you are enslaved to sin and under the judgment of God, you can be saved from all of those things if you put your faith in Christ. And those three categories allow us to understand the past, present, and future aspects of the salvation. So you're you're saved in the past sense that you're you're now righteous because of Christ. You're saved from the punishment of your sins. You're being saved from the attacks of the enemy and from sin, and you will be saved from God's judgment in the uh the day of judgment. So right there it's just so clear of the the past, present, and future tense of salvation. I've heard one added too um that would be on the other side of the resurrection, final judgment, where we're saved from the very presence of sin. Now when we die, when any believer dies bodily, their soul is Uh saved from the presence of sin. There's their soul is made righteous and goes to heaven. But the ultimate goal is that resurrection where we'll have new bodies, imperial bodies, glorious bodies. And we'll live on earth free from sin, free from any cause or effect of sin, free from any of the torment of sin. So that ultimate goal which Glorification is part is part of that salvation, that final and full experience of the blessings of salvation. And so let's just wrap up by Talking a little bit about practical application, which I think we have already, you know, because we've talked about the believer and the mindset we should have of w where we are being saved and the hope that we have that we will be. You brought up this is the message for the world around us. This is what we have to offer. But what are some practical applications of salvation? I'll get us started and then I'll shoot it right over to you. This one's going to be fast. The number what I think is the number one practical application of our salvation is love and gratitude in the heart toward God. That's gotta be I mean this is first. He saved us. Therefore, we're thankful and we love him and we're f we have joy because of God. Yeah. Not cold stop. But you still mind. I was gonna say the praise and worship of God. That's good. No, let's go, yeah. Uh the right respect for him, the fearing of God because we recognize of what he has done. That should be yeah, that really is step one. Like that's the natural response to the recognition of your salvation. um is to worship him. I think another practical aspect uh uh is the peace that we have. That's why Paul uses that language so much, uh grace and peace to you, brethren, is that We now understand our position with the creator of the universe, which then should change how we do a lot of things in life. Our obedience to him. Uh we're not ashamed of our sin because we we're forgiven of our sins, so we're confessing it and repenting of it regularly. It's not a guilt that the enemy can use against us. That comes from the peace, knowing that we have peace with God because of our salvation. Yeah, that's good. That's great actually. So we have praise and worship, we have inner peace, we have love and gratitude, and We could make the argument. We won't. We're going to end this podcast. But any other practical application of Christian living flows from the ones we just said. Yeah. It flows from a heart that is f is filled up with those things that we just said. Love, gratitude, uh Praise and worship, fear the Lord, and a sense of inner peace because we are known by God. So the salvation of souls. Um our core values, that's number two. Number one is the praise and glory of God, and number two is the salvation of souls because that's God's plan. Whatever else he's doing, it all fits into this plan. God is bringing glory to himself by saving souls through Jesus Christ. That's what we want to be about. Can you close us with a prayer? Well there. Father God, we thank you for our salvation. that the work of your son is sufficient. It's all that we need. And Lord, may we never look anywhere else We thank you that we will be with you in glory for eternity. And Father, we ask that this gospel truth, the reality of salvation of souls through the blood of Christ, is proclaimed throughout the world. May we see many sinners coming to faith. May we see many enemies of yours become your children through faith in Christ. We pray all of this in his name. Amen.