So that they're there. Church historian, philosopher, whatever, all those quotes are are there. Or at least those are the ones that I'm intending to quote in the message. So I'm gonna try to cover some ground, I hope pray and hope that it will be edifying. But those are those notes there so you don't have to worry about, you know, if you wanted to write down oh what scripture was Another uh sort of housekeeping thing before I get into it, and that is uh if you um have questions, we would love to do like a QA time that's what These two tools are up front. We'd love to have the questions written down. So if you could, I gave away, I gave half sheets of paper out, but you could write down anything if you want. Um we'll probably pass them forward. Maybe if you write on there if it's a question for uh Mike or Matt, we can put our names on it for who is for and then we'll sort of ask each other the questions. Um We'll go something like that. Um but uh yeah, if if you have uh questions, um maybe you can write them. If you don't have questions, maybe you can think about them. It'll be more fun that way. Um So uh so yeah, I'll uh I'll get started. Again, wonderful to uh I appreciate being invited out here for this topic. Uh and I appreciate everybody who came even though it's just a couple weeks uh away from Christmas on a uh Sunday night when everybody has uh a lot going on. But uh but thank you all for coming out and I pray that this would be edifying for you. Oh Father, come and be with us. Lord, as we think and meditate for the glory of your Son, Lord, call our hearts to long speaker. See him face to face. And as we go about living out the kind of life that that Pastor Matt explains to us in your word, Lord, we pray that uh that we would in knowing Christ long to know him more than more and that final knowing of people happily know. Make us pray, Lord, come to this. We pray that that would be the terrible part, that would be our desire. Work in our affections, that you would long term. Pray this in Jesus. I'm trying to aim for that 35 minute mark too, but we'll see where we go. Well, raise your hand if if you have plans to do something in the next two weeks What are you gonna plan for the next few weeks? Oh. What are you gonna do after that? Maybe slow down a bit in January? Hibernate a bit when it's so And then what? Springtime's coming, right? You'll you'll emerge from your house as the days get longer. And then what? Well, this could go on and on for quite a few minutes. Sometimes. But not forever. Eventually, you would get to the end. There will be a final and then one. That will wake you up in another world. I have a friend who's a really gifted evangelist, and I heard him tell a story about how he used this line of Uh my friend was talking to this guy named Mike. selling french fries and and uh my friend said so mike what are you doing with your life mike responded I'm going to college so I can get into law school And then what? Like that I want to do really well in law school so that I can graduate to the top law firm in Boston. We'll hope that happens. My friend said, and then what? Mike said, then I want to distinguish myself as a great lawyer and rise to the top of the field and make a lot of money. Then what? Well then I suppose I'll retire and live off my my fat savings and travel and do things and see places. Then what? Then I suppose I'll get all. Then what? Then I get I'll stop. Then what? Might fight. That final and then what was a night fight. Now, I don't know whatever happened to Mike, perhaps he the leaf was Gospel. What have the gospel? My point in recounting that story is while I I love that story and I appreciate my friend's boldness that continuity there. But I really want to contrast the terror that somebody would like my Will experience if he does not repent on that final day. It's the joy and blessedness that believers will experience. We have a glorious future that awaits us. It will be wonderful. I want to talk about what will make it wonderful. In the sense that what will transform our current experience into the glorious What is the cause of all that blessedness in the future of life? What makes heaven? Heaven. And the answer, I think, in the most succinct way from the Bible is that we will see him. We will see him. Well not fine with that. The church has labeled this reality, I think wisely, the beauty vision. The vision of Christ We we see this in the New Testament. That we see the difference between now and the life to come and the difference of seeing him According to the Apostle Paul, Paul says, now we walk by faith. But a time is coming when we will walk by Christ. See that the now is by faith. The time is coming Coming, we will see him. by For Paul says, Now we see through a glass dimly, but we will see him face to face. Now our Christian lives are dominated by the virtues of faith and hope. But later, faith and hope will fade away, and love, the greatest of these, will remain. Note in there the emphasis on seeing. Or we could look at the same thing in the book of John's writings, 1 John chapter 3 Verse 2. It says, beloved, we are God's children now. And what we will be has not yet appeared. But we know that when He appears , we shall be like him because we shall see him as he is. We'll be like him because we will see him Again, note the reference to Peter. We will see him. That is a thing that will happen in the future that does not happen now, at least not in the same way. Or Peter tells us that although we do not see him now we rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of And the implication there is that if we have this much joy now not seeing him, how much more will we have to? All the goodness and glory The glory of heaven is called is occasioned by us seeing him. John Owen put it well when he said, the enjoyment of God by sight, commonly called the typical vision Is the sole fountain of all the actions of our soul in a state of blessing. The sight of the glory of Christ is the spring and call Of all our everlasting lessons. I think Owen there is very well summarizing the consistently With this in scripture, that all the blessedness of heaven, the glory of our future life, is caused by, is worked out by us seeing Him. And that moment of By seeing him, we will be changed. By seeing him, we will come into the fullness of what God has intended for us to be all along as Well, I want to make three simple points that we'll try to explain from scripture what the church is getting at with this idea of beauty. Those three points and they're on your outline empty. But they are why we can see him, the beauty we will see, and finally the change that will happen in us When we see him. So first, why will we why can we see him? Why will we be able to see him? And this point is sort of just laying a little bit of theological foundation that we need to appreciate. Well, first of all, we need to appreciate that the final vision that we will see, seeing God is seeing Christ. This is because God, in his essence, in his pure deity, is invisible. God is spirit, right? God is simply not part of this material world. Timothy one, Paul says, Now to be king, eternal, immortal, invisible, the most holy God. Is that invisible? There's many other verses we could listen to. say the same thing. So in one sense God as God, as deity, cannot be seen. And yet we have to reckon with the fact that people turn through What's up with that? Right? Moses talks to God face to face. A man talks to a friend. Manoah said, We will die because we have seen the face of God. Isaiah So how do we reconcile this seeing God, which we see in Scripture and which were promised on that final day, with the fact that God is in Well, I think what we have to say here is that no one sees God in this world. No one sees God, listen to this, as God sees God. You see, to see God as God sees God would require you to be God and you're not. So you will not see God like that. Well, how will you We will see God because God makes Himself known. The invisible God condescends, that is, comes down to become visible so that we can see God. Him. That's the good news. God does this throughout the Bible in various times and in various ways. I mentioned some of them, but ultimately, he makes himself Known to us in Christ, who is God become man. John says in his gospel, he says, no one has seen God in any time. That's because he's invisible, right? Then John goes on, the only begotten God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known. Jesus says without himself. Throughout his life, God records, If you have seen me, you have seen the Father. Notice the emphasis on vision, right? We can see See him, because the invisible God has become visible in the face of Christ. Grace has come true In human flesh. He has come down, not and taken on human flesh, not to obscure his deity, not to put a barrier between us and the deity, but so that we can see it. This is how we see God. Consider that the pinnacle of revelation, right? The highest form of revelation is just at the point of God God's down below. Just as God humbles himself to take on the form of the servant, there the nature of God is most holy. As much as I like the song Heart the Herald Angels Sing, I think instead of singing veiled in flesh the God concealed, you should really The flesh is not a covering over of a deity, it is rather the means by which it is revealed Let's look at this seeing God from a different perspective. You think about it, there are three things that need to come together for any vision to take place. You need working on. You need the object to be in your view, right? I I can't see the moon right now. And you need light. Right. Only with all these three things can a vision happen. We see God in that final day because He brings all First, he raises us from the dead in glorified bodies with new spiritual eyes. And I think we will really see him, see Christ, with our eyes. has thus been destroyed, yet in my flesh I will see God. I think the the beautific vision doesn't happen until our we are raised from the dead in our glorified body with you. The second thing that needs to happen is the invisible God needs to become visible, which we've already said he does. And finally In Revelation 22. 5, right after it says in 22. 4 that we will see his face, it says, no longer will there be needs Of lamp or sun, for the Lord God will be their light. So the Lord gives us the eye, he comes into our view, and he is the light by which we see. The point here is simply that the utypic vision is not something we create on our own. It's not something we aspire to, climbing up the ladder. We work hard enough and we earn the right to be there. No. He makes that vision possible. Entirely to his work, his condescension, his coming down. So that's the first First, how we will see. Second, the beauty we will see. We will see Him who is supremely beautiful. The Lord's beauty is something that we might not think that much about, but yet it is all over scripture and a key reality that we must realize if we are to know our God rightly. Isaiah 33 says, Your eyes will behold the king in his beauty. His beauty will be full. Psalm 96 says, Splendor and majesty are before him, strength and beauty are in his name. And even the word Uh another biblical support for this idea of God's beauty is that word that appears all over scripture that's translated good in the Old Testament. In the broader sense, that word also includes beauty. It's not I wonder if you've brought that idea into your anticipation of what it would be like when you see Christ. Have you thought about the fact that you would be doing Christ? Perhaps you thought of seeing Christ as an event that is is characterized by overwhelming love. Right? You love God, you know He loves you, it'll be all about love. And of course it will. Or maybe you're intimidating Participation will be an event that is of one of overwhelming majesty. Right? He is Lord, and when you see him, you will bow before him. Of course it 's meant to But seeing him face to face is also going to be an event of holy wilderness. Seeing him on that final day will be like seeing a beautiful sunset or a beautiful work of holy Except it won't be that at all, because he is far more beautiful than anything here on Earth. One the church father put it this way: he said, God is light, but like no light we've ever seen. That's one of the most profound things we can say about God. We could also mend that to say that God is beautiful, but He's like no beauty everything. He is the source of all beauty. See him will be we will think, I never knew what duty was before until now. Also consider that in his fall and World, the good, the true, and the beautiful, appear as separate realities. There is such a thing as beauty that is not good here on earth, right? Satan is the angel of life. We can be deceived by a false view. Which is one of the reasons we are told in Scripture to pay less attention to what we see and more attention to what we hear, right? Faith comes by hearing, hearing through the word. of Christ. But in that final day, our eyes will deceive us no longer. The good, the true, and the beautiful will merge into one and we will be Now, to understand this a bit more, uh let's think a little bit about the nature of beauty. I think if we pull on that string, some interesting things will enough for us to to meditate on. Beauty involves us in, doesn't it? Especially visual beauty. We always want to move closer. Why sometimes with kids they say, Can I see this? and then they grab it. No, you see with your eyes, but no, it's beautiful. I want it. I want to see it. You want to get closer to it. I remember when I saw the Grand Canyon many years ago. It was just amazing. I wanted to go down inside, never mind the fact that it was ninety-five degrees and I had no water and I was already dehydrated I was racing my bike for the last three days. I still wanted to go down in to be part of that beauty. Why people go to art galleries. Why they go through the mountain? They don't want to just Look at the pictures. You want to go there? Beauty calls up there. So also does God God you There's this two-way movement in Scripture. Beauty goes forth from the Lord, and the leaves draw near to the weeds. But here's another question worth thinking about related to beauty. Is beauty in the eye of the dehorder? Or does beauty belong to the eye To the object that we see as you. Where does beauty reside? In here in my own head, or out there in the thing that I am observing? And the answer is The answer, I believe, is both, although much more one than the other. If beauty is an attribute of God, and I finally make the case that it is, then beauty is is most certainly. Definitely. No question about it. Something outside of us, right? Because God is beautiful. And God is beautiful whether or not anybody acknowledges Him as such. God's beauty does not depend upon our thinking of beauty. So if beauty is an attribute of God, then beauty resides outside of us. But in another sense Beauty is also subjective. Because I need to behold the beauty in order for me to judge it as beautiful. Philosopher Roger Scruton, and there's an extended appointment of that outline, but Don't worry about trying to read it now. Um, there's a Roger Spirit who points out that when we judge something to be beautiful, that's a unique kind of judgment, unlike any other kind of judgment. Roger Scruton believes that what grounds something is beautiful is outside of us. There are objective reasons why something is beautiful, even if we don't all agree about that. When we talk about something as beautiful, we are describing what it is, not just what I feel about it. But Point out that he's right. In order for me to know this is beautiful, I have to see it. You could describe to me all day why the Grand Canyon is beautiful, and I might I trust every word you say, but unless I've actually seen it, or somebody says to me, Is the Grand Canyon beautiful? I would just say they say it is. Roger Scruton points out says there are no second hand judgments of you. You've got to see it for yourself. And I think this has tremendous implications for how we appreciate Beauty of God. There are no secondhand judgments of God's beauty. Beauty describes God not just how I feel about him, right? It's who he really is. But I must see Now you might think to yourself, but Mike, isn't your point that we don't see him now? And if we don't see him now, how in the world are we going to know that he's beautiful? Well, I think In which Matt is pointed this out. Knowing him by faith is a kind of vision. But it is a kind of vision, as Paul says, through a glass dimmer. Knowing him by we see that he's beautiful, but it's quite. But we see enough To know that we want more. We see enough to yearn and long for the day, and we will see him face to face, and that fuzziness will be taken away, and we will know him. Thinking about the beauty of God also helps prevent a possible pitfall if we center our mind So much on the world of God. There are so many good things in heaven. Other than seeing God on that Final day, huh? Reunion with loved ones, having a body free of sin, no more temptation, those are things I'm looking for too. And because those things are often more Tangible and easier for us to imagine, sometimes those things can crowd out the reality of seeing God. Of course, we know this is not good. We don't want to enjoy the gift more than the giver. We don't want it to be, as one person said, that we get to heaven and find God there. Heaven is in that quote taken to be the Place of all blessing and the life. We don't want to get to heaven and find God there. We want to get to God and find heaven there. God is the source of all blessing into life. I think that thinking of our final end as an event of overwhelming beauty helps preserve the focus on God Himself. You appreciate something that's beautiful. You aren't trying to use it for something else. You don't look at the Grand Canyon and say, there ought to be something I can use this child. You appreciate it for what it is. I appreciate a can opener and how how it can help me get in the can, right? That's why I prequ I appreciate the sunset because of the sunset. I appreciate a spatula as a tool for how it helps me put a dancing. I appreciate a work of art because of the work of art. See the difference? To appreciate the beauty of something is to appreciate it for what it is. We get the value out of the thing itself through its beauty Likewise with God. When we see him as beautiful, we don't appreciate him just for how he gets us something else. You know, he says, get out of hell uh he he's how we get out of hell or get this other thing that we want. No. To appreciate God is beautiful. It's to appreciate Him. is to want him. Consider the words of David in Psalm 27. He says, One thing I have asked of the Lord, that is, that I will seek after. That I may dwell in the house of the Lord all the days of my life, to gaze upon the beauty of the Lord, to require any sense. The psalmist wants one thing. Notice that singular devotion. And that singular devotion is tied into his desire to see God's future. See the beauty, you want the thing itself. I find that if I meditate on the beauty of God, it helps me purify my desire for heaven. It doesn't remove all the other joys that will be there, but it helps me focus on the one that is central to it all itself. If I meditate upon the beauty of God, it also helps and it helps us understand why we can go on enjoying Him forever and ever I've met people who struggle with the idea of heaven because endless life sounds boring to them. People usually don't want to die But they don't all want to live forever and ever either. Because that might not be good. as well. But let's bring beauty into this. How do you enjoy yourself to this feeling? Your eye kind of wanders all around. Something about it draws you in. You can't quite figure it out. There's a delightful mystery about it, and you just keep looking Equal. You go back and forth between the details and the whole. The more you look at the details, the more you appreciate the whole, and the more you appreciate the whole, you go back to the details. But eventually, you'll wear out. Eventually you will have a look at it all, no matter how beautiful it is on earth, you'll want to do it all. No one would want one single thing to occupy their vision for all of the earthly life. That's because all beauty in this world is finite. Eventually it' But what if there was a beauty that was in there? Then it would never run out of seed. David says of God in Psalm 145, Your greatness is beyond Yeah, your greatness is unsearchable. God 's beauty is part of his greatness. Which means there's no end to you Some have suggested that there might in heaven we might find that there are new attributes of God that we've never considered before. The attributes of God in the same scripture, but what if there was an infinite number? The point here is that the beauty vision is not static. When we see him face to face, we won't be like, oh there, okay, I'm good now. We see him face to face and will not have reached the plateau. We'll have reached a new realm from which we can take off and know him better and better and better. Throughout all of eternity, and it will never be worked. It will never get old. Our life in heaven will not be static, it will be one of ever increases. I love how C. S. Lewis gets at this in the final book of the Chronicles of Narnia series. The children have entered heaven. And they see the old world of Narnia as but a shadow of this new realm of heaven that they're in now. And they go further up and further in, it says. Deeper and deeper into the presence of God. And this is how Lewis ends the last book of the series. He says, For them, that's for the children. It that is covenant. Beginning of the real story. The end of seven books of their sort. All their life in the old world and all their adventures in Narnia had only been In the cover of the title. Now at last they will begin to chapter one of the race, which no one on earth has read, which goes on forever, in which every chapter is better than the one When we see Christ face to face, a real adventure gets in. Heaven only. So heaven is rest, to be sure. But not the kind of rest that is sweet. It's more like the kind of rest where you're sitting down talking with a good friends and knowing them more and more. The kind of rest that is love. Love. Beauty helps us Understand how heaven is eternal and why it will be getting better and better. Now, what I'd love to do now is just explore all the facets of the beauty of Christ, but time will not permit that But I do want to mention just one facet of his beauty, which I really enjoy meditating on, and which I'm not sure we think much about, and that is that it is a Redemption. His unity is a redemption. What does that look like? We'll find out. When Jesus was raised From the dead, though, consider this. When he was raised from the dead in his glorified, beautiful body, he still bore the marks of the cult. And he points to those marks, to the disciples, so that they can identify him. They see it me, the one who was killed upon the cross, but now I'm alive. It's still me. I'll think about it in most cases. Oh, and he has those marks. Uh even now. And he's beautiful. That's a bit odd to think about because in most cases a disfigured body like that would not be visible. Usually you'd want to hide your face from a hand that has a hole in it or a side that's But somehow, and I don't pretend to know how, Christ rules become part of the I think that hymn captures this really well when it says we crown him with many crowns. Behold his hands inside Rich wounds yet visible above, sorry, in beauty glorified. In beauty glorified, his wounds are part of his beauty because his beauty is a redemptive beauty. Along these same these same lines, did you realize The most prominent way by far, by far, and listen to the scriptures fully, that Jesus is presented in the book of Revelation is as a lamb. Think about that. A lamb can only mean one thing, a sacrificial lamb. And it even says several times, a lamb that was slain. But this is revelation when Christ comes in glory, when Christ comes in the beach and ignition. Right after John hears the announcement, the lion of the tribe of Judah has conquered. Chapter 5, John hears that announcement. So the conquering king, right? The conquering lion. John sees, again, but this one scene, a lamb standing as though it had been swayed. What in the world would that have looked like? What did John see that it is both the conquering king and the lamb that was slain at the same time? Surely he didn't See a lamb on a stretcher soaked in its own blood. That would not be a conquering thing. If this conquering king in his beauty bears the marks of the cross, but those marks don't detract from his glory. Food marks are part of his beauty. Those marks are taken up into his beauty. God can take something as ugly and perverse as the cross, the crucifixion of the Lord of glory, and use it as part of the greatest beauty of Christianity. When we look into his beauty, we are redeemed. Our our misery, our brokenness, our pain is taken up in the beatific region. Now, this is polar opposite of what passes off as beauty so much in the world today. The world tends to go in two wrong directions regarding beauty. Not holy, but some Sometimes the world stares only at the brokenness of pain in this world. Art that comes out of that can resonate with our pain and disappointment. But at the end of the day it offers no hope. At the end of the day it's not even useful. Because what it tries to do is simply say this world is an ugly place. What can possibly be redoubled? On the other hand, there are some artists who tried to ignore all the pain and broken in the world. Thomas Kincaid was actually quoted as saying, And he does art as if there was no fall. At least not beautiful this one. See this See the beauty of the Lamb face to face on that final day? Is not at all to imagine the world as if there wasn't a fall. The wise people together. It's rather to see your own misery and wickedness in far greater clarity than you ever have before, and yet to know that like those wounds in his hands and his side isn't Ours is a world of lawlessness also. It seems appropriate around Christmas time to think of the persecuted church. There was a report some years ago years ago that the the Christians in China were in prison making Christmas lights to sell to Americans? How Iran. Let's not forget that the church is the That's what Paul learned on the uh Damascus wrote, right? Why are you persecuting me? Persecute the church and persecution Christ. And those were like the ones that hands and sides will also feel as well. God will not waste any of the suffering that his children experience. He will also All these taken up in C And that brings us to the final point. Will we be like? That verse I started out with in John 3 2. When we see him, we will be like him. The vision, the beauty vision, changes us. It conforms us to his image. To see him is to look like him. Pastor Matt got it. So well. Why does the vision change us? Why does the beauty vision conform us to his nature? Well we have to go back to who we are is the image of God. Image has something to do with vision Doesn't it? There's a visual component to image. It's to reflect something. We are the image of God, so we image forth God. Just as a mere And image images. Think of how a mere works then. The only reflective is of the Lord. If we are face to face with him, if we are in covenant self- fellowship with him, that's when we can adequately reflect the image of God. Why do people today lie and cheat and put others down and pursue them Their own sinful passions, all things that don't look at all like God, they don't live face to face with God. Because they're hiding from us. even as believers, so long. As long as we only know God through a mere gimmick, as long as we walk only by faith and not by sight, it will be temptation. To image forth something other than the glory of God. I'm not saying that our walking by faith instead of by sight is ever an excuse for sinning. Now, no, it's not. But it is an explanation for why we are so easily tempted to image forth another story, a counterfeit war that is no glory at all. But when we see him face to face, all that will be changed. Then we will reflect him fully and truly. Temptation will no longer have any That's why sin is impossible. Like Paul says in Second Corinthians three He describes this process of changing into his likeness. It has already started now. He says that we all with unveiled face, beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from the One degree of glory to another. Even though through a glass dimly, the process of renewal is going on always now. We are being changed from one degree of glory to the Another by beholding him. There is no other method of change than by beholding. Presently, that change in this life is called sanctification. Because we see it through a glass dimly. It's progressive. It comes in fits and starts. But when we see him face to face, it will be called Glorification, because we will be entirely like him, because we will see him as he is. Sanctification and glorification are wedded together in the Bible. They differ The Puritan theologian Walter Marshall put it well when he said, Sanctification in Christ is glorification begun as glorification is sanctification perfected. And both come when we behold Christ. And so we become like him in holiness. When we see him face in grace. But we also become something. Both individually and corporately as one body, we become beautiful. Why? Because he is beautiful That's what the beautific vision is all about. And we will become lighting. We will become beautiful. We have to remember, as I said before, that the good, the true, and the beautiful are only separate In this life, sanctification does not change anything on the outside of us. Only on the inside. The inner man. The outer man is wasting away. But in that final day. Our outer man will be fully transformed into a world. A line from one of my favorite hymns captures the so Well, it says, My song is love unknown. My Savior's love to me. Love to the loveless shown that they might lovely be I love the play of words there. We are loveless. In our sin, we are loveless. We do not love God or our neighbor. We love ourselves. We are selfish. And we become lovely. We will be beautiful. The writer of this hymn is not confusing categories. Morally right morally lovely But rather he's recognizing the holistic character of our newness in Christ. We will be lovely. We will be beautiful It's perhaps one of the hardest things to believe about specific Christians. You know, it's one thing to think that we will see the beauty of Christ , another thing to think that we will be transformed into the life of And yet this is the plan that God has been working all along throughout the younger history. He has been purifying us. Paul says by the washing with the wo pure water of the word, that we might be the radiant, spotless bride adorned for her husband. That's what we will be home. In fact, the bowl of there being a bride with a son goes all the way back to before the creation of the world. Jonathan Edwards put it so well when he said, the creation of the world seems to have been especially for this end. That the eternal Son of God might obtain a spouse toward whom he might fully exercise the infinite benevolence of his nature To prove he might, as it were, open forth all that immense fountain of his condensation, love, and grace that was in his heart. In this way, God might glorify. God is glorified in preparing a bride for his son. God is glorified in the Son, loving that bride. In coming into the most intimate union with us, we are not right. God really does love. Oh speak of just Same thing in Colossians chapter 3. When Christ, who is your life, is revealed, then you also will be revealed with me, Lord. Christ being revealed here speaks of And when we see him in glory, we will be changed to be like him. We too will be revealed in glory. We can this, we are part of the beginning vision. Not that we have a beauty in of ourselves. Ours is a reflective beauty of like the moon. The image court, the beauty of Christ. The beativic vision involves the church not merely as spectators, but as Edwards again. He says, Thus the church of Christ, toward whom and in whom are the emanations of his glory and communication Of his fullness. The Church of Christ is called the fullness of Christ. As though he were not in his complete state without her. As Adam. wasn't an effective state without you. Christ's glory is such that it is not God has prepared the church to be written for all praise. Of course, this is not speaking whatsoever of any lack in the eternal self. Not at all. The Son as Son is entirely complete within himself. He has the fullness of life within himself, as John said. But in terms of the glory that he has as the God man, the second Adam is a glory that is given to him by the Father in order that he would share it with the church. is this second union. Thus he needs the church, he the Father has been married. The Bible begins with a Mary, and it ends with a mayor and the meaning of both ought to be understood together. up Close with this. Just to point out that understanding this helps me understand Better how the Bible ends. After we've seen the significance of the beatific vision in God's redemptive plan, we might expect the Bible to end with the glorious display of beauty vision. Or even actually We would just expect John to say, and I fell on my face, and the angel told me not to write about what I saw. But the Bible doesn't end that way. What we have at the end is not actually a description of the glory of Christ, but of his pride. The angel says to John, Come. The thing that he really wants to show John is the broth, the wife, the man. And what we get at the very end is the beautification. Of the bride of Christ. John says, and he carried me away in the Spirit to a mountain, great and high, and showed me the holy city, Jerusalem, coming down out of heaven from God. It shone with the glory of God. And it's brilliant. Is like that of a very precious school, like a jasper fear in the school. And that day we will shine through the glory of God. But we will in no way compete with the glory of the Lamb. For all our glory will redount with His, because it was all fun. Friends, this is the beativic vision. This is the vision of the beautiful Christ which draws us in and takes us part of that. And maybe you're here tonight. And if you're honest with yourself, you've traded, don't know the price. Let me warn you. No one will see Christ by sight, who does not know him in his life by faith. The good news is that he has come so that you may believe him in his gospel. He has died on the cross to take the punishment we deserve. He's been raised from the dead. He might be a fitting savior for simple people. So believe in him. He might be holding it by faith now. And behold in my sight blame. To my believing friends, let me say this. You will not waste your life by devoting a significant amount of your time Beauty that you can behold now through a glass dimly over one day. See , faith is live as those who are betrothed to the most glorious groom there ever was. Because that is exactly true. What we thank you with praise for the glory of Christ. That it will come and swallow up all of our sin and misery , burnt and pain. And you have taken it to yourself and dealt with it. And it has contributed to your beliefs as a redemption. Thank you before coming from the church. Transform the church. So we pray. Come. The blue one. Oh, did we pass the uh questions forward? Here we go. Be thou my vision, O Lord of my heart. Not be all else to me saved. Now my best thoughts by day or by night Waking or sleeping, thy presence, my life. Be thou my wisdom and thou my true word. I ever with thee, and thou with me old Oh, my great father, I thy true son. Thou with me dwelling, and I with thee one. Riches I eat not nor meant empty praise Thou mine inheritance thou ways. Thou and thou only first in my heart I King of heaven, my treasure thou art I King of Heaven, my victory one May I reach heaven's joy, so bright heaven sun. Heart of my own heart, whatever be fall Still be my vision of ruler And then My sorrow and dead in my sins. Lost without hope, with no place to begin. Your love made a way to let mercy come in When death was arrested and my life began , Astra was redeemed, only beauty remained My orphan heart was given a name. My morning grew quiet, my feet rose to dance When death was arrested and my life began. Oh, your grace So free washes over me. You have made me new, now life begins with you. It's your end love pouring down us. You have made us Smooth now life begins with you Released from my chains I'm a prisoner no more Shame was the ransom he faithfully bore He cancelled my debt and he called me his friend When death was arrested My life again. Oh, your great straw price washes over me. You have made me new, now life begins with you. It's your end love pouring down on us. You have made us new now light beginning. Is with you savior displayed on a criminal 's cross Darkness rejoicing, so heaven had lost But then Jesus arose with a freedoming hand. That's when death was rested and my life began. Oh your grace so free Washes over me You have made me new now like Peggy It's with you, it's your end love pouring down on us. You have made us noon life begins with you. Oh, we're free, free, forever we're free. Come join the song of all the reading. Yes, we're free Free forever, Amen. When death was arrested, and my life began When death was arrested and my life began. When death was arrested and my life began. Yep. Alright, you can be seated and If you didn't get a question in, um we do have Pastor John to welcome Mike to you if you'd rather ask it, or you could still get that question um up to us. And we'll just we're at seven fifty eight. We're just gonna play it by e here ear here and uh be faithful to that promise of some discussion and Okay, so um Mike has one or two and then I'd if nothing else comes up I definitely have one for you. So wanna you wanna go ahead and get us started with those? Um question easier. Uh -huh. So let's see. Um we'll go with this one. Is there a difference between our seeing Christ then face to face and the risen Christ That's a question I thought of as I was uh working on the talk and I thought, huh, I wonder about that. Well I don't have time to think about it now. Um I uh but but you know, now's a good time to start. Um I I think what first thing we have to recognize is that what Christ was like that that uh forty days after The resurrection before the ascension was an unnatural time because as um Richard Gaffin, a theologian you both know, uh says, I think he's right, Christ was in the state of exaltation. But not yet in the place of exaltation. He was not yet sent exalted to the Father's side. So there's it's like that's not how it ought to be. refrain from reading too much into that um that scenario where we have the exalted Christ uh living among people who are not yet exalted. That's not what really is is meant to happen. We're supposed to fully reflect him. So it but yet that forty days was obviously necessary in the flow of the gospels, in the flow of redemptive history, so that they could actually see him, believe that he rose from the dead, and he could give them their marching orders for the next however long it is. before he returns. Um and the person who wrote this question, I think, very insightfully put, they were not yet glorified when they saw him. And I think that's part of it. I think there's there's something um when we are raised from the dead in our glorified bodies, we will have physical bodies. So they're called spiritual bodies, but that will take us in the wrong direction if we think spiritual means non-physical. No, they are infused with the spirit. They are bodies that have the spirit in a new and powerful way that they've never had before. So With those uh spirit-filled bodies, new bodies that we have, or physical bodies raised by the spirit, um, therefore I think we will be able to see him and appreciate his beauty. in a way that we hadn't yet done. Um so so I think there will be a difference. Whether there's a difference because of the nature of Christ is actually different when we see him face to face than when he was on his earthly life. I I'm not sure how to parse that out. Uh perhaps um we could, but I think there is a difference in terms of who we are as being raised from the dead in New York. And I think the beatific vision will happen not just when we die. There'll be a sense of to be absent with a body is present from the Lord, but the real beatific vision will happen when Christ returns. And we are raised from the dead in real bodies and can see him. I think that's what Job's getting at. After my flesh decays, or after I decay, I will see him in the flesh. I will see him him in a physical body with new eyes, uh I I will see him back. So I'll add one more. So yeah, so the realm you'll be different and your eyes will be different. But then also one of the things that will be different is um you'll no longer have this separation in your mind of like my spiritual experience and life o over here And then over here, my relationship with the church and that aspect of my spiritual journey. Your walk and your relationship to the bride And in the bride will be one. You are a member of the bride of Christ. And in that day that too will be glorified, and will be as that was his final that was the the the closing point. That is part of the beauty vision. Yeah, good point. You're right. So when we see him in that day, that's the the consummation of the marriage, right? So our relationship with him will be different. Now it's more of a betrothal period, a now and not yet kind of thing. In that final day, we will have a much more deep relationship with them. Well not only will uh love God finally with all of our heart, soul, mind, and strength, but we'll love our neighbors as ourselves. We'll love the church the way we should love the church in that day. to us as we appropriately are wedded to the word. What else you got? Do you have another one there? Is there something like sight in the spiritual realm? For example We can't see angels. They can see each can they see each other? Can they see God? Is that how we will see face to face? Yeah, I don't know. It's a good question. Um I angels are fascinating. I I think C. S. Lewis does I think a marvelous job in the space trilogy, Paralandro just just kind of imagining what that's kind of like. I think they do know each other. I'm not sure you could apply the verb seeing uh to what they actually do. And yet they can manifest themselves here so that we can see them. But I'm not sure you can, you know, in non-physical beings to talk about them seeing something. I I I don't know. I'm not sure what that would be like. Um In in that uh yeah, for for the non-physical realm, it might be that there's a sense where we want to reserve sight to something for our physical creature us physical creatures. There's there's something unique about that that we don't want to say is uh it may be analogies to the non Beings, angels, God. Um but and obviously God sees, but there's a metaphor there's something metaphorical in that. Um so yeah, there's something like sight But uh there's something unique about sight for us is God has made us with physical eyes be able to perceive this external world in this way. And He's done that so that we can perceive Yeah, that's what I was thinking, that that's the reason we have eyes and the and seeing things is part of being made in the image of God. So Seeing isn't something that is sourced in this realm or ultimate purposes in this realm. This realm is a It's a pilgrim realm in every single way. So analogy, yeah, I've never been to that that other realm. So but uh but but but the invisible heavens un are unseen to us now. But that's still created. They're not uncreated like when you were talking about God is invisible in his nature. That's not the case with the uh the unseen realm because because that is still created. Even at the angle of other three as well. Great question. I don't think I could justify. Any easier questions out there? Who's got there? I have a question with all things easier than that. Look at the couple. Oh that that was that was mine, so maybe you'll ask mine for 'em. Good. Okay, so the last couple of chapters of regulation I see uh So we could see that there is no temple. So almighty God while it's Chapter we see a couple times where it just won't know what might be God, obviously. Obviously. The question is Shared vision the bottom is like the hand was enjoyed youth vision So That would have been a great uh little uh gif or something. I I was going to ask something very similar, so I'll throw my thoughts out there and kind of merge it with your question. I I think it's one of the biggest, most glorious mysteries, uh Someone asked me several years ago in ministry, will we see the Father in heaven? And of course you see visions of the ancient of days, you know represent him and the visions of the Father and of course the Lamb taking the scroll and you s you see the f the flames, the lampstands symbolizing the the spirit. Um but The r the God's self-revelation, his revelation of his nature, is through salvation. It's through the redemption. And so I I'll just say I don't know to what we're going to see, you know, the the of these visions in Revelation are and what they're pointing to and representing is the fullness of God, the triune fullness of God, fully manifested, but it's manifested through the redemption, the redemptive work of Christ. Um so I'll just pass it over but that anyway that was gonna be my question too, so I figure I'd throw my thoughts out there. Um Mike, did you have any anything on the I I think um and I I I wanna this needs to be thought about a whole lot more as one thing I'm gonna say is like dogmatically true, but it's suggestions for inter for consideration. I I I think that what we would see will be will we see a Trinitarian vision? Yes. Will we see will that Trinitarian vision be Christ? Yeah. I think the same is true in the world to come as in the world that is, when Jesus says it So will we see the Father? Yes. Because we will see Jesus. And who Jesus is to the glory of God in the face of Christ. And I think we can understand Um there's more than can be flushed out here. But the Son of God is the mediator of the the glory of God in a way that is not simply as a result of the response to the fall. I think we look at the Son of God as the Word of God. It is He as the Word is the the the um you know one who comes forth from the Father Father to make the Father known. That's what the word does, right? My words are are are coming out, right? Making my thoughts money so what come known. And and is the word not simply with reference to his incarnate but use the word eternal. And so I think that even you know imagine there would be no ball, the vision of God is the vision of the second version of the tree. I think there's some sense where he makes the Father known Not just because of sin and the incarnation, but because of the Trinitarian relationship with it. Um so so I think there's a m th that's not a priority of the Son over the other members of the Trinity. That's just recognizing how the Some of that's a bit speculation thing putting things together. But I think especially in the world we live in, with the fall with the incarnation, the way in which the God has been known to us be in the face of Christ. And that's not a lesser revelation of God. That is the highest revelation of God in the past. Former times he's spoken through Prophets very sons are agree. Now in Sun is a revelation of the glory of God. And I think the division of but is that will be Trinity Because it is the Son of the Father who reveals himself to us by means of the Spirit. So if you see Christ, it is the seat of Trinity, but it is the seat of Christ. And that was how he did. So there's continuity with that's how we see him now. We see God as Trinity now, in the Son, by the Spirit. To be Christ centered is not the Non-Trinitarian. It is to be Trinitarian because God is revealing Himself to us in Christ, and He's doing that through the Holy Spirit. All the fullness of God here is in colour The yes, yeah. And the the acts of the Trinity can't be divided too. So where they're acting, they're you know they're all there. But will we appreciate uniquely the love of the Father? Yeah, I mean I think our appreciation of it. John Owen in his uh in his book on communion with God talks about how on earth we can uniquely appreciate the acts of the members of the We appreciate the love of the Father, the grace of Christ, and the comfort of the Holy Spirit. And we appreciate those their actions reliefly now. And I think we can do that in in heaven as well. Through the vision of uh of Christ, we will appreciate each member of the should be uh individual. Yeah, so I think there's there will be a consciousness of them um but not uh not oh you know Over here is this, over here is this, and over here is this. I I don't think that's what we did. I just want before we get another question, just wanted to throw it's been implied in that entire answer. the incarnation, right? The Father didn't become human, the Spirit didn't become human, the Son became human, and so he'll have the glorified resurrection body that That we will receive, not not the Father, not the Spirit. Dr. Mike Harrison. Great, great messages. Big takeaway, I think, for for me, for a lot of us. So we're united with Christ. This is a condition that we should have, we should hold on to apply the business and passion in our lives. I think we subject to the old animation, it's a teacher 's patient. So the question is, I ever is why the church doesn't have that A lot of people just come in, sit down, get a somebody point in the shopping art, and maybe what comparance, what controls Take it first and know you think it's real. Nor do you think it's a part of yourself. Civil days. Churches, church leaders, pastors , that was very well. Did you ask him to ask that? Uh for me I'll Yeah, uh yeah, I wanna answer it. Uh uh I could we could talk all night on that. Uh the two things that come to mind immediately and are always going to be the two most important things. Word, the mini ministries of the word and ministries of prayer. Ministries of the word and sound ones, right? Sound ones, gospel-centered, Christ-centered ones. And prayer. Christ-centered prayer, crying out to God. And so teaching, preaching, equipping, praying for, um, praying with That's the lifeblood of the church. And so I'll shoot it over your way and see if anything else comes to mind. Yeah, I mean I think you're right. I think There's a there's a sense where you the the glorious thing about it, in First John talks about how uh John saw Christ, walk with Christ, and said, This fellowship can be yours too through the gospel. So that's where we answer your word. Expositional preaching. You know, what what you're what you're doing. I mean I think that is is absolutely necessary. Just no, I was uh I was convicted if I was working That just you know w what are the people around me seeing? Are they seeing someone who is taken in and and so appreciative of and desirous of, you know, to be something Like you know, people around me would know that I have an interest in theology. I mean that's what I do for a living. But is that the kind of interest that one has as just you know, well that's what they do. Or is it this is what you don't know. So that idea, do I do I find Jesus beautiful, even through a glass dimly, that makes me long to see him face to face. And I think um that's kind of one of those questions where we're honest with ourselves. No We're we're not really there, um and there's always this huge gap. Um but I find at least being conscious of a gap a a good place to start that I would pray earnestly Lord make me see you as in and appreciate your beauty. Uh this one thing I desire, uh and I think there's a lot of our Christian life is desiring to desire. Um you know just to be praying that honestly. Lord may I love you and I appreciate your viewing this one. And I think the other thing that's just helpful too is um is the church on always needs we need the whole church, right? And people from sometimes people from the past recognize this better. I mean if you read John Owen, uh if you read um David Brainer's uh biography or uh Um there there are saints who have done this um in different ways, not necessarily better than we do it, all of us are trying to dig into but just learning from uh all parts of the church you know in that way. And just holding before us, this vision. That that we see Christ as beautifully and glorifying him. And that the beauty is not simply what he gives us. Do I look forward to heaven just because I see my all most uh you know, my um well the the relatives, the friends, loved ones, I'll see them there. That is a wonderful thing because that's so uh painful. And that is a glorious thing. I don't want to diminish that. Um Especially I think it's in this room, the people who have gone to beautiful Lord. We will see them again, and that's a great thing. Um and yet the real beauty will be the beauty of God. And the real beauty I could add one thing. Um sorry twenty second in certain times. I I I know that was very important for us to believe not want God or what he is going to do before you want to want God. The God, it's like the pastor in congregation. If we go to church, Michael, why do it with God? Must alone, okay. So And this will be our last question and I um I have a couple more answers. Just some things that I'm passionate about. You know, I struggle with that question because I do one of the sins I I lean toward is is being cynical and overly cynical and I can see the easy believism in our culture, the millions of professing believers who aren't true believers. There's a ton of apathy in uh with people who are true believers. Like what's going on? So I so I just struggle with how far do I really want to address this. But I'll I'll talk about two things briefly that I think could address, you know, in terms of remedy for what you're asking about. I think one is an understanding of how sanctification happens. how sanctification happens. Um and I think most Christians and most churches think that the way sanctification happens is um Trying to do more things, trying to do those things better, learning what the Bible teaches about morals. Trying to be moral, learning about what the Bible says not to do, and trying not to do those. It's a law-based, law-centered approach to sanctification. That's not how spiritual growth happens. Cannot be sanctified by devoting yourself to morals and principles and law and doing and self-effort. Cannot happen. Absolutely cannot happen. That's the curse of the law. It cannot conform us to the likeness of Christ. The way we are sanctified and the way we will Get the love and the passion that's being asked about, meditated on. Where do we get this love for God just as God Well, where is the glory of the Lord revealed to us in this age? The gospel of Jesus Christ. The gospel must consistently be thundered. and celebrated and shared and studied and rejoiced in in the details the person and work of Christ and A sub point under that, because it's also included in in the preaching of the gospel, is this who we are in Christ. Who we are. These are the things that sanctify. And so but most uh most of I don't know if I call it pop Christianity, I don't know if that's the right word or not. Uh is just moralism with the veneer of you know, Bible concepts and terms and phrases. I think we need to fix our understanding of what sanctification is and how it happens. And um I would connect that directly to the second thing I want to answer is how we understand what the Bible is. How we understand what the Bible is and how to read the Bible. Mo most of us read the Bible as a law book, a rule book. And um God's law is in the Bible. Absolutely. God's law is good and spiritual, and we need to obey it. Can't sanctify us. Can't sanctify us. It doesn't have the power for sanctification. It's not the means for sanctification. see his glory and to respond the right way, to love him, can only come through the gospel preaching. So so many times we we think, even though we may not say it, we think and act as if the god of the gospel is for lost people. Gospel's for lost people, and it'll help them get saved, and now once they're saved, they can do like we've done. Now we'll move on to more practical things. It's not how it works. You move on from the gospel, you l you lose it. You lose the power. So um it just in broad strokes, I would say the ministries of the word and prayer more specifically to to this age, maybe every age. I I'm not a historian, I'm not sure, but just understanding what spiritual growth and sanctification is, how it happens. And what the Bible's for. What the Bible's for. It's not just it's not just spiritual examples and moral examples. He's forced to see Christ suffering for us, entering glory for us, and um and the redemption that's in him. So anyway, that's my spiel. I'm sticking to it. Any any final words? Did you have another final word or Mike? Did you did you have a another final word? No, that's really good. Um He's shipping off, yeah. We're not gonna have a sending off, but uh we're gonna pray for him. Um Mike and his family is over here are heading to Africa in two weeks. Three weeks. To b uh it's a mission work, being a professor in a seminary to empower and equip indigenous pastors and leaders, which is a great work. So we're gonna pray for him when I do our our closing prayer. Um thank you thank you guys for coming. Thank you guys for coming. Um hope it was uh helpful, hope it was edifying for you. And um if you have any other questions or concerns or anything um just hit us up offline. I'm glad to talk with you. You probably get the impression we can talk about this stuff all day. We we love this stuff. You know, this isn't this isn't just our job. We we head over heels uh for this Christ who died for us. And so let's pray together. Father, we thank you. Thank you for Jesus. Thank you for your revelation that's come to us through him. By mercy, by grace, by an unbelievable power. Can't even imagine that you would Save sinners like us. What an amazing thing. We worship you. We praise you. Father, I pray for each one here that you would work in our hearts and minds. according to your purpose by the working of your great power that you would use us in your kingdom to bear fruit for your name, the name of Christ in the community. Use us, Father And Father, I pray for Mike and his whole family. Grant them safety on their journey. Grant them encouragement on the ground. And grant them fruit and blessing in that ministry. For the name of Christ, for the health of your church. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. All right. Thank you, brother. Thank you. Appreciate it. Go ahead. I was gonna ask the Trinity question to you. We got it. Good. Good evening everyone. Thanks for joining us here this evening. Hope we invite you to stand with us. Let 's sing together. The power of Jesus makes the angel prostrate. No doubt you die water and crown here No And you turn a bad Tools and speed up his race, he loves them from the hall. Saved you by his grace and I 'm here. Hell, hell, should save you by his grace. Every kindred we try promised to a fool to him on majesty outright And crown him all that just be as far and crown him. Let's take that verse again Let every kindred, every tribe harm is true, ever move on to him all methods be as right Oh, heaven is yonder stage from we are these people. Joy be ever like things long and try for Will Joy be ever like you start and cry Shall I sing that magically that angel do I decide? This boy that let me come stay, stay, oh yeah, let me claim that when the call to save you for your throat Most high lawyers and all created things to praise the Lord away. To fill the universe delight thing, thing for everyone. Thousands of thousands friends before your God, oh God.