Open your Bibles to Matthew chapter 6. We'll begin in verse 19. There's an outline on the bulletin as you pick up. Hopefully you pick that up on the way in. And I think you'll also see it on the screen in a moment. Food, clothing , shelter, transportation, each of us has relied on those things in one way or another this morning. Telephones and internet access are considered necessities by most. We're thankful for such technology and reaching those who cannot be here, who are worshiping with us on Facebook Live from their homes or other places. We're thankful for that. Material things are a blessing to us in many ways But Jesus identifies two problems in our passage this morning. Wanting to have more can be a problem And worrying about having enough can be a severe problem as well. This preoccupation in a wrong way with material things, whether it's wanting to have more, Or worrying about having enough can hold you back from following Christ. And you know it's true. Wants and worries have quenched devotion to God They have quenched good works. They have quenched investment in the work of the gospel. And that happens everywhere, but especially it happens in areas where we have enough and normally more than enough. Jesus calls in this passage for undistracted devotion to the kingdom. The kingdom is in its Big sense the rule of God, the kingdom of God, His rule, His sovereignty, His will And of course, in Christ it is Him building his church and his return. He was speaking to his disciples and followers on the mountainside who would, particularly the twelve, would lay the foundation of the church. And he is speaking to his disciples and followers assembled here this morning at North Hartford Baptist Church, which he knows and which he is Building, because we continue the building of the church. And so we need to know these lessons. We need to practice these lessons. And the first one, I'm going to introduce them both with a question. And the first question is, what do you treasure? The second question, as you can see on the bulletin, is who do you trust? What do you treasure? You've heard the expression. I enjoy mysteries, detective shows, or reading. And a lot of times you'll hear the expression, follow the money. Well, follow the money in your own life, because beyond the necessities of life, What does your life, my life, and our use of money, what does it say about our hearts? That's what Jesus is asking us to consider and examine. Verse 19. Do not store up for yourselves treasures on earth. Possessions, we would think of it today. Where moth and rust destroy. So in that day, clothing was valuable. We see an example of that at the cross where they're bidding over what must have been a dirty, bloodied cloak or or cl covering that Jesus had, but it was valuable. They're bidding on it. So in that day, clothing and metal were valuable. Where moth and rust destroy, and where thieves break in and steal. So valuables, valuables. Now some would store up treasures for security. And Jesus is saying in verse 19, it is a poor plan of security. Now, don't get me wrong, because I'll get in trouble with uh with financial advisors among us, it is it is good to have some savings if you're able to do that and to work toward that because I think here's why I've worked toward it is because financial margin allows you to be more generous and to give generously. You don't feel tied to just thinking about your family. So working toward that is fine, but not at the expense, not ever at the expense of following Jesus. Following Jesus is the only certain security. Did you hear that? Following Jesus, being in the will of the Lord is the only certain security in life. Now some would store up treasures because They like them. And liking them is not wrong, okay? But liking them more than Jesus is wrong. So security and desire. There are heart issues that we need to be careful with. Jesus wants his kingdom to be prominent in your heart, to be your desire, to be your security. Look at verse 20. But store up for yourselves treasures in heaven, where neither moth nor rust destroys, and where thieves do not break in or steal. For where your treasure is, there your heart will be also. What did I say a moment ago? Follow the money. Follow the money and your heart will be revealed, verse 21. You might be thinking, I don't have extra to invest. I remember going through the years of braces and with five kids, well, you know, I didn't have to wear braces. My wife did as a child and all but one of ours, Jason, you escaped, right? Yes. Thank you. Thank you. The the cupboard was bare as far as paying for euros. So But but I remember braces. I remember paying school costs because of our choice for school and then college, education. Listen, when you give of your income from the top to the local church, you're storing up treasure in heaven. When you give a special gift to support missionaries, we'll begin praying and thinking in a special way toward our international missionaries. Next week, the Lottie Moon Christmas offering. When you do that, you're storing up treasure in heaven. When you give to help others in a time of need, you are storing up treasure in heaven. Such giving causes God to be praised and spreads the gospel. And such fruit is credited to your account. And results in heavenly reward. So when Jesus said that you are storing up treasure in heaven, he means that. We may not understand all of the ways that will be manifested, but he means that in a tangible way. So when we follow the money, does it show the desire to be materially rich, whether that's for security or for things we desire and want? Or does it show the desire to be rich in good works for the kingdom? That's what Jesus wants. Think of it this way. Hope you'll answer it honestly in your heart. Would you like to have more money? Okay, I would say yes. I'll say it for all of us. Yes, of course. It's not wrong to say yes, but the important thing is why? Why do you want more money? Your ambition in answering that question is either helping or hurting your life according to Jesus. That's what he illustrates next. Verses 22 and 23. The eye is the lamp of the body. So then if your eye is clear. Your whole body will be full of light. But if your eye is bad, your whole body will be full of darkness. If then the light that is in you is darkness, how great is the darkness? That might be puzzling on the surface, but Jesus is saying, if you can see well, your whole body will be properly oriented to its surroundings. your your body will be balanced, your feet will have secure footing. Your hands are in a position to be useful. I experienced this last night coming out of um Um uh well, you know, doesn't matter why, but I had to make a trip to the kitchen, okay? And I'm coming out of our bedroom door. uh going through the family room and there is more paraphernalia there than there was a couple of days ago. We have a visiting uh couple and a newborn, well, five month-old now child and There's baby stuff, and I'm looking, and I'm and I ended up having to turn on that light so I could be properly oriented to my surroundings. If you can't see well, your whole body suffers. There's a lack of balance, dangerous stumbling, clumsiness in the dark. So what is Jesus saying? If your ambition concerning material wealth leans toward acquiring riches , Rather than good works, that's having a bad eye, and you will stumble. Paul speaks of this in 1 Timothy chapter 6. He says, we brought nothing into the world, so we cannot take anything out of it either. If we have food and covering, with these we shall be content. Contentment is a key. to treasuring the kingdom the way Jesus is teaching us. Paul goes on, those who want to get rich fall into temptation. and a snare, and many foolish and harmful desires which plunge men into ruin and destruction For the love of money, notice, not money per se, but the love of money is a root of all sorts of evil. And some, by longing for it, have wandered away from the faith and pierced themselves with many griefs. Occasionally over the years, I have seen that happen in conducting funerals and listening to the children and how they speak toward one another and the inheritance. I've seen it happen in of course and you have too in other ways besides that one. But the love of money Is a root of all sorts of greed, selfishness, destroyed relationships, evil. So follow the money. Your actions with money show your ambition. They show your desire, and your ambition shows your allegiance. And that's where Jesus lands in verse 24. No one can serve, can give exclusive loyalty to two masters. For either he will Hate the one and love the other, or he will be devoted to one and despise the other. In other words, one is going to rise to the top. And Jesus is using language that would emphasize that hate and love, devotion and despising. You cannot serve God and wealth. So let's not miss the strong language here. If you love money and are devoted to money, you hate and despise God. Now you would never think that or say that about yourself, but if you love money and are devoted to money, that's how we should think of it. If, however, you love and are devoted to God, you hate and despise what a love of money results in, as I just exemplified a moment ago. A self-centered, short-sighted life. And allegiance to God makes you ambitious for his kingdom, governs your actions. Lots of examples of this, but you won't compromise honesty and integrity for material gain. And you joyfully give God from the first of all your income. And you invest in the kingdom, his church, and the work of missions generously whenever possible and gladly. So what do you treasure? Material things? Your sense of material security? Or do you treasure the kingdom of God? Jesus is asking the question. And for Christians, there is only one right answer. Well, for anyone, there is only one right answer, but Christians need to be growing in this one right answer because we do not live for the material, we live for the kingdom. Is that right? We do not live for the material. As much as we might enjoy it, as much as we might use it, including technology, in order to get the word out, we don't live for it. We make use of it as we live for the kingdom. If you're not a Christian this morning, understand this is the calling of Christ. You don't follow him and keep all your other Loves. He demands to be first. You cannot serve God and wealth. The second question: who do you trust? Who do you trust? Verse 25. And this affects us as well. For this reason, since you cannot serve God and money, let's keep the context. For this reason. I say to you, do not be worried about your life as to what you will eat or what you will drink, nor for your body as to what you will put on. Now, when we come to a command in the Scripture, we should evaluate ourselves. We should ask: are we obeying this command? Because this worry can discourage full commitment to serve in whatever way Christ might be leading you. He is saying where God leads you, God will provide for you. And we one of the great illustrations in Scripture of that is the daily manna that He provided for the nation of Israel as He brought them out of Egypt. As they followed his leading the pillar of cloud and fire. Think of the prayer that Jesus taught us that we looked at last week. Give us this day our daily bread. God will answer that prayer. We will have what is sufficient for each day as we seek first the kingdom of God. Now sometimes it's a worry about the kind of food and clothing one will have. Some don't want to sacrifice or some want to keep seeking for the finer things. But Jesus says in verse 25, is not life more than food? And the body more than clothing? When we come to a question in Scripture, we should answer it. Is not life more? Yes, it is more. God did not create man to merely be glorified by Clothing and food. God's glory is about the things that are lasting, His kingdom. Jesus says, look at the birds of the air, that they do not sow, nor reap, nor gather into barns, and yet your heavenly Father feeds them. Now it's not an excuse to be lazy. Verse 26. The birds don't have to do anything. No. They are doing what they are meant to do. They are bringing glory to God. And God Provides for them. So you do what you're meant to do. Bring glory to God. God will provide for you. Are you not worth much more than they? There's another question. Answer the question. Yes, you are worth much more than the birds. I like birds, but you are worth much more. You are made in the image of God. They are creations for his glory. You especially so because of that fact of being made in his image So if you do what you are meant to do, how much more will , that's Jesus' point, how much more will God provide for you? Verse 27. And who of you by being worried can add a single hour to his life? Answer the question. None of us can do that. What does anxiety accomplish? Well, not anything with regard to what Jesus is bringing up. He's making the point that to live anxiously is to live as if God cannot provide where he leads. But he can. There are examples of that, and there's his declaration, which is all we need. that he can. Verse 28. Why are you worried about clothing? By the way, if you need clothing, pray about clothing. Pray about that need and believe that God can provide that. But why are you worried about clothing? Observe how the lilies of the field grow. They do not toil, nor that do they spin. Again, the issue is not they don't do anything. They are doing exactly what God wanted them to do, bring glory to him through their beauty. Yet I say to you, not even Solomon in all his glory clothed himself like one of these. And Solomon could have had anything he wanted. And he did. Try it all, it seems, from the book of Ecclesiastes. The flowers of the field can't work to make their own clothes. They look the way they do because God dresses them. They do what they do because that's what they are meant to do. And they are more beautiful than Solomon's clothing. How about that? Isn't that amazing? But if God so clothes the grass of the field, which is alive today, and tomorrow is it thrown into the furnace Will he much not much more clothe you, you of little faith? Are you not worth much more than the grass of the field. Answer the question. Yes, you are. Do not worry then saying, what will we eat? Or what will we drink? Or what will we wear for clothing. The point is Jesus is asking these questions to say to the 12 and the other followers surrounding them and to those on the mountainside. Such questions should not hinder anyone's obedience to God and to me. The answer to each question in verse thirty-one. What shall we eat? What God provides? What will we drink? What God provides? What will we wear for clothing? What God provides through money earned, through gifts. Jody and I have been enjoyed, especially in the early years, seminary years, especially enjoyed. Through many different paths, some income, but also gifts along the way that were extremely helpful in that in those years. God provides For the Gentiles eagerly seek all these things, for your heavenly Father knows that you need all these things. things. Now Gentiles here are, Jesus is using that term to speak of those who don't know the true God and don't worship the one true God. God. They eagerly seek food, drink, and clothing because for them life is not more than these, but it is more for those who know the Lord. Life is more for the servant of God. He is your father. He knows your needs, and you can count on him to be a provider for you. Verse 33, but seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you Let's talk about this verse. To seek is to diligently, earnestly Tenaciously search after something, sparing no effort or expense for the sought object is valued to the highest degree. In other words, it is a strong word. It's not just, oh, I'll look for that. No, it is, I will seek it out. And I'll drop what I'm doing to do that. Some examples of that in Scripture, some pictures of that, Matthew chapter 13, 45 and 46. The kingdom of heaven is like a merchant seeking fine pearls, and upon finding one pearl of great value. He went and sold all he had and bought it. Luke 15, 8, similar illustration. What woman, if she has ten silver coins and loses one coin, does not light a lamp and sweep the house and search carefully? until she finds it. And when she has found it, she calls together her friends and neighbors, saying, Rejoice with me, for I have found the coin which I had lost. God chose the Greek language, predominantly for the New Testament, and uh It has nuances that are helpful to us. And the nuance, the tense of seek indicates a continuous seeking. We are to be continuous learners and followers of God's will. Now notice the word first. Seek in that way and do it first. The word is not referring to time or sequence as if you could do God's will first. I make a list on Saturdays of chores and I like to knock them off, but it's not like that with the Lord. We don't knock off that chore. Came to church. Okay, let's move on with life. No. It's not a time reference or a sequence reference. The word is referring to importance. Seek as first importance. God's will must always take precedent. That's the point. Seek first. And a moment later, continue seeking first the Lord and his will, not your comfort Not your desires, not your concerns, all of which can lead us tangentially further and further from God's will. Seek first. The kingdom of God, the rule of God, His sovereign plan, finding fulfillment present day in the Lord Jesus Christ, in the building of His church and looking toward his return. The Christian's focus then must be, listen carefully, We hear it from our discipleship pastor over and over and over, rightly so. The focus must be the church that Jesus is building and the commission that he has given us to make. and to teach disciples. Seek first the kingdom of God. Immerse yourself in what he is building, his local church. And grow and become more and more. the disciple he wants you to be. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. That is what is right in God's eyes, which Jesus is teaching in the Sermon on the Mount. We're calling the the the um The series of messages, true righteousness. So he is teaching us God's righteousness. And he demonstrated it in his life. And so it is correct to to say that his righteousness here in in the verse is equal to Christlikeness. Jesus is teaching it, he exemplified it for us. Keep Seeking first the kingdom of God and his righteousness. And all these things will be added to you As we seek first his kingdom and his righteousness, all these things will be added to you. What is Jesus talking about there? Well, the things he's just discussed. Food, clothing, what you need, God will bless with provision. Those who have as their priority seeking Christ, seeking the kingdom. So that would be a young person. who follows God's will into full-time ministry. Jason Manries found that to be true Justin Manry's found that to be true. You'll get a chance to speak to them if you'd like to about that, young people that God might be calling into ministry. It would be a business owner who will not sue in court another believer who's not paid his bill because he'll handle that another way. Or it could be John is Denise McDonald, a couple in their 60s who go to the mission field Or an individual we just met recently, again, in her 70s, 72, Linda Pegram, going back to Southeast Asia. It's always been on our heart. It could be a family who make a commitment to give regularly from the first of all their income in a way they haven't made that commitment yet. Seek first the kingdom of God and his righteousness, and all these things will be added to you. God promises to meet your material needs when his will is the activity and the priority. Of your life. Jesus is telling us, I have to be careful how I say this. I'm going to say it the way I wrote it, and I do write things out to think them through. Jesus is telling us it is safe to follow fully the will of God. But what I mean that is that in the context of this passage, you're not going to lack for what you need to follow him. It may not be safe in the sense of danger, because he does call folks to dangerous places, but it is safe financially. could say, to follow fully the will of God. Such puts you in a secure place. It's not a place to get rich. Scripture tells us that. It's not a place to desire that. Nor should life be for anyone. That's not what life is all about. Is not life more? We go back to that question. Yes, life is more than that. So verse 34, do not worry about tomorrow. Tomorrow will care for itself. Each day has enough trouble. of its own. But if you're seeking him first, you're on secure ground. So the trouble that comes each day, you learn to trust him with. What you don't know about tomorrow, what you can't plan for, should not Pull you back from following him today. It should not cause anxiety in that way. Should not cause you to delay or be diverted from seeking first the kingdom. of God. Now anxieties do come to our heart. What do we do with those? Philippians 4, 6 and 7, we term them prayer. Anxiety is a call to prayer. And so one seeking the kingdom, it's not as if we'll never get worried about things, but when we do, we stay aligned. with the Lord's will and we bring those things to our Father in prayer and Jesus is letting us know that He provides. Three questions for the implications. The implications are what does the truth of the text imply for me today? What should I leave with? Well, first of all, do you belong to the kingdom of God? Most of you with me would say yes. You were convicted of sin Convicted of God's righteousness and of judgment to come, you came to understand Jesus was sent as Lord and Savior. He died for your sin, taking the penalty of it. You have received Jesus, the King, as your personal Lord and Savior, by faith in his death for sin and his resurrection unto life. Because of Jesus, you look forward to heaven, you look forward to the eternal kingdom to come. But some would say, honestly, that's not me. I'm not there, or I'm not sure. Well, may God grant mercy to you this morning That in Christ you would find salvation and find assurance. Secondly Do you treasure the kingdom of God? Do you belong to it? Okay, yes. Now I'm going to ask you that belong, do you treasure the kingdom of God? Most of you with me would say yes. We have joy, some examples of that. We have joy of one receiving Christ. We have joy of hearing such a testimony. We take great joy when someone is baptized, as we enjoyed a couple of weeks ago We support in prayer and in giving the work of the church at home and around the world. We desire to be involved. So do you treasure the kingdom of God? Many of you like me would say yes. I would say, God, help us not to get distracted. Because it happens. Thirdly, do you trust God to provide where he leads? Most of you with me would say yes. My testimony, and I'd be glad to talk to you further about it. And I Justin already mentioned you as one and Jason who as men called to the ministry could give testimony of God's provision, and your wife's could as well. My testimony is that God has been faithful. And so I would encourage anyone who is considering where God might be leading you. And for all of us, God help us not to hesitate, okay? Help us not to hesitate. Help our seeking diligently and actively keep propelling us forward in what he wants for our involvement in his kingdom. Seek first his kingdom and his righteousness. Pray together. Father, we thank you. You are so good. And we see you as a Father Through your son, teaching us that it is a secure place to be, to follow you fully. Lord, I pray your Holy Spirit has placed encouragement, challenge, whatever the need is on hearts this morning. And I pray that by your grace, by your your mercy, individuals would respond to you. We pray that in the singing of this song we all would respond in worship, in commitment. In devotion. It's in Jesus' name that we pray. Amen.