The message will be Well we'll have some passages Especially at the beginning, some different verses and passages from within Proverbs, just to set the tone. But the main message will be from Proverbs chapter 10. Proverbs chapter ten, thinking about hearts, hands, and mouths given over to God. Hearts, hands, and mouths given over to God. Knowledge Is grasping the truth of God. Wisdom is learning over time how to apply those truths to our lives in all the various aspects of life. As I'm looking around this room, Everybody in this room knows that to pursue biblical wisdom is to go against the grain of the culture. We know this, right? Right, the m great majority of people would think that we're crazy and some of the things we believe and preach and teach. and pursue are the opposite of what a human being should preach, teach, believe, and pursue. But we're striving under the grace of God, we're striving by the Holy Spirit. Um to line up with God's will and not man's will. Amen. And so biblical wisdom is a part of that. Our hearts, hands, and mouths are given to us that we might Give them back over to God and live for Him, not for ourselves, not according to the ways of the fallen culture Let me pray for us and then we'll get into the message. Father, we thank you once again for your holy word, your perfect word, your authoritative word that is inerrant and sufficient for everything we need for life and godliness and for church. And Father, we pray that you will once again, faithfully, mightily, mercifully Deliver your word into our hearts and minds. Conform us to the likeness of Christ. That's our prayer. And it's in his name we pray. Amen. In all our ways, we are to trust God and not ourselves. In all our ways, we're not to judge by outward appearances, but to judge by what's right. In all of our ways, we're called to honor the Lord. In all of our ways, we're called to seek the Lord. In Proverbs 10, 1 to 21, what we have is the first Portion of the Proverbs of Solomon. The first portion of the Proverbs of Solomon. And you see on your outline, if you have one, a chart that outlines the book of Proverbs for us. And I did that because we haven't been in the book in quite some time. And so I'd like to just go through that outline. for you. The first thing you have in Proverbs is chapter 1, verses 1 through 7. It's called a prologue. But what it is, is a call to wisdom. It's a call to wisdom. And if you read that, you'll see some of the different aspects of biblical wisdom and just how important biblical wisdom is and the ke one of the key verses is the is the last verse of that prologue and it's one that you've heard many times, it's one that you know well. Proverbs 1 7, the fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. You get this foundation of true knowledge. And what is it? It's the fear of the Lord. Which is recognizing God's authority, acknowledging God's authority, and having a humble submission to that authority, having an awe and a reverent fear at the power and the authority of the holiness of God That's the foundation of knowledge later in the book. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom as well. The fear of the Lord is the beginning of knowledge, and the fear of the Lord is the beginning of wisdom. And then also in that verse, Proverbs 1:7, you get the contrast, you get the opposite. You see this often in Proverbs. You get this: fools despise wisdom. and instruction. Fools despise wisdom and instruction. The wise love wisdom. The wise love instruction. Part of being wise, take Crucial part of being wise is having a learning spirit. How can I attain wisdom if I don't have a spirit that wants to learn wisdom and wants to receive instruction? It's one of the key attributes. of the wise man or the wise woman in Scripture is a humble learning spirit. That's The end of that prologue, this call to wisdom, and defining what the foundation of knowledge and also the foundation of wisdom is, the fear of the Lord. Brothers and sisters, we're to be a people who walk in the fear of the Lord. And we should be living examples, to a living witness, a living model to the watching world and to our families and in the workplace, uh walking, talking. example of what it means to submit to God's authority in humble reverence and awe. That's the Key part of our witness and our example in the world. Chapters 1 through 9, it's an ongoing call to wisdom. The call to wisdom doesn't end. In fact, it gets clearer and more vivid and There's a stronger ongoing call to wisdom, but also really what you have in chapters 1 to 9 is contrasting the way of wisdom with the way of folly. Here's the way of the wise over here on this path. Here's the way of the fool over here on this path. And the fool in the wisdom literature is not like name calling like we would think of calling someone a fool, but it's it's a theological term. It's the lost person who refuses to submit to God. That's the fool. The fool is synonymous with the wicked. The wise is synonymous with the righteous. Those who believe in God are accounted and are accounted righteous by faith. So here is the righteous and the wise on this path. Here is the wicked and the fool and the scoffer on this path over here. And you get this contrast in the ongoing call in chapters 1 to 9. Now, the meat and potatoes Is that a good metaphor for like the real important part where the real nutrients not that the other parts aren't important But 10 through 29, right there in the middle, this major section, major section of Proverbs, are the Proverbs of Solomon. The Proverbs of Solomon. And then within that you have different subsections. So you'll see there it's also in that box underneath where it says Proverbs of Solomon, you have sections is literally called words of the wise. The words of the wise. Not word to the wise, but words of the wise. And you have two sections back to back. That are the words of the wise. He take take heed, listen to the words of the wise. But it's not said that it's a different author Those are within the Proverbs of Solomon, so it's probably Solomon recording Proverbs and sayings. from other sources. So you have the Proverbs of Solomon that leads into the words of the wise, and then chapters 25 to 29 are Proverbs of Solomon, but specifically they're his Proverbs that are collected by Hezekiah's men. Hezekiah's men. And then in chapter 30, you get the words of Agar, the son of Jacka. And that is the extent of what we know about him. Right there. The words of Agar, son of Jacka, and then chapter 31, the words of King Lemuel. Which is the extent of what we know about him. And he got these from his mother. He got these from his His mother. Turn there real quick real fast. Real fast. 31. 1, the words of King Lemuel, an oracle that his mother taught him And you have this oracle, this wisdom from verse 1 to 9, and then you have that, again, classic section. There's so many of these in Proverbs. on this excellent wife, this godly woman, this woman who walks in the fear of the Lord. who serves the Lord and serves her family well. That's all chapter 31. So you see you have the prologue that leads right into nine chapters of contrasting wisdom and folly. At the beginning, at the end, you have the words of Agar or Agar, and then you have the words of King Lemuel, an oracle from his mother, and then you have in the middle the Proverbs of Solomon. And that's where we are today. Chapter 10. Chapter 10, verse 1 to 21, talking about hearts, hands, and mouth given over to God. So heart given over to God. Well if I asked if I asked you to answer that, you could do that. I won't put you on the spot right now. But that's our desires. That's our desires. That's uh our motives. Right. That's what drives us. We want to have a heart given over to God. We don't want to have a heart that is o overcome with envy and selfishness and and worldly living, and then hands given over to God, that's things we do. That's our actions, that's our behavior. And then mouth given over to God, that's the way we speak. We want to honor the Lord with our speech. These Are constant themes throughout Scripture, especially throughout Proverbs, how we're using our hearts, hands, and mouths, they come from this passage. If you look at verse 8. The wise of heart will receive commandments. So that's where I got the word heart from this passage. What do the wise of heart do? Well Whatever else they do, they receive commandments, which is the opposite of what? Ignoring them, rejecting them, being stubborn, being obstinate. So the wise of heart received commandments. Also look at verse 4. A slack What? A slack hand causes poverty, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. So you have hearts You also have hands. Now what's a slack hand? Well, you know what that is. That's laziness. That's a refusal to work. What's the opposite? The hand of the diligent. That's a hardworking hand. That's a responsible hand. That's a reliable hand. So you have hearts, hands. Verse 6, look at verse 6. Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence. The mouth of the wicked conceals violence. The mouth the the wicked use their mouths in a in a great variety of ways. That dishonor God. This is just one of those ways. It's in the outline later. We'll get to it, but one of the ways, one of the things the wicked mouth does is It conceals an inner contempt and it'll act like your friend. A false teacher will act like your friend. False teacher is great at making you feel like he has your best interest in mind. But they're driven by what? Selfishness. They're in it for selfish gain. And for greed, they don't have your best interest in mind. But they're hiding that, they're using words to conceal that inner selfishness and hatred for you, to exploit you. Let's go through this passage bit by bit, not necessarily in order straight through, but we will start it. Verse 1 and the first section is we're going to reflect on having hearts given over to God. That's hearts That fear the Lord and seek biblical wisdom. That's what I want. That's what I want for myself. That's what I want for you. That's what I want for my kids. That we have hearts that fear the Lord and are seeking out, proactively seeking out biblical wisdom. Chapter 10, verse 1. The Proverbs of Solomon. A wise son makes a glad father, but a foolish son mak is a sorrow to his mother. And a lot of Proverbs is directed from father to son at Solomon writing it And he's writing to his son, but we know we can apply those principles to any of us, to a son, to a daughter. And the wise son makes a glad father. Because for a father who loves the Lord , a wise son is going to be the answer to God. To tens of thousands of prayers. And a wise daughter is going to be the answer to tens of thousands of prayers. And you're going to see that wisdom and you're going to going to thank God for that wisdom. Because you know just as well as I do that wisdom in our lives is a result of God's grace. Wisdom in our lives is a result of God's power, God's kindness, and God's goodness. So, yes, a a wise son, a wise daughter, a child that has a heart that fears the Lord and really, really wants biblical wisdom. Makes a father glad, makes a mom glad, makes grandparents glad, makes aunts and uncles glad, makes your church mothers and church fathers glad But a foolish son is a sorrow to his mother. He brings her grief, he brings her heartache, he brings her trouble. Wise son. Now also, this should point to our goals in parenting, our goals if you're a mentor to somebody, for those of us of you who are older in the faith. Uh just always setting an example, always seeing yourself as a mentor , w whether you're a man or a woman, this points to our goals. We we want to be an example of the thing we want to see in the younger people. We want to be an example of fearing the Lord and walking in godliness, learning and striving after biblical wisdom. And it also should direct our prayers. It should direct our prayers. We want to pray for this. Verse, look at verse 7. Also, still under this section of the heart, the heart given to the Lord. The memory of the righteous is a blessing, but the name of the wicked will rot. Well, that's a powerful illustration, isn't it? Think of something rotting. And and the the stench, the foul odor of something that's rotting. Verse 7 reminds us that we want to leave a legacy that's worthy of remembrance. When people think of our lives, and you see this really come out in memorial services or funerals. We've had some of them here where we pass the microphone around here and There's a lot of public testimony to someone's faith, to someone's hope in the face of trial, to someone's steadfastness in in the face of suffering and someone's ministry and service that they rendered to the Lord and to the church And that's a legacy worthy of remembrance of wisdom. It's a memory that brings honor, not shame. The memory of the righteous Is a blessing. The memory of the righteous becomes a blessing to those who come after. That's the point there. The memory of the righteous is a blessing. And then verse 8, verse 8, we see this stark contrast. The wise of heart will receive commandments. But a babbling fool will come to ruin. That's an interesting contrast, isn't it? You have the wise of heart who's receiving commandments. They want to learn. And they're not personally offended at commandments. They know that's one of the things God will use in their lives to help them learn, to help them grow, to help them walk in wisdom to help them repent and walk in godliness. So they receive commandments, they go into the word, they're looking for God's commandments and they're involved in the church and they have friends in the church who'll who will speak into their lives and they receive that wisdom, they receive that counsel, they receive commandments, and on the other hand, you have the opposite, a babbling fool who comes to ruin. A babbling fool who comes to ruin is set in contrast of a wise of heart that's receiving commandments. Their life becomes a mess. And they always have an answer. They're babblingful. They've got an answer for everything. They've got a rationalization for everything. They're not listening to you Stop wasting your breath. The babbling fool is not listening to you. They've tuned you out. And they're just waiting to respond and give And give you the reason, give you the rationalization to argue back against you. So pray for them. Do the best you can. Don't be this babbling fool. Let's not let us let's let's not ourselves be babbling fools who are talking, talking, talking, talking, but can't receive counsel. in commandments and wisdom from others. Let's not be the babbling fool whose life comes to ruins just because we can't humble ourselves and have a learning spirit. This is like day and night. A heart that listens because it's been humbled, and a heart that learns because it's been humbled, and then this babbling fool. It's like a babbling brook. Sit near the brook brook, it's just the noise never stops. It's a babbling brook and you hear it. You just you hear the noise. We don't want to be like that with our mouths just talking too much And tuning people out. It's not a good trait. It's not a good example to set for others. Verse 14, still under hearts given to God. Now, verse 14 is interesting. It's going to say pretty much the same thing, just with a little different emphasis. Verse 14, the wise lay up knowledge. But the mouth of a fool brings ruin near. Same thing on that second part of it, right? It's the mouth that's getting this fool into trouble. It's the mouth that's bringing him to ruin. And but the positive part at the beginning of the passage is basically the same thing, just a different emphasis. In verse 8, the emphasis was the wise of heart. Receiving the commandments, and therefore receiving wisdom. But here in verse 14, the emphasis is on retaining it Because you want to receive and retain. You want to receive and retain. The wise lay up knowledge. They store it. They store it away in their minds. They store it away in their hearts. They lay it up. They keep it. They retain what they've learned. That's part of growing and having a humble learning spirit. We know the opposite of that is in one ear, out the other. In one ear, out the other. Because there's other other ways to ignore someone. And other ways to be a fool than just being a babbling fool. You can act like you're listening and tell people what they want to hear, right? Just so they move on and stop bothering you? To truly receive and retain stored up in our hearts. Because wisdom does transform us. It helps us to live for God. It helps us to treat people the right way. It helps us to be just and equitable in all of our dealings. Now verse 17 , 17 is basically going to say the same thing again, but again with a different emphasis. Verse 17. Whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life, but he who rejects a reproof leads others astray. You see again the contrast. The negative part is the one who rejects a reproof. is also leading others astray. You're not just hard-hearted and stubborn for how people are trying to help you But you're also leading others astray, setting a bad example, causing trouble for others. Now the opposite, the positive part of that is whoever heeds instruction is on the path to life. So there's a receiving, there's a retaining, but now you have a result. You have a result The path to life is used in different ways. There's different aspects to life, to spiritual life. And so there is an eternal reward of life in heaven. We inherit eternal life, so that's the path to life. But there's also uh an impact in this life Where there is fruit of wisdom and faith in this life as we grow in our relationship with God. There's a peace And there's a contentment, and there's a joy. God will bring blessing into our lives as we strive to walk in his ways There are some parallel passages to this in Proverbs. You don't have to turn there, although this one's very close to our passage. Proverbs 11, verse 19. Whoever is steadfast in righteousness will live. But he who pursues evil will die. Longevity. Longevity Now these are j 'proverbs, so they're not absolute black and white, always true in exactly the same way for everybody, but general truths. There's a longevity That we should be praying for for ourselves and for our loved ones. And we know with all prayers it's it's God's will, it's God's perfect plan of how He's going to answer our prayers. But it is right and proper to pray for longevity. And we should pray for longevity for each other and for the church, for the ministries of the church. Whoever is steadfast in righteousness will live, but he who perceives evil will die. And you can study that out in your marginal references, your footnotes, study out the cross references. That's a big theme in Scripture. There is a blessing and often a longevity that comes for the children of God. 623, Proverbs 623, the commandment is a lamp and the teaching is a light. And the reproofs of discipline are the way of life. That's Proverbs 6. 23. This is an awesome verse. The commandment is a lamp. And the teaching is a light. And I'm simple-minded. I'm from South Jersey, so I need these little simple-minded illustrations because I know what a lamp does. It helps me to see things and know where I'm going. And and I know what light does. It helps me to see things. So I know where I'm going. So I don't walk into something. The commandments of God are a lamp. The teaching of God's word are a light. They show us What's going on in the world? They show us the truth about who we are. They show us about what's right and what's wrong. They are a lamp and a light. The commandment is a lamp and the teaching is a light, and the reproofs of discipline are the way of life. So you have this. You have the life, this eternal reward of eternal life, but you have the way of life, life in communion with God, life walking in the fear of the Lord, life under the blessing and favor of God, life. Spiritual life. And part of that is the reproofs of discipline. Where would we be today in our behavior and our speech? If we had never ever undergone any kind of reproof or discipline in our lives, we would be completely wild and out of control and killing each other with our words. The reproofs of discipline are the way of life. This is all just a few aspects of hearts given over to God, hearts that fear the Lord, hearts that seek biblical wisdom. And I know there's some different things in those verses, verse 1, 7, 8, 14, and 17. But one of those main things that really came out was having a learning spirit. The importance of listening, the importance of receiving, the importance of treasuring the corrections and rebukes that come from other people. And now, hands given to God. Hands given to God. Because we know that godliness is not merely internal. Say amen if you understand that. Godliness is not merely internal. It starts internally. It has to start internally, or it's not real. But it never stays strictly internally. There's always an outworking. That we want to have hands given over to God. And what we're talking about here is having godly character in our work And godly character in our dealings. Our dealings with people, our relationships with people, our conversations. We want to have integrity. We want to have godly character. Chapter 10, verses 2 to 3. Treasures gained by wickedness do not profit, but righteousness delivers from death. The Lord does not let the righteous go hungry, but he thwarts the craving of the wicked. You see two key words. Number one, righteousness. All right, righteousness delivers from death. That is lawful living. That's what righteousness is. It's living in accordance with the law. Righteousness delivers from death. And then again in verse 3, righteous. Righteous. The Lord does not let the righteous go hungry. He'll provide our needs for us. Jesus preached on that in the Sermon on the Mount. He said, don't worry about it. God will provide. He'll provide what you need. Treasures, verse 2, treasures gained by wickedness do not profit. Wait a minute, that's weird. Treasures are good, aren't they? I don't have any treasure. Wouldn't it be great to gain treasure? You don't treasure you don't have. Hundred pounds of treasure that you don't have today. But by Thursday? You gain a hundred pounds of treasure, gold, silver, jewels. Yes, but if you got it by wickedness, in other words, if you got it through crime or through some kind of wicked manipulation, if you stole it, what God is saying is that is not good You're not better off. You're not better off at all. You're in a worse position than you were. Treasure doesn't help you if it's gained by wickedness. Treasure is not to be sought through wickedness and crime. It does not profit. But righteousness delivers from death. Righteousness, lawfulness, carries us forward on the way of life, the way of God's blessing, and the way of peace. The Lord does not let the righteous go hungry, but he thwarts the craving of the wicked. God lifts up the humble and he honors the humble, and God sets himself against the proud. What we want to be is models of character and integrity in the way We earn a living. And the way we acquire any kind of treasure, any kind of wealth, We want to do it with godly character, through a godly means, with integrity, as a good example. We want to earn a living with uprightness We want to stay away from crime. Stay away from stealing. We want to stay away from exploiting others for personal gain. We want to do The will of God in the way we gain wealth and treasure. We want to trust God. We want to honor God and honor others in our dealings. Work hard. We want to be punctual. We want to be reliable. We want to be accountable. We want to be trustworthy. We want to be honest. All of these attributes of godly character and integrity, all of that's in the view here when we talk about righteousness. We talk about righteous And having godly character in our work, and how we earn a living, and support our families, and in all of our dealings with people Verse 9 and 10. Verse 9 and 10 are interesting. Whoever walks in integrity walks securely. I think that might mean you don't have to worry about being arrested, Jordan. I think that's what this means. There's a lot of warning against crime and getting in with the wrong people in Proverbs. Stay away from robbers. Stay away from the criminals. You want to walk around with a warrant out for your arrest? You want to walk around always worried about being arrested or people coming after you in vengeance? Whoever walks, and by the way, why would you want to walk around just with the guilt of being in blatant, open, unrepentant perverse rebellion against God. That burden, that weight of sin. Whoever walks in integrity walks securely But he who makes his ways crooked will be found out. God will expose it at one point or another. God will expose it and bring it into judgment Verse 10, whoever winks the eye causes trouble, and the babbling fool will come to ruin. Man, this babbling fool keeps coming up. I guess it's a common thing that we as human beings have a problem running our mouths, don't we? And not listening. Whoever wanks the eye causes trouble You know, if you uh strike up a big deal with somebody where thousands of dollars are at stake. And just as you finish signing the contract, you look up, and the other person Doesn't see you, but you look up and out of the corner of your eye, just as you finish signing the contract, you see them going to their buddy You're in trouble. You just got played. Whoever wanks the eye, this is talking about uh a signal, a nonverbal signal, a nonverbal clue of a secret evil intent, a winking of the eye, a deception, a plodding. There are lots of subtle nonverbal signs of a selfish motive You can read as you get older, you can read people's facial expressions. And you can see sometimes a secret evil intent, the winking of the eye in Proverbs. Represents that. It represents getting over on somebody. It represents taking advantage of somebody It represents getting away with something. Your goal when you're winking your eye is not integrity and the well-being of others, but greed and the well-being of yourself. You're winking the eye. Proverbs 6, 12 and 13, a worthless person, a wicked man, goes about with crooked speech, winks his eyes, signals with his feet, points with his finger. So again, that's just one of the things there, Proverbs 6, 12 and 13, one of the things, a winking of the eyes. For the worthless, wicked man with crooked speech, Proverbs 16, 30, whoever winks his eye plans dishonest things. Whoever purses his lips brings evil to pass. It's interesting in Proverbs. I didn't see it for several years reading through and studying the Proverbs. I didn't oh I didn't catch this theme, this importance on these clues, these nonverbal clues that you can get from people. That what's going on on the inside does not match up with the front that's being put up on the outside. You've known people like this. You've been in relationships with this like this. And hopefully you haven't had any dealings where there was the winking of the eye and taking advantage of you. We don't want to be winkers of the eye. We don't want to be trying to get over on people. We want to be straightforward and honest and in all of our dealings and relationships have integrity. We don't want to be winkers of the eye who are who will come with flattery when in reality what's on the inside is is only, only, only selfish gain. Now number three, after we've looked at hearts given to God, which means hearts that fear the Lord and are seeking biblical wisdom, and hands given to God, godly character. in our work and dealings. Now, number three, hands given to God, part two. And this is very simple. This is so huge in the Proverbs. Hands given to God, part two. Hard work. That's it. Hard work. To work hard at whatever God calls us. To do whatever work he gives us, to work hard, to work faithfully and diligently to support ourselves and our families, to earn a living, whatever he's called us to do Even if your calling or work or vocation isn't necessarily the kind that brings the cash flow, still if it's your calling, if it's your vocation, we work hard at it. Chapter 10 still rather, chapter 10, verses 4 and 5. A slack hand causes poverty. That's a hand that's not working hard. That's a hand that's not given over to diligence. That's a hand that's not taking the vocation seriously or even taking care to discern A vocation to discern God's calling upon the life. A slack hand causes poverty, but the hand of the diligent makes rich. That's a call and a reminder to hard work. Verse 5: He who gathers in summer is a prudent son, but he who sleeps in harvest is a son who brings shame. Now that's a cool verse because the first son, the wise son, the prudent son, the hardworking son, he's getting a jump on the harvest. It's late in summer, and he's already gathering. And now the other son, you're full into harvest season, and he's still sleeping. He who's gathering in the summer, yeah, that's the prudent son. But he who's still sleeping when it's time for the harvest is the son who brings shame Be hardworking. Whatever it is God that God has called us to. Let's be hard workers who are diligent and don't have a slack hand. I like that point about gathering in the summer because that shows that this son takes pride in the work. This son takes initiative in the work. This son is a model of reliability. He respects the work. It doesn't begrudge the work. Work is hard. That's why they call it work and not fun. You don't go to fun and get paid. You go to work and get paid. And we have to respect that work because that's part of God's plan. Work is part of God's plan. Working in the home, working out in the world. Earning a living, that's part of God's design. God made that up. This is like the church. God made that up. That's God's design for his kingdom. So I really like this son. Gathering in summer. He's a prudent son. That's the right thing to do. Also, verse 15 and 16. Verse 15 and 16. A rich man's wealth is his strong city. The poverty of the poor is their ruin. The wage of the righteous leads to life But the gain of the the wicked to sin. See, there's a different result. There's a different ways. There's a different impacts. The wage of the righteous, the reward of the righteous will be life. But the gain of the wicked Is sin. It's just sin snowballs. Sin does have a snowballing effect. If God's grace doesn't intervene and change the course and melt the snowball, just take you into a different realm. Transports you supernaturally to a different realm, to the realm of grace, to the realm of the Spirit, to the realm of faith in Jesus Christ and Him crucified. And get out of that snowball of sin. Only the gospel can make that change. Sin will snowball. Sin begets sin. That's the idea of the gain of the wicked to sin. The wage of the righteous leads to life. Now, verse 15. Think about this metaphor, this word picture in verse 15. I really like this one A rich man's wealth is his strong city. So just think of the significance of a strong city, because that's the metaphor. That'll help us understand what's being said here. If you live in a strong city, the idea is you're protected. You're protected. This is the safest place to be in that time and culture is a walled city, a strong city. That has troops. It represents protection. It the strong city represents safety. The strong city represents well-being and prosperity being taken Cared to being being cared for? The strong city is a picture of protection and safety. And what the verse says is a rich man's wealth. It's his protection. It's his well-being. It's his safety net. You work hard. God rewards you. With the protection and with the well-being, with the safety net. That's why we use the phrase, earn a living. You work, and it's God's design that you work And you eat. You work and you can have a shelter to protect you. And it's part of Part of our part of God's design for society and for family. To work hard and then to be protected To be safe. It's one of the things we pray for. It's one of the great blessings of our nation that God in his providence has provided. Safety and protection and peace, that we don't have marauders going town to town. Well they're almost getting that way with some of the organized riots and chronic mass shootings. It's something we need to always be praying about for God's providence and his special providence against our nation, our states. for our nation, for our states, and for our counties and for our towns, that God would grant peace and safety Pray for those things. We should not take those things for granted because most people in most societies for most of history have not had peace and safety. You would have always had to have somebody standing guard, someplace. So this idea of working hard and earning a living is our strong city, our protection. Now, number four, and finally, a mouth given to God. Mouth given to God. What this means is we want to strive under the grace of God for our words to honor Him and reflect His character. Words that honor God and reflect His character. It's one of the hardest areas of spiritual growth is repenting in our words. And repenting in not only the content of our words. But the tone of our words, the heart behind our words, the timing of our words, sometimes we're saying things we shouldn't be saying, sometimes we're not saying things that we should be saying. Sometimes we're saying something that we should be saying, but we're saying it in the wrong way. I mean, it's just such a huge part of repentance. I mean, I'm am I alone in this, just always going to God, God help me with my words. Would you help me to shut up? Would you help me to stop? Would you help me to stop this? Help me to stop grumbling. Help me to stop complaining. Guard me from gossip. Guard me from slander. Let me be careful with my words. We want to have mouths given to God. That's going to take a lot of prayer and a lot of repentance. But God is faithful and He can do it. He does it gradually, just like any any other area of repentance. He does it gradually. He chips away at us, doesn't he? He chips and chips and chips over the years. But it's worth it for the glory of God. Amen? Chapter 10, verse 6. Blessings are on the head of the righteous, but the mouth of the wicked conceals violence. That's the people who trick you, they make you think they're your friend, and then they turn against you. They use their mouths to conceal the violence that's in the heart. So it's this: the mouth of the wicked conceals violence. I really like the beginning of verse 62. Blessings are on the head of the righteous. There's this metaphor in Proverbs of wisdom. And righteousness being a garland around our heads and just beautifying us, it beautifies us with the character of God. The mouth of the wicked conceals violence. Also, verse 11. The mouth of the righteous is a fountain of life. That's what I want. Put me on the prayer chain for that. But the mouth of the wicked again conceals violence. Wow, twice. The mouth of the wicked conceals violence. Verse 18, the one who conceals hatred. Wait a second. Why does he keep repeating this? The one who conceals hatred has lying lips, and whoever utters slander is a fool. The key idea is deception. Using words to conceal evil that's underneath. Words As a cover-up for envy, words , as a disguise, to disguise and hide anger Present yourself as friendly, but inwardly you resent the person. You smile and tell jokes, and you laugh at others' jokes just to blend in, but inwardly you're wishing harm. Inwardly, you're holding a grudge. Flattery. Flattery, buttering people up, but inwardly aiming to exploit them or aiming to defeat them in some way or to manipulate them in some way. The mouth can be wicked The mouth can be wicked. Just think of false teachers. And think of some of the metaphors for false teachers. They're wolves in what? Sheep's clothing. Part of that is the way they talk. To conceal the treachery underneath. Satan presents himself as a what? As an angel of light. He doesn't come into the room as an angel of darkness. He comes into the room as an angel of light, disguising the treachery. Think of Jesus' woes to the scribes and Pharisees in Matthew 23. Matthew 23, verse 25 and 26. Woe to you, scribes and Pharisees, you hypocrites! For you clean what? You clean the outside of the cup and the outside of the plate But inside they are full of greed and self-indulgence. You blind Pharisee, first clean the inside of the cup and the plate. By the way, the Pharisee and the scribes, they are the cup and they are the plate. He says, first clean the inside of the cup and plate that the outside also may be clean. You make yourself, Pharisee, scribe, hypocrite, you make yourself look godly on the outside. You make yourself seem righteous on the outside, but inwardly, inwardly, they're unbelievers. They're unbelievers. The lost Pharisees and Sadducees and Scribes in the gospel narratives who are setting themselves up against Christ. Setting themselves up as the chief enemies of the kingdom of God. They're not believers who just have a few things they've got to get in order. They're unbelievers, wicked. Jesus calls that generation, twisted generation, wicked generation. And Time and time again, what does it boil down to in these passages in the Gospels? It's that they're fakers. They're hypocrites. They're hypocrites. Verse 12, back in Proverbs 10, verse 12, it's about harboring hatred, which will lead to fighting. But when you have a true inner love that will lead to forgiveness and peace, verse 12: hatred stirs up strife, but love covers all offenses. Now we know that's true from experience. Hatred causes trouble. What causes trouble more than hatred? Hatred stirs up strife. But love covers all offenses. Your love will have a grace that will cover fences, overlook fences, uh offenses, and just move on. And forgive. Verse 13. Verse 13 On the lips of him who has understanding, wisdom is found, but a rod is for the back of him who lacks sense That's talking about a rod to bring forth corporal punishment, physical punishment. The rod is for the back of him who lacks sense, but on the lips of him who has understanding, wisdom is found. I will point you in the direction of James chapter 3, the first major section of James chapter 3, about the tongue. About the power and influence of the tongue and just how prone the tongue is to wickedness. I mean, our disobedience, if you were to like make a pie chart Of all the different areas of our disobedience and our sin. A huge part of that pie chart is going to be sins of the tongue. Sins of the tongue. James chapter 3, anyway. Alright, and f finally, um Verse 19 to 21. When words are many, transgression is not lacking. But whoever restrains his lips is prudent. The tongue of the righteous is choice silver. The heart of the wicked is of little worth. The lips of the righteous feed many, but fools die for lack of sense Starting to connect some dots here as we come to the end of it. You see the heart connected with the mouth. We know it's all connected. To have hearts given to God, to have hands given to God with both integrity and hard work, and to have mouths given to God that honor him and seek to reflect his character, they're all connected in this matrix of godliness as we Try to grow in grace. And I'll just leave it with you there with this encouragement: seek wisdom. Seek wisdom. Let every single one of us seek wisdom, young and old. Let's seek God's wisdom. Father, we thank you for your word. Thank you for your spirit. And thank you for your grace that you You've given us in Christ, and I pray for each and every one of us that you will give us an undying hunger and thirst for biblical wisdom. To strive to honor you in our hearts, with our hands, with our lips, with all of our bodies, all of All of our minds, everything about us will be given over to you in all areas of life. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.