Ephesians chapter 1, and you have an outline in the bulletin. If you would like to have that out, it'll also, I think, be shown up on the screen. We'll see. Father, we pray that uh you would bless the preaching of your word this morning in Jesus' name. Amen. Most of Paul's epistles begin with an expression of thanks to God for the effect of God's grace in the lives of the readers. He says something about the church and how they're doing. Ephesians is different. Instead of the usual thanksgiving, there is a doxology in chapter 1, a majestic hymn of praise to God. And this is inspired praise, and it stretches in one long sentence from verse 3 to verse 14. English translations, um I'm reading from the New A New American Standard, others have done this as well, uh, seek to keep the connection of thought by placing periods at the end of Verse 6, verse 12, and verse 14. But in the Greek there is no such punctuation. This was Paul praising God at length. We have three stanzas then in the way we've divided it with the periods, and each stanza ends with uh with a sort of refrain. Verse 6, you'll notice. To the praise of the glory of his grace. Verse 12, to the praise of his glory. And verse 14, to the praise of his glory. The entire passage is an affirmation of praise to God for his gracious benefits to his people, the church, and salvation. And I want you to know, this is important. This passage is intended by God in his inspired word. To elicit praise from our hearts. So first and foremost, may God awaken that, may God revive that, as we look at this text. We read in these three verses and following next week that he chose us, he predestined us. And these are truths that rightly cause study and discussion, but that should always cause, as Paul is saying, praise to God. Paul's purpose for Ephesians is expressed in his prayer in verse 18, and I use this in my prayer this morning. I pray that the eyes of your heart may be enlightened. So that you will know what is the hope of his calling, what are the riches of the glory of his inheritance in the saints, and what is the surpassing greatness of his power toward us who believe. So, church, let us uh purpose to explore and appreciate To seek to understand and be encouraged in the text and to thank and praise God for what I am calling his sovereign blessings. Number one, the character of the blessings, verse three. Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places. In Christ. The word blessed means to speak well of, to praise. So Paul is praising the God who sovereignly planned Our salvation through Jesus, we bless this God and Father. The Father who announced, I'm sorry, who anointed his Son. And designated him as Christ to be sin bearer, but who knew he would raise him from the dead to be living Lord, blessed be The God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, He is worthy of praise. And through salvation in Jesus, God has blessed us, it says, with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ Notice with me the character of the blessings from that phrase. They are from God. He has blessed us. That is the sovereign, holy God of the universe. Blesses his creatures. He could do whatever he wants. He chooses to bless his creatures. He has blessed us. Notice that they are ours. Has blessed us is a verb tense that means they belong to us. He's done this. The blessings of God are not to be decided, they have been given. Thirdly, they are spiritual. The blessings of God's salvation are not material ones, but spiritual ones. Spiritual blessings, meaning they come Through the Holy Spirit. They're not found in the ways of the world where people would seek prestige or pleasure or possessions No, they come through the Holy Spirit. And also, I would say spiritual blessings, because they pertain to our soul, not to our earthly estate. Thus they are eternal, as your soul is eternal. They're not temporary as your earthly estate is temporary. They're spiritual blessings. They are complete. Notice the word every. We are assured of all the blessings of salvation. Whatever our spiritual life requires, God supplies. And they are heavenly. The blessings of God's salvation are not earthly ones. They are heavenly ones. They pertain to the Christian's heavenly citizenship, not his earthly. citizenship. They pertain to our union with Christ, not our interaction. I mean, God does bless us on the earth, don't get me wrong, but these are particularly heavenly blessings that He is talking about. In our salvation. And thus, Paul exhorts the Colossian believers: therefore, if you've been raised up with Christ, keep seeking the things above where Christ is. Seated at the right hand of God. God may indeed bless our state on earth, our temporary state But the blessings of salvation that he is going to elaborate on here are about our present and future state in heaven. They are heavenly. And they are in Christ. The blessings come because of one's union with Christ in salvation. These blessings are only for Christians. They are not for Non-Christians. And if you're not a Christian, you do not have them. If you are a Christian, you do have them. The blessings. Then they are described for us, the description of the blessing. The major emphasis is that the blessings Paul described come from God's choice and God's power. Verse 4. Just as He chose us in Him, so it's God chose us in Jesus. Before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before Him, before God. Now remember, as I talk through this a little bit, we are blessing God for these truths. The point of this passage is leading us to praise Him So whether or not we completely understand them, it is right for us to praise Him for them. First of all, and understanding them will help you to praise God for them, I would hasten to say. But the first one I would call election. He chose us. He, God, chose us in him, Jesus, before the foundation of the world. This is What is termed the doctrine of election, his sovereign choice. And so we see , first point under election, it is a sovereign choice. Chose means to call out from to choose out of other possibilities. It is used of Jesus choosing the twelve disciples. It is used of the church choosing men to help with ministry to widows in Acts chapter 6. And in this verse it refers to God's choice of the saved, us. Who make up the church. Listen to Paul's testimony as a missionary as he writes to Timothy, 2 Timothy 2. 10. For this reason I endure all things, the hardships of ministry. For this reason I endure all things for the sake of those who are chosen. That's how he looked at his his mission service. For the sake of those who are chosen, so that they also may obtain the salvation which is in Christ Jesus and with it. eternal glory, a sovereign choice, a saving choice. He chose us in him, in Jesus. The chosen are blessed in Christ. Because of Jesus the chosen are saved from the penalty of sin because he died for sin. And we enter into a relationship with God, receiving the spiritual blessings of verse 3. So notice again that they are in Christ. Thirdly, election is a eternal choice, or an eternal choice. The choice to save us in Christ. was made, note the text, before the foundation of the world. The choice was made before the beginning of time The choice was made before any created thing came into being. So a question to ask here in the text would be: was it the choice of Those he would save? Or was it the choice of the way he would save them that was made before the foundation of the world? And my answer is yes to both. Listen to some scripture. And you might want to turn to it or at least it's in the it's in the notes so you can look at it later. But listen to some scripture and how this is described, God's election. I say to you both, both the plan of Christ dying for sin, being raised again, and those who would benefit from it. Acts 2 verse 23 This man delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God. So there the cross was not a mistake. You nailed Peter preaches to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. That was a predetermined plan. Acts 13, 48. When the Gentiles heard this concerning them being able to be a part of the church, they began rejoicing. And glorifying the word of the Lord, and as many as had been appointed to eternal life, believed. And so we praise God for his sovereignty there. Bringing people into the church. 2 Thessalonians 2, verse 13. We should always give thanks to God for you, brethren, beloved by the Lord. Because God has chosen you from the beginning for salvation through sanctification by the Spirit and faith in the truth. 2 Timothy 1, verse 9 and 10. Paul speaks of Jesus who has saved us and called us, or God who has saved us and called us with a holy calling, not according to our works, but according to his own purpose and grace. which was granted us in Christ Jesus from all eternity. Again, the plan from all eternity, but now has been revealed. by the appearing of our Savior Christ Jesus, who abolished death and brought life and immortality to light through the gospel. 1 Timothy chapter 1, 18 through 21. Knowing that you were not redeemed with perishable things like silver or gold from your futile way of life. Inherited from your forefathers, but with precious blood as of a lamb, unblemished and spotless, the blood of Christ for he was foreknown before the foundation of the world, but has appeared in these last times for the sake of you, who through him are believers in God. Who raised him from the dead and gave him glory, so that your faith and hope are in God And then Revelation chapter 13, verse 8, all who dwell on the earth will worship him. This is a statement about they will worship the Antichrist. So these are not saved. All who dwell on the earth will worship the Antichrist. Everyone whose name has not been written from the foundation of the world in the book of life. of the lamb who has been slain. 17 verse 8 says the same thing. That the lost their names not written in the book, the Lamb's Book of Life from the foundation of the world. And so those who are in the book of life have been there since the foundation of the world. Amazing. So let me just say something personally to you. I believe that my name was written in the book of life before the foundation of the world. Before I was conceived, before I could do anything to impress God, and before I could do many things that deserved his eternal judgment Whether or not I completely understand that, I praise God for that. And we will learn in chapter two. that the natural default position of man's heart is to resist God's grace. That was the natural default position of my heart. Until about the age of ten. The call of the gospel goes out to all. It must. We're commanded. And most are unresponsive But some do respond. You responded. Why did you respond? Well of course you would speak of God's grace Because of God's saving grace that overcomes the resistance. We would also talk about many people who are part of God's means, of course. Moving on in our text, as Paul gives a purpose of election in verse 4, he also describes a second spiritual blessing, and that is justification. That we would be holy and blameless before Him. God saves us that we would be holy and blameless. Justification is what's being described here. It is the purpose of our election. It takes place at the time of our salvation. It is the taking off of sin from our account with God and placing that on Christ's. account that he paid for at the cross. And it's the placing on our account of Christ's righteousness. This is the only way that we could be holy and blameless before Him. You cannot do that by being good If you try to, God says those good works are as filthy rags to him. They are imperfect in many ways. But God desires our presence with Him and overcomes the impossibility of having sinners in His holy presence through justification. Remember back to the book of Isaiah in chapter 6 when he has a vision of God's glory? Remember his response? He said, Woe is me! For I am ruined, because I'm a man of unclean lips, and I live among a people of unclean lips. He knew he didn't belong in a vision of God's holiness. My eyes have seen the King, the Lord of hosts. And then one of the seraphim, an angel, flew to me with a burning coal in his hand, which he had taken from the altar with tongs. He touched my mouth with it and said, Behold, this has touched your lips, and your iniquity is taken away, and your sin is forgiven. And God made it right For Isaiah to be in his holy presence. We have all fallen short of God's glory. In Christ We are credited with his holy life and death for sin and are thus holy and blameless before him, justified. We are also to pursue holy and blameless lives as chapters 4 through 6 will lead us to understand In the book of Ephesians, but in Christ, because of his life, because of his death, we are holy and blameless before the Lord God. The third spiritual blessing, adoption. In love, the end of verse 4, and I take that to go with what follows. In love, he predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the kind intention of his will. Notice that adoption is an expression of God's love. If any of you have adopted children, or you know those who have, it was out of a heart of love that images God. But it's an expression of his love that he would take us in and bless us as sons. And his decision to do so was not spur of the moment. He predestined us. He predetermined us. Us same as before the saved. Sincere believers. Have understood predestination differently. An illustration that God gives for it is that of a potter creating pottery And obviously the illustration is showing that that whatever is in the mind of the potter is what he will shape on the potter's wheel. It's from Romans chapter 9. Does not the potter have a right? over the clay to make from the same lump one vessel for honorable use and another for common use? What if God, although willing to demonstrate his wrath and make his power known, endured with much patience, vessels of wrath prepared for destruction, and he did so to make known the riches of his glory upon vessels of mercy which he prepared For glory, even us, whom He also called, not from among Jews only, but also from among Gentiles. Amazing illustration there and showing the sovereignty of God and some of the purpose, I would say, of God that from the dark background of lostness and lost people, he has Handcrafted vessels, I'll call them vessels of mercy, as he does, which he prepared beforehand for glory, the church. Some believe the the doctrine of predestination uh quenches missionary 's zeal. Uh m Simple answer to that, it did not quench Paul's missionary zeal. And he's the one who writes about it here and gives the illustration. in Romans 9 by the inspiration of the Spirit. It gave him confidence as a missionary, because he knew that the gospel proclaimed was God's chosen way to awaken lost souls, to awaken vessels of mercy, people who by God's grace were prepared beforehand to respond and believe. Now tonight we'll examine the topic of evangelism and the sovereignty of God. Notice the text again, he predestined us to adoption as sons. So there is the spiritual blessing. Adoption, the sovereign blessing. Jesus referred to salvation as being born again, remember, in John 3. We are born again into God's family, as believers who have been given spiritual life and right standing with God. Listen to Romans chapter 8, 15 through 17. You have received a spirit of adoption as sons, by which we cry out, Abba, Father. The Spirit Himself testifies with our Spirit that we are children of God. And if children, heirs also, heirs of God and fellow heirs with Christ, if indeed we suffer with him. So that we may also be glorified with him. Adoption. We are accepted. We are accepted. Sometimes we have trouble accepting ourselves, but because of Christ we are accepted. We belong. Sometimes we can't conceive that because of the week we've had But we belong in the body of Christ. We are joint heirs, and all that that means In that sense, we are brothers with Christ, joint heirs with him, and will be a part of his establishment of kingdom to come, new heaven, new earth. We are adopted as his gods for eternity. Notice the text: through Jesus Christ to himself. We've seen in Christ, now we see through Jesus Christ to Himself. It is Jesus' saving work that makes it possible for God to adopt. Sinful creatures as his children. Of course, he takes the sin away through Jesus, but he adopts sinful children as his Sinful creatures as his children to fellowship with and have as the inhabitants of heaven Because of his love, we've seen that. Because of his desire for and Being glorified through this fellowship of bringing us in. But he's not like the owner of a children's home who saw to a lot of adoptions but interacted With the children on occasion. No, he notice through Jesus Christ to himself. The adoption has the purpose of bringing us into fellowship with him. He is our Father in heaven with whom we have close personal relationship by which we cry out, as the Romans 8 passage says, Abba, Father. The end of what Paul says about adoption in verse 5 shows us the reason for the spiritual blessings. Why did God do this? Why does God save souls? Why did God save you? Well, number one, he is a merciful God according to the kind intention of his will is the end of verse 5. His blessings of election and justification and adoption are because it is his character to be merciful. Not because he saw something in us that swayed him to be merciful. Remember, this was decided before the foundation of the world. His kind intentions were put into motion. before we were conceived, before the world was conceived. Predestination and adoption are expressions of God's merciful love, and He is to be praised for it, whether or not we completely understand it. Why did God do this? Why did God save souls? Why did He save you? Notice verse 6. He did it to show forth his glory that he might be Praised, to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed in us. His glory is his manifested excellence, his grace is his unmerited favor. God's grace, including uh the spiritual, the sovereign blessings we see here, is a free gift. It is It's not given because he sees in you something worthy. It's not given because he sees in your life something. It's given because he is a gracious God. And this grace is given, notice another phrase, in the beloved. Verse 6. That is in Christ Jesus. Loved by God and worthy of our love. In the beloved. There's no saving grace, there's no election, no justification, no adoption apart from Jesus. He is the way. And the response that God calls for from all who have received God's grace is praise. Charles Hodge, a theologian, wrote this the design of salvation is to exhibit, manifest, I'll say, the grace of God in such a conspicuous manner as to fill all hearts with wonder and all lips with praise. So does your heart echo the praise of the Apostle Paul? You might think, well. I can't figure it out. I have questions. That's not what I'm asking. We all have questions. Does your heart echo the praise of the Apostle Paul as I read the text? Blessed be the God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, who has blessed us with every spiritual blessing in the heavenly places in Christ. just as he chose us in him before the foundation of the world, that we would be holy and blameless before him In love, he predestined us to adoption as sons through Jesus Christ to himself, according to the kind intention of his will. to the praise of the glory of his grace, which he freely bestowed on us in the beloved. God's will for us, his church, is for us to realize what a privilege it is to be a part of the body of Christ. To acknowledge that it is due to God's sovereign blessing. So we realize it, we acknowledge it's Him, and to lift up praise to the glory of His grace. I would say if you have not personally believed in Jesus for the forgiveness of your sin, your sin against God, come to Him. Come to Him. He is still saving souls. Confess your sin. Repent, we'll talk about what that means, but it means to turn from and to believe in God's only way of salvation, Jesus. Believe in the grace of God to save you in Christ. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for your grace, for your mercy, for these sovereign blessings. Thank you for the opportunity to speak of them this morning. Thank you for the opportunity to respond in praise now. And Lord, uh help us as we go through this chapter and the next to deal with questions, but always, always to acknowledge that you are beyond us, you're bigger than us. Our thoughts are not your thoughts. And we praise you for our salvation. In Jesus' name. Amen.