Turn to John chapter seven. Verse twenty five. Let's go there. John seven and verse twenty five. And of course I'm glad to speak to any who would have questions right away. Uh I will be going to that meeting after after the um the service This morning. Don't don't know how I did that. So I just realize if if you're looking at your watch at the end of point three, there's one more point, okay? I want to begin with asking the question because this is all about Jesus is talking about being the living water. What is spiritual thirst? Well, if you were on a desert for any period of time. You would know, some of you have been out west and been in dry places, you would know that the greatest felt need that cries out to be filled is physical thirst. And to meet that need, you have to find water. Well, spiritual thirst is the felt need of the soul. It is the realization that your greatest need is a right relationship with God. It is the conviction that God gave you life, that He has every right to your life, and that forgiveness of sin, peace, joy, and any real purpose and fulfillment in life Are only found in him. Spiritual thirst is the desire to please God who gave you life and thus believe. Look at verse 17 from last week. If anyone is willing to do his the Father's will, he will know of the teaching, Jesus speaking, so his His teaching, whether it is of God teaching. or whether I speak from myself. Spiritual thirst is the ache in the heart That going through the motions, whether you're an Israelite, going through the motions of a feast in Israel, which is the context, or going through the motion of church attendance is not enough. That a right relationship with God is not found in the mere activity of worship, that spiritual thirst is not quenched by a program, but by a person, as we We will see. Now, not everyone is convinced that his or her greatest need is a right relationship with God So how does one become thirsty, as Jesus puts it? Think about it. We're talking about spiritual thirst and Scripture indicates that without Christ we are spiritually dead. So how does a dead man feel thirst? Well a physical Physically dead man does not feel thirst, and neither does a spiritually dead man feel the kind of thirst that Jesus is referring to unless God creates it in the heart. And God does create it in the heart. Heart. Jesus said in John 6 44, No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. God makes the heart thirsty by the convicting work of the Holy Spirit. Listen, I grew up in a church that That preached the word of God. And I grew to love God as a young boy, but there was a day when I felt thirst that I had not known before. I understood sin as I had not understood it before. I understood a relationship with God in a way that I had not understood it before. I had not understood it until God gave me that kind. Of Holy Spirit, spiritual thirst. Well, we look first at the awakening of spiritual thirst, verse 25 through 31. Now the ruling Jews had been upset with Jesus, so scribes, Pharisees, and so forth, priests. They'd been upset with him. Since back in chapter 5 he healed a man on the Sabbath. Verse 25, so some of the people of Jerusalem were saying Is this not the man whom they are seeking to kill? I I would say they're upset with him. They're seeking to kill him. Look, he is speaking publicly, and they are saying nothing to him. So these people are wondering why aren't they stopping him if they're so upset with him? Look at what they say. The rulers do not really know that this is the Christ. Do they? Can it be the authorities know he is the Christ? But then they go on in their thoughts, however we know where this man is from. from. That is, they say they are knowing his human origin. We know Mary, Joseph, Nazareth. But whenever the Christ may come, no one knows where he is from. That's a puzzling statement. Some apparently thought that the Messiah would be hidden before he would appear. Verse 28, then Jesus cried out in the temple teaching and saying, and by the way, there's irony here in the first part of what he says. You both know me and know where I am from. In other words, you think you know me and where I am from? And then he Speaks truth. I have not come of myself. I'm not acting independently. But he who sent me is true, whom you do not know. Jesus is saying, crying out, remember, we need to listen to the cries. All words of Jesus, but This is emphasized with the cry. He's saying, God in faithfulness to his word sent me And questioning me and rejecting me shows you don't know the Father. He who sent me is true, whom you do not know. No. I know him because I am from him, and he sent me. So Jesus is clearly asserting I am sent from God, I know God the Father You do not. So they were seeking to seize him. And no man laid his hand on him because his hour had not yet come. Just as he had said to his brothers earlier in chapter 7 before coming to the feast, God protecting his son for his plan for his son, for his purpose. for his son. And likewise, God protects his people today for his plan and his purpose for them. Verse 31. But , here's what we see: the awakening of spiritual thirst. But many of the crowd believed in him. And they were saying, when the Christ comes, he will not perform more signs than those which this man has, will he? These understood that there were prophecies that the Christ would perform miracles. Jesus was doing Christ-like, Messiah-like things. So notice some factors in the awakening of spiritual thirst, because I think there's a practical lesson for us as this church today. Proclamation is taking place here. Jesus cry in verses twenty-nine and thirty, and we would relate that to today, that witnessing is proclamation, preaching is proclamation. We need to do that. Revelation i is behind the scenes here in that the scripture prophesy of the Christ and prophesy that he would be a healer, would do miracles. Well today we have revelation, the Bible, and so ministry is centered, witness is centered, proclamation must be centered upon what God's word says. Thankfully that's what you've known in this church since it began. And then demonstration. So proclamation, revelation, demonstration, the signs Jesus had performed. All of that is awakening spiritual thirst. Today that would be the good works that He gives to us, Christ-like lives that we live. Awakening of spiritual thirst, and then we see sadly the absence of spiritual thirst, marked by two things, intolerance and ignorance First of all, in tolerance in verse 32, the Pharisees heard the crowd muttering these things about him, and the chief priests and the Pharisees sent officers. To seize him. Not only did they not believe Jesus was from God, they didn't want others to believe in him either. And so they're trying to squash this thought that maybe he is the Messiah. Intolerance of such a thought. And then their ignorance is on display. Verse 33. Therefore Jesus said, For a little while longer I am with you. And then I go to him who sent me. Jesus knew that his destiny lay beyond the cross. His destiny lay at the right hand. hand of the throne of God as Lord. Verse 34. You will seek me and will not find me, and where I am you cannot come What does he mean there? He means that they would hear about his resurrection, but they would not find him before he ascended to heaven. And Jesus is also stating, notice, at the end of verse 34, that they, because of unbelief, have no hope of God. Look at it again. Where I am you cannot come. Verse thirty-five. The Jews then said to one another, Where does this man intend to go, that we will not find him. He is not intending to go to the dispersion that is Jews living outside of Israel. That's the reference There, the the dispersion among the Greeks and teach the Greeks, is he? Once again, they do not understand the spiritual significance of Jesus' word. Verse 36. What is this statement that he said, You will seek me and will not find me, and where I am you cannot come? Both their lack of understanding and I would say also the veiled way Jesus spoke of the future. I mean notice that. He doesn't say I'm going to the right hand of God and you'll never get to heaven. He says you'll seek me and will not find me. Where I am, you cannot I think that veiled speech is God's judgment upon them. We see the same thing happen when he gives parables, because parables were so that Those God was judging would not see, and hearing they may not understand. Could be we're seeing, I think we're seeing something similar here in the veiled Speech of our Lord to these who did not believe in him. Absence of spiritual thirst. The Spirit was not working in their hearts. Thirdly, satisfaction of spiritual thirst, and this is where we'll camp out for a little while, verses 37 to 39. Now on the last day, the great day of the feast. the the climax of the Feast of Tabernacles. Pastor Matt spoke to you a little bit about that last week. Well each morning of the feast at the time of the sacrifice the the priest would draw water in a golden vessel from the pool of Siloam and carry it amidst the procession of worshippers to the temple to be poured out at the base of the altar. And this commemorated the wonderful supply of water that God gave the Jews in their wilderness journey. Exodus seventeen tells us that as they journeyed and camped at Rephedim, there was no water for the people. The people got upset, people complained to Moses, and Moses cried out to God, and God answered. Exodus 17, 6, God says, Behold, I will stand before you there on the rock at Horeb. And you shall strike the rock, and water will come out of it, that the people may drink. And Moses did so in the sight of the elders of Israel. In the wilderness, with dry terrain, in the heat of the sun, as I said before, water was the most critically felt need of the Israelites and so this feast in Jesus' day was still joyously celebrating God's provision of water. And with the daily pouring of water at the altar as a backdrop, look at verse 37. Jesus stood up and cried out, saying, If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink So hear his invitation. If anyone is thirsty, let him come to me and drink. The invitation is both general and specific. It is general in that anyone rules out no one. It is specific in that not every man is thirsty for God. But what if you are? Come to Jesus and drink, is the invitation Now coming to him means being convinced in your heart that he is the answer to your need of a right relationship with God. Drinking means personally believing in and receiving Jesus as Savior and Lord. You see, we don't have the the resources in and of ourself, and we can't find them anywhere on earth to quench the spiritual thirst of the heart. Religious activity Trying to live a good life. Leave the soul of everyone who goes that direction dry and parched. But belief in Jesus as God's Son? Sent to die for your sin, raised to be the living Lord of your life, quenches spiritual thirst. Trust in Him, submission to Him is how the glass is put to the lips of the Thirsty soul. And such trust is often expressed in a prayer of confession, a belief of submission to Jesus The invitation. Come to him and drink. The blessing. The indwelling spirit. He who believes in me, as the scripture said, from his innermost being will flow rivers of living water. But this he spoke of the Spirit, whom those who believed in him were to receive something in the future, notice. For the Spirit was not yet given. Because Jesus was not yet glorified. We're going to circle back to that in whatever moments we have this evening. Remember that Jesus told his disciples the night before the cross John 16, 7. I tell you the truth, it is to your advantage that I go away, for if I do not go away, the helper will not come to you, but if I go, I will send him to me. Now the Holy Spirit was already working on the earth, but not as the indwelling helper of the believer. The sending of the Holy Spirit is recorded in Acts chapter 2, after Jesus' glorification, which was his resurrection, his ascension to the right hand. Of God as the Lord of his church. So let's understand, let's celebrate what Jesus is saying here. The Holy Spirit is a wellspring of An abundant source of, as he puts it, living water, spiritual life. Think back to John chapter 4. He said something similar to the Whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst, but the water that I give him will become in him a well of water, springing up to eternal life. Notice the location of the Spirit. It is the believer's innermost being. Uh th that's stunning. The stunning truth is that the Holy Spirit, who is one with the Father and the Son A distinct person of the Godhead, of equal authority, eternal as God the Father and God the Son are eternal, holy as God the Father and God the Son are holy, he takes up residence in the believer's heart, so that the scriptures say of each believer, think of this, 1 Corinthians 6. 19 Your body is a temple, your singular now, your body, because it says it of the church as well, but your body, believer, is a temple of the Holy Spirit. Who is in you, whom you have from God, and you are not your own. So prophecies of the Old Testament, as we look in that New Testament lens. uh become clear and exciting to us. Isaiah 44 verse 3, I will pour out water on the thirsty land and streams on the dry ground. I will pour out my spirit on your offspring. And my blessing on your descendants. We see that that prophecy is toward the church, believers in Jesus. Joel 3:18, a spring will go out. from the house of the Lord. Jesus is saying that Scriptures like these, that He is intentionally calling to mind by His language. Scripture likes Scriptures like these find fulfillment in your life and in my life as a believer, as we are temples of the Holy Spirit Spirit. The action of the Spirit , location within us, the action of the Spirit is is pictured as an abundant flow of water whereby your thirst for God is continually. Quenched, and your life is a continual blessing to others. A description of this life is given in Galatians chapter 5. Twenty-two and twenty-three, you know it. But understand, connect it to what Jesus is saying here. Galatians five, twenty-two, the fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience, kindness, goodness, faithfulness. Gentleness, self-control. But notice the fruit is for those, let me tell you, because maybe it's not obvious in the passage, the fruit is for those who keep drinking. Jesus' invitation here, come to me and drink, is not suggesting a one-time event. The Greek language could put it that way, but it does not. It's not a once -in -a-lifetime event. The verbs come and drink in verse 37 indicate A continued coming, a continued drinking. We become a Christian when we first come and drink, but we live the life of a Christian by continually coming. And drinking. And that is consistent in other New Testament explanations of the Christian life. Think of Colossians 2. six and seven. As you have received Christ Jesus the Lord, so walk in him. Having been firmly rooted and now built up in him and established in your faith just as you were instructed and overflowing. with gratitude. So as we continue to come, to learn the way of Christ in the scriptures, to see Him To submit ourselves to Him. As we drink, trusting and obeying the way of Christ, we will experience the flow of living water out of our innermost being. That's the work of the Spirit. Spirit, making us like Jesus. The focus remains Christ, the author and perfecter of our faith. And as we lose our life, attitudes, actions that are not Pleasing to God. As we obey His ways, the Holy Spirit produces Christ-likeness. And there is then fulfillment, purpose. Blessing to others. There's glory to God in His temple. And in His temple. There's true satisfaction. Satisfaction, fulfillment, and life. Add to your outline the fourth point, discouragement of spiritual thirst. Religious leaders have some more things to say here in this chapter. John records them. Some of the people, therefore, when they heard these words, were saying this certainly. Is the prophet. And that's a prophecy of the Messiah in the book of Deuteronomy. One like Moses would come. Others were saying this is the Christ. Hebrew word would be Messiah, the promised Savior King that God declared. Still others, verse 41, were saying, Surely the Christ is not going to come from Galilee Is he? Of course that's where Jesus grew up, but that's not where he was born. They say, has not the scripture said that the Christ comes from the descendants of David and from Bethlehem? City where David was? Well, yes, and they were correct. And we have eyewitness and angelic testimony that that's exactly what happened, that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. But apparently, obviously, many did not know that part of Jesus' life. So a division occurred in the crowd because of him. Some of them wanted to seize him, but no one laid hands on him God 's providence protected Jesus, as I said, and us for God's purposes. The officers then came to the chief priests and Pharisees. And they said to them, Why did you not bring him? Listen to their answer, verse 46. The officers answered, Never has a man spoken the way this man spoke Speaks. So here's yet another testimony to the truth that Jesus was the Messiah. Jesus was the Son of God. Jesus didn't sound like somebody who should be arrested. Sounded like somebody should be From God as God the Son. Verse 47. The Pharisees then answered them, You've not also been led astray, have you? Verse forty eight No one of the rulers or Pharisees has believed in him, has he? Maybe you've been among others who've talked that way. There seems to be some panic going on here. But they play the peer peer pressure card. You don't believe that, do you? I've been in places like that. Sometimes spoken a way I should have, sometimes cowered back. Let's speak the truth of love, right? Any Pharisee who did believe, it doesn't seem that they spoke up, but this crowd, which does not know the law, is a curse. Hear the pride in those words. And see the blindness in verse 49. The very one their Bible prophesied is before them. But prideful hearts see things without one way. the word. Nicodemus does speak up to a certain degree. Nicodemus, he who came to him before, back in John three. Being one of them, that means a Pharisee, said to them, Our law does not judge a man unless it first hears from him and knows what he is doing, does it? They answered him, You are not also from Galilee, are you? Search and see that no prophet arises out of Galilee. Nicodemus did believe that Jesus represented God in some way, and he does here appeal to the law on Jesus' behalf. uh that they who get it verse 49 know the law uh might treat him fairly but his appeal is struck down not on any legal terms or ground But with an incorrect assertion about Galilee. Again, they're they're bullying, they're playing the peer pressure car. And of course, they're incorrect in that Jesus was born in Bethlehem. Also incorrect in what they say about prophets. Jonah was a prophet from Galilee. Possibly also Hosea and Nahum. But just understand somebody who is dead set in one way and prideful is going to keep saying things the way they want to believe. And so their mission, well first of all their blindness, it's on display, their mission kill Jesus and belittle all who show any faith in or respect for him. Let me tell you, they will be judged for their lack of faith. They will be judged for influencing people not to believe in Jesus. Jesus for their discouragement of spiritual thirst. Jesus speaks of that judgment strongly in the Gospels. Some implications for us. First of all, for those who have not come to Jesus. Jesus is from God. He is sent by God, and if you are thirsty to be right with God, to live for God's purposes, believe in Jesus. And the context calls for this plea from me. Don't let any who have differing opinions about Jesus or who are hostile toward Christ or Christianity keep you away from Jesus. Don't live your life according to what others mistakenly think. Live your life according to what is true. What is true is Christ Jesus died for sinners. What is true is that Christ was raised from the dead and sits at the right hand of God, ready to return in the Father's time. What is true is that only he offers a right relationship with God. What is true is that only he offers true joy, true peace, true fulfillment, true purpose. And only faith in him leads to what Jesus speaks of here, the Holy Spirit's indwelling, and the love, joy, peace, patience. That we are meant to live with as children of God. For those who have come to Jesus, the implication is keep coming. That's the language of the text. Every day of your life, come to Jesus and drink. Speak to him. Learn of him. Yield to him. When you or I stop quenching our spiritual thirst, First Thessalonians tells us we begin to quench the work. of the Holy Spirit within us. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you for this passage. We thank you for these cries of our Lord that instruct us and that call the lost to salvation. We pray for your work. By your spirit. Work of conviction, a work of encouragement. We pray for your work in our hearts in Jesus' name. Amen.