See in the bulletin uh an outline, and I point that out because Not that this is inspired or anything, but it seeks to honor the inspiration of Scripture as a good outline should. It seeks to go along along with the lessons of the text. And I think it's helpful. I know it is to me to not only know when might lunch be coming, but it it's helpful to know uh what we've what we're seeing as we look at verses 1 through 10. So I hope you do use them. I think it's a good way to honor the listening of the Word of God to take advantage of tools that are given to you. So I'm not checking everyone. I don't have a periscope to look down and see if you have the outline out. But I find them helpful and that's why I I make them. Uh they're helpful to me in thinking through a passage and I think helpful in listening through a passage as well. Becoming a Christian at the age of ten , my appreciation for my salvation, I want you to know, has grown. In proportion to my biblical understanding of salvation. The passage we come to this morning has been a most important one. In growing my appreciation and thus my gratitude to God. And I want you to know this is my story, what Paul writes here. And I want you to know if you're saved, it is your story. If you haven't yet received Christ, part of it is still your story. But this is my story and your story if you have received Christ. And so understanding it this morning will fill your heart, a saved heart, with gratitude with humility, with devotion. So look forward to that as we go through the text. Jesus said you must be born again. To appreciate spiritual life in Christ, you must understand, first of all , the reality spiritual death. That's where we go in verses 1 through 3. Join me in a prayer as we go to the text. Father, help us to see these truths And may your Holy Spirit be working the implication of these truths in our lives as we listen and then as we live. In Jesus' name. Amen. Amen. Verse 1. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins, in which you formerly walked according to the course of this world. According to the prince of the power of the heir, of the spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Among them, we too all formerly lived in the lusts of our flesh, indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath. Even as the rest. So the reality of spiritual death is described in these verses, and we need to unpack them. First of all, We were dead in sin, verse 1. And you were dead in your trespasses and sins. That means without spiritual life. Which means separated from God, powerless, unresponsive to God, dead, no ability to save yourself. No ability to, on your own, respond to God. Now we do respond to God. Let me hasten to say But that's because of God's grace. But no ability to save yourself or respond to God on your own by yourself. You're dead. Referring to salvation, some make the analogy of God throwing a lifesaver That was the toss of a lifesaver to a to a drowning man, but this verse tells us that we're already drowned. Okay? Some make the analogy of God offering life-giving medicine to a man dying on his deathbed, but this verse tells us we're already dead Okay? Separated from God, spiritually unresponsive to God, and powerless to save ourselves. What killed us? Sin. We inherit the curse of death Adam received, to which we add our own personal sins. And we see this spiritual death everywhere in the landscape of human life. We see moral decay. We see spiritual blindness. We see rampant selfishness. We see indifference to the things of God. We were dead to sin. Secondly, we were drawn to sin, verse 2, in which you formally walked. lived according to the course of this world, according to the prince of the power of the air, of the Spirit that is now working in the sons of disobedience. Without spiritual life, we lived according to, first of all, the course of this world is mentioned. We could define that as the worldly fashion of the day, wherever the world is going in its worldliness. The human thinking and practices of the day. They influenced us in our deadness. And depending on where you live, It might be individualism or pleasure, and I'm talking about sinful individualism and pleasure and materialism. In other places it would be communism and all that goes along with that thinking, or moral revolution, or idolatry, or man-made religion. Depending on where you are, it might be some or all of these things, the course of this world. Without spiritual life, we also lived according to The prince of the power of the air, verse two. The prince refers to Satan He is the prince of the power of the air, meaning he is the ruler over all demons who, although invisible to us, exist. To exert Satan's power upon this world, the power he is allowed to have. And Satan is the prince of the Spirit. That is now working in the sons of disobedience. We might call this the spirit of the age, the evil principle at work to keep the sons of disobedience, the lost, pursuing anything other than the glory of God. Okay? So Satan works to keep that going that people will not Bring glory to God. So you have the world, you have the devil, and you have the flesh. We're dead in sin, we're drawn to sin, we desired to sin, verse 3 tells us among them. We too all formerly lived in the lust among the sons of disobedience, verse 2. So among them we all too, we too all formally lived in the lusts of our flesh. indulging the desires of the flesh and of the mind, and were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. Verse 3 is saying, we live compelled by the desires of the sin nature. We went after that which pleased our body and our mind As a child, that might have meant, I think I can take that candy and no one will notice. Or older, seeking sexual pleasure. Or the effects of drugs and alcohol, whatever the outlet was, whatever my flesh wanted, I went after that which pleased it. Now there might have been things in place, parental rules and such. The expectations of those around me that that uh that that held it at bay to some degree, but we all lived in the was of our flesh, the scripture says. We went after that which pleased our mind and our flesh, our body. So it might be our mind boasting, human philosophy, pornography. This verse means, verse 3 means, that no one will naturally come to Christ. Naturally, we will live in the lust of our flesh and the lusts of our mind. All are naturally drawn to sin. And that's what Jesus said in John 6. 44, or it's why Jesus said in John 6. 44. No one can come to me unless the Father who sent me draws him, and I will raise him up on the last day. So I think we can understand John 6. 44 with the backdrop of Ephesians chapter 2, verses 1 through 3. Now notice the phrase, we were by nature children of wrath, even as the rest. Paul is writing to the church, but he wants them to remember, we were by ch by nature children of wrath, whose wrath, God's wrath, even as the rest, the lost in the world. The word the word nature Refers to the fallen character of mankind since the sin of Adam and Eve. Separation took place. Fallenness took place, a bent toward sinful thinking and acting took place. And because of humanistic thinking, many today have the notion that Humans are born into the world in a state of, listen, innocence, you hear it? With no leaning bias in their hearts or will toward Either goodness or evil, and that what happens is they live and influence come to bear But the Bible says poppycock to that, if you use that word. The Bible teaches that we are born with a sin nature in this passage. an inbred bias since Adam's sin, since the fall of man, an inbred bias toward Sin. David said, In sin my mother conceived me. He wasn't talking about the act between his mother and father. He was talking about, I'm sinful in the product, the conception. It doesn't mean we're as sinful as we can be. Again, there are restraints in culture and in parenting and so forth, but it does mean that we are full of sin. Now, if you question that, let me ask you, those who are married, do you love your spouse perfectly? Have you been faithful to your spouse in your thought life perfectly? Do you honor God in all that you do? Are you always conscious of seeking his glory? Do you obey children, your parents, perfectly? Do you always treat others, all of us, with love as we would want to be treated? Do we love God with our all our heart, soul, strength, and mind? No. The sin nature rears its ugly head and confirms in every life That we are deserving of God's wrath even as the rest. And don't forget what God's wrath means. Listen to 2 Thessalonians 1, verses 8 and 9. When Jesus comes back, he will be dealing out retribution. To those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction away from the presence of the Lord and from the glory of his power. God's wrath will be satisfied. But wait a minute, you might think. I didn't have any rampant immorality in my life. I told you I was saved at the age of 10. I didn't have any rampant immorality in my life. I was a pretty good person, I could say. These verses seem to overstate the case, you might think. Well, let me just ask you: the one writing them was Paul. Was Paul an immoral person? Certainly not according to the standards of his day. We might mention that pesky had a pe pesky habit of persecuting Christians, but he was a Pharisee of Pharisees. I myself, he says in Philippians three, have confidence even in the flesh. If anyone else has a mind to put confidence in the flesh, I far more circumcise the eighth day of the nation of Israel, of the tribe of Benjamin, a Hebrew of Hebrews, as to the law, a Pharisee. as to zeal, a persecutor of the church, as to the righteousness which is in the law found blameless The expression of his sin nature that he, I think, most noticed, his flesh, was pride. Thinking he was right when he was 180 degrees wrong about Jesus and the church, and wrong about what it meant to be right with God. He trusted in his obedience to God's law. His pride is described, I believe, in verse 3. Among them, we too, all formerly, he's including himself, we too, all formerly lived in the lusts of the flesh, indulging in the desires of the mind and of the flesh and of the mind, were by nature children of wrath. Even as the rest. So if you read verses one through three and you think it does not speak of me , That's pride, which is too high a view of yourself, and that is too low a view of God's holiness. It does speak to you. And in my childhood, up to the point of salvation, these phrases applied to me. If I could remember exactly how, I would have given that testimony in celebration of how God rescued me From the world, the devil, and the flesh. But I know he did. So looking back at verses 1 through 3, I want you to see the impossible situation that every individual is in. Death, the world, and its ways, the spirit of the age, and Satan and his influence on that, the flesh, your own desires Both physically and mentally, and the wrath of God, His holiness that needs to be satisfied against your sin. Listen to what John Calvin wrote so well about how this should produce gratitude in our heart. To know God's infinite goodness thoroughly, we must always consider what we are ourselves and what our state is. until God had taken pity on us to help us in our wretchedness. And I'm saying to you, verses 1 through 3, help you to do that. For until men have so examined themselves and learned how wretched and miserable they are, they will surely never yield to God one hundredth part of the honor He deserves. To yield to God the praise due him, every one of us must consider what he was of himself if God had not reached out his hand to him. Amen to that. Well, secondly, to appreciate spiritual life in Christ, you must understand not only the reality of spiritual death, but the imparting of spiritual life. And this is regeneration, beginning in verse four. First of all, see that it is motivated by God's love. The first word of verse four should be one of our favorites in in all of Scripture, because as grim and hopeless as the picture of our fallenness is in verses one through three, Paul hastens to add, but God Being rich in mercy, because of his great love with which he loved us. Mercy. Not giving you, not giving me what we deserve, which is his wrath, that I read a scripture about a few moments ago. And why Because of his great love. Because of his great love with which he acted, he loved us. So the imparting of spiritual life is motivated by God's love and it is accomplished by God's grace. Even, verse 5, when we were dead in our transgressions , Made us alive together with Christ. By grace you have been saved. And so if you are saved as you sit here this morning, ask the simple question, why am I saved? Is it because you're somehow better than others who've heard the gospel? Is it somehow because you were smarter than they? Is it because you were stronger than they? No, none of the above is the right answer. Whose power saves us? Look at the verse. God's, not ours. On our own, we would simply stay dead. The Baptist Faith and Message 2000, our Church Statement of Faith, puts it this way. Regeneration, which is what I told you this passage is about. Regeneration or the new birth is a work of God's grace whereby believers become new creatures in Christ Jesus. It is a change of heart wrought by the Holy Spirit. through conviction of sin to which the sinner responds in repentance toward God and faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. Repentance and faith are inseparable experiences of grace. Grace So verse 5, by grace, unmerited favor from Almighty God, we are made that made us alive together with Christ. No longer separated spiritually, made us alive together, united to God with Jesus, with Christ, with Jesus as our mediator. Since he died for our sin against God, so made us alive together, we now have spiritual life And we are with , connected, not separated any longer from God. And it is because of Jesus, made alive together with Jesus, and raised us up with him, verse 6. and seated us with him in the heavenly places in Christ Jesus. The richness of what Paul is under the inspiration of the Spirit telling us about our salvation. Let's consider it. What once happened to Jesus physically has happened to us spiritually. That's one of the truths here in verse 6 We have been raised no longer dead in sin. We are alive spiritually in Christ. And we are seated, no longer separated from God. We are with Christ at the throne of God, at the right hand of God, in Him. We have fellowship with Him. We belong there spiritually. So what once happened to Jesus physically has happened to us spiritually. But let me hasten to say, what once happened to Jesus physically will happen to us physically. It's what we look forward to. Raised with glorified bodies. And seated means we will actually reign with him when he returns. And so there is a spiritual truth in verse 6. And a physical truth when you see the words seated and raised. Verse 7, so that in the ages to come He might show the surpassing riches of his grace in kindness toward us in Christ Jesus. Notice the phrase in the ages to come. And I want to say, because of that phrase, I can say the blessings from God have only just begun. Salvation in the here and now is the beginning. Remember, the Spirit is called the first fruit. It's called the pledge of more. Well, in the ages to come, He's going to show the surpassing riches of His grace and kindness. toward us in Christ Jesus. The ages to come point to eternity in the kingdom. And God's grace and kindness is much more than forgiveness of sins. It is that, praise Him But it is much more than forgiveness of sin. It is much more than fellowship with God, being able to pray to Him and sense His love. to know his love. It is much more than the certainty of going to heaven. It is all of the blessing that we will receive and enjoy in the new heavens and the new earth. Revelation 21 and 22 is where we could go and just read that those two chapters and just count. The ways these blessings are portrayed in the ages to come. Verse 8: For by grace you've been saved through faith And that not of yourselves, it is the gift of God. Again, we see the power that saves us Is from God. It is by grace you have been saved through faith. By grace you've been saved, repeating what was said in verse 5. How is grace, God's grace, evidenced in the life of one coming to Christ? Well, faith, regeneration. His work on the heart of conviction brings one to see Christ and to trust Christ of faith. Trust in Jesus alone for salvation is the indication that grace has been Bestowed upon an individual. And trust in Jesus alone for salvation means to believe that only his work, only the merit that we find in him can. get us to heaven. Uh i it's not ourselves. The only merit that can assure us of a place in God's presence is the merit of Jesus and his death for sin upon the cross. And that is why the gospel needs to go to every people group in the world, because most people groups. Well you just don't come up upon that on yourself. You're you're going to have a religion, a man-made religion that is something we do to Make ourselves right or achieve a level by which we can have a satisfactory afterlife. And the gospel must be understood by these People who believe such things, many of them in our neighborhood, I understand that, but around the world as well. Nothing that contributes To your salvation, notice verse 8: nothing that contributes to your salvation is of yourselves. Not of yourselves, it says. It is the gift. Of God. It is something we receive, not something that we earn. The implications of these truths and of considering your testimony of salvation if you're saved come next at the end of verse 9. And verse 10. Verse 9, well I'm sorry, not at the end of verse 9. Verse 9 itself, not as a result of work, so that no one may boast. One of the implications of understanding our salvation is humility. Humility works here in verse 9. are something that man is able to do. Whatever shape it is, it's something man is able to do. So salvation is not in any way based on something that you and I can do, perform. If it were, it would be dependent on us in some measure. And thus we could, in some measure, boast that we fulfilled that requirement, or that part of the requirement, and thus we merited, at least in part, God's salvation. We In a measure, earned it, and the answer of Scripture is no. Not in any way can you earn what God gives as a gift? Salvation is by God's power. As Spurgeon put it, one of our great Baptist preachers in history, it is all of grace. All of grace. There is nothing we did to cause God to owe us any favor. Listen to these verses out of Romans chapter 3. This is another part of your story and mine. There is none righteous, not even one. There is none who understands There is none who seeks for God. All have turned aside. Together they have become useless. There is none who does good There is not even one. Who's Paul writing about? This group over here that he tried to minister to? No. He's writing about Jew and Gentile alike. There's no one who seeks, who finds. who wants to understand God or does understand God. We're dead, remember? We're dead. That's another way of saying it in Romans chapter 3. There's nothing special. So we didn't do anything, nothing we did to cause God to owe us any favor. No, we weren't doing anything. And there's nothing special about us. That caused God to choose us with his grace and his favor. Listen to 1 Corinthians. I use the word choice because that's what Paul says. Consider your calling, brethren. 1 Corinthians chapter 1, 26 through 31. That there were not many wise according to the flesh, not many mighty, not many noble, but God has Chosen the foolish things of the world to shame the wise, and God has chosen the weak things of the world to shame the things which are strong, and the base things of the world, and the despised, God has chosen. the things that are not, so that he may nullify the things that are. So that, listen , same theme as Ephesians 2, so that no man may boast before God. But by his doing you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God and righteousness and sanctification and redemption. So that just as it is written, let him who boasts boast in the Lord. And so we say, thank you, God. For saving me, because there's nothing I did to cause that. Nothing special about me that caused it. And I would also say one more point here. We have nothing. that we did not receive. It is, as I said before, a gift of God. 1 Corinthians 4, 7. Who regards you as superior? What do you have? that you did not receive, and if you didn't if you did receive it, why do you boast as if you had not received it? No. It is all of grace, it is all received. Now let me say there are subtle ways that we may be guilty of boasting. We may realize that it's all of grace and say that the right way. But I would say that when you compare yourself with the lost, rather than have a burden for the lost That is being guilty of boasting to a degree. Or when you are critical of lost souls rather than compassionate toward them. Now their deadness may look different than your deadness ever did, but it's the same spiritual deadness. And so there needs to be compassion and burden, not comparison and criticism. The classic passage on this is what Jesus told in Luke 18, a parable, to some people who trusted in themselves that they were righteous and viewed others with contempt. Two men went up into a temple, the temple, to pray, one a Pharisee and the other a tax collector. The Pharisee stood and was praying this to himself: God, I thank you that I am not like other people. swindlers, unjust, adulterers, or even like this tax collector. I fast twice a week, I pay tithes of all that I get. But the tax collector, standing some distance away, was even unwilling to lift up his eyes to heaven, but he was beating his breast, saying, God be merciful to me, the sinner. I tell you, this man went to his house justified rather than the other, for everyone who exalts himself will be humbled, but he who humbles himself will be exalted. So there are subtle ways that we may be guilty of boasting, and I think that parable can bring them to the surface. And we can ask, do we ever look down on others because of their sin, forgetting Our own testimony, our own story, how we were at the mercy of the world, the devil, and the flesh. Humility is one of the implications of Ephesians two. Secondly, good works Good works are the expression of spiritual life. And verse 10 shows you that if salvation is real If you've been regenerated, if there is spiritual life, you're alive spiritually to God, then your life will show that. We do not do good works for salvation. We do good works because of salvation. Look at it in verse 10. For we, Paul is celebrating, the Ephesian church, we are his workmanship. Created in Christ Jesus for good works, which God prepared beforehand so that we would walk in them. Again, it's clear in verse 10, salvation is by the design and by the power of God, period. We are Christians not because of our work, but because of his work workmanship. He created us in Christ Jesus But notice that we are created in Christ Jesus for good works. The word created, by the way, means to form, to shape, to transform. And what God creates when he brings us to life is a new heart that seeks after God. We really are born again. And the purpose of God's new creation is worded here as good works, that is doing what pleases the Father. Doing what demonstrates what he is like might be another way to say it. Or actions that glorify God. These are expressions of spiritual life now, because you've been made alive. This is what James said in the letter of James. What James said authenticates faith as saving faith. And thus confirms God's regenerating work. He said faith without works is dead. So if you Say that you've come to Christ, your life will show it. Not any particular work is in mind here, so there's not a list of things we have to do, but no, but good works Actions, thoughts , attitudes that bring glory to God. Now notice that God already knows the ways that He wants you to bring Him glory. Which God prepared beforehand. Well, some of those apply to every person. I think baptism is a good work, that applies to every person. When you are saved, you should be baptized. That is to be the first good work of honoring Christ. Who you have trusted. Church membership and church attendance is a good work according to Scripture. And I would say that beyond that There are other things that would naturally come to sexual purity. We mentioned that at the in in the introduction and so forth. There are other things that we would want to live in a way that brings glory to God in the world in which we live. And I will say that the more you know God by reading the Bible By reading the Bible, by listening to the Bible, by studying with others the Bible, the more you will understand the good works that He has designed for you. So when it comes to thinking about what is God's will for my life, I remember this verse being extremely important to me in that. I remember understanding that from this verse that God has looked ahead and knows my future. And I knew that I needed to look above by reading the scripture and know my God. And that took me on a path that opened to ministry. It won't be that for everyone. But as to what you do with your time and your talents and the way God has made you, that's a part of this verse as well. So the response God desires to the truth of his sovereign design of good works is your commitment to them. Look at it, that we should walk in them. Let me ask you, what's going to matter when you stand before God? When you stand before the one who rescued you from the reality? And the certainty of continued spiritual death. What's going to matter when you stand before the one who graciously imparted to you spiritual life? Who didn't throw the life raft or the lifesaver, but awakened your heart to realize you were a drowning man and showed you Christ. What's going to matter when you stand before He who graciously imparted to you spiritual life? I'm going to tell you what's going to matter. What's going to matter is how you honored him with your life. And that's what verse 10 is about. Salvation begins with the Spirit's conviction. You respond with repentance, faith. And obedience, as we see in this chapter. Let's pray together. Well, Father, would you do this work of humility in us as we see our story written out for us? And Father, this work of commitment, of good works, to bring honor to you. Imperfect as they may be with our sin nature that we still struggle with, in the world that we still struggle with, with Satan's schemes, but by your grace, Father, as believers, living lives that Bring glory to you. Help us in that. We want that. For those who are without Christ, Lord, would you bring that conviction of sin? Bring that life to the soul. That they might turn to Christ, I pray. That they might express that, might desire baptism, become a part of your church. Live lives to your glory. We pray for that in an ongoing way. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.