To get good grades, an athlete who wants to excel and be successful and be a champion. Someone at work who wants to advance, maybe um get a promotion, maybe get a raise, m s get a better job somewhere else. If if you want a clean house, if you want a nice pretty yard, we know what it means to strive for something. Sometimes we get to spiritual issues and we act like, oh what does it mean to strive? It means to put an effort toward. It means to pursue, it means to go after it, it means to want it And striving means the same thing here. And so striving for sanctification. Let me pray for us and then we 'll launch in t to uh to the text. And if you're lucky, because we are doing a Wednesday format, you might get one of my cute little cartoon illustrations up here. We'll see. That's T B D, to be determined. Okay, Peanut Gallery Let's pray together. Father, we thank you. We thank you for the joy of Christian fellowship. We thank you for the freedom that you've sovereignly, providentially given us here, and that we could come together without worry of arrest or worse. Father, we pray for brothers and sisters around the world who uh don't have that blessing right now. We pray for their faith. We pray for their ministries. We pray for their hearts. Father, we pray for your kingdom to come here on earth. as it is in heaven. We pray for your will to be done here on earth as it is in heaven. We pray for your name to be hallowed, to be revered and loved and worshipped here on earth as it is in heaven. Father help us tonight Show us what it means to be sanctified and push us in that direction, or rather draw us to you in Christ. It's in his name we pray. Amen. Okay, uh let me get my clock going here. So we're not here till eight forty-five. Okay Romans six, starting in verse eight. Now So far in Romans 6, something very intriguing, he hasn't told you to do anything. He said things that are true about Christians. He said uh he's talked about things that have happened to Christians. But he's not yet spoken in the voice of command. He hasn't said, do this. He hasn't said don't do this. He's just so far preached the truth of the gospel and of how the gospel has changed children of God. Now at some point in our passage right now, he will speak in the voice of the command. In other words, he will say to you, Do this. And that's why this is the paragraph I'm calling Striving for Sanctification. So Romans 6 beginning in verse um, let's start in verse 7, just for a little bit of context. For one who has died has been set free from sin That's basically was the message this morning. If you've died to sin, you've been set free from the ruling power of sin over you. You've been set free from the condemning power of sin over you. The one who has died to sin has been set free from sin. Verse 8. Now If we have died with Christ, we believe that we will also live with Him In the context of Romans, that has two aspects. We live with him now by faith, we're united to him, and of course we'll live with him in glory after we pass on from this earth. Verse 9. We know that Christ, being raised from the dead, will never die again. Death no longer has dominion over him Well, I was really trying to beat that horse this morning. Death no longer has dominion over Christ. And therefore, death no longer has dominion over those who are in Christ. Sin has no dominion over us. Death has no dominion over us because sin has no dominion over Christ, and death has no dominion over Christ. That's the gospel. What's true for Jesus is now true for us Because on the cross, what was true for us became true for him. Right? He's our substitute. So now we share in the blessings that he's achieved. Death no longer has dominion over him. Verse 10. For the death he died, he died to sin. That's an intriguing phrase to apply to Jesus. He died to sin. That was that point I had to squeeze in there at the end. this morning. What does it mean that he would die to sin? Well, remember, he willingly, freely entered into this world and put himself under this curse of sin and death with us. In this kingdom of sin on the cross, he died to this kingdom. That's what it means that he died to sin. He died to this ruling power of sin. This whole realm no longer has any dominion over him But uh he died to sin once for all, but the life he lives, he lives to God. The life he lives, he lives to God. That's Eternal life. That's heavenly life. That's his resurrection. Verse 11. So you also must consider yourselves Dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. You must also reckon yourselves or consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Now sometimes we see that language Um and if we isolate it from everything else that's being said here, you might come away thinking, okay, so we're not really dead to sin, but we should consider ourselves dead to sin. No, that's not what he's talking about. He's just saying is the point of Christian growth. Now this is a command. Since it's true that you're dead to sin, you must reckon yourself as dead to sin. In other words, we need to be consistent gospel thinkers about who we are in Christ. One of the central ways about how we grow in Christ is learning from Scripture who we are in Christ. We learn like we're not we don't we're not converted and then all of a sudden we know everything about our conversion and what happened to us and and what Jesus did and who we are and him. No, we've got to learn that. We've got to learn that from Scripture. So you must consider yourselves dead to sin and alive to God in Christ Jesus. Verse 12 Let not sin, therefore, reign in your mortal body to make you obey its passions. Don't be obedient to sin as if sin is your master, because in Christ sin is not your master. And verse 13, do not present your members To sin as instruments for unrighteousness. Don't use your body in sinful ways. He's talking about from head to toe there. Do not present your members to sin as instruments for unrighteousness. But present yourselves to God as those who, past tense, have been brought from death. To life, spiritual death, to life, and your members to God as instruments for righteousness. It's talking about our bodies Our whole self is involved in sanctification and growing into holiness. Our hearts means our affections and our desires, our minds, the way we think and what we think and And our will, what drives us, the decisions we make in our bodies, how we use our bodies. And he's saying here, present your bodies to God and say, God, use me as an instrument for righteousness. Use me the way you want to use me. Help me to live the way you want me to live. Say the things you want me to say. Verse 14, final verse here Now here, now he's going, he's moving back again, he's moving from the voice of command, which he transitioned, and back to just the voice of truth. For sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law, but under Grace. And that gets back to that first question he asks in verse one. Are we to consent continue in sin that grace may abound? Should we continue in sin that grace may abound? Heavens, no. Sin will have no dominion over you because you're not under law, but under grace. Power of sin is the law. Paul says that elsewhere. Wednesday we're talking about the law and the gospel and the relationship between God's law and the gospel. And all all kinds of issues related to that and how it relates to our spiritual growth. And it is a true revelation and reflection of who God is and what God wants from us. But the law, weak because of our sin, has no power to save. It has no power to save. It has no power to sanctify. The gospel has the power to save. The gospel has the power to sanctify. And we are no longer under law. as slaves who have no hope because of our sin, but we're under grace who absolutely have hope because of Jesus Christ. That's what it means to be a Christian. And what Paul's trying to help us do here is understand who we are as Christians, or better yet, what we are as Christians We're a people who have within us the resurrection life of Jesus Christ. And by definition, we're not under the rule of sin. By definition, we have no fear of death. We're not under Slavery to sin and death, that curse any longer. And understanding this is is the foundation, the 101 of striving for sanctification How could we strive for something we don't even understand what it is or or what's happening? Now, let me give you some principles. And then after I give these principles, we'll stop for questions and any dialogue, maybe things that you've thought of. And it could be from this morning or it could be from any of this. So principles, and then that, and then we're going to answer in in the simplest, most practical terms, how can I strive for sanctification? That's what we want to know, right? I and I never do that first because we have we all, and myself included, we all have a tendency to put ourselves at the center of our efforts Right? The effort should be the fruit of of the truth. So anyway, the order of scripture is preaching the truth, teaching the truth, and then it moves. to okay now here's what that looks like. So okay let me give you a few principles and then we'll open it up and see if we can have hopefully have some discussion and some good questions. Okay principle number one Sanctification, growing in holiness, is never based on personal effort. It's never based on personal effort. We're not ultimately depending on ourselves and our efforts. But sanctification will never happen without personal effort. It's an important principle. We don't just rest on our laurels waiting for something to happen and then try to rationalize it and sound spiritual and say, well I'm just waiting on the Lord. I can't do this anyway. Only the Lord can do this. Yeah, but in his word what the Lord has revealed is he does this uh in a way that incorporates and uses and he does it through your personal efforts. Sanctification is never, ever based on human effort. How could it be? Humans don't have the power to produce their own holiness, but it'll never happen without human effort. Never ever. Will never happen without human effort. There's a similar principle with our justification. So this is just kind of a side note. A similar principle with justification. And this summarizes a lot of what Paul's teaching in the book of Romans. Don't ever think we are justified by our good works. We should never think we are justified without good works. Never. As James writes, and you all know this. Faith without works is dead. Which means it's not a true faith. It's not a real faith. If it were a real faith, it would be working and expressing itself in love. The only thing that counts is faith expressing itself in love And um James's message in the book of James is not you lack works, so what you need to do is just do more works. No, he's saying you lack works because you lack faith. And you need to go back to the gospel and be transformed by the gospel in such a way that it leads to works. So in justification, we're never saved by our good works, and we should never think that, but we should If we look at our life and there's no sign of good works anywhere, if we don't care about good works, we should never think that we're justified without good works. James has something to say about that. By the way, so does Paul, just in a different way. And in like manner, that sanctification principle here on striving and personal effort. Sanctification is never based on personal effort, but sanctification will never happen without personal effort. Now, um one more principle here. The first principle. I call this the first principle. What is the first and greatest act of obedience? The first and greatest Good work is to love God. It has to be, because that's the greatest commandment. Love God. Love God with all your heart, soul, mind, and strength. It's the greatest work. It's the greatest thing you could ever do. It's to see God for who He is and respond in love. It's the greatest good work. Any other good work, any other fruit of sanctification is going to grow out of love. For God. You love Him, you obey His commandments. We don't obey His commandments to get Him to love us and then we can love Him. No, He first we love Him because He first loved us And then we obey because we love him. We so often want to get it backwards, at least in our thinking. Sometimes or often sub you know, just in the subconscious, that's how we think. We want to begin with ourselves. And we want to begin with the external, but it's the heart. It's the affections. It's a love for God as the first and greatest act of obedience. Therefore, there's a big introduction to a therefore statement, right? The centerpiece of God's work in our personal sanctification is creating and then cultivating a genuine love for Him. Creating and cultivating a genuine love for Him. And really that's one way to think about the Christian life. It's just a long process of God yanking us away from these lesser things that we tend to love and prioritize more than God. And he's he's purifying us often through the fire that we can shed off these inferior loves that we might love him more and love him more and see him more clearly and know him more deeply and want him. More desperately to love God. Am I being sanctified? Am I really being sanctified? Do I really belong to God? Well, the question I would ask you first is: do you love God? Do you love God? And of course that's first for for a Christian, that's manifested first in faith in Christ and repentance from sin to God, and then for the rest of our life, it's manifested in Faith in Christ and repentance from sin toward God. We don't just repent once and then move on to something else, but we repent, we re we become repenters. We believe to be saved and we become believers. And so love is the centerpiece, and then the two primary, always the two primary manifestations of love for God is trusting in Christ alone for salvation. and repentance from sin toward God. Those are the principles. Now, uh, before I get to this final section on just practical How do I strive? How can I strive? And there's some simple things here. I want to hear from you if there's anything. I mean, if you don't have anything, don't make something up. But any questions or comments from this morning or from this passage? And by the way, everything in Romans here, every like right before it and right after, it's all connecting. Lots of parallel phrases and concepts. Jordan read something earlier at the beginning, so if you see something in the context you want to bring up, feel free to do that. Okay. Scanning the room. For those of you who don't come on Wednesdays, you should know something. I have no fear of awkward silences. You know they're important. It gives people a chance to kind of let things simmer and formulate what they want to say. So we'll just scan the room again. Yeah, Vince. So why is it I have to do that? Yeah. Like uh Second thing is to me until I was straight up so I say like Lord sorry. I just like So we end up using a loan. No, that was B. This is C. Avoid temptation, A. Confess your sin and weakness, B. Now C, go. So I was thinking about that. Power things like God , big amount of power. Amen. I can call it power. Oh we have a Indulge in it. Yeah, we indulge in it, yeah. But if we get that back over the end or Yeah, yeah that's right. You can't do it on your own. That's good. So you actually you got uh you said the first thing you said was on my outline, three C practical efforts to avoid temptations that we know are weakness. And sometimes that just takes the spiritual discipline of saying this, No, I'm sorry. No, I'm not going. No. To someone else or to yourself. And then the other th the second thing you said was I have on my outline 2A See our sin, confess our sin, and constantly cry out for God's intervening grace. And then I have also the last thing you said. We have to see our weakness, admit our weakness. and cry out for his power. Like that's a real thing, right? Crying out for the Lord's power and the Lord providing. Thank you, Vince, for sharing those. Good outline. Very very good. Very practical. Yep. Anybody else? Who else? Okay, so now arbitrary rule. We got one from the middle, we need one from over here and one from over here. Yeah, sister. I have a tendency to do that, yeah. How old would it be? Point point continue. Give it. Hear it. And it's the right five. Yeah. So as you aren't getting the rest of the mind , we must take that. That's right. Yeah. Bearing fruit. Right and if we're not bearing fruit, the the problem's not with um the root or the vine. It's it's with the branches. In s in some way Cutting ourselves off or strangling ourselves off from abiding in him. That's one of Pastor John's favorite um passages. Abide in him and you'll bear much fruit. Yeah. You were saying about transmitations have to have a net effort, but it's not probably an effort. That's why I do it. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah, amen. That's a great point. Be ready. That's straight from scripture, right? Be ready. Um who else? Who else? Alright, right siders. Who will take up the mantle? No, I c he can't do that. He is a prince you can't call people out. I just I tease, yeah. You are. Okay. Any other thoughts or comments or concerns? Okay. So how do we strive? Well Behind it all, first of all, we we've got to understand the gospel and who we are. as those in Christ. That's first. And that's scripture's approach. And so often we want to start with um What we what we think is practical things that we do. Now that is practical, but that's I would argue that's too narrow of an idea of what's practical. Truth is practical. Truth, gospel truth, and who we are in Christ, learning that from Scripture. When it's not even telling us, it's not saying do this or don't do that. Before we get to that stuff, we've got to be grounded in the truth, theology Is practical. It's it's the heart of and root of anything else that's practical. So so what we do is to strive, we we must use every means of grace That God has made available. Here it is. What is the means? Well it's it's something that you use to get to something else, or it's something that you use uh to produce something else. Uh you've heard this phrase, the d do the end does the end justify the means, right? So here you get, here's the end. And whatever the means is, is what got you to the end, and God has given us means of grace. things that we can do to receive and enjoy and grow in his grace. It's very simple. It's not it's not complex. The chief means of grace is number one, the word, number two, prayer, and number three, church Fellowship and service and the Lord's Supper is a big part of that as well. The word and prayer And the church. The church is God 's sovereignly ordained. That means He came up with it and put it in place. Um vehicle for discipleship. Sometimes we really psych ourselves out on this thing, guys. I mean sometimes we really just Make it too complex. Avail yourself to the means of grace and believe in your heart, this is the way I will receive and grow in and enjoy God's grace. The word and prayer and the church fellowship and service. That means not being slack in our Christian duties, not not growing cold. Jesus spoke about the end times, and as a and we're in the last days, as a time where wickedness will increase and increase, and the love of many will grow cold. He's speaking there in the in the context of professing believers. Their love will grow cold because of all the wickedness around them. They become dull of heart. We must love God from the heart, understand the gospel, understand who we are in Christ, and be hungry and thirsty for God's word. And and to pray and to participate in the church fellowship and service. Now there's only one agent of Sanctification. Agent of any spiritual growth. And the hint is in the phrase spiritual growth. The agency of the Spirit. The agency of the Spirit. And we don't we don't divorce that from the risen Christ. We don't divorce that from the Father, right? But the the focus, the emphasis on the work of God in us, or the life of God in us, is the presence and power of the Holy Spirit. Sent from Christ, sent from the Father. So there's means of grace that we seek God through his word and prayer and the fellowship of believers and our Christian service and duties and all that entails the worship. But understanding the whole time I don't know why that Weird capital C right there. Um understanding the whole time that what we're doing is seeking the Spirit and trusting in the Spirit and having in our hearts if the Spirit doesn't move, nothing's going to happen. That's the spirit that's the spirit attitude we should have. I need the Holy Spirit. And if we're really f fighting against sin, if we're really wanting that victory over temptation We'll feel that in our hearts. We'll feel that. If we're seeing our sin and our corruption and our weakness and we're wanting God to do something, we know we need the Holy Spirit. We know we can't do it. So uh let me give a little bit more on May maybe some more detail on this. And this is that outline I was saying, Vince, you hit a couple of these points. So first of all, when we s seek God's power in the Word, that the means of grace of God's Word. First of all, it's very important that we feast on the word in different ways. Personal, private devotions and reading, um, hearing, right, the sermon. Is is a m a main one for that are just sermons on the radio. So we're reading, we're hearing, um, discussions are important s so that we can also be talking. So Sunday school's good for that. Wednesday night's good for that. Any t any Discussion group that you have, small small group Bible study is good for that so that you're hearing at times, you're reading at times. And then other times you're thinking and talking and discussing. You want to involve as as many of your faculties as you can. That's how people learn. That's how people can grow spirit spiritually too. So uh the word, the word, feast on the word in different ways. And when we're feasting on the word, no matter what way we're feasting on the word , Understand that what we're after is the transforming power of the gospel. All throughout Scripture, there's two ways God has revealed Himself through His law and through His gospel. Right, his law is all his demands upon us, and the penalties and rewards attached to those demands. But the gospel is how Christ has provided for us all that we cannot provide for ourselves. The heart of sanctification is the gospel. We must constantly fix our eyes on Christ by faith. We must constantly fix our eyes on Christ by faith. That's what will sanctify us. Constantly, I'll say it three times because it's that important. Fix our eyes on Christ by faith. It can be very subtle, and we can do it without even noticing it when we're seeking blessings from God. But in our minds, we're just thinking in kind of vague spiritual concepts Um divorced from the living reigning person of Christ. We must seek Christ who exists and who lives and is ministering in heaven for us, and he's ministering from heaven through his spirit to us and in us, we must seek Christ. We must seek Christ. And that should be the ste must be the center of any feasting on the word Personal reading and devotions, listening to sermons, um talking with others. Number two, the Holy Spirit. We've said this be uh I've already said this. The Holy Spirit is the agent of sanctification. We must constantly pray for And we must constantly depend on the Holy Spirit for victory over sin. Constantly pray for We should be praying to be filled with the Holy Spirit every single day, every single morning. We should be praying for the Holy Spirit. Praying to be filled with and led by the Holy Spirit. Depending on Him for victory over sin. We should be praying and striving to see our sin more so that we might see God's grace in Christ more. We must be striving and praying to see our weakness More, so that we might see the Spirit's power more. So by way of contrast We must be striving and praying to see our ongoing need for sanctification so that we might see and appreciate and seek God's provision more. You know what we need to see more? Our tendency to forget, our tendency to stray, our tendency to be distracted by worldly concerns. We must see and admit and confess our tendency to these things, and pray and strive for the Spirit to stoke up our desires and affections for God. We must seek the Holy Spirit. Final here. So one was the gospel constantly fixing our eyes on Christ by faith. Two is the Holy Spirit. We must constantly pray for and depend on the Holy Spirit for victory over sin. And three, personal effort. The recipient of sanctification is not passive but active. We're recipients, but we're active recipients. We must constantly strive to exert genuine, heartfelt effort toward godliness. Not trusting in ourselves. Sometimes we hear that and we think it's work salvation. He's preaching work salvation. No. Preaching you're saved by grace. And you strive for sanctification under grace, and we make personal efforts to please God and live for God under grace. Sanctification, this was uh one of the major themes in the book we read last year, Mortification of Sin, is both a work of God and a Christian duty. It's not either or. Sanctification is a gift from God, it's a work of God, it all comes from God, and it's a Christian duty. Both and. Personal effort to mortify sin, to put sin to death, to not feed it so it gets stronger. Efforts to avoid Temptation, efforts to defeat temptation, and efforts to cultivate and bring to life godliness. If you were to make two Two major subheadings under Striving for Sanctification. It it would every there's lots you could say, but Anything you would say would come under one of these headings. Um Major subheading number one is strive to put sin to death. You're putting sin to death. And major subheading number two would be strive to cultivate godliness And that's what we need, right? We need sin and the influence and impact of sin to be put to death and shed off, and we need godliness to be cultivated and to bear fruits. So those two things were making personal effort and strivings, seeking God in His Word, centered on the gospel and the person of Christ, depending on God, His Holy Spirit, crying out for the Spirits help and intervention, making personal efforts. Now let me give you uh three cross ref for each of those so that you can do these on your own time. Well the one for the gospel and seeing Christ as central would be Second Corinthians three eighteen. 2 Corinthians 3. 18, where we see Christ by faith in the gospel, and we're transformed by him. 2 Corinthians 3. 18. And then the Holy Spirit Romans 8, 5, and 6. Really all of Romans 8, but in Romans 8 he summarizes and brings together all the different topics he's been talking about from 1 through 7. Romans 8, 5 through 6, on the spirit at work in us. And then personal effort. Here's a big one. Philippians 2, 12 and 13. Philippians 2, 12 and 13. Here's what that says. Therefore, my beloved brothers, as you have always obeyed, so now, not only as in my presence, but much more in my absence. Work out your salvation with fear and trembling. Not work for. Work out, live out your salvation with fear and trembling. That's your personal effort and striving. Verse 13, because it is God who works in you, both to will and to work for his good pleasure. It's not either or, it's both and. You must strive, you must put to death sin. You must cultivate godliness. God is working in you to will and work for his good pleasure. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for the Holy Spirit. We thank you for Jesus Christ. We thank you for this great salvation that you've given us. And I pray for each one of us here Um you would increase in us and make more consistent in our lives, in our hearts and minds, a striving for sanctification with the right motive to reflect you and honor you and be like you and And have fellowship and personal communion with you. Father, help us in our weakness. Forgive us of our sins. Deliver us from our temptations and evil. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.