Well church, let me invite you to turn with me to Psalm 90. Psalm 90 is where we'll be this morning. Give you a chance to turn there. Psalm ninety. It's good to hear pages turning instead of fingers scrolling. A prayer of Moses, the man of God. Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. Before the mountains were brought forth, wherever you had formed the earth and the world, from everlasting to everlasting you are God. You return man to dust, and say, Return, O children of man, for a thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past. Or as a watch in the night. You sweep them away as with a flood. They are like a dream. Like grass that is renewed in the morning. In the morning it flourishes and is renewed. and in the evening it fades and withers. For we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. You have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence. For all our days pass away under your wrath. We bring our years to an end, like a sigh. The years of our life are seventy, or even by reason of strength, eighty Yet their span is but toil and trouble. They are soon gone, and we fly away. Who considers the power of your anger and your wrath according to the fear of you? So teach us to number our days, that we may get a heart of wisdom. Return, O Lord. How long? Have pity on your servants. Satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love, that we may rejoice and be glad all our days. Make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us, and for as many years as we have seen evil. Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us, and establish the work of our hands upon us. Yes. establish the work of our hands. So often we use numbers of different kinds to measure our lives. Different numbers can kind of be a metric by which we take stock of how we think our life is going. For example, when I was in high school attempting to play football, and I do place an emphasis on the word attempting, height and weight were two numbers that I was obsessed with and never quite satisfied with. Right now it's the number of days until I graduate. 18 in case you were wondering. Uh for some of you it might be your GPA. You know that little tiny number point can just Seem to have so much power to tell you whether or not your life is on track. For some of you, maybe it's your bank account or your retirement statements. Those numbers can just seem to have so much power, can't they? This year for me there's been one number in particular, it is a specific number, that I've been forced to think about. 35,533. That's how many days that my grandmother, Barbara Manry, lived on this earth. This past July, after 97 years, we said goodbye to her. And this Thursday will be the first Thanksgiving in my life where I won't see her. She won't come out of her room definitely late, because it was always late. Having forgotten her earring aids, which she always did. And she won't be there to, you know, heap praises upon the brunch my dad will have prepared. In particular the French toast sticks that you get from the freezer aisle. The woman had tastes for sure. But having to reckon with this number in particular, and with the end of a precious life that it represents, it's forced me and it forces us to think about some important questions. What made her life? And ultimately what makes any life worth living? What gives meaning, purpose, satisfaction, and fulfillment? What is the good life? These are questions that every single person has to wrestle with, and that every single person is seeking some sort of an answer to. Whether they realize it or not, every person on this planet has some sort of understanding of what the good life is, of what will make them happy, and what will make life worthwhile. You can see this in the the the workaholic dad trying to get ahead at all costs. The enager who just wants a group of friends to call their own Even the people who spend their whole lives online trying to tell everybody that life has no meaning, well well they have some sort of understanding about what is going to make their lives worthwhile. Everyone has some sort of vision of the good life. We make choices, brothers and sisters, based on what we understand, what we believe will make us happy. This morning, as we walk through this psalm together, we're going to see Moses weigh in on this question of what makes life worth living. As the people of God, where are we to look for hope, for fulfillment, for satisfaction, and for meaning in our lives? And the answer that we're going to see him offer is that true and abiding satisfaction comes from seeing God rightly. It comes from a big view of God. It comes from seeing God as we're going to see as the eternal and glorious and mighty and even terrifying. Creator and ruler and judge over all things. And then, brothers and sisters, seeing ourselves rightly in light of such a God It's only when we see rightly who God is, and then understand our own lives in light of that, in light of who he is. that we can begin to unravel this mystery of what a good life lived before the face of God looks like. If you're hearing me speak and say all this, you might be tempted to think, ah yes, what a good message that my unsaved neighbor really, really needs to hear. Well, if you're here this morning and you're not a believer, and or maybe you're not sure, first of all, we are glad that you're here. And I certainly hope that you will consider what God's Word says to you about meaning and purpose in your life. But brothers and sisters, I want to stress from the outset that this is not only a message for unbelievers. Oh, we need to be reminded of these things. Because we can so often forget who we are and what will truly satisfy us. We are, we sing this, right? We are prone to wander. We are prone to treat finite things in our lives as though they could lead us to infinite happiness. We are the ones in Christ who have found the true source of everlasting joy. And yet we don't we so often live like it's found somewhere else? Aren't we so often like what Jeremiah describes in Jeremiah 2 verse 13? Those who forsake the fountains of living water and try to hew out, carve out our own broken cisterns that can't even hold water. Well well this psalm, which was to be sung by the old covenant people of God as a way to shape their hearts and their understanding of themselves in light of God, it reminds us where we are called to find. True satisfaction. You see on your outlines, that's the fundamental question we're going to be thinking about from this psalm. How? How do we find fulfillment and satisfaction in the lives that God gives us? As we walk through this psalm, I want us to consider two ways that Moses answers this question. Number one, know the difference between you and God. And then number two, know how to respond to that difference. We're going to trace these two answers through this psalm, and what we're going to see is that ultimately, in sort of concert with all of Scripture, they lead us ultimately and finally to the person in which we are work of Jesus Christ, the one in whom we find ultimate and eternal satisfaction. Well, first we are called by this psalm to know the difference between us and God. Moses begins this psalm by addressing God in verse 1. He says, There, Lord, you have been our dwelling place in all generations. He makes this statement about God as the place of everlasting rest. and refuge and security for his people. And Moses says that this is true about God not only in his generation, as they're being brought out of slavery in Egypt and eventually into the promised land. No, this is true in all generations. Past, present, future, on into eternity. There's an especial significance to this because though this is a psalm written by Moses where it's placed in the Psalter and kind of the story that the psalms are telling. It's actually placed at a point where Israel is in exile. So imagine the significance of the phrase, Lord, you have been our dwelling place, when the people of God have been removed from their dwelling place. And we'll consider later on kind of the full implications of what it means for God to be our dwelling place. What I want us to see at the beginning here, though, is simply that a dwelling place By definition, it is greater than those who dwell in it. It's stronger, it's grander, it's more stable, more secure. That's why it can be a place of refuge. That's why it can be a place where people go into to find rest. Think about your own house. It is Shocking truth. It's bigger than you are. Maybe it feels small sometimes, but it's bigger than you are. And this is a simple point, but it's vital for us to see Because what's going to follow in the next 11 verses is going to be this contrast, all about one thing, one reality, being greater than another. We're going to be presented with this contrast in verses 2 through 11 between God and between man. And Moses would have us understand that if we're ever to live a good life of joy and fulfillment, and if we're ever, brothers and sisters, to rightly present the hope of the gospel that we have in Christ, oh we must grasp this difference. To be sure, we are image-bearers of Almighty God. We affirm that from Scripture, but we are not God. And Moses asks us here in this Psalm to stop and to stare at this. Contrast. First we see in this psalm that God is creator and that man is created. We see this first in verse 2. He says, There before the mountains were brought forth, or ever you had formed the earth and the world. God is the one who formed the earth and the world. Not only did he exist before the mountains were brought forth, but he's the one who shaped and formed every mountain peak. We are, I hope, rightly awed when we see the beauty of the natural world. I was at an outdoor wedding a few weeks ago and the the ceremony was held in this clearing in the woods. And I'm sure the s the wedding itself, the ceremony itself was nice. But to be perfectly honest with you, I was just kind of distracted by the trees. Because we were just surrounded on all sides by these tall, mighty, old trees. in in late autumn just a few leaves hanging on. They're just towering over us and it was this beautiful setting. Well, we need to recognize, brothers and sisters, that the God whom we worship spoke those trees into existence from nothing. And he holds every one of their molecules in just the right spot at this exact moment. And not just trees, but planets, the moon, the stars, whole galaxies. They didn't exist. God spoke a word, and now they exist. They're upheld by the word of his power, Hebrews tells us. So that's who God is. But then contrast this with man. Look at verse 3. You return man to dust. So God is the Almighty Creator, but man here is identified with a part of his creation. See that? See that man is made out of something by God. And man here is depicted as being made out of dust. We're going to see this in Genesis chapter 2 in just a few weeks. But man is made out of dust. Not not diamonds, not as I think one Disney movie recently teaches kids, starlight. Dust. See just the contrast of images that we're presented with. Here. God is depicted as existing before mighty mountains are brought forth. And brothers and sisters, we are just sophisticated piles of dust. And eventually we will return to dust. That imagery should make us feel small. It should give us a sense of the grandeur and the glory of our God and our status as mere creatures in the world that He has made in a world that he powerfully and sovereignly orders for his own purpose and for his own glory. To be sure, this is not the only thing that Scripture says about man. Kind of the surprising paradox is that though we are dust, though we are created God has made us in his image and we have this utterly unique position in all of the things God has made. But in general, I think what's needed in our age is to recapture this biblical notion of our own smallness, our ownness as creatures in contrast with our Creator. Consider that a feeling of insignificance might just be a good thing for your soul. It might be good to remember that you are mere dust before an Almighty God. Related to this, then we see that God is eternal and man is finite. God has been God from everlasting to everlasting, verse 2 says. He hasn't changed from eternity past and he will not change on into eternity future. But in contrast, man's life has a beginning and has an end. See that it in verse 4 we see this contrast. Moses says, A thousand years in your sight are but as yesterday when it is past, or as a watch in the night. For for God a thousand years passes like a single day. Like nothing more than a watch in the night Uh I mentioned at the beginning the countdown that my family has kept for some time looking forward to my graduation. So I I know personally how slow time can seem to move sometimes. God has no such limitations. God is eternal. God created time itself, and therefore its passage is like nothing to him. Well then verses five and six, they confront us with our own finitude, with our own limitedness. God watches millennia pass by like it's nothing. Our lives, he says, are like grass that sprouts up in the morning and in the evening. the evening it's round and withered. We're like a dream, he says. This faint passing thing. Or you could look down at verse 10, where we read, the years of our life are 70, or even by reason of strength 80. So we get 70, maybe 80 years of life. But what is that compared to the God who existed before the mountains? I think that's the point he's driving at. Moreover, see that in verse 10, unlike God, who speaks creation into existence, and creation obeys. Unlike God who sovereignly rules over the world that He has made, our short lives, brothers and sisters, are full of toil and trouble. They're full of difficulty. Things don't work out how we might want them to so often, don't they? Well, that teaches us something. That teaches us that our will is not absolute over the world. And again, the point is to see this contrast. See who God is, and see yourself rightly in light of that. Perhaps the next time that your car doesn't start, or that something doesn't quite go your way at work, for for all the truths and for all the comforts that you need to have ministered to your soul in those moments. One thing that those kinds of moments of toil and frustration teach you is that you are not God. And your will does not sovereignly rule your universe. And brothers and sisters, we need to remember that. We need to be taught that. Further, this Psalm teaches us that God is judge and man is accountable to God. Because man is created by God, see that God possesses absolute authority over man. Therefore, when we as his creatures violate his will, when we go against what he has declared to be right and good and true, We stand accountable. We stand worthy, in fact, of his just wrath. Look at verse 7. It says, For we are brought to an end by your anger. By your wrath we are dismayed. We don't always like talk of wrath and the anger of God. It can seem kind of Old Testament-y sometimes. But brothers and sisters, if we understand our status as finite creatures created by an eternal and perfect and holy God , We'll understand that wrath is exactly what we deserve for rebelling against him. Any attempt at downplaying the reality of our own sin. That does not stem from a big view of God or a big view of the gospel. That stems from misunderstanding who God is and his glory and power Our lives come to an end, we see, in this psalm, because the human race is under a death sentence as a result of our sin against God. We'll see further in verse 8 that God's perfection exposes the ugliness of our sin. Says you have set our iniquities before you, our secret sins in the light of your presence, what we might think we have the power to keep hidden. It's exposed. It's shown for exactly what it is in light of the perfect holiness of God's presence. There's an often told story in the Manry family about how, as a young child, I broke my mom's ceramic nativity set. And then I very unsuccessfully tried to hide it behind a chair. And when my misdeeds were eventually and pretty quickly I think discovered, my my only defense was, well I tried to hide it Well, see that our attempts to hide from God, our attempts to hide our sin are even less successful than that. God 's holiness, God's perfection exposes our sin for what it is. We live in a world that is governed by a just God who sees all and who knows all. And as we see in verses 9 and 10, brothers and sisters, our lives will one day come to an end, and we will stand to give an account to him. Our lives are soon gone and we fly away. Verse 10 says. Verse eleven, you see that the power of God's anger and God's wrath, it's no sooner. small thing. It's something that we must reckon with. Something we must come to terms with. Well, these first 11 verses here, they present us with this stark contrast between man and God. God is the creator. God is eternal. God is the rightful king and ruler and judge over the world. He has made. We are creatures. We are finite. We are small and we are accountable to him. We need to stop and stare at this contrast, beloved, because so often we are prone to live our lives in a way that ignores or attempts to escape these truths. We need to understand that sin warps this distinction. Sin attempts to warp the distinction between God as creator and man as created. Left to our own devices, we live as though we were the center of the universe. As though the things that we want govern the world. And as though we have a right to be happy on whatever terms we set. We often live as though our lives will never end. Think of just how often we are bombarded with these kinds of messages on all sides in the world that we live in. Think of advertisers, the way advertisers try to sell you stuff, by essentially telling you, you deserve this. This will make you happy. And by golly, you deserve to be happy. with whatever is going to make you happy. Or think about music. So much of our music, not even, you know, setting aside uh content itself, but so much of the the tenor and tone of music is about how we're all gonna be young forever. I wanna live I want to be forever young, right? So much of our music is about right now as though that's all there is. Moses would have us live by a different perspective. Or think about your own life in your own home. How it can reveal to you sometimes the way you view yourself as the center of the universe. Think about how you respond, brothers and sisters, when leftovers that you expected to be in the fridge aren't there when you get home. You know that horrible sense of injustice you feel? That's telling you something about how you view yourself. When you have that sense in your heart and in your stomach of my will has been violated , That's that's teaching you about how you all so often view yourself. Or or think about technology. We live lives now where infinite options are available at a moment's notice. One click, one swipe. We can be entertained by anything that we want. We crave instant gratification and we can get it now. And my point is not to make moral judgments about Netflix or advertising or the leftovers logistics in your household. But it is to say that all of these things do have a shaping influence on our hearts. They impact the way we view ourselves, they impact the way we view others, they impact the way we view the world, and if we're not careful, they can even impact us. the way we view God. And if we're not careful, they can sell us a false bill of goods about the kind of world that we live in and who's rightly at the center of it. But see that in the end, Moses tells us that everyone will have to face the facts. Whether you live under the delusion that you're at the center of the universe or not. Eventually, your life will soon be gone, and you will fly away. The God who brought forth the mountains, you will stand face to face with Him. And your iniquities will be exposed. So, as we think about this question of what is the good life, where do we find fulfillment and satisfaction? We first need to know the difference between us and God. And then secondly, we need to know how to respond to that difference. This brings us to point number two. So okay, we see the difference. Now what? Well, first, don't run from it. Don't run from it. Look at verse 12. So teach us to number our days that we may get a heart of wisdom. See, brothers and sisters, that wisdom is not found in running from or ignoring the fact that we are finite and that our lives will one day end, but in embracing it. To live a life of wisdom, we need to recognize that our days on earth are short and that they are lived in the presence of an eternal and almighty God. And so the first thing Moses says is we are called to number them. We're called to take stock of them. We're called to think carefully about how each day is spent. Because each day, though we've seen it's filled with toil and trouble, is a gift from the hand of God. And therefore each day is to be enjoyed for the glory of God. And Moses is telling us, first of all, that we will rightly enjoy our days, we will rightly recognize what they are and what they're not when we see that they're numbered. That's where wisdom comes from. When we embrace the fact that we aren't God, when we allow that truth to shape our lives and to shape our hearts and to shape the way we live each day. It's where wisdom begins. Because when we see this rightly, beloved, one of the things that it does is it forces us to look outside ourselves and outside anything in this life to bring us ultimate meaning and purpose and satisfaction. One of the points I think Moses is making here is that if our days on this earth are filled with toil and trouble, then we shouldn't look to anything in those days. As though they could bring us lasting fulfillment and joy. No, Moses is telling us that if we want everlasting satisfaction. We must look to the God who is everlasting. This is how he continues this line of thought in verse 13. Look there with me. He says, Return, O Lord, how long? Have pity on your servants. So Moses here cries out to God and calls on God to return and to have pity upon his servants. We don't know the exact circumstances under which Moses wrote this psalm, but we do know that in his lifetime he had seen the people of God both be delivered by the mighty hand of God. out of slavery in Egypt, but he had also seen the people of God, God's redeemed people, live as though they were the center of the universe. He had seen Israel in the midst of wilderness grumbling, in the midst of golden calves, in the midst of cowardly spies. All of which are just examples, historical examples, of the same things that we see in ourselves. They're just examples of fallen humanity saying, in essence, we know better than you, God. We're going to do things our way. But see how Moses here calls on the people to cry out to their God. He's saying that if you want to find joy and purpose in your numbered days, look to God. Look to the God who has been your dwelling place in all generations. Turn back to the refuge. Because you won't find those things anywhere else. You notice in verse 13 that as Moses cries out here, return, O Lord , In your Bibles, more than likely, it's capital L O R D. Notice that that's different than in verse 1. And when you see that in your Bibles, it's indicating the covenant name of God. Yahweh, I am the name that God revealed to Moses at the burning bush, the name by which he delivered his people with a mighty hand and with an outstretched arm. The name by which he had said, I will be your God, and you will be my people. The name by which he promised to make a new covenant, where iniquities, that same word we saw in verse 8. Will be forgiven. It's the name that Jesus himself invoked in John chapter 8, verse 58, when he said, Before Abraham was, I am. Brothers and sisters, as we see this cry to God as covenant Lord in verse thirteen, Moses is telling us that the good life The life of joy, the life of real and unending satisfaction is one where we know and we relate to God on these terms. It's one where we know God not only in sort of distant, abstract platitudes, but it's one where we know Him as our Savior and as our Lord. It's to know him, looking back at verse 1, as our dwelling place. And we recognize, friends, that our God has made a way for us to know him on these terms. He sent his Son, Jesus Christ, to accomplish our salvation and to reign as our Lord and our King. And we know this well, but but consider these truths in light of the ideas that we see in this psalm. Consider that Jesus, the one through whom creation was made, became a part of his creation. To redeem humanity. Consider that the one who is from everlasting to everlasting took on finite humanity. In order to die as a sin-bearing substitute. Consider that the one who is the rightful judge over all was himself put forward as a sacrifice for sins to bear the wrath of God. Consider in light of verse seven that Jesus, the Son of God, the incarnate Son, was brought to an end, his physical life, by God's wrath, so that we might be forgiven and declared righteous through faith. And not only that, but he rose again from the dead. It's a first fruit of a brand new creation. So that brothers and sisters, if we are united to him by faith, we recognize that though we might only get 70 or 80 years in these bodies, these bodies are going to be raised to everlasting life. These bodies are going to be raised to a life eternal, not for 70 or 80 years, but for unending days. That joins in with the whole chorus of Scripture to tell one unified message. If you want to live a life of fulfillment and satisfaction, both in these days but on into eternity. You must take refuge in your God through faith in Jesus Christ. And you must look to him continually in all your days. And see how that's how this psalm continues. Knowing God as our covenant Lord and as our everlasting dwelling place. That's the path to joy and satisfaction, not just in eternity, but in this life. Look at verse 14. He says, There satisfy us in the morning with your steadfast love. That we may rejoice and be glad all our days. The steadfast, unchanging, covenant-keeping love of God for his people That's where we find true satisfaction and gladness and meaning to these days that God has numbered and that he teaches us to number. And I want us to see that this is just so vital for us to understand. It's not as though the saving work of Jesus has purchased eternal happiness for us, but we have to wait for eternity to experience any of it. That can sometimes be how we live our lives. Yeah, yeah, we've got eternity. Heaven's gonna be great, but for now life is basically miserable and we just kind of have to slug it out. That's not the picture that Scripture gives us. See that knowing God, it enables us to rejoice and to be glad in these days, brothers and sisters. Sisters. Consider another Psalm, Psalm twenty seven, verse thirteen. There David writes, I believe that I shall look upon the goodness of the Lord in the land of the living. That's in these days. That's in this life. David says, and Moses agrees, that we will see and we will know God 's goodness. As the people of God, through faith in Christ and through looking to Him, we can know and we can be satisfied in Him. See that we can do this even as we continue to live in a world under the curse of sin. Look at this in verse 15. It says, make us glad for as many days as you have afflicted us. And for as many days as we have seen evil. In this life, satisfaction and joy in God, it doesn't mean that we're immune to affliction. It doesn't mean that we stop seeing evil. It doesn't mean that life suddenly stops being hard. And I know for many of you that life is very hard at the moment. No, what it means is that amidst the affliction. As we continue to see evil all around us, as we, Romans 8 tells us, groan with the rest of creation, oh, we have a deeper joy. We have a deeper satisfaction. We have a deeper hope that all things will be made new. And so we can have joy in these days, even as we continue. To groan under the weight of the curse of sin. Because we know that even the worst darkness we might see in this life and in this world, it can't extinguish the light. that is shown on our hearts and that we see as we continually look to Christ Jesus and behold him by faith Finally, see that knowing God enables us to see his work and it invites us to participate in his work. We see this in verses 16 and 17. It says, Let your work be shown to your servants, and your glorious power to their children. Let the favor of the Lord our God be upon us and establish the work of our hands upon us. Yes, establish the work of our hands. So see this, for the people of Israel under the old covenant, this this work that's stated here in verse 16, it would have been the work of God redeeming and establishing his people. His work of bringing them into the promised land. And then their work of living as his people, living under the righteous rule of God. We know that Israel didn't have such a great track record in this work. But see that for us, for the people of God, under the new covenant, it's essentially the same work, just under much better promises. We see God's work of saving and of redeeming us through the person and work of Christ. We see the work that God has done of establishing His true and eternal people, the Church of the Living God. And we get to join in on that work now, brothers and sisters, by living lives under the Lordship of Jesus And by happily working to make him known in all the world and in every area of our lives. So we are those who have seen the work of God and now we get to participate in it. Through the work that we do as servants of King Jesus. This impacts the way that we worship together, the way that we serve our neighbors. The way that we go to our jobs, even jobs we don't like. The way we interact with one another. The way that we share the gospel with the lost. The way we proclaim the gospel to ourselves through our weekly assembly, all of these things, by God's grace, they become enveloped under this great work of God. That he is about of saving and establishing a people for himself to bring him glory and honor and praise. That's the life, brothers and sisters. That brings true joy. That's the life of satisfaction in God that sees and that joins in on the work of God in this world. That's where we find true life and true joy. As we conclude, I just want to offer one final encouragement. Because you might be hearing this, you might be hearing me go on and on, and you're thinking Yeah, that's great. I I would love to find that kind of satisfaction in God that the psalmist is talking about. But more often I find satisfaction in like nachos or board games or or gardening or YouTube. So the idea of delighting in God just seems so distant from my ordinary experience. Well, to that I want to say two things. First of all, when we see and know God as our highest good and as our deepest satisfaction, we learn to rightly enjoy all the good gifts that He has given us in this life. So hear me clearly. The life of being glad in God is not a life of no joy in anything else. No, it's the life of the right kind of joy in everything else. Brothers and sisters, we enjoy food more, I would say, not less, but more, when we know that food can't give us eternal happiness. I'm convinced, I'll fight any of you on this, I'm convinced that Thanksgiving tastes better for Christians, even if the food's not as good. It tastes better because we know the kind of joy that God has intended for this to bring, and it's not everlasting joy, but it's still real joy and real gladness. So when we are finding our ultimate satisfaction in God, we learn to rightly enjoy everything in this world. Point you to the book of Ecclesiastes and to 1 Timothy 4, verses 1 through 5, if you have questions on that. But secondly, consider that as we pursue joy in God through Christ, that very process changes and shapes our desires As we commit to beholding him in his word, as we commune with him through prayer, as we regularly assemble together as the body of believers. As we preach the gospel to ourselves regularly, as we observe the Lord's Supper together, God by his Spirit is shaping our affections. God by his spirit is teaching us to long for that which will truly satisfy us. So yeah, nachos might seem more appealing to you now. But spend your life running after satisfaction in God and see how that changes. See how God changes the very things you desire as you seek satisfaction in Him. Oh, that, brothers and sisters, that is the life that is worth living. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you that we can know joy through Christ Jesus. God, we thank you that you have revealed yourself to us. And Lord, we pray that we would see this difference rightly. That we would stop and that we would stare at it and that we would reflect on it, that we would be reminded of it, that we wouldn't try to run from it. And we pray, Father, that you would be exalted and glorified as we seek to live lives under the Lordship of King Jesus together. Lord, be exalted. Be glorified. In our hearts, we pray. In Jesus' name I pray. Amen.