Psalm ninety-six is where we begin. This really is a worldwide call to worship. That's what this psalm is, and it's almost like this. Cascading call for all people and all nations to turn to the Lord to worship him, to sing his praises, to declare his praises a worldwide call to worship God. As we get to the second part of what I have to talk about this evening. We will talk about the some of the details of the reasons or motivations why I've proposed a pastoral intern to focus on young adults But that's the application or the implication, the specific implication that we've chosen or that I've chosen for the preaching of this psalm. I'm doing it this way because any ministry must be conceived of in the context of God's great work. for all things. That's the thing that will give each of us the right perspective in ministry. How do we fit into God's plan? How is this ministry feeding into God's great plan for all things? His great work in the world of spreading the gospel, of saving souls, of establishing churches and strengthening churches for his name and for his glory. Every ministry should be conceived of as a part of that. Otherwise we're off track from the beginning. So let's begin not with the entire psalm. We will, in the course of this message, look at the entire psalm But just to get us grounded, let's begin with verses 1 and 2, and then verses 7 through 9, so that we can crystallize this idea of a worldwide call to worship in our hearts So Psalm 96, verses 1 and 2, oh sing to the Lord a new song. Sing to the Lord all the earth. Sing to the Lord, bless his name, tell of his salvation from day to day. Do you see how this is a call to worship that is to spread to all The world. It's calling people to sing to the Lord. And it's a global call. It says, all the earth invoke the praise of God globally. Sing to the Lord, bless his name. That means ascribe to his name the honor that is due his name Bless his name and tell of his salvation. And I love this phrase, from day to day. From day to day. This isn't something we set apart. Just for portions of our lives worshiping Him. Of course, we set apart a portion for congregational worship. But our entire life is to be Worship of God. The Also look at verses seven through nine. Ascribe to the Lord O families of the peoples. That's another way of talking about the nations The tribes and nations in the world. Ascribe to the Lord, O families of the peoples, ascribe to the Lord glory and strength. Ascribe to the Lord the glory, do his name. Bring an offering. Come into his courts. Worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness. Tremble before him all the earth. This is a worldwide call to worship. And here in verse 8 you do see a A glimpse of a call to congregational worship. It's biblical to gather publicly as a congregation and worship the Lord. Now, this is what we're involved in as a church. We are involved in God's ongoing worldwide call to worship Him. This is the proper perspective, the proper umbrella category, if you will, for thinking about why churches exist and why ministries exist. Really, any ministry is about the same thing ultimately. Now the details are different. The details of Pastor John's ministries in the nursing home is different than other ministries Alright, we have different ministries in the details. But ultimately, if they're going to be biblical ministries and if there's going to be a biblical motive in our hearts, they're all feeding into this ongoing worldwide call to what? Worship God. To worship God. All ministry is ultimately about the same thing. The spread of the gospel for the salvation of the lost, for the starting of churches and the strengthening of churches, for the glory of God. Ministry can never be about entertainment and fun. We should never have the mindset if we can just entertain people and provide more fun, then they'll come and then we can sneak in the gospel. Ministry is not just providing an enjoyable social gathering and then tacking on some Biblical truth. There's nothing wrong with an enjoyable social gathering. But if we're trusting in that, or if that's the substance, the main substance of what we think we're providing for people, we're off base. Ministry is not about creating an emotionally stirring experience by using music or mood or something else. We want the emotions to be stirred. We want our affections to be stirred unto God, unto Christ, but through his word and through his spirit, not by manufactured atmosphere and music. Ministry is not about sentimental or nostalgic traditions. Ministry is not about a platform for our good deeds. That's how the Pharisees operated, by the way. And ministry in a local church in particular is not a group of autonomous ministries with various agendas. Various ministries with one agenda. I'll repeat that because there's a huge difference between these two things. The local church is not uh autonomous ministries, the group of Isolated independent ministries with various agendas. No, it is various ministries with one agenda, the gospel of Jesus Christ. Well, hopefully our look at Psalm 96 will prime the pump of our hearts. So that when we get to some of the details and specifics of the proposed pastoral internship, we'll be thinking about it in the proper way. It's not about me. It's not about Jason. It's not even about us as a church. This is about God and his glory in the world. Our hearts have to be fixed there. to keep the right perspective. Let's look at the worldwide call to worship. First of all, notice that it centers on preaching It centers on preaching, first of all, God's salvation. Verse 2. Sing to the Lord. Bless His name. Tell of his salvation from day to day. Tell of his salvation. Speak of his salvation. Proclaim the salvation that comes from God. Proclaim what it means to be saved from sin and all of its consequences. That's what salvation is. Our sin has separated us from God Salvation comes and salvation now separates us from sin and brings us back to God. So tell of his salvation. It must be preached, it must be taught, it must be shared, it must be disseminated, that God is a gracious Savior. God is a wonderful Savior. God has a love for sinners. God saves. So we Tell of his salvation from day to day. Now look at verse 2. And look at the two parts of verse 2. Realize That you can't do the first part of verse two until After the second part of verse 2 happens. What's the first part of verse 2? Sing to the Lord and bless his name Well, you can never sing to the Lord truly, and you can never bless the Lord truly until you hear of his salvation and believe in him. Though we must tell of his salvation, for his name and for his glory, but it's also his way of saving sinners so that sinners can then sing of his salvation. Does that make sense? That's a tongue twister as I said it. But we tell of his salvation That's God's way of saving sinners, so that sinners can now sing of his salvation and then join us in telling others about God's salvation. It's all about God. Reconciling sinners to himself through the gospel. So a worldwide call to worship. Sinners own preaching. The preaching of the Word of God. This isn't innovative. This is hopefully you don't you're not hearing this and thinking, wow, I never thought of that before. This may be going on for close to 2,000 years in the church. The church of the Lord Jesus Christ. The preaching of the gospel, the preaching of the word of God, the teaching of the word, the disseminating of the word must center on preaching. First of all, God's salvation. Second of all, God's kingship or God's Lordship. This comes from verses 10 and 13. Verse 10, say among the nations, the Lord reigns. What kind of person reigns? Do peasants reign? No, who reigns? The king reigns. We proclaim God is King of heaven and earth. God made the world. God reigns over the world that he made. He reigns as king. The Lord reigns. Yes, the world is established. It shall never be moved He will judge the peoples with inequity inequity. As he reigns, he also sits as judge. God does not sit in judgment, and uh we do not sit in judgment over God. To come to his word and evaluate his teachings and decide whether or not he's worthy to be believed in or lived for or preached or worshipped. No, God sits in judgment over us. We're to submit to him. He is the king. My children love building little worlds, whether it's uh Legos or blocks or whatever it is, little miniature toys. And when they make a little world, they control what goes on in that world. They sit over that world as queen or as little miniature king. And they name the characters and they name the places, just like in the creation account where God creates, he speaks things into existence. And he names things within his creation. And when my children create these little worlds, they put things in the order and the place that they want. You see that in the creation account? God ordering things, dividing things. Putting things where he wants because he's the king of the creation. God reigns. God is creator, king, and judge, and he's also savior, redeemer God must be preached as Savior. He must be preached as King. Look at verse 13 quickly. Before the Lord comes For he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness and the peoples in his faithfulness. So he reigns, and he is the judge. A worldwide call to worship must and does and always will center on preaching, first of all, the preaching of God's salvation, second of all, the preaching of God's kingship, third, the preaching of his glory. Verse 3, declare his glory, and you can circle the word glory among the nations. His marvelous works, you can circle the word works. Among all the peoples. And you can connect the circle you have around glory. You can draw a line and connect that to the circle you have around works. We declare God's glory. We declare God's works. God 's glory is revealed through his works How is his mercy revealed through works of mercy? How was his power revealed through works of power? God reveals himself through his word and through his works. So we preach his word. What is his word? It's the chronicling of his works in the world that he made. Worldwide call to worship. Well, always center on preaching God's salvation, first of all, God's kingship as as Lord and Creator and Judge. Second of all, and third of all, the preaching of God's glory and of God's works. His works manifest who he is. Fourth, preaching his greatness. Preaching his greatness. Now I had to pick a term because in verses four through six there's many terms. Verse 4 through 6. For great is the Lord. We need to believe that and we need we need to preach that. We need to share that with people. Great is the Lord. The Lord is great. The world says the world's not great. The Lord is not great. The Lord is the worst. Get him away from us. But the Lord In matter of fact, is great and wonderful and awesome and terrific. Fill in your own adjective. Great is the Lord and greatly to be praised. He deserves to be praised for his greatness, in other words. He is to be feared above all gods. In other words, we give him the respect that is due him, since he is the true and living God. He's to be feared above all gods, not gods that don't really exist, that we create out of wood or stone. They don't deserve to be worshipped. They are not great. How could we worship something that we made? No, we worship the one who made us. He's to be feared above all gods. First five, for all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols, but the Lord made the heavens That puts him in a category all by himself. The Lord made the heavens. Verse 6, splendor and majesty are before him. Strength and beauty are in his sanctuary. He's radiant. He's beautiful. He has nothing but dignity and purity and that which is good. Majesty is the highest authority there is. He deserves the most respect. Of anything else, he's great. Great is the Lord. We preach that God is great, not small. Great, beyond comprehension, and yet knowable because he's revealed himself. God is Savior, that must be preached. God is king, that must be preached. God is glorious. That must be preached. And God is great. And majesty and splendor and strength and beauty surround him because it emanates from him. So we Must preach because the worldwide call to worship centers on preaching and declaring the great and wondrous truths of God Almighty Worldwide call to worship, not only does it center on preaching, but it occurs in the midst of idolatry and wickedness. And that's what makes this a battle. That's what makes this spiritual warfare. Look at verse 5. This is the context. I mean talking about the world now. We're talking about the world. World in darkness, where all the gods of the peoples are worthless idols. Well that's the peoples that were called to go to And preach God and preach the salvation and all those things we just talked about. And call these people who worship idols to repentance. Well, how in the world can that happen? How can people turn from false gods and worship the true God? Well, it happened in our lives, didn't it? It can happen by the power of the Holy Spirit of God. It can happen because God saves sinners. He doesn't just tell sinners about salvation. He does do that. But through that, God is powerfully active to save sinners. Through preaching, through the work of the Spirit, God reconciles sinners to Himself and He turns idol worshippers into Christ's worshipers. Centers on preaching this worldwide call to worship, but it can only occur in a world of sprawling idolatry, but it's idolaters who the Lord is saving. And as this call to worship occurs amidst idolatry, it requires urgency In fact, it requires an urgency that must persist until the return of Christ. There's never a time to take our foot off the gas pedal of evangelism and missions. An urgency for this must persist until Christ returns. Look at verses verse eleven. Through 13A. The image imagery here is vivid and powerful imagery. It's hyperbole. Just to let us know just how important, how widespreading this call must be, and how it must persist until the Lord returns. Let the heavens be glad. Let the earth rejoice, let the sea roar, and all that fills it. Let the field exalt. See the metaphor, the hyperbole, he's not calling people to worship, but the creation itself to worship. Let the field exalts in everything in it. Then shall all the trees of the forest sing for joy before the Lord For he comes, for he comes to judge the earth. He will judge the world in righteousness That means those who are still in their sins and still guilty before him will be counted as guilty. And the peoples in his faithfulness. So if he promised forgiveness to those who come to Christ, he's going to faithfully spare them from that judgment that he brings. Since this judgment is coming, since the world is full of idolaters, and since we used to all be idolaters at one time in one form or another, maybe you didn't worship a a stone carving or a wood carving But we loved something, many things, more than God until God changed our hearts. We must have an urgency. This requires an urgency for evangelism and missions. This worldwide call to worship occurs amidst idolatry, therefore it requires urgency, and you can see that what's resulting from it is Sinners gathering to worship God. Verse 8. This is what we are. Right now, we actually we are this Sinners gathering to worship God. And that's God's plan for what's supposed to happen on earth now. And then we go out in the world and live our lives in obedience to Him. And then next Lord's day we'll gather again as sinners to worship God. Look at verse 8. You get a little glimpse in here to the congregational call. Ascribe to the Lord the glory to his name, which is a lot of glory. Amen. So you keep not like you come to a point and you say, okay, well we've exhausted that. Now what? Let's move on to something truly exciting. No, no, no. This is something that should be increasing. And our passion to do this should be increasing, ascribing to the Lord the glory, do his name. Bring an offering and come into his courts and worship the Lord in the splendor of holiness. See a little glimpse? I mean it's quick hitting, but it's certainly there of worshiping God according to his word and whatever in whatever way he's told us to worship, we're from a different vantage point now not being under the old covenant We don't have uh architectural courts of a temple and we're not to bring offerings and animal sacrifices to God or grain offerings to God anymore. We're in the new covenant, but the principle still applies. Come and worship. Come for congregational worship. Come gather with the people of God and worship God. And it also, this uh this call to worship God. Not only does it require urgency, because it occurs in the midst of idolatry, and it results in the gathering of sinners to worship God, but it It changes the very the spiritual nature of sinners. Verse 9. The very end of verse 9, where it says, Worship the Lord in splendor in the splendor of holiness. And then it says, tremble before him all the earth. Now I'm just highlighting three words here for this point. That's it. Tremble before him. Tremble before him. See, what's the problem with us when we were lost? The problem that is that we did not tremble before God The problem when we were lost was that we did not fear God. We did not have the fear of God in our hearts. So anyone who's truly trembling before God and truly has the fear of God in their hearts has has been saved. They've come under the conviction of their sin. They've put their trust in God as their Savior. Put their trust in Christ as their Savior. So do you tremble before Him? Do you give God the respect and the reverence that is due to his name? Not perfectly And not to the extent that we should, but we do that truly because of the spirit that lives within us. We have a spirit wrought, spirit given, fear the Lord. Well that's because God has graciously saved us It's not because we're naturally good people. It's not because we're naturally wise and we figured it out how to do this thing right and God now accepts us. No, God saved us with a gracious salvation and he gave us hearts that would tremble before him. Salvation transforms hearts. Worldwide call to worship centers on preaching, and it occurs in the midst of idolatry. Now That's a paradigm for ministry. For any ministry. But let's zoom in on pastoral ministry. Right at the center of any pastoral call is preaching, is the preaching of the Word of God. Centering on salvation, preaching, preaching God as creator, preaching God as Savior. All of this In the context of the full counsel of God. It's the preaching of the gospel, the preaching of the word that changes hearts. And this occurs In the midst of idolatry. It's a spiritual battle. It's a spiritual fight. Let's transition to some specific practical application to this proposal I've put out for a pastoral intern to focus on young adults. And I had six Points, six reasons. Just six things for you to think about. This has all come from I'd say over a year of just personal private prayer and contemplation and observation for me Without talking about this to anyone, Pastor John included, Becky included, just watching, praying, meditating, thinking. uh daydreaming about the future of our church and how God would expand the ministry and grow the ministry and use the church and have a greater impact for the kingdom. Comes after a long season of prayer and seeking God's will. But for you tonight, just six things to think about. First of all, in terms of the focus on young adults, quite simply, there's just an ongoing need for focused attention and for focused energy for this age group. And it's not just at this church. This is a widespread need of churches. And I hear it almost everywhere I go. How do you figure this thing out with the young adults? And for all the different reasons and strategies that have been offered, just it's a practical ministry need. And let's leave the details. And let's leave all the secret wisdom behind the reasons why things are with it. Let's leave all that to God. Let's just say, okay, God, you've put us here. There's a concrete ministry need. Now, how can we, God, how can we get in on, how can we help meet this ministry need? It's as simple as that. There's an ongoing need for focused attention and focused energy for this age group. It's a transition time in the lives of people as they transition from teenagers to adults We have this now this category of young adults and there's so many different life phases uh in between high school and w I don't know when you start considering adults. We have these little pigeonhole categories we put people in. I think that's been a detriment and part of the problem because we're shaping ministry based on culturally conceived pigeonhole categories of people and age groups and phase of life and all of that. But there's a ministry need that we're trying to meet. An ongoing need really to help these Young men and young women transition from youth group into the body life of the church, keeping their discipleship not only intact, but growing. With zeal focused on serving God and the church and learning to live for Christ in all of life practical ministry need. Second thing I'll say about this is that an aspiring pastor needs practical experience and practical opportunities to fan into flame ministry gifts. Alright, an aspiring pastor needs practical experience and opportunity not only to further develop those gifts, but that's actually part of the discern Of the discerning process of whether there's a pastoral call or not. As you get on the battlefield, that you will go through certain experiences With with leadership and the new pressures and the new burdens and the new responsibilities and the new trials and the new spiritual warfare that comes along with those ministries, God will use that to direct and help that young man discern the pastoral call. An aspiring pastor needs practical experience and opportunity. You can't go off and learn ministry and then come back into the local church and now you're ready for ministry. That's not how it works. practical experience and practical opportunities. The internship, just like it's a simple way to meet a practical need in the church and in the community for this age group of young adults, It's also meeting a need to provide practical experience and opportunity for a young aspiring pastor. I think I could stop just right there and say, okay, well that's good enough reason Because that's what we're about here. We're about helping people grow in their service to the Lord and however the Lord has called them, and we're about meeting practical ministry needs to each other and for the community. But let's go a little bit further. When it comes to discerning a pastoral call, traditionally talked about that there needs to be two aspects of that call. The first aspect is an internal call. That means that within the heart of that aspiring pastor, there needs to be a genuine sense that God has called me to this work A genuine burden for the ministry of the word, a general burden for the lost, a general burden for the local church and the health and the purity of the local church. That's called the internal call. It's a God-given desire to minister the word in the context of a local church. Not only minister the word, but that's the centerpiece of any Pastoral ministry will be the word and prayer. So there's the internal call, and there's also the external call. There's also the external call that comes from the church. And the leadership. And in the mind of that aspiring pastor, sensing And experiencing and feeling that burden for ministry and the external call is from the church body as a whole and from the leadership in particular, also recognizing God might be calling you to this work. We recognize that in different ways. But just for right now, there needs to be an internal call and there needs to be an external call. And uh I've seen there is I've seen some who Think they have the internal call, but completely void of an external call and affirmation from the church And they sh they should not pursue ministry at that point. It's not it's not that you would stop praying and stop growing and give up on the whole thing, but there needs to be both. There needs to be affirmation of a local church. I 've also seen it the other way around where there's an external call. Where the church and the leadership are saying, you know, man, you're really good at teaching You're really good at teaching, you're you're engaging, you're a good storyteller , people listen, but that if that person doesn't have the true burden A true spiritual burden and sense that and sense that God is calling him to ministry, they should not pursue ministry at that point. Again, I'm not saying don't give up on it, I'm just saying at that point If there's no internal call, don't fake it because other people think you should. Calling comes from God. And it happens inside the heart of the pastor, and it happens from the body of Christ, the church. As a whole in the leadership. So there's the there's a practical ministry need, an ongoing need. I mean an ongoing need, a perennial need. for focused energy and attention to this age group of young adults. Also, there's a practical need of any aspiring pastor needs ex Experience. They need opportunities. Coach, get them on the court. They need to play. Give them experience. Let them run. Let them sweat. Let them battle. There's an internal call, there's an external call. Now, basic prerequisites of a pastoral intern. First of all I didn't number these on my notes. Let me try and number them quickly in my head. One. I guess that's not in my head if I'm saying it out loud Let me number them for you just so you have an endpoint in view. Uh one, two, three. Four. But Jordan, number four has three sub points, okay. First of all , anyone who would qualify for a pastoral internship must have a track record of faithful involvement in the local church. I mean one oh one faithful involvement in the local church you you're not ready for leadership in the local church unless you unless you've already proven that you get to be a faithful member active in the church over a stretch. I'm not talking about three months. Or eight months. A track record of faithful involvement in the church. Number two, there should be some track record of reliable service. in the church, reliable service in the church. Signing up for things and then showing up for those things that are signed up for. Committing to things and then proving faithful to those things that have been committed. Now none of us are perfect in our involvement in the church, and none of us are perfect in our reliability or anything like that or in our ministries. But you can discern patterns. You can discern patterns. You know there's a difference between a reliable person and an unreliable person. You know there's a difference between someone in your life, someone at work, maybe your family, that you can rely on and that you can't rely on. So a track record of faithful involvement and membership in the in the church, but then when it comes to Service and working with others, just basic reliability on time , doing what was committed to Thirdly, there should be a track record of humility and demonstrating that you can be a team player. Church is not a sport, but for a metaphor, okay, Pastor John, it's only a metaphor. Church is a team sport. Alright, we don't have Time for distractions and problems that come from rogue-minded people, rogue spirits. Alright? We're to be working together. Working together. Humility, being a team player. Going along with this would be demonstrating a learning spirit. I would hope that we would all have a learning spirit Church, are we done learning? Heavens, no. So a track record of faithful involvement in the church, a track record of reliable service in the church. track record of humility and showing that you can be a team player. Now number four that has three points. There should be a demonstrated ability to some basic ministry things Not a fully matured ability. Honestly I don't think any any of us ever reach that. Especially especially in preaching and teaching. We can do the best we can to grow and to keep maturing. Um a demonstrated ability to number one handle the word publicly. There should be something of the seed form, the the uh The early forms of the gift of preaching and teaching. It's got to be able to handle the word publicly. I don't mean be a good speaker. Good speakers are a dime a dozen. We don't need charismatic personalities, good storytellers, moving storytellers. Muddy is really funny. You were really on fire with those jokes this morning, Pastor. It's feeling really good. Maybe maybe we'll invite my neighbors next week. I didn't know if church was going to be so fun. We need men who will stand tall and lift their heads and lift their voices and look people in the eye and preach and teach the word of God with clarity and conviction. This is what the world needs. We don't need more good speakers. We've got good speakers, galore. We need preachers and teachers of the Word of God. So there should be something of a demonstrated ability To handle the word publicly, secondly, there should be a demonstrated ability to grasp and express sound doctrine You know, just like we have lots of good speakers, we have lots of people who teach and preach from this book. They do not all preach and teach sound doctrine. Again, you know I'm giving way too too many disclaimers. When you start preaching, don't give this many disclaimers. It distracts people. But just like I said, none of us are perfect in our ministries or are perfect in our reliability. None of us are perfect in our doctrine. That's not what we're saying. But there's a difference between a per a person who understands sound doctrine that's biblical and a person who doesn't. What he's teaching is off. It's false. It's wrong. It's error. We need someone who we're all growing and hopefully moving in the right direction in our doctrine and in our understanding of Scripture. But there should be a demonstrated ability, someone not only to handle the word publicly and speak in sentences that communicate things, but those things that are communicated must be biblical. So there should be a demonstrated ability to grasp and to express sound doctrine. Third, a demonstrated ability to take pastoral training seriously. I've seen those with who I thought had great potential in the p in the past but just didn't think it was necessary or important to get pastoral training. And I think that's a shame. Because having a learning spirit and saying, Man, I really don't know anything. I need to be trained. I need to be taught. I need to grow. God, please grow me. Please help me. That's a good thing. That's where we want to be We want to be seeing our need to be trained by others who are older. Sorry, I'm leaning your way when I say older And wiser and experienced, not just pastors, but but uh mature saints, older saints and teachers and preachers who are experienced in local church ministry and church planning and missions and all kinds of ministries for decades and decades and I'm just I'm just getting into the game and I'm going to have the attitude that I don't need training, that's ludicrous. I mean that's that's not a good attitude to have in any area of life. So there should be a demonstrated ability to handle the word publicly, grasp and express sound doctrine, and to take serious pastoral training and the need. To learn and to grow from those who are wiser and more experienced. That's a good thing. That's a good thing in any area of life. And I think it's it was so important for me to include these basic prerequisites of someone I would um install as a pastoral intern or hire as a pastoral intern because I want you to know we're not just looking for people to fill jobs. We're not looking for people just to plug in because we need a job done. We're not giving out busy work. This is spiritual work. This is a biblical, biblically derived agenda or initiative, however you want to say it, it must be done by the principles of God's Word, principles of wisdom and leadership in God's word. Uh number six, let me review this five. Ongoing need for focused energy and attention for that age group. That's a biggie. The fact that any secondly, the fact that any aspiring pastor needs experience and needs opportunities. That's a biggie. Number three, an internal call in the heart, a God-given burden for the work. Four, an external call from the church, people in the church, from leaders, that there's something there. Number five, basic prerequisites. I'll not review all of those. It would take too much time. Um but you can watch the the playback. The general idea there is we're not just plugging plugging some random person in There has to be something there that God is doing and that God is leading, and we have to see ourselves just as getting on board with what God is doing. Number six, this is the final one. I have a passion for leadership development. I think uh I'm I'm gonna zoom out from our church and just say broadly speaking, the church needs leaders. I mean this should be true in any age, right? The church needs leaders. And leaders need experience and opportunities. And I just have a passion for leadership development. Matthew, uh well, I think There's a rabbit to chase here. Let me just let me just lean over and look at it, but I won't chase it. I think I think churches have outsourced pastoral training too much I'll be the last one to say anything negative about seminary and what God does and will continue to do through biblical seminaries. God used seminary in my way. uh in my life in ways that I cannot begin to quantify. But I think too much, I think we're a little out not a little, I think we're out of balance with outsourcing outside of the local church leadership development and leadership training. Just ain't too much. Alright? Please don't misquote me and mis misrepresent me and say, well past you or Pastor Mass said about seminaries? No. Matthew 13, 52, Jesus talked about how teachers must be trained for the kingdom of heaven. And in the context, it's uh has to do with uh pro having a proper understanding of the kingdom of heaven so that we can properly teach from the Old Testament and properly teach from the New Testament. Bring out treasure from the old and from the new Anyway, the point is the teachers had to be trained. The disciples, the apostles, had to be trained. 2 Timothy 2. 2, Paul says to Timothy, to entrust what Timothy has learned to faithful men who are then able to teach others. That's not going to happen overnight. You guys go up to guys and give them a sheet of paper and say, okay, now you guys are teachers. Alright, that takes time. Now here's uh a few I'd like us to turn to. 2 Timothy 1, 6. We're going to look at three passages in the pastoral epistles, and then we'll be through. 2 Timothy One six Paul writes to Timothy, for this reason I remind you, fan in to flame. Underline that The gift of God, which is in you, internal call, which is in you through the laying on of my hands, which is just talking about his ordination and his being appointed to the office. Fan into flame the gift of God. What happens to a fire when you fan it into flame? It it gets hotter, burns more, rises up, right? It's it basically just does a better job of being a fire Fan into flame this gift. What happens if you don't fan into flame a fire? It goes out So yes, God gives spiritual gifts, and here pastoral gifts for Timothy. And that's what we're talking about this evening. But they must be used They must be cultivated. They must be fanned into flame. This gets back to this. People need opportunities. People need experience. They need opportunities. You need to practice these things. In fact, we'll see that phrase in just a moment. So a pastoral internship is a practical way to help this young brother Young compared to some, but not young compared to others. Uh this brother who's right in the perfect middle, he's the perfect age. Um It's just a practical way to help them fan into flame. Gift of God. It's all it is. Now flip over, flip backwards to 1 Timothy 4 14. 1 Timothy 4 14. Do not neglect the gift that you have, which was given you by prophecy when the council of elders laid their hands on you. Two same two elements. A gift that's given by God, and then ordination, the appointment to the office. But verse 15 is really the operative verse for why I wanted us to turn here. Practice these things. Immerse yourself in them so that all may see your progress. How will others see his progress? How will others see the growth? If if uh the things that Paul has commanded, pastoral things, are practiced And if Timothy immerses himself in them, he gives himself over to these things. Practice them, immerse yourself in them. So that all will see your progress, so that your progress will be seen by all. Again, the pastoral internship is an opportunity to provide a context for that, to provide this um this opportunity to put these things into practice and all the more be immersed in the work of the ministry so that we can then observe the growth. Then he says in verse sixteen, Cleep keep a close watch On yourself and on your teaching. You see, there's character, but also teaching, being able to handle the word. And he says, persist in this. For by so doing you'll save both yourselves, both yourself and your hearers. The spiritual fruit that comes. From putting into practice the pastoral gifts. Now look just backwards in that same chapter, 1 Timothy 4, verses 6 through 8. If you put these things before the brothers, you'll be a good servant of Christ Jesus. Here you go. Being trained in the words of the faith. And of the good doctrine that you have followed. Let me ask you about Timothy. Did Timothy need to be trained in the words of the faith? Did Timothy need to be trained in the good doctrine? Yeah. Any pastor does. You don't roll out of bed and have a firm grasp on sound doctrine and the whole counsel of God. We all need to be trained. Being trained in the words of the faith and of the good doctrine that you have followed. Have nothing to do, verse seven, with the reverent silly myths. Rather, train training again, train yourself for godliness. For while bodily training is of some value, godliness is of value in every way, as it holds promise for the present life. and also for the life to come. Character again. Character again and also handling the word and being able to grasp and teach sound doctrine. This is the heart of pastoral ministry. The internship basically will have two halves. I'm not going to give specific you know hours and schedule and all of that but if you just want to conceptualize this internship we'll have two halves to it. The first half is Start ministering to young adults. Building a young adult ministry. That's one half. The second half is just training and experience and opportunities in handling the word publicly Preaching, teaching, because that's the heart of any pastoral ministry. Any pastoral ministry revolves around this hub of the word and of course prayer. And you saw here the uh the necessity of of training and fanning into flame. So church if if this vote I'm ex trusting God and expecting that God will will show himself faithful and pass this vote, but the church votes on this in uh how many weeks? Two weeks, I believe, two weeks, votes on this. So I hope you would come out and I hope you would vote in the affirmative for it, it's um it's part, it's just one part, one part of our trying to be faithful. to joining God in this worldwide call to worship Him. This is about calling people to worship God for His name and for His glory. If you have any questions about the details of this or anything about this. Or if you hear questions from other people, maybe they're afraid to come to me, tell them to email me, or encourage them to come to me. I don't bite. I'm not violent. I'm very friendly in person if you come. Just if just just in case anyone has any questions about this Or any reservations, just send them my way and we'll work it out in the spirit of peace and in the warmth of Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you Thank you that we have a biblical church that we could come to. Thank you that we have loving and caring and supportive brothers and sisters. Father, thank you for each other. We are leaving this to you. We know it's in your hands anyway, so we just ask that you would show yourself faithful. Show yourself wise. You're so so much wiser than us, we can't even comprehend it. So we pray that your will be done and pray that we'll have faith, whatever whatever happens. It's in Christ we pray. Amen.