You would take your Bibles and turn to the book of John, chapter 20. We'll begin in a few minutes in verse 24. And if you're using the Bible in the few, it's in the New Testament, page 90. I want to greet any who are watching us online. And I want to say to you, he is risen. He is re well th that's what they were saying. Yeah. I could hear 'em through the camera. And there is an outline in the bulletin. If you have a bulletin, you'll see that on the back page you'll also see it on the screen. So John chapter twenty four I 'm sorry, chapter 20. If there is a chapter 24 and I'm reading from it, you can take me from the pulpit because it does not exist. Chapter 20, verse 24. After rising from the dead in the early morning, and after appearing to Mary , Jesus appeared to the disciples as a group in a room on Easter. Sunday evening. Jesus came. So the other disciples were saying to him, We have seen the Lord. And you would expect from Thomas a joyful, believing response. But Thomas surprisingly responds with a firm disbelief of the word of men that he had lived with. Traveled with, slept with, ate with, ministered with for the last two and a half, three years. Let me tell you not God does nothing by accident. And the Thomas was not there when Jesus first appeared to the apostles. That was not by accident It took place for our instruction and our encouragement that Jesus' resurrection might receive stronger evidence and documented testimony. So, thank you, God, for Thomas. Let's pray together and we'll go through this passage. Father, thank you. Thank you for this passage. Thank you for What it leads us to understand about saving faith today. Help us when we get to the implications of this passage to Allow its truth to penetrate and work in our heart by your Spirit, I pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. First of all, we see in Thomas a stubborn, unbelieving heart. Look at verse 25. He said to them, Remember they said, We've seen the Lord. He said to them, Unless I see in his hands the imprint of the nails and put my finger into the place of the nails, and put my hand into his side. That's where the spear had entered into Jesus' body. I will not believe Now, we could try to excuse Thomas by saying he wanted to verify by seeing the wounds that the man that they saw was really Jesus. But the excuse doesn't work. When Jesus appeared to the others, as I read earlier, he showed them his wounds. They had seen the wounds firsthand He had already given the verification that Thomas claims he needs. So Thomas is arguing against their firsthand. experience with the resurrected Lord, demanding, listen, demanding his own firsthand experience. Some people do that. Unless he had that, he stubbornly refused to believe that Jesus had actually risen from the dead. And so he has become known as doubting. Thomas. And this is a dangerous state to be in. To doubt the resurrection of Christ is to doubt one of the, if not the essential truths of Christianity. In First Corinthians fifteen, verse seventeen, if Christ has not been raised, your faith is worthless, you are still in your sins, Paul writes, and goes on to elaborate all the reasons why. Thomas was refusing to believe this essential Truth. And he was daring to set the rules of his faith in advance. Remember what he said? Unless I see in his hand Hands, put my finger in the place of the nails, put my hand into his side. Now God could have left him in his unbelief, but God was merciful. to Thomas. And we have the second point, a gracious Savior, 26 and 27. After eight days, his disciples were again inside and Thomas with them. Jesus came, the doors having been shut, and stood in their midst and said, Peace be with you. We don't want to miss the miracle there of Jesus entering into a Shut room, but was able to do that in his resurrected body. Suddenly, unexpectedly, Jesus is standing again in the midst of his disciples. Notice he eases their shock by giving the normal greeting, peace be with you. And this time Thomas is there. And Jesus, knowing Thomas's unbelief, knowing Thomas's demands, turns immediately to him. him. Jesus had every right to condemn his unbelief. He himself had predicted his resurrection on several occasions. And men that Thomas knew he could trust were testifying of Jesus' resurrection. But instead of condemning Thomas' unbelief, Jesus graciously offers time. Thomas the proof that he said he needed. Look at verse 27. Then he said to Thomas, Reach here with your finger and see my hand. Hands and reach here with your hand and put it into my side. And do not be unbelieving, but believing. I want you to notice that Jesus used Thomas's very words. In his invitation to Thomas. And that must have convicted Thomas to the core. This one who knew what he had said. The week before is there before him and knows that he did not believe. But Thomas in his heart of hearts is realizing this one is indeed the son of God. Jesus graciously invites Thomas to satisfy the demands that he had so firmly expressed to his disciples. Notice, Thomas had said, unless I see in his hands the imprint of the nails, Jesus said, see my hands. Thomas had said, and put my finger into the place of the nails. Jesus said, Reach here with me. your finger. Thomas had said, and put my hand into his side. Jesus invites, reach here your hand. Put it into my side. Thomas had said, I will not believe. Jesus says, Do not be believing. Unbelieving, but believing. So with this gracious invitation Comes the warning against unbelief. With this gracious invitation comes the call for Thomas and all to believe. We see Thomas' response to the grace and to the warning of Jesus. And it is a humble believing heart. We're not told that Thomas actually reached out and touched Jesus to investigate his crucifixion wounds, but what is clear is that Thomas doubts are erased. Thomas' doubts are replaced with belief. He is no longer unbelieving. but believing. And he confesses his faith to Jesus personally and in front of the other disciples publicly. Look at verse 28. Thomas answered and said to him, My Lord My Lord and my God. Lord, because he, Jesus, the master of Thomas had followed, was alive from the The dead. God, because he knew, Jesus did only what God could know about Thomas's heart and what he had said a week earlier. And my, because Thomas's faith was now a personal faith. My Lord and my God. A stubborn unbelieving heart, a gracious Savior, a humble believing heart, and an eternal lesson. Verse 29. And it's really why I chose this passage this morning. Jesus said to him, Because you have seen me, have you believed? Now, there was nothing wrong with Thomas's confession of faith, my Lord and my God, but Jesus wants us to know that there was something wrong with the manner in which he came to believe. He should have believed without having to see. He should have believed based on Jesus' own words that he would suffer, die, and rise again He should have believed based on God's power to raise the dead, which he had seen on three occasions in Jesus' ministry. And especially had seen just earlier with Lazarus, who had been in In the tomb for four days. And he should have believed based on the testimony of the other disciples. Blessed are they who did not see See and yet believed. Because you've seen me, you believe. Blessed are they who did not see and yet believed I would say Thomas' confession was great, my Lord and my God, but Jesus is saying it's even greater. More blessed when one comes to the same conclusions today as I have, and many of you have, based on what we've heard Spurgeon wrote, Charles Spurgeon, Great Baptist pastor, wrote, the richest blessing Falls to the share of those simple minds who believe the word of God. May you be one of those Even when surrounded with difficulty and unsupported by signs and evidences, the more childlike the faith, the happier the heart I agree with him. Blessed are those who believe that God the Son died on the cross for sin. That Jesus, risen Lord, is coming again, that repentance and faith are required by him. That's the faith that God delights in. A faith based on hearing, not on seeing. Listen to some verses that encourage the same truth. Matthew chapter 8, verse 8 and 10. The centurion said to Jesus, Lord, I'm not worthy for you to come under my roof. But just say the word, and my servant will be healed. Many of you remembered that The incident. Now, when Jesus heard this, he marveled and said to those who were following, Truly I say to you, I have not found such great faith with anyone in Israel. Just say the word. I don't have to see it. I don't have to be in your presence and see the healing. Just say the word. Romans ten verse seventeen A great doctrine of how faith comes. So faith comes from hearing, and hearing by the word of Christ. And in 1 Peter chapter 1, verse 8, and though you have not seen him, you love him. And though you do not see him now, but believe in him, that's what Jesus said. said would be blessed. You greatly rejoice with joy inexpressible and full of glory. So the eternal lesson in this passage, John chapter 20, 24 through 29, is from Jesus' mouth. Blessed are they who did not see. And yet believed. And I'm looking at him. Blessed are you who did not see, but yet believed Several implications here. Let's talk about them. First of all, Jesus knows every man's heart, just as he knew Thomas's heart. He knows your doubts, your fears, your hopes, he knows your love. You're not hiding anything from him. So just as he knew Thomas's heart and what he had said the week earlier, he knows you and I. Don't think that he doesn't. We don't hide anything from him, but that's good news to people of faith. He knows us. He knows our needs. He knows when we're thinking wrongly. He knows when we're responding wrongly. When we come to him, we're helped with that. Secondly, some today, and I've met them, some of them. Some today demand their own firsthand confirmation from heaven, like Thomas did. And tragically wait a lifetime for some sign that they think God ought to give them so that they can really believe. Let me say, if you're in that group, if you're in that group, trust that Thomas had the same weakness of heart that you have, and believe the proof that God so graciously gave to him. You cannot set the rules of your faith. If you insist on something physical in order to believe Listen again to Jesus' words. Because you've seen me, have you believed? Blessed are they who did not see and yet believed. No one today should expect to see Jesus physically, should expect even a miracle in order to bring them to faith in Him. God has set his blessing clearly on faith resulting from hearing the truth of his word. We are to hear the gospel and by the grace of God repent and believe. We are to hear the teaching of the Word of God and by God's grace grow. And if you are waiting for the kind of evidence that Thomas received , The mindset that God will bless. And if you die waiting, you'll die as an unbeliever. That's the tragedy Thirdly, implications, thirdly. If you do believe based on the written eyewitnesses , testimony of scripture, you experience the blessing Jesus spoke of. They spoke of it in the recitation. Earlier, salvation, spiritual life, the indwelling Holy Spirit, the peace and love of God. Fourth, even though Thomas had doubts, I want you to notice something. He had not forsaken the fellowship Of the disciples. We don't know why he wasn't there the first time, but he's with them the second time that's mentioned. He was there, he was where he should have been, assembled with believers, and Jesus meets him there. When you have doubts, It is so easy to leave the company of those who believe, because you don't feel like them anymore. But they have Have what you need. And they're where you should be. So even with his doubts, he had not forsaken the fellowship of disciples. Don't forsake the fellowship of believers. when you have doubts. Fifth, Jesus is Lord. That's clear. The resurrection, the ascension To God's right hand, the promised future return, all show his lordship. Jesus affirmed to Pilate that he was king. We saw that Friday night. And that the realm of his kingdom was higher than the earth. So the question to be asked is: since he is king. Does he rule your life? Does he rule my life? The commission of this church and every local body of believers that wants to honor Christ is to Teach believers to observe all that Jesus commanded us. Because he's Lord and we're to follow him. Jesus is Lord. Do you practice that day by day? In a personal way. Does he rule your life? And number six, Jesus is God. Jesus is God the Son, equal with God the Father. If he were not, if he were not, he would have corrected Thomas. Or he would be guilty of perpetrating an untruth on future generations. In other words, Thomas said, My Lord and my God. If Jesus were not God , He would have said so then. Only God could live a perfect life. Only God could be an acceptable sacrifice for our sin. Acts four twelve. There is salvation in no one else For there is no other name under heaven that has been given among men by which we must be saved. So let me ask, have you said in your heart of hearts, and have you said publicly Jesus is My Lord and my God. That's where Christ graciously brought Thomas to. And many of you he's brought you you to that point to where in your heart of hearts, maybe in prayer with someone else or just individually, you confess his lordship. You confessed the truth of him. You realized indeed he is the Savior God sent. You believed in him. You knew his death on the cross. was for the penalty of your sin. You believed that. You knew that it was not your good works that could ever get you to heaven. And you trusted him. You placed your faith in him as the Son of God who came to die for your sin. If you confess with your mouth, Jesus as Lord Lord, and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. It was true when Paul, by the Spirit, wrote it in a letter to the Romans. It is true this morning that if you confess with your mouth Jesus as Lord and believe in your heart that God raised him from the dead, you will be saved. Let's pray. Pray together. Father, we ask you to be gracious as Jesus shows grace and compassion to Thomas. We pray for that this morning toward any who are with us. without Christ, who need to confess Him, who need to believe without seeing Him, bring them to that faith. Lord, I know you hold us accountable, but I also know it is your Holy Spirit who convicts us of sin, of righteousness, of judgment to come. So bring conviction. To souls who are here, souls watching online, souls who will watch this later. Any who are lost. Bring conviction. We pray. We plead. That you might be glorified in their salvation. Bring them to that place of faith where they would say, Of Jesus, my Lord, my God. We ask in Jesus' name. Amen