Well, let's go ahead and grab our Bibles and turn to John chapter 1. Today looking at John 1, 6 through 18. Pastor John 's been doing a series through the Psalms of select Psalms and looking at different ways where God manifests his glory. And I'm doing today a sermon from John that's uh focuses on God's climactic revelation or God's climactic manifestation of his glory, and that is the person and the work of Jesus Christ. The center of the Bible, the center of history, the center of Christianity, the center of church life, the center of everything, the glory of God in Christ. John 1 6 through 18. I'll read the passage and then pray for our time together in the Word. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. He came as a witness to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. He was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. But to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God, who were born not of blood. nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness about him and cried out. This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me. For from his fullness we have all received grace upon grace. The law was given through Moses. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. No one has ever seen God, the only God who is at the Father's side. He has made him known. Let's pray together. Well, Father, we confess that nothing will happen here unless your Spirit works through the preaching. of your word. So we pray that you would help us. We preach out of weakness and we listen in our weakness. We depend upon your spirit. We depend completely upon the power of your word, upon your providence and special care. Father, we pray that you would drive the great truths of Christ into our hearts. Reshape our hearts, reorient and redirect our hearts to live for Christ and for his glory. Father, we pray for your help in Jesus' name. Amen. The glory of God in Christ is the light of salvation in all the earth. And hopefully you saw that word stand out in the passage. Light. It's going to be a key word for us this morning. The glory of God in Christ is the light of his salvation that's for all the earth. Light and darkness have rich symbolism in Scripture. In the most general way, light is a metaphor or is a symbol for God. And anything that reflects God. And darkness would be what? It would be the opposite. That which is contrary to God. That which is uh opposite of God. So in a general way, light symbolizes God, darkness symbolizes evil Light can symbolize under those categories God's truth, and darkness could symbolize the Satan's lies. Light would symbolize God's character or holiness. Darkness would uh symbolize wickedness. But here the symbolism of light is specific It's specifically the light of God's salvation, the light of God's salvation that comes to a world of darkness So in its usage here, and this is the main usage in John, darkness symbolizes a world under the curse of sin. This is a world of darkness. This is the world that Jesus came into, which is what our passage is about. Jesus coming into a world of darkness to shine the light of God's salvation in that world to the ends of the earth. The glory of God in Christ is the light. Jesus is the light of God's salvation. So darkness is world under the curse of sin and death. Light is God's salvation to those who live under the curse. Before we get into the outline, I want to talk about the word glory. Glory. It's been a key word in this whole series, and it's a key word in this passage. You see that word in our passage. Glory means the shining forth of something. The best illustration that I've been able to come up with, if you have a better one, let me know. I'm open to as many illustrations on this, but is the glory of the sun. The sun 's glory is its light that shines forth. The sun 's glory is its heat that shines forth But even more than that, the sun's glory is its beauty. Because of its light, because of its heat, it has a beauty that shines forth. It has a life-giving presence The sun does for our world. The glory of the sun is the shining forth of what the sun is. God's glory is his shining forth of who he is. climactically and centrally and gloriously, God shines forth who he is in Jesus, in the person of Jesus Christ and the salvation that comes through him, the glory of God in Christ, the shining forth of his salvation for all the earth. And of course the critical point for each one of us is whether he's to become the light of God's salvation for you personally. It's not just to believe that he's the light of salvation for all the earth, but to receive him To plant your feet here. Faith in Jesus Christ as my salvation, as the light of God's salvation for me. That's where we need to get. That's where we need to get. What we preach. Is a person. Centrally, what we have to preach and to proclaim is a person. Jesus Christ. And we're calling You, God's calling me, we're calling others to come to a person. Not just the idea of forgiveness, not just the idea of heaven. Not just, heaven forbid, not just to be involved in outward religion, but to come into a relationship with a person who lives in heaven, Jesus. We preach Jesus and in him is salvation. He's the light of God's salvation. The glory of God in all the earth. Jesus Christ, the light of the world. To get that symbolism more on darkness and light, you can think of a dungeon that's far, far below ground level with no natural light. And we're imprisoned into this dungeon with no natural light, shackled. Feet shackled, hands shackled, shackled to the ground so that we can't even move. This is a metaphor for being enslaved to sin And the light of God's salvation is not just shining a flashlight in there so that we can begin to see, but rather it's Jesus as a person coming in Breaking the shackles, lifting us up, carrying us out, carrying us up, granting us freedom, granting us a new life of freedom in Christ. Taking us out of darkness, the darkness of bondage to sin and death, giving us freedom, the freedom of forgiveness, and life in a relationship with God. Front load these things so that as we go through this passage and parse out different points and different applications Never move on from this fundamental point that we're talking about a person and what he can do for us, what he has done for us, the living Lord Jesus Christ. Just some Cross references before we go further into the outline. John 8 12. Again Jesus spoke to them, saying, I am the light of the world. Whoever follows me will not walk in darkness, but will have the light of life. You see, out of darkness into the light of life, but what's the operative phrase, whoever follows me, it's following Jesus that brings us out of darkness into life. Colossians 1, 13 and 14, one of my favorite passages of Scripture. He has delivered us from the domain of darkness. That's the world under the curse of sin and death. He's delivered us from the domain of darkness and he Transferred us into the kingdom of his beloved Son, in whom we have redemption, the forgiveness of sins. Where do we have redemption? In the Son. Where do we have the forgiveness of sins? In the Son. We must come to the Son. You must put your faith in the Son for forgiveness. An entrance into the kingdom of God. And one more, Matthew 4. 16 through 17 at the very beginning of Jesus' earthly ministry, Matthew writes, the people dwelling in darkness have seen a great light. And in the context that's talking about the Gentile nations. It's not just to Israel that this light of salvation came, it's to the whole world that this light of salvation came. The people living in darkness have seen a great light. And for those dwelling in the region and shadow of death, upon them a light has dawned. What light? What light? Jesus. Jesus came. Verse 17, from that time Jesus began to preach, saying, Repent, for the kingdom of heaven is at hand. Well, what does this call for? What kind of response does this call for? Christ is the light of salvation in all the earth The response is that he must be magnified in all the earth. He must be magnified. We must zoom in on him more and more. Not less and less. We must focus our hearts in on Christ more and more. We must magnify him. Not making uh him littler and littler in our hearts, but making him bigger and bigger in our hearts. Christ must be magnified, and he is magnified by the work of the Spirit, and He will be magnified to the ends of the earth, and then the end will come. How will he be magnified? Well, giving you the outline of the rest of the message, first of all, he'll be magnified in the preaching of salvation. We'll see that modeled, given a foreshadow of that in John the Baptist, where the passage begins. He'll be magnified by the preaching of salvation. Secondly, he'll be magnified in the power of regeneration. The power of regeneration. People being born again by the power of the Holy Spirit through the preaching of the word that magnifies Christ. Christ gets the credit for that. Christ gets the glory for that. We don't get the credit and the glory for being born again. We're recipients. Of the power of Christ. He'll be magnified, and he is magnified, and he'll be magnified through the preaching of salvation. Through the power of regeneration. And third, he was and will forever be magnified in the mystery of the incarnation, the eternal Son of God. Taking unto himself a human nature, friends, to be our brother, to be a well-qualified mediator to reconcile us to God the mystery, the glorious mystery of the incarnation that enables Christ to then go live in a righteous life as our representative and die on the cross and shed his blood as our representative. He didn't do anything wrong. He didn't deserve to die. He didn't deserve to be punished. But is our substitute, our brother, our Savior, Jesus? Well, that can only happen in light of the incarnation. Preaching of salvation, the power of regeneration, and the mystery of the incarnation, let Christ be magnified. Number one, he is and will be magnified in the preaching of salvation. Again, look at verses six through eight with me. There was a man sent from God whose name was John. Now first notice that this is a messenger from God. Couldn't be clearer. A man Sent from God. His name was John. This is not John, the apostle and the author of this book. This is John the Baptist, Jesus' cousin. Verse 7, he came as a witness to bear witness about the light, that all might believe through him. You can circle the word lights, you can circle the word hymn, and you can draw a line connecting them. The light is a hymn. The light is a person. If you've been paying any kind of attention this morning, you know that the person of the light is Jesus. John came and bear witness about Jesus, the light. Verse 8, he was not the light, but came to bear witness about the light. Preaching is so important because the preaching of the word, in whatever era of history there's been. The preaching of God's Word and the teaching of God's Word is how God makes his way into our hearts. If you need a shot, some kind of vaccination or some kind of medication, That needs to be delivered internally. There needs to be some kind of needle to get inside of you to deliver what needs to be delivered. It's through the Word of God, the preaching and teaching and disseminating of God's word. That's the way God gets into the hearts of sinners and changes those hearts. So that we would love and worship him, not ourselves, and not things of the world. Amen. This is how God gets there. His word, the word of his power, by the work of his spirit, for the glory of his own name. John was the preacher. John the Baptist came as a witness. To the light. The word witness is the key word here. I'm sure that popped out to you. He came as a witness, to bear witness to the light. He came not, he was not the light, he came to bear witness about the light. A witness testifies to the truth. That's what a witness is. So John the Baptist, as a witness to the light, came to bear witness to give testimony public Testimony to what's true about the coming Messiah, Jesus Christ. You can have an eyewitness. If you saw the car accident, you're an eyewitness, and you can testify to the truth of what you saw. Maybe you're a character witness. And based on your experience, you know this person, you can testify to what's true about the character of this person. You can be an expert witness. Maybe you're an expert in a specific field. and you would testify to what's true based on your expert knowledge. You could be a material witness. A material witness is someone who has a unique uh knowledge of the case. Almost the whole case depends on the material witness. For whatever reason, maybe they were in the conversation or whatever they saw a file but nobody else saw A material witness, the whole case hangs on they will they testify to what's true that only they know. A witness testifies to what's true. There's such great application here because a witness does not exist for the sake of a witness If John the Baptist's ministry became about John, it's no longer the ministry he was called to. Think of the sermon as one practical application. The minute the sermon becomes about the sermon, it's no longer a sermon. The sermon is a pointer. The sermon is to get our eyes and our hearts fixed on Christ, looking away from self Looking away from the fleeting things of this world, looking away from the sinful and superficial pleasures of this world, turning the heart to Christ. Witnesses point away from themselves to the truth of something else. We have a witnessing function as a church. We don't exist for our own sake. Ultimately, we exist for the glory of God, that God will be glorified through us and in us. But one of the reasons he's put the church on earth and put Christians on earth is to point people away from themselves to God and his revelation in Christ. We have a witnessing function. The same thing that I said for John, and the same thing I said for a sermon, we could also say that about the church. Once we exist, or if we exist Begin to exist for ourselves. We've we've lost our biblical calling and function. We don't exist for the sake of ourselves. We exist for the glory of God and the salvation of lost souls that comes from From witnessing to Christ. Witnessing to Christ. Not only a central role and part of John's ministry, but still of the church today. Second Corinthians 4, 5. The apostle Paul writes, We do not preach ourselves. We do not preach ourselves. Brothers and sisters, we are not the draw for sinners. The church is not the draw for sinners. There's no marketing scheme we need to come up with. Christ is the draw. God's gift of salvation is the draw. That's the thing that changes the heart. That's the thing that changes the mind. Christ is the one who woos sinners to lead a life of sin and come to God. Christ is the one. We must witness to Christ. We do not preach ourselves. Now, what I'm about to give you really is enough. for a four a four-part entire day-long lecture series on the light of salvation. Oh, obviously we won't do that But I want to give us a glimpse. I want us to be able to summarize what is the sum and substance of the light of salvation. First of all, the light of salvation takes those alienated from God and reconciles them to Him. This is the uh the relational aspect. In darkness, we're alienated from God, but the light of salvation in Christ is to be reconciled to God, to be counted as an adopted heir of the kingdom, not a rebel who's just running further and further away from God You know, the way of the world and the message of the culture is to further and further isolate yourself from God. Further and further isolate yourself from his truth. And live for yourself. Pursue that more. Live for yourself. Live for yourself. Get away from God. Well, what what do you see happening is m as As the culture around us in the world, and maybe you, I'm not sure, I don't know everyone's heart in here, maybe as you live according to that philosophy, what happens is in the heart you get you experience more and more a feeling of alienation. More and more feeling of desperation and darkness. Well, because you're going further and further away from the light, further and further away from being reconciled to God Alienated to adopted is one aspect of the light of salvation. Another one, I alluded to this early, is the light of salvation takes those who are enslaved to sin. And frees them from sin's ruling power. And aren't you happy that Jesus did this in your life, that you were a slave to sin? That you were shackled by the power of sin, that sin and rebellion against God was your spiritual master and Jesus intervened. And Jesus sets you free from the shackles of sin. And brothers and sisters, in Christ, you are no longer enslaved to sin. Sin still lingers, amen. In the mind and in the heart, and in our words, and in the way we interact. Sin still lingers, but sin is not your master. Sin is not your master if you are in Christ. You've been taken out of darkness into the light, from alienated to adopted, from enslaved to free. Third, from guilty to innocent. The light of salvation. From guilty before the throne of God to innocent before the throne of God. Praise his name. He does not count our transgressions against us The forgiveness of sins, you're no longer guilty in the eyes of God. But because of the life and death and resurrection of Jesus Christ, you are innocent in his sight and finally the light of salvation. The hopeless are given hope. The hopeless are given hope. And I'm not just talking about a feeling of hopelessness. I'm talking about actually living without hope, whether you feel it or not. Living as if the material world is all there is. Living as if this Life, this physical life and this material world is the ultimate reality, but not looking beyond that and not looking above that. That's that's living life without hope. So whether or not you sense or feel hopelessness in the heart and spirit, to live without Christ is to live without hope. But to have Him is to have hope. How does this light of salvation come to us? Well, first of all, through the life, death, and resurrection of Christ, that he shed his blood so that we could be forgiven so that we could be made children of God. That's number one. But then secondly, as you hear this message, turning to Christ in faith Trusting Christ alone for this gift of salvation. Trusting him to say, Christ, you're not a liar. I believe you. I need a savior. You're my savior. You're my hope. That's turning to Christ in faith. To abandon all other hopes or the illusion of hopes. And rest in Christ and embrace Christ. And to be saved, you must embrace Christ. Please embrace Him. He's your only way to the light of salvation. He is and will be magnified in preaching salvation. This was John 's purpose and ministry. Bear witness to the light. Bear witness to the light. Testify to the truth of the light, which means preach Christ as the only way of salvation. Preach Christ. We must preach Christ Indeed, the heart and fountain source of any and all spiritual growth and spiritual health, whether whether individual or whether as a church as a whole begins with the word of Jesus Christ, the gospel message of Jesus Christ. Friends, we never graduate from that. We'll grow deeper in it And deeper in it and see it more and more. And be transformed by it more and more. But we never move on from the preaching of Christ. He is and will be magnified in the preaching of salvation. Secondly, he is and will be magnified in the power of regeneration. The power of regeneration. That just means being born again. To regenerate means to be reborn. The power of being born again, the power of regeneration. This comes from verses 9 through 13. The true light, which gives light to everyone, was coming into the world. Now I'm going to give you a parenthetical statement right here on the phrase. Which gives light to everyone. I've n I've chosen not to expound that in the message just because of what I want to focus on and our limited time. But Most likely that refers to the light of conscience. By virtue of living in God's world, by virtue of being made in his image, God reveals himself to us Through creation and through our conscience. And what's what's the problem is with sin we ignore that revelation. But because we are made in his image, God is revealing himself to us. And that's why it says, gives light to everyone. But then after the comma in verse 9, something's going to happen in that context. That light, which gives light to everyone, is going to come into the world. He's going to personally enter the world of creation. It's an incredible thing. That's the third point, the mystery of the incarnation. But the eternal God who made man and reveals himself in creation and reveals himself in conscience to all people who are made in his image, he's coming. He's coming into his creation. End of parenthetical. Verse 10. He was in the world, and the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. Who is he referring to there when it says his own and his own people? Israel, right, the Jews, the Judeans, the stewards of the covenant promises They did not receive him. And that's not uh making a technical statement that's absolutely true to say none of Israel received him, but by and large By and large, the majority did not receive him, but to all who did receive him, who believed in his name, he gave the right to become children of God. There's your adoption. Adoption through faith in Christ, becoming a child of God through faith in Christ, who were born not of blood, nor of the will of the flesh, nor of the will of man, but of God. It's interesting there. He he says how they're born and then he gives you three ways how they're not born. Because we all have a tendency to invent ways that we come into a relationship with God. So he wants to give us arguments against those. You know, when a baby is born, that's not the first time the baby exists. The baby exists as a person at the moment of conception But when the baby is born, the baby truly enters into a whole new phase of life and existence. Life life in the womb to life out of the womb and in the world. Even breathing is a major change. That's a metaphor for a sinner being born again. When you turn to Christ in faith, That's a spiritual reality. That's an invisible thing that happens in the heart. It's called being born again. It's not when you begin to exist. But you really and truly enter into a whole completely new phase of life and existence. Life in relationship with God through faith in Christ. You're born again. Now you see clearly when Jesus came, he was number one, rejected By many. Verse 10 and 11. He was in the world, the world was made through him, yet the world did not know him. He came to his own, and his own people did not receive him. There's a rejection of Christ. And until Christ returns, there will always be a rejection of Christ in the world. That's the very thing that God is saving people out of. Amen. This is what He saved us from, from our own rejection of God and of Christ. He was rejected by many. It says in verse 10, he was in the world. Now, the world was made through him. He's the agent of creation. And by virtue of that, creation is always screaming forth, always revealing his creative power and his majesty. So the most logical thing for people to do would be to believe in the one who created the world. Well sin is illogical. By its very definition, sin is illogical. To not worship the Creator, but rather worship things within the creation is irrational. It's illogical, but that's what sin is They should have received and believed him, but he's rejected by many. Please don't be a rejector of Christ. Please don't be a rejector of Christ. Receive Him. Believe in Him. Don't let that skepticism get you. Skepticism can be on the heart like a vice grip. If you give Satan a little itty bitty foothold of skepticism. If you're not careful, that'll just become a fortress of skepticism that's almost impossible. Well by by human measures, it is impossible to breach. Repent from rejecting Christ. Number two, he is received by faith. Don't be a pessimist. Christians aren't pessimists. We believe God exists. We believe God is working. We believe God is saving sinners. We believe the power of His Word. We believe the work of His Spirit. We belie Believe we're not pessimists. By definition, we're people of faith, not pessimism. Some did receive him, yea, received him how? By faith. Verse 12. To all who did receive him And now he defines how you do that, who believed in his name, and he gave the right to become children of God. Great summary passage. Summary passage. Doesn't say everything about how to become a Christian, but it summarizes the main things. Become a child of God through faith in Jesus Christ. You turn to Jesus Christ in faith, you're a child of God. For all eternity, and that can never be taken away from you. It happens in the heart. It is a spiritual, invisible reality of the heart turning to Jesus Christ in faith to become a child of God. Some did receive him. He was rejected by many, but he was received and believed upon. And number three gives a little bit more detail on those who did receive him. They are reborn by God. So he's rejected by many. He's received by faith. And those who receive him by faith are reborn by God. Verse 13. Now the word by, this little preposition is so important. B-Y. Because you're not just born again for God, you're born again by God. In other words, God's the one who did it. This bike was painted by Matt. Bike didn't paint itself. For Matt, Matt painted the bike. God gives new life to sinners. Reborn by God verse thirteen. Who were born, number one, not of blood , number two, nor of the will of the flesh. Number three, nor of the will of man. And then giving you the bookends, giving you the brackets, just in case we missed it at the very beginning, but of God, children of God. Born of God. To be to not be born of blood means that you never be saved by your family lineage. You're not saved by blood relation, in other words. Just being in blood relation to Abraham, ethnically, physically, nationally, whatever, an Israelite, doesn't save anybody And likewise today, to be a Christian to be truly saved, it has nothing to do with uh who you're related to You don't inherit salvation. Every individual person must repent and believe in Jesus Christ. We are not born again by blood. We're not born again by the will of the flesh. That means that you're not saved because of something in you. I was not saved because of something in me. We're not saved because of our wisdom. We're not saved because of our power. We're not saved because of our spiritual insight or because of our will. We're saved by the power of God. We're not saved by blood. We're not saved by the will of the flesh. We're not saved by the will of man. That means you're not saved because of what others declare about you. There's no being saved by proximity. The word of man is not the authoritative word of all things. It's the word of God that's the authoritative word of all things. We're not saved. Because of what others declare about us, we must come to Christ to be born again. Jesus, the light of God's salvation. must be magnified in all the earth. That he is magnified and he'll be further magnified. He's magnified in the preaching of salvation. He's magnified in the power of regeneration. And the the number three and the final section this morning He was and will forever be magnified in the mystery of the incarnation. The mystery of the incarnation. This comes from verses 14 through 18. I hope we realize that Jesus is fully God and fully man And I hope you further realize that if that's not true, he doesn't save anybody. This is not Just a point of interesting philosophy. This is not just about ideas. This is about what makes Jesus our Savior. He's truly God and He's truly man. The incarnation, the mystery of the incarnation. Verses 14 through 18. And the word became flesh and dwelt among us. And we have seen his glory, glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. John bore witness about him, and cried out, This was he of whom I said, He who comes after me ranks before me, because he was before me. And that's an understatement. Was before me means that it's referring to the eternal Son of God who's always existed, existed before creation. Yeah, I'd say that ranks above John the Baptist. Verse 16: It's from his fullness we've all received grace upon grace. The law was given through Moses Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. The law that was given through Moses is talking about the covenant at Mount Sinai between God and Israel as mediated through Moses, and that had within it foreshadowings of Christ. Foreshadowings of the fullness of redemption. Well, when Christ comes, you don't need the foreshadows any longer. He's the reality. He's the realization. He's the fulfillment of everything that the law foreshadowed and promised. That's what verse 17 means. The law was given through Moses, but grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. And no one has ever seen God. But the only God who is at the Father's side, he has made him known Now, there's a lot here, all right, but this is uh just one section of a sermon. I can't do a whole other sermon right now as much as I'd like to. First of all, just look at the phrase the Word, verse 14. The Word. This refers to the eternal Son of God. In other words, God, the Eternal Son. There's one God who exists eternally in three persons. If you know them, say them with me: Father, Son, and Holy Spirit. The word refers to the Son. The second person of the Trinity. This is how John begins the gospel account in verse 1 and 2, and then in verse 14 he circles back to it. Verse 1 in the beginning was the word And the word was with God, and the word was God. Circle this word. He, he was in the beginning with God. As soon as you get to verse two, you know that this is a personal word. This is a person. He's also an eternal word, because he was there in the beginning. He's a word that is equal to God because he was God, but there's some kind of distinction within the Godhead because he also was with God He was in the beginning, he was eternal, he was with God, that's referring to God the Father. There's some kind of distinction, but he was God. That's not distinction, that's identification. Coequal But distinct person, the word. The word became flesh and dwelt among us. Became flesh and dwelt among us means the eternal Son Took to himself a human nature and lived on earth. He tabernacled among us. I'm sure you've heard that if you've heard preaching on this before. That's the Greek word there. He tabernacled among us. He truly took a human nature to himself, remaining God. He didn't change from God into a man. He remained fully God. and took to himself a human nature, one person and two natures, the mystery of the incarnation. And this is the foundation of how we would be saved. The word it became flesh and dwelt among us. Therefore now here's the theological conclusion. It's also a practical conclusion that should reshape everything about us. Therefore, his glory is God 's glory. That's the point of this paragraph. His glory is God's glory. Look at the end of verse 14. We have seen his glory. Well, tell us about his glory. Glory as of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth The Father's glory is his glory. His glory is the Father's glory. What he reveals is the revelation of God. His glory is God's glory. Verse 18. No one has ever seen God. And that's true. People have seen revelations of God. All throughout history, God has revealed Himself in different ways, various ways, at different times. He's revealed Himself. And even in heaven, God reveals Himself. But in terms of God's being, as God's being, God's innermost being, without being revealed, is this making sense? Without revealing himself, just God's being. No one's seen that. No one's everything we know about God or see about God or think about God comes to us through supernatural revelation. We haven't seen The unmediated being of God. But the one who's come and his name is Jesus has He is God. He's the full radiance of God. He is God. Jesus is God. Come as a man, our Savior. He came God as a man to live on earth and he did the work of salvation and now who is he? And now where is he? He's a man who rules in heaven with the authority of God. This is who we worship. This is our King. This is our Savior, friends. This is our hope, the living Christ. His glory is God's glory. I love the last phrase of verse 18. I love this phrase. It's uh what I've been ranting about for the last three minutes. He has made him known. He The word made flesh. He has made him known. And we know it's Jesus because he says it in verse 17, came through Jesus Christ. It's the first time in the book of John we get the actual name here. We know God because Jesus has made him known. His glory is God's glory. And that glory, remember, this is where we started. We circle back to it. That glory is the light of salvation. What's the purpose of the incarnation? If someone happens to walk up to you on the street and say, What's the purpose of Christ's incarnation? You should get it in a snap. Redemption. Or we also would accept salvation. But the incarnation is to serve God's purpose of redemption. This has to happen. It's maybe not the climactic miracle. of the gospels. That more would be the death and resurrection of Christ. But this is central. Because the death and resurrection of Christ can't happen and can't accomplish what it's meant to accomplish apart from the mystery of incarnation. The Word became flesh and dwelt among us. Therefore, his glory is God's glory for the purpose of salvation. I'm going to finish on the word, uh, that's a major word in here. And if you've been looking at that passage and skimming that passage, hopefully some of you at least are thinking, how come he hasn't said anything about this word? It can all be summed up by one word, grace. This is all we're all we've done this morning is peel back the layers of God's Grace. All we've done is open up a treasure chest that says on the front, God's grace, and just look at different aspects and different treasures within it. This is all a manifestation and a historical realization Of God's grace, the central theme of the whole Bible. Look at verse 14. The end of it. The glory is of the only Son from the Father, full of grace and truth. You say the truth of his grace. Those things aren't contradictory, they're complementary. The truth of God in the grace of Jesus Christ. Or the grace of God in the truth of Jesus Christ. Grace. Also look at verse. 16. For from his fullness we we receive. What in the world is his fullness? It's it's all who he is. It's who he is. It's from him, from him as a person, all that he's about. There's where we we've received grace upon grace. Oh, my friends, beloved of God, I hope you're able to look back at your life and to interpret things properly and to see grace. Upon grace, upon grace, upon grace, upon grace. God has been gracious to us. He's worthy of praise. Grace upon grace. Not crumbs and crumbles, but full servings that we do not deserve. Grace, verse 17, he says it again. Grace and truth came through Jesus Christ. This is the opening a section of John, it's been called the prologue, and the note it ends on is God's grace through Christ, and the rest of the story just plays out. You know how that happens How that happens in the life, death, and resurrection of Christ, and then the rest of the Bible just uh draws out and describes and details y you know the benefits of that. Coming to people who live on earth. After Jesus goes to heaven, after he accomplishes his work, he then starts saving sinners all over the world that he would be magnified. He was and will forever be magnified in the preaching of salvation, in the power of regeneration, and in the mystery of the incarnation. But what I want to know is Is he magnified in your life? Do you magnify him? Do you make much of him? Or do you make him little and small? Do you magnify him? Have you come to Jesus Christ for salvation? Come to him. Turn to him for the glory of God and for your own hope. Forgiveness of sins, freedom from sins, becoming a child of God. That Christ would be magnified. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for Jesus. I pray that for those who don't know you that you'd stir their hearts up and bring them to faith. We pray that for those who know you who've grown slack that you would stir their hearts up. Give them a zeal and a new found love. Let them recover again the love they had at first. Anyone here who's ensnared in sin? I pray that you would intervene and give help and give repentance in all things. Let Christ be magnified. It's in his name we pray. Amen.