Anthony, welcome back to the podcast of North Harford Baptist Church. You ready to roll? Let's do it. Alright, we've been doing core values. First of all, we did the glory and praise of God. Secondly, we did the salvation of souls. And third, we did the gospel of Jesus Christ. And now we come to number four, the work of the Holy Spirit. And hopefully we see the logical flow. um of how those roll one right into the other. The last one was the gospel of Jesus Christ. That is what saves sinners, reconciles us to God, brings us into a relationship with God forever. Also, the gospel has the power to sanctify us, make us more like Jesus. But all of that happens through the work of the Spirit It's uh such an important connection to always keep the word and the spirit together when we're thinking about God's ministry in our lives. Let me map this out. Before we get into it, because they have four subheadings for us on the work of the Spirit. Number one, the work of the Spirit to convict us of our need for a Savior. So that's number one, conviction. Number two, the work of the Spirit to bring us to faith in Christ. That will be conversion. Number three Sanctification, so that will be the work of the Spirit in making us more like Jesus and the work of the Spirit and killing sin in our hearts. And then finally, strengthening. the work of the Spirit to strengthen us in our faith and to sustain us. So the work of the Spirit in conviction, conversion, sanctification, and strengthening. Are you good with that list? They're not all C's. Now I know. Yeah, I guess we could get that third one wouldn't be too hard to get a C. Uh conforming, conforming us to the likeness of Christ. You'd have to do the fourth one. My brain doesn't have the energy to come up with a C. Compounding. Could be could be confirming. I've heard people use that. Confirming is um Or we could go all four S 's. Four C's, four S's, maybe next time. Or we could just go through let's just lay that. We could do we could do that. Two C's, two S's. Alright. The work of the spirit and conviction. Now We could talk about the conviction of sin for the believer, the ongoing conviction of sin. That's a part of our sanctification. Um and in fact, two of our passages are in that context. But just for the sake of clarity, I want to talk about the work of the Spirit in conviction. when we're still lost. That initial conviction to um show us and to make us feel uh our sinfulness or our violation of God's law. And that's what we're talking about in terms of the work of the Spirit and conviction. It's the work of the Spirit to show us that we need a Savior, to show us that we're sinners, that we're sinful, that we're under the judgment of God, and that we need a savior. So I'll read my verses and then throw it over to you for response and a deepening of what we're talking about. The first one I have is from John 168. It's Jesus talking about one of the things the Holy Spirit will do. When the Holy Spirit is poured out on the day of Pentecost and the gospel starts to spread, the ministry of the word starts to spread to all the world. Jesus says in John 16, 8 When he comes, he will convict the world concerning sin and righteousness and judgment. I start here because the word convict is here. It's a legal word. It's a verdict being pronounced, a guilty verdict being pronounced. The idea is it's the Holy Spirit that will convince sinners that they are guilty will convict the world, convict sinners in the world concerning sin, righteousness, and judgment. So the Holy Spirit shows us when we're lost, the Holy Spirit through the ministry of the Word. shows us that we are sinners, that we're guilty, shows us that God is righteous and that He is holy, and therefore also shows us that we are under judgment So convict the world concerning our sin, concerning God's righteousness, and then concerning God's judgment against our sin. Only the Holy Spirit can do this. Psalm 32 gives us just a little bit of a window into the sorrow that happens when we're convicted and the The desire to confess our sins and the desire to go to God for mercy when we're convicted. Psalm 32, verse 3. When I kept silent, my bones wasted away. Through my groaning all day long, for day and night your hand was heavy upon me, my strength was dried up as by the heat of summer. I acknowledged my sin to you and did not cover my iniquity. I said, I will confess my transgression to the Lord, and you forgave the iniquity of my sin. So there's a conviction, there's a sorrow, it leads to confession, it leads to seeking God's mercy. And the last one is Psalm 51. Verse 1: Have mercy on me, O God, according to your steadfast love, according to your abundant mercy, blot out my transgressions, wash me thoroughly from my iniquity, and cleanse me from my sin. For I know my transgressions, and my sin is ever before me. Against you, you only have I sinned and done what is evil in your sight. So again, uh, and both of these are written by David, and you see in both of them an acknowledgement of sin, an acknowledgement of guilt. But more than that, it's not just head knowledge, it's feeling, it's sensing guilt before God and a desperate need for forgiveness. Yeah. It it's encouraging to hear that as a as a pastor, but also just as a Christian, desiring to share the gospel. When is that Often we fear man, so we don't want to talk about sin. Like let's just talk about the love of God. Let's just talk about Jesus and not address sin. It gets awkward, people don't like it. But believing and trusting that that's how God works is through the proclamation that we are sinners, that the the Spirit uses that to convict the loss, which is part of the mechanism God uses then to draw them to Him. So it's encouraging to say, okay, I don't need to fear this. This is God's plan, is to convict sinners. to them find him , to convict them, to draw them to him, but also trusting that that I'm not the one that has to convince someone that they're a sinner. I'm using scripture, but I'm trusting the work of the Spirit in that person to draw that out. So I don't need to know every single sin of that person and make it real personal and make sure I get to the point for that specific person. But trusting through the preaching of the word, um the sharing of the gospel, the spirit can work within that and will work within that to convict them and draw them. Yeah, trusting God is the only way to do this because we know that the natural person uh on their own can't bring themselves to this conviction. We know that the flesh doesn't want this. And so if we're going by that alone and not looking to God's power and not trusting to God, then this part of the message will fall to the wayside. We will be afraid to minister. uh toward a conviction. But it would be silly to do that. It would be foolish. Um it would be like a surgeon who's afraid to use the scalpel because he doesn't want to cut the patient. Right. You have to cut the patient. You've got to get in there. You've got to get in there to make to make it right, to fix whatever you need to fix. And that's I've heard that illustration before, you know, in in the preaching of God's law, God's holiness, the judgment of God. These are like the scalpel. These are what God uses to bring conviction. And then in that context, here comes the good news. Yeah. So that's the conviction. We have to believe in The work of the Spirit in conviction to convict the lost. And then that leads in to our second one, conversion Yes, so this idea of the conviction all right, the the sinner now is grouped with the reality that they are a child of wrath, they deserve the just punishment from God. what happens then. And let's look at Titus 3 and see how the Spirit works within the conversion of that sinner. So Titus 3, starting in verse 4 But when the goodness and loving kindness of God our Savior appeared, he saved us not because of our of works done by us in righteousness. but according to his own mercy, by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit, whom he poured out on us richly through Jesus Christ our Savior. so that being justified by his grace, we might become heirs according to the hope of the eternal life. So there you see all three persons of the Trinity at work. Uh but this the specific piece here that it is by the washing of regeneration and renewal of the Holy Spirit or the new birth. This is what Jesus talks about in John 3, that we are born again and that work is accomplished by the Holy Spirit within us. And then let's also look at 1 Corinthians chapter 12. Because maybe you're going, well, Anthony, you've told us, you've said that. It's all about faith. We have to have faith. That's how we're saved. That's how the conversion happens. Well, let's just look at 1 Corinthians chapter 12 and verse 3 So here Paul's addressing spiritual gifts, but he says this, therefore I want you to understand that no one speaking in the Spirit of God ever says Jesus is accursed. And no one can say Jesus is Lord except in the Holy Spirit. So how can we come to faith? How is this How does this all happen? How are we con uh converted? How are we brought into the family of God? It's by the the blood of Christ, but that new birth, the ability The enlightenment that happens in our minds and our hearts comes from the Holy Spirit, who em who then empowers us to profess faith, repent of our sins. It's pretty clear that that's all inner stuff. It's the Holy Spirit working in us. Yeah. Again, you get back to what the flesh is able to do and what the flesh would love to do would just get all wrapped up in externals. and participate in religion and have some superficial emotional experience and then have a false teacher give them the impression that that's a real spiritual occurrence. But what we need is the Holy Spirit working within us. I love these I love this idea of the washing, the regeneration, the renewal. Poured out richly. This is incredible, supernatural work of God within us. Yeah. So it's good news And sometimes we get kind of twisted up and say, well, what's the timeline? And they're fun theological conversations to have, but Depends who you're having it with. You and I would have fun talking about. But what we do regardless of where we stand on that, we have to see that it's the work of the spirit, you know, regeneration. So, while we can debate the timeline and order of events, but we must see it is the work of the Spirit. He's the one that empowers us to cry out, Jesus is Lord. He's the one that is washing us. He is the one that is regenerating us. So if we try to remove the spirit at all, then we don't have salvation. We don't have conversion. You have to have the spirit present and active in that. Right The work of the Spirit in conviction, which God's purpose for that is for us to look to the gospel and then experience the work of God in conversion, his grace through faith. the work of the Spirit within us to unite us to Christ and to save us. And then once we are converted, once we're born again, We are supposed to be living lives where we're striving after the work of the Spirit in sanctification. The work of the Spirit to kill sin in our lives, the work of the Spirit to cultivate holiness in our lives, the work of the Spirit to make us more like Christ. The verse I have for this is 2 Corinthians 3. 18. And um we've already done podcast episodes on the power of the word, the power of the how the law functions, the power of how the gospel functions. So just a quick refresher, it's the gospel that has the power to sanctify us as we see Christ and the glory of Christ in the gospel. It fills our hearts with gratitude and love, and that's what changes us. Here we go. 2 Corinthians 3, 18, and we all with unveiled face. beholding the glory of the Lord, are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory to another, for this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit Now let's go not necessarily phrase by phrase in order, but let's um Go back and forth on this. Here's some of these key phrases. So the point that we're on and what brought us here is the work of the Spirit. So look at the very end of that verse. This comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. So, whatever he's talking about happening is obviously the work of the Spirit. It can only come from the exalted Christ through the work of the Spirit. Thoughts on that one? Last sentence. This comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. I I guess the question, may I ask a question? in this. Yeah. I'm hoping I'm just hoping you would. That's why that's why I didn't just race over it. You're the doctor, so I have to come to you. Uh God help us all. But w but what about like I know I have to improve in things. I know that I need to grow. I know that. And I know I have a Bible reading plan and I have to set time for um, my prayer life and I have to get in the car and drive to church. Isn't that me accomplishing all that? Don't I have to be active or part of this sanctifying action in my life? Yes, but you're But but your participation in it itself is a result of God's grace. And so all of those things that you said, having a Bible reading plan, getting up, going to church, right, giving yourself to these various means of grace. If you're doing that in the right way from the right heart, that is a result of God's grace. So God gets the glory for that. That's not you earning sanctification. That's you participating in sanctification by the grace of God. Yeah. So and I was thinking I was trying to think, I don't know the verses off the top of my head in Second Peter where he he says, be diligent. in these things in spiritual growth. Be certain of your calling and election. Make your calling and election sure. And there's one other phrase I can't think of in Second Peter. Um give every effort, make every effort therefore And that has to do with spiritual growth. So yes, we are striving after sanctification. We should be praying every day. For God to purify us. Yeah. Inwardly and in our words and in our actions, but trusting that the only way it's going to happen is by the work of the Spirit. Yeah. That feels It's once again it should be encouraging 'cause you we go, okay, I need to be sanctified, I need to grow more into the likeness of Christ. Um No, I can't. Like I I can't do that. That's right. That's why that's what I was you convicted me just an hour ago or five minutes ago that I'm a sinner and now you're asking me to be like Christ, I can't do that. And that's why it's so encouraging to hear that it's the Father sending the Spirit for us, it's the Spirit's empowerment of us that is active in the sanctifying work. Yeah, that's a good word by you. I mean, that is a critical reminder that um we are not able and that's where we're supposed to be. We're supposed to be feeling and really believing I can't do this And then what that's doing is always driving us back to Christ. To the living Savior, to look to Christ that He would sanctify us So he says, For this comes from the Lord who is the Spirit. Now what comes from the Lord who is the Spirit? By the way, the uh this this would be an episode or a study on its own Who is he talking about there? The exalted Christ or the Spirit? He's talking about both. You see these verses where there's what's been called, this phrase is not uh original to me, but it's been called the functional identity of Christ and the Holy Spirit. Basically they're doing the same things. And you see that here. It's the Lord and it's the Spirit doing this work in the believer. But what is he doing? It says this. We are being transformed into the same image from one degree of glory. to another. And the same image is referring back to the exalted Lord, verse 17. The Lord is the Spirit, and where the Spirit of the Lord is, there's freedom. And we are being transformed into his image from one degree of glory to another. That's been interpreted different ways. We don't have time to get into the there's two major ways. I take that as we're gradually made more and more like Christ as we behold him in faith So that's the work he's doing, is making us like Jesus. Yeah, which is making us different than how we were before Jesus. Mm-hmm. So that's really nice. Like that transforming, what are we transforming from? uh the dep the depravity that you were in outside of Christ. Yeah. So what it that's a huge difference on that on that spectrum there So that's a massive transforming work that's being done. Paul says, don't be conformed by the world, but be transformed by the renewal of your mind, which is the work of the Spirit within us, the Word. of scripture that we are we look different and sometimes it's hard do I really look much different than I did yesterday as a Christian Maybe not. But twenty years from now, oh I sure hope that I look different. I think when we can look at it on the grand uh scale of history, we can see that huge growth over time. Yeah And I've got to speed up on this point because I know we have another one to get to, but again, the natural man, the natural self. Doesn't want this. The flesh would much rather remain the same person and not be sanctified but fill my life up with outward religion. Pastor, give me jobs to do so I can be fulfilled and find my identity in my ministry. Now people will say that, but essentially that I mean that's easy to slip into. And um G so this this I what I think is an out-of-balance need for uh okay, a small community group Not that that's a bad thing, but I've seen in a way out of balance need for that, for your sense of affirmation and identity, that if you don't have that, you all you fall apart and you f you're not fulfilled. And what I want to push people back to is Christ. Find your identity in Christ. Your affirmation is this. You're a child of God through faith in Christ. And if that doesn't fulfill you, if that does not give rest to your soul on the daily, I have nothing for you as a pastor. I have nothing else to try to put in the place of what only Christ should be doing. Yeah. I don't know if I'm gonna soften a blow here or make it worse. I feel like it needs to be softened. I feel like I just went into total like rant territory there. Okay, I'll I'll be I'll be the better here. But those things we do feel that, you know, sometimes uh I remember as a teen just growing up and I would go on a youth retreat and that was the highest point of my spiritual existence and I my whole life has changed. Get me back into school for a day and it was back to the old way. So you have these ups and downs but it with like the small group you have this Man, I really need that. Sometimes a song just really hits you. And I do believe that as God uses those things, in our weakness, not uh not as sinners, but in our weakness of faith, to draw us to Him. But there has to be a time over our lives that we grow out of those and go, actually, I don't need that emotional song that that touched me and made me feel that way. I need Christ. I don't need the retreats. I need Christ. Those things God used to draw me to Him closer. But so I think as the the infant Christian, those things are valuable in their lives, but they can't stay there. You can't stick to those the rest of your your Christian life. It's like anything, it has to be used in the right way and in the right proportion. So, you know, those God can use those things in evangelism, he can use those things in discipleship, but um they can be misused and out of balance, just like anything in our lives. And just like the temple was in the old covenant, it's a good thing, it's a great thing, it's God's idea. But if it was used in the wrong way, people put their faith in the temple instead of God Himself. And they felt great about it. So um Reigning myself back in here. What we need to be after is being transformed into the image of Christ by the work of the Spirit. And then we're kind of working through this backwards here. It says how that happens, beholding the glory of the Lord. Now in the context That's beholding the glory of the Lord as revealed in the gospel. That's the glory of Christ made known to us through the gospel. So as we gaze upon the glory of God in the gospel, we're transformed. And that makes perfect sense. That's a spiritual mindset, but it's makes perfect sense from a practical mindset as you see these gifts God has given you, as you see this great grace God has given you. Um what it does is make us grateful. It fills our hearts with love for him. And we know that love and gratitude in the heart is what grows into practical obedience. And so God fills our hearts with love for Him by showing us His love for us in the gospel And then the last thing here, just real quick, unveiled face. He says, we all with unveiled face. That's a symbol here. That's a symbol for the believer. That's a the un the veiled face, just for the face The veiled face represents the person who is seeing the scripture, but they're not seeing Christ in the scripture. They're not seeing the promise of Christ and the gospel of Christ in the scripture The unveiled face is when you're seeing the scripture and you're seeing Christ. And you're seeing the gospel. You see the true meaning of the word. Christ is Savior. The Spirit takes back the veil, and now you are a believer. You are a believer who is now beholding the glory of the Lord in the gospel, and that gospel is making you more like Jesus. by the work of the Spirit. So that's the work of the Spirit in conviction to show us that we need a Savior in conversion to bring us to faith in the Savior. And sanctification to make us like the Savior. Do you want to take us to our final point? Yeah. That we are the strength of the Holy Spirit within us. So just a helpful reminder. On our own, we are extremely weak, but as new creatures, we are immensely strong and powerful because of the Spirit. We're spiritually strong. So Ephesians 3, verse 14 through Till I stop because it says for this reason I bow my knees before the Father, from whom every family in heaven and on earth is named, but according to the riches of his glory He may grant you to be strengthened with power through his Spirit in your inner being, so that Christ may dwell in your hearts through faith, that you, being rooted and grounded in love, may have strength to comprehend with all the saints. what is the breadth and length and height and depth, and to know the love of Christ that surpasses knowledge, that you may be filled with all the fullness of God. So right there the Spirit empowers us, gives us the ability, the knowledge, the wisdom. to experience and know the love of God. You want to talk about that and I have one more passage. Just the importance of remembering that we're not only sinful, but we are also weak. And so since we're sinful, we should always be going to God for grace. But since we're weak, we should always be going to God for strength. And as once we get to the end of this section, we can talk about Real life, practical ways, we need to be strengthened in this life by the Spirit. Yeah. And then 2 Timothy 1, 6 and 7. Just another passage of encouragement that it's the power of the Spirit within us. So 2 Timothy 1. 6 says, For this reason I remind you to fan into flame the gift of God. which is in you through the laying on of my hands. For God gave us a spirit not of fear, but of power and love and self-control. So right there, the spirit we have within us. We don't fear the enemy. We don't fear the world. We don't fear, well maybe I'm not getting things right. We are, it is a spirit of Power, love, and self-control. It's the spirit within us that gives us all those gifts and abilities. That leads right into some practical applications. So let's just brainstorm this. One of the ones that comes from that passage that you just read, a specific real-life way we need the spirit to strengthen us, is to give us that boldness to To remind us of the authority we do have as messengers of God's truth, not just pastors but Christians We are representatives of Christ, representatives of his kingdom. We have an authority, but we need the Spirit to help us realize that and to have a boldness in standing on God's truth in this world. Also with if you're a Christian, you have the same Holy Spirit living in you that the pastors do as the missionaries that maybe we look up to. So there's not this hierarchy of extra holy and spiritual people over here and then there's the barely Christian group over here. No, we're born of all of the same spirit. We're empowered by the same spirit. we have the ability to walk in obedience to Christ because of that spirit. Yeah. Yeah. And uh yeah, that was um in your passage too, with the idea of self-control. We need the strength of the spirit to have self control. Um another one I was thinking of is we need the spirit to strengthen us to endure hardship and suffering. Yeah. When we feel like quitting when our sorrows are so great or physical pain is so great or the embarrassment of something is so great, we just want to go hide in a cave somewhere. We want to stay at home and Go to work 'cause we have to, go to the grocery store 'cause we have to, but we're so embarrassed or we're so weakened about whatever it is We won't go to the very place we need most is the church, where the people who love me most, at least where they should be, the people who love me most are there. The Word of God is there. The Lord's Supper is there. Come for the fellowship. But we need the spirit to give us that strength. Um so that our hardships and sorrows don't crush us and take us away from the work of God. Yeah. And you mentioned we need the The work of the Spirit within us to empower us to love one another. Preach on that. Yeah, I work with you. So we need that. From the depths of my soul, I have to say I need the speech. You need patience with sinners, yes. But I mean think about it. Okay, we We don't want to be around these people that annoy us. See how we're born of the same spirit of I I believe they're Christians, but I just I can't love them. Well You're not gonna find a church then. You're not gonna find a community. You're gonna have to be by yourself and good luck loving yourself all the time as well. We need the spirit to to empower us to love one another, to forgive one another, to be patient, to pass over sins that there's so much we need to spare for and relationship stuff. To not harbor stuff, to not hold grudges, to not always be looking with the critical eye and Yeah, it's we need oh man, do we ever need the spirit to strengthen us, to love each other and be gracious to each other? And then I'll give another one here, just the other side of that. So it's not just the Spirit giving you th the strength and to love me and have grace to me, 'cause I'm a numb skull, but when you're the one who did it wrong. Think about how much Mental energy it takes for us to admit we were wrong to our wives, to our kids, to the church uh to our friends just just to say I'm sorry, it's like it's killing us. We don't even we can't even it's like if we admit that we were wrong and have to say I'm sorry, please forgive me, we act like the world is gonna fall apart. Yeah And only the Spirit can give us that humility, the a humility that takes the strength of God within us. Yeah. Um And the Spirit convicts us in those moments. That's for the Christian side of it, the the believer I mean how many times are and you know we we can't fall asleep at night 'cause I said that. I shouldn't have said that. I need to go and apologize And I it bothers me, bothers me. I s stay up all night. I finally go and say that to that person, Hey, I'm sorry, I said that the other day and I said, I didn't I didn't recognize you said it to me like and it it's done with. But the spirit had to draw that out of us. The the natural man hates apologizing. I can't do wrong. I don't I don't owe that person anything. So we need the spirit and all that. Come up with all kinds of rationalizations. But yes, the s uh when the spirit's at work He'll lead us, he'll convict us, he'll lead us to that confession, and that acknowledgement and that confession lifts the weight off of us. It cleanses the conscience. It's such a wonderful thing. Um any other practical I feel like this is the most practical we've we've been in terms of these examples and at least in this episode. Just I don't wanna The Spirit brings us joy in what can be the mundane of Christianity. The Spirit brings us joy coming and hearing the word preached. The Spirit brings us joy when we come in fellowship. Brings us joy in the Lord's Supper, brings us joy in reading the Bible and uh in our prayer life. So much that it's kinda well, yeah, it's just what we do as Christians, but uh the joy, the um The life that comes from it comes from the spirit enlightening us in it. Yeah. I think we'll end on that point. I really like that point. I mentioned earlier The Spirit giving us strength to endure hardships, and here the Spirit giving us strength to endure and persevere through the mundane. And and being okay with being ordinary Christians, obeying God. Going to church, loving the church, going home, striving to obey God at home, and not needing these huge trips, huge like not needing the big, not needing the emotional, but just being people who are Christians. Yeah. And only the Spirit can give us the uh the strength and the joy. to persevere. Um I'm gonna go to uh say one phrase from Hebrews 13 9. Just love this phrase It is good for the heart to be strengthened by grace. It's good in the con the context of studying it against um yeah, rituals and externals and they don't strengthen the heart Um but God's grace strengthens the heart and strengthens our hearts in many, many ways to do all the things that God has called us to do. Um you wanna well let me review let me review all four of these real quick and then I ask you To close us in prayer. The work of the Spirit in conviction, showing us that we need a Savior. The work of the Spirit in conversion, bringing us to faith in Christ as Savior. The work of the Spirit in sanctification, making us more like Christ and putting sin to death within us, and then the work of the Spirit in strengthening us. And enabling us to be who we've been called to be and to do what we've been called to do as children of God. Yeah. Let's pray. Holy God, we thank you for your word , for the testimony. of who you are and what you have done, Lord, to see the work of your Son and the work of the Holy Spirit within us. Lord, may we celebrate this. May we not be absent-minded that the Spirit is alive within us, moving , working Doing wondrous things, and may we give you all the glory that you deserve. May we praise you for the work that you have accomplished and are doing in our lives. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.