Welcome to the podcast of North Harford Baptist Church. I am Matt Fortunato here with Anthony Wilson. We are the pastors here. Visit us online at northharford. org if you have any questions. Email us info at northharford. org. That's info at northharford. org. Anthony, what's going on? Not much? Another week. We record these at the end of the week, so sometimes I feel like we have made it to this point. This is our wrap-up, so Yes. Praise God. Just get you over the hump. Yeah. And then uh then you just get in your mind right for Sunday. Yeah. Today's topic is the power of God's Word, and that is multifaceted. Different ways that God uses His Word in our lives and in the world, different things that God's word accomplishes in our hearts and in our lives. So what I want to end up focusing on is the power of the word to convict us of our sin. And there's different aspects of that. We can get into the reasons why God does that. What I wanted to start with to get us in this mindset of the power of God's Word is Hebrews 4. Verses 12 to 13. For the word of God is living and active, sharper than any two-edged sword, piercing to the division of soul and spirit of joints and of marrow, and discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart, and no creature is hidden from his sight But all are naked and exposed to the eyes of him to whom we must give account. So At the end of verse 13, it brings into view this idea that we are accountable to God and we will answer to God. Of course, naturally speaking, we don't do that on our own. We need God to bring us to a point where we acknowledge that we're accountable to Him. But really the essence of why I picked these verses to start with is the power of the Word of God. The Word is living and active. It's not a dead letter. It's certainly not boring, but it's God's sword. Sharper than any two-edged sword, it says, piercing to the division of soul and spirit. And then later discerning the thoughts and intentions of the heart. So the penetrating power of the word to reach us at the deepest part of the soul, to reach us. to ex to expose our hearts, to work in our minds. It's the power of the Word of God. What exactly Do we need God's word to do for us? Particularly thinking of when we're lost. And we don't know God. We haven't experienced the power of his word. What do we need the Word of God to do for us and in us? Yeah. God uses the his word to convict us. And that conviction comes in a few different ways, but to convict us of our sin, that we have rebelled against the holy God, um we've rejected uh his design for us. and that we need to be safe from our sin. Now you hear a lot of people, the atheist or uh those wandering will challenge like I don't need uh I don't need some skydie to tell me not to murder. Like, well, there's plenty of murder in our society, so You can't say, well, that's just born into everyone. Everyone knows you're not supposed to murder. Well if so, then why do we have murder? But they use these big examples of like we y I don't need to be told not to murder. I don't need to be told not to steal. But that's not all that the law of God gives us. Let's just take the the Ten Commandments. So Exodus 20 verse 3 says, you shall have no other God before me. Do you think the atheists may have another God before them? Do you think maybe we do need to hear that? Because in our natural uh fallen state we allow ourselves to be our God, our pride. to dictate what we do. You shall not make for yourself a carved image or any likeness of anything that is in heaven above or that is on the earth beneath or that is in the water under the earth I mean we see imagery and people worshiping um idols in so many different ways. So they use these the the atheists will use this far example to try to distract you to say everyone knows murder's wrong. But then when we start to talk about the worship of God, they go, well, I just don't believe that. Yeah, that's why we need the word of God. It convicts us. And 2 Timothy chapter 3. Verse 16, that's that classic passage. All scripture is breathed out and profitable for teaching. But that second one is reproof. And that reproof is that it is profitable. The word of God is profitable for us to acknowledge and to point out what is sin and what is righteous. And all people , the saint and the rebel against God need to know their sin. Need to understand what is right and wrong in this world. And when the sp the spirit uses scripture to point out our sin, it convicts us and shows us that we need a savior. Yeah, it's easy to point out what we think is the biggest, most obvious public crime and sin and wrongdoing. All the while being blind to our own pride and our own selfishness. And when the first and greatest commandment is to love God above all things And you ha you have a natural aversion to that, and I have a natural aversion to that. We need the power of God's word to change that. Romans 3 Verse 20 , Paul writes, for by works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight. That would make for a really great episode right there, that one. It's not by our obedience that we can be declared right in God's sight, but only through faith in Christ. But the rest of Romans 3. 20 Says, since through the law comes knowledge of sin. And that's what you are giving us. Specific laws, specific commandments to give us a specific knowledge of our sins. Not only the outward commission of sin, which is which is a violation of God's law, but the inner corruption of sin. The law shows us the violations of the law, but the law also Exposes our corrupt hearts that these are the things we want to do. Yeah. No one's twisting our arm to love things more than God. No one's uh holding us hostage or twisting our arm to love ourselves at the expense of others. instead of love others as ourselves. So we need we need God's word, his commandment, his law to come into our lives. Another verse So that's Romans 3. 20. Through the law comes knowledge of sin. And then Romans 7. 7. Yet if it had not been for the law, I would not have known sin. For I would not have known what it is to covet if the law had not said, You shall not covet. So part of our teaching, part of our preaching, part of our evangelism has to include the the explaining of God's law from the word and not trying to emotionally m manipulate people but trusting the word. Trusting the word to use The law and the commandments of God, which reveal his holiness, reveal his character, to convict the sinner, to teach the sinner, I'm a sinner, and therefore I need a savior. Yeah, and I think for so that's when we're thinking about the world, sometimes in our evangelism, in our proclamation of the gospel, we want to avoid the law because it makes people feel bad. And that's not gonna win 'em over to the big thing. Not Ray Comfort. Have you ever murdered? What about in your heart? Uh but that we have to hold to that truth that the the Word of God does convict the sinner. So we can't shy away and say, Well the world's gonna hate that, they're not gonna like it. You're right, but that's what the Spirit uses to convict. But also for the Christian, it's still there and it should be convicting to us, but it's also giving us direction. I think of that passage in James 1. Um don't uh we're not just hearers of the word, but also doers. And when we hear that, we say, well that doing is missions trips, serving the needy in our community. And we can think of a whole list of activities there. But it's also obeying the law of God. And it's also abstaining and hating sin. How can I say that? Well, that's in the Word of God. So God tells us to hate Well then if I'm reading Psalm 119 saying I love the law of God, I love the word of God And then I read James 1 saying, don't just be a hearer, but also be a doer. , Well then that's telling me I have to love the Word of God. So that conviction should happen there. So Sure, it's convicting of my sin, but it's also convicting me to love the Word of God and to seek it, to convict me to grow and to be spurred on, um, to draw nearer to God. As a believer in the law's convicting you for Um the sin that continues, even though we're not slaves to sin, we still sin. As a believer, we know why God is bringing us under conviction, and that is to turn our hearts to Christ and to trust in Him. So as a believer, when Even being convicted and grieved by our sin, that's part of why we love the law. Be if It's convicting us and then in our conviction we're seeing our need and we're turning again to Christ and looking again to Christ. in faith to rest in him, which should be happening every day for us. That's part of why we love the law. And then, you know, in in being sanctified by grace. The law doesn't have the power to sanctify. The grace and the gospel has the power to sanctify. But as we turn back to Christ and we're we're matured and we're sanctified and then we see obedience to God's law in our life lives. So just real quick and before I shoot it back to you, um if people have heard discussions or they have studied this topic on the the law of God, they'll know that there's three uses of the law, three primary uses of the law. We're talking about the first use of the law, which is to um it's the law as a teacher. the commandments of God that teach us that we're sinners, that show us our need for a savior, show and there's many different aspects of that. It shows our guilt, um shows that we're under judgment. That's the first use. The second use of the law would be the civil use which is the commandments of God, the law of God to restrain sin in society. And then the third use of the law as a pattern, not the power, but as a pattern for sanctification, a guide for life for the believers. So Uh we're just we're just really want to dive into the first use of the law um today and not those other ones. If we think about uh the convicting work of the law, one of the things that comes to mind, and I guess I'm asking you this question, we hear this idea of Um no, it's it's scripture that uh with love, uh uh um there's no law against it. Or When we're love God, love our neighbor, there's no law uh against such commands. What do we do with that? There's no law that says you only love your wife so much but but not like there's no limit to love and there's no penalty for loving. Yeah. Yeah. So would you what's the question? Yeah, so how do we how do we understand that or how do we work that in our lives so Because there's there's the temptation that we separate law out of the Oh yeah out of it completely. Okay. Well it tells me if there's love, there's no law against it, so I'm loving. Why are you bringing up law? Why do we need this convicting Because it shows us what love looks like. Yeah, yeah. You know, and I've heard that, um yeah, we don't need commandments, we don't need the law, we just need to love. But The law shows us the character of God and simultaneously it shows us what it means to love God. Yeah. And it shows us what it means to love others. Yeah. And the the reality that if we're walking in obedience to to God, we're we're seeking Him in His Word, we aren't every day just feeling feeling convicted and ashamed and guilty of some crime. Well, there's no need to. We're walking in obedience, so you don't feel that. But when we when we face the temptation, when we sin, that's when that conviction comes in. So I don't think there's this overarching like every day of your life you should just feel this burden of conviction and guilt in your life. Actually quite the opposite You should be resting in Christ. You should be resting and when you are in sin, that's when that conviction comes. So it it's it's a bit freeing, I think, and liberating that i as we're in the word of God, as we're in union with Christ and we're living this life. Uh there's plenty of times where we are free, we're liberated, and when we feel that guilt, that should really awaken us and go, oh, something's way off here. Because the rest of the time I'm free in Christ In Romans 13, verse 8, owe no one anything except to love each other, for the one who loves another has fulfilled the law. So right there you have the two together. To love another is to be fulfilling the law in your life. And then he goes on to say in verse 9, for the commandments You shall not commit adultery, you shall not murder, you shall not steal, you shall not covet, and any other commandment are summed up in this word, you shall love your neighbor as yourself. Love does no wrong to a neighbor, therefore love is the fulfilling of the law. Goes back to something you said earlier about David in the Psalms delighting in God's law and just dying to learn it and meditate on it and to teach it to others and to apply it to his life. And that would that's the spirit of God working in David to enable him to do that. Part of the mo motivation is because he wants to learn how to love God more and more. He wants to learn how to love others for the glory of God more and more. And We all are in the process of growing and maturing and being sanctified and learning how to follow Christ and honor him in all areas of life. And we need God's word. We need the power of his word to teach us his law and convict us and turn us back to Christ to sanctify us and change us so that we can obey him. Uh and so that we can love others as ourselves. Yeah. And and that tension there, so in the eternal, we are righteous before God through the blood of Christ. So if you if you have faith in Christ, that's a present reality in the heavens. Ephesians , we're seated in the heavens, in the righteousness of Christ. But in this current time in history, we're still in the flesh, and as Paul says, we will still succumb to the flesh at times. We're fighting this fight against So in Christ, in our righteousness, there's no law against us. The law is against the unjust. So while we are righteous in Christ, there's no law against us. when we act in an unjust way, when we when we uh uh fall fall to the temptation of the flesh. Now we're unjust and now the law is applied against us. It's laid down against us. It doesn't work. Paul says it doesn't work in us. Yeah. But I I think what you're saying is uh in your own words, which is totally fine. So correct me if I'm wrong on this. I think what you're trying to express is we don't want to be Misunderstood as saying that Christians are under the law. Right. We are not under the law as a covenant, as a covenant of works. to um to become or to be righteous in God's eyes. We are relating to God on the on the basis of grace, on the basis of a covenant of grace, by virtue of the blood of Christ. Romans 6. 14, for sin will have no dominion over you, since you are not under law, but under grace So if we were still under law and not under grace, we would still be under the dominion of sin. The reason we can talk about this as those who've been f free from sins uh Tyranny is because we're under grace, united to Christ. Sin will not have dominion over you, since you're not under law, but under grace. What then? Are we to sin because we are not under law? But under grace by no means, right? And that's equally as important. Should we stin since we're under grace? Gra grace will cover it. Don't be a legalist. We're not under the law and then use it as a license to send. So what if someone's hearing us and they and Something in the back of their mind, some bell is ringing. Legalism, legalism, legalism, sounds like legalism. What would you say to that person Stop saying that. You don't know that word, what that word means, most likely. Right. But I would go to first Timothy one, verse uh eight. Now we know that the law is good. All right, so The law, good or bad? Good. Alright. If one uses it lawfully, so if it's used lawfully, it's good. Verse 9. Understanding this, that the law is not laid down for the just but for the lawless and disobedient, for the ungodly and sinners, for the unholy and profane, for those who strike their fathers and mothers for murders. the sexually immoral, men who practice homosexuality, enslavers, liars, perjurers, and whatever else is contrary to sound doctrine in accordance with the gospel of the glory of the blessed God with which I have been entrusted. So absolutely we are you will not be saved by obeying the law And actually when you're in Christ, the law has no bound on you. It's not laid down for your purpose. But when we sin When we commit sin when we are acting in ungodly and unholy ways, now the law is laid down for that purpose. Yeah. So but it's still good in this situation you're saying it you're saying that's good. Yes. It's we don't want to be unrestrained. We want to have the voice and the power of God to speak righteousness. It's over us and to us. Yeah. And parents get that. We this is how we we conduct parenting, hopefully, is you love your children. It's not based off of their grades or how well they behave. You love them because they're your children and you're raising them and when things are good, when there's obedience, life is good. You don't you're not constantly thinking about the punishment. But when there's disobedience, when there's rebellion, there's a form of discipline, and that discipline is not to cause great harm and pain for that child, but it's to catch their attention, to point out what is wrong. get direct them back to the way of righteous living within your household. And once they're back in there, it's back to a normal, happy life you're not even thinking about. the the law and the rules. This idea of discipline and thinking about God's discipline and God's love for us, because discipline is an act of love, it helps us to understand the difference between the conviction of sin for the unbeliever and the the conviction of sin for the believer. So when we were unbelievers and God brought his word and brought his commandments into our lives and he brought us under conviction, it was to expose that we were slaves to sin and to show us that we are under the wrath of God to drive us to despair of ourselves that we would um that we would rest in Christ and by his grace and by his power alone we've come to rest in Christ through the gospel. But once we're children of God, the law still has a convicting power in our hearts, but The convicting power of the law for believers cannot be to show that we're enslaved to sin because we're not And it cannot be to show us that we're under the wrath of God because we cannot be because Christ paid for our crimes. But it is to grieve us Because we've sinned against God and w in Christ we're we hate sin and love holiness, so it grieves us, but it's functioning as a discipline. It's an act of love to discipline us and to mold us and shape us. I want to go back to something else about the fact that we're not under law. Because if we were under law, truly, under the law, as a covenant, under the law as that which mediates our relationship with God, then we would have to earn our way into heaven. Right? If we're as as long as long as we're under law, we have to pay for our own sin. And as long as we're under law We have to earn righteousness by our own obedience. So if we're under law, we have no hope. Yeah. Yeah, absolutely no hope. The only way to have the penalty for our sin paid for and the only way to have an obedience that's acceptable to God is to be united to Christ, is to be under grace. And that's Uh Romans 10, 4. Christ is the end of the law for righteousness to everyone who believes. Christ is the goal of the law. He's the goal of the law that becomes a righteous standing for those who believe in him. The law convicts us to drive us to Christ. Whether that's the unbeliever or whether that's the believer, even though it's a little bit different and well a lot of it different in how how that conviction looks. Yeah. Yeah, I think for the Christian, when we're convicted of sin, um the conviction's not that we are guilty and about to pay for the punishment. But the conviction is that we are guilty and Christ paid for that penalty. And why would we want to keep doing that? Why would we want to keep loading on that that burden? um that offense. We should hate it and say, wow, I can't believe Christ died for a wretched sinner like me, and I want to do all I can to walk in obedience to him and not continue down the path of destruction. um defaming and and uh insulting the sacrifice of Christ. Now it happens. We we still sin, but that continuous active enjoyment in the sin has to be ridden and the law reveals that to us. And you know, it's hopefully uh it's hard to tell when you're in the middle of a discussion, but hopefully this is not over most people's heads or like way too theological. I w I think we're trying to make it practical. But on the point you just said, like we should be grieved when we hurt people we love. Yeah. Right? So think about the difference between a husband who is bad to his wife and hurts his wife. And doesn't care about it. Right. On the one hand, versus another husband who inadvertently hurts his wife, hurt hurts her feelings, says something the wrong way, but he's grieved in it He's grieved by it in his heart because he loves her. Yeah. And he so he so that's a conviction of a sin that Well will drive him to r repent. Yeah. I think if so many times people have come into our n our office for counseling and they say, Pastor, I have committed this great sin and it has kept me up at night. I c I I have to deal with it And there's a bit of me that's joyful, that like, you acknowledge it, you hate that you've done it, that conviction's there. Brother, there's there's great hope in that. Compared to the other person that I've done this sin and this wasn't until I got caught or tied up in it that now I'm forced to acknowledge it. There's such a difference there in the acknowledgement of that sin. So When you feel guilt of sin, you actually should praise God because that's the spirit working that has sharpening and sanctifying you. It's better than the alternative of being numb to sin and not not caring about it. That's what defined us when we were lost. Right. And so there should be a sensitivity to our sin. That's a spirit wrought sensitivity to our to our sin. And then this is let let's have this be the last thing we talk about though, picking up on what you just said. There can be a self-absorption in what you just said though. There's a grieving of sin, there's feelings of guilt, there's feelings of shame. And yes, that's better than not being grieved by sin. But what happens when the person does not look to Christ for rest and assurance and the cleansing of a conscience? How can that spiral and where could that lead somebody? Yeah. Yeah, that's a huge danger there because the the guilt and the shame increase. And the sin doesn't stop nor normally. So what happens then? More guilt, more shame, more sin, more guilt, more shame, more sin. It just it keeps going. So in that moment of having the guilt and the shame of the sin There's the confessing of it and repenting of it, that turning from the sin, running to the cross of Christ, running to the comfort of Christ. And running to his word and trusting the spirit at alivening you, bringing you out of that sin, causing you to hate that sin more and more. But you have to do something. An acknowledgement, a guilt feeling, isn't sufficient. It is a good sign when 'cause it's it's the uh I guess it's the turn signal, if I can use that analogy. The turn signal is not what's turning the car, but it's signaling the car turning. So that guilt 's not the turning point. But it should be the signal, it should illuminate your mind that you need to turn away from that sin and go to Christ. So if you're just saying, I feel guilty and I wallow in my guilt and my shame, You're not there that's not healthy. That's very dangerous. I was gonna say the same thing, but I was gonna say wall of revel. feeling super spiritual. Yeah. Because you have all this guilt. And but that's our job is to shepherd people to Christ. To point people to Christ. And we we we all need people in our lives like that. So that we don't just get absorbed in our own feelings and let our feelings define where we are spiritually Yeah. Um and the enemy uses that guilt if it's not dealt with. It and so many of us, and I mean how many people have that story of, you know, some nights I lay up in bed thinking about a sin I I did three, four years ago. Well, if you've truly confessed that to the Lord and you're forgiven, that's the enemy trying to bring that up and trying to say you're not worthy. This isn't you're not truly forgiven. But if you're in Christ You really need to fight against that uh temptation of feeling that guilt for something you've confessed and you know you're forgiven of and say, No Satan, that's not I'm not going to listen to your lie because I have been cleansed by the blood of Christ. I am made righteous. before God through the work of Christ. So we need to hold on to that truth. That's it's a total distraction. Don't don't you have plenty of temptations and sins right now that you're trying to battle? Like that's what you need to worry about right now. Is getting your attitude right at work now. Repenting from pride now. All I mean all of us w have temptations. that we should be battling and going to the Lord, like full time going to the Lord in prayer and in his word, and to others for wisdom and to others for counsel uh to help us grow in the Lord. Um it was written on the tip of my tongue the last the last point I wanted to bring up about it was something related to the guilt as the turn signal. Right. So This will take us in a a whole different direction that could be a different episode, but sometimes I've seen in evangelism this approach that gets people to a point of conviction, gets to people to a point of feeling guilty. And then they're saved. Just because of all the emotions and spiritual feelings of acknowledging their guilt and coming to grips with the fact that they're a sinner, but then jumping the gun on telling them they're saved before they break through and put their faith in Christ. But you're not saved by feelings of guilt. And when we're believers, we're not sanctified by feelings of guilt. That's the conviction. The goal is to follow that turn signal. And come over here now to the gospel. The gospel is what saves. The gospel is what sanctifies. And that will be the next Either the next episode or an episode that's soon to come on the power of God's Word. We instead of talking about the power of law and commandments to convict, we're talking about the power of the gospel To convert, to save, to sanctify the sinner. Yeah. Because that's what we all need. Yeah. You want to close this out in prayer, or you have any other f final Comments or applications? I encourage anyone that's hearing this, wrestle with this idea, talk to us if they're available, if uh we're available to talk to them. Um, but sometimes th sin is so messy and it can really cause confusion and then you start talking about the law of God and conviction and it can really just Calls us to to go in a bunch of circles. So think through this. Be patient with it. Trust God in it. Seek His Word. Come to church. Come to church. Hear the word. Yeah. Go home and read the word. Talk to talk to Christians. Yeah. So right now if you're going, I don't like how that sounds You're fine. Let's work through that. That's convicting of the word we're working right now. But let's work through that and uh please hear us. We're not saying you're saved by the law. by any uh by any means. We're saying the the re the new Christian, the born-again Christian loves the law because it points them to Christ more and more. Let me close this in prayer Holy God, we thank you. We thank you for your word. We thank you for the saints that have been convicted by your word. Have that Spirit has brought us to faith in in Christ. We've seen his work on the cross on our behalf that we broke. the law over and over again. And we could not be saved by obedience to the law, but Christ was obedient perfectly to the law. And his sacrificial death on the cross has made us righteous before you. Lord, I pray for anyone that's listening to this, that doesn't know you, that recognizes they are rebelling against a holy God. Lord, we ask that the Spirit convicts them, points them to Christ, gives them faith in Christ. shows them that the only forgiveness, the only eternal hope they can have is through the work and sacrifice of Christ on their behalf. And we pray this in Christ's name. Amen.