We see in Luke chapter two. Jesus' first visit to the temple in Jerusalem, which of course you know was the center of Israel's worship. How appropriate it would have been for the priest who was serving to recognize him as the promised Messiah of God and declare it that day to all in the temple. To gather the religious leadership and celebrate the faithfulness of God to send the Messiah. But that's not what God did. God has two obscure but faithful servants, Simeon and Anna , recognize the significance of Jesus. Voice truth about him, praise him, and shortly after die. No priesthood recognition, no temple-wide announcement But two voices from hearts of faith are raised to the glory of God and the glory of Jesus. And God said it is good. That's what I wanted to do, is what I did. And they lead me, these testimonies lead me and you, I pray. to raise our voices to the glory of God. We've done that in song, but hopefully you will do it in your hearts as we go through this test Last week's message from the first part of the chapter from Pastor Matt and this week's message are intended to deepen our understanding and appreciation of God the Son being born into the world. Now, yesterday Christmas Day might have been a busy day for you. It was for Jody and I. I was delightfully tired by early afternoon and and Lydia, our precious uh number nine grandchild, was with us until about eight o'clock And uh she's a mover and a shaker. But maybe it was tiring for you as well. But this morning, I just feel like it's an opportunity for us to Be still and know who Jesus is. You may have very well read the Christmas story yesterday, we did, and then you move on to gifts and family and food and all of that But we can be still. It's an opportunity to appreciate, to celebrate the truths of Christmas. Let's pray together. Father, we ask that you would do that in our heart. That you would quiet us, you would focus us , and that we would embrace these truths again in fresh way. Or for some for the first time, we pray that you would save souls. In Jesus' name. Amen. First of all, appreciating his name, Jesus, in verse 21. And when eight days had passed, Luke 2. Before his circumcision His name was then called Jesus, the name given by the angel before he was conceived in the womb. The Apostle Paul tells us in Galatians chapter 4 and verse 4 that Jesus was born under the law. And in this passage, we see the law of God mentioned five times. And it's carried out by Mary and Joseph for Jesus. At eight days, Jesus was circumcised according to God's covenant with Abraham. And part of the ceremony of circumcision was naming the child. He was given the name Jesus, according to God's instruction through the angel. Before Jesus was ever consumed, even conceived in Mary's womb. Now Luke does not mention the significance of the meaning of Jesus. We know that it means. God saves, that's why it was chosen for the Son of God. Secondly, appreciating his presentation. Holy to the Lord. Verse 22. And when the days for their purification according to the law of Moses were completed They brought him up to Jerusalem to present him to the Lord. As it is written in the law of the Lord, every firstborn male that opens the womb shall be called holy to the Lord. And to offer a sacrifice according to what was said in the law of the Lord, a pair of turtle doves or two young pigeons. Jesus being the firstborn son would according to God's command be presented to the Lord. And this would be done at the temple. And so it had to wait until the days of Mary's purification after delivering a child were completed. And then that was 40 days. The offering in verse 24 was required to make atonement for her uncleanness. This presentation of the firstborn had a historic origin. Let me remind you of it. It was a memorial of the sparing of Israelite families in Egypt. during the plagues and the final plague when the life of the firstborn of every family was taken and the Israelites were to present every firstborn son to God for his service. Their sons, their firstborn was spared. And so God said, he's mine. But since God had chosen the tribe of Levi, you might remember in Scripture, to serve him in the tabernacle, All other firstborn sons were redeemed by offering five shekels of silver or two and a half ounces. Thus the firstborn sins were firstborn sons were released from their obligation to God at the tabernacle. Now the temple And so on this 40th day, Jesus, listen, Jesus who would redeem us from the penalty of sin was himself redeemed according to the law. So just think of the principle of redemption, to set free from obligation by a sufficient payment. But think with me, though Jesus is redeemed from temple service, he was already committed to the service. That God the Father had planned before the foundation of the world. He had already emptied himself of his heavenly glory to be conceived as a child in Mary's womb. And so though he went back to Nazareth, it would not be a permanent situation. He was ever holy to the Lord, set apart for the Father's Will. We see the couple obeying God's law, and we appreciate the words holy to the Lord. Thirdly, appreciating his identity, Christ. Verses 25 and 26. There was a man in Jerusalem whose name was Simeon. This is the only mention of him. And this man was righteous and devout, looking for the consolation of Israel, and the Holy Spirit was upon him. Notice looking for the consolation of Israel in the midst of discouraging circumstances politically and religiously He was expecting God to fulfill his word and send his Messiah. It had been 400 years since the prophet had spoken. But he's expected. The consolation of Israel is a title for the Messiah, referred to the promised comfort, the prophesied comfort that the Messiah would bring to Israel. Most equated this with restored national Israel and prominence in the land rather than spiritual peace with the Holy God. The consolation of Israel. And it says the Holy Spirit was upon him. Obviously, to enable him on this day to recognize the Messiah. As a 40-day-old child, Jesus didn't have a name tag. The Holy Spirit. Helped him to see that this was the Messiah. Verse 26. And it had been revealed to him by the Holy Spirit that he would not see death before he had seen the Lord's Christ. What a promise to wake up every day, getting older and older, wondering when will that day come He would see the Lord's Christ. He would see the promised Messiah. The one God had promised through many of the prophets in the Old Testament who would come and redeem Israel, although they did most think of that in a national way, we know from our vantage point of the gospel that it was in a spiritual way, most prominently. Jesus will come and establish his kingdom one day And his kingdom exists now spiritually in this land. And he exercises his kingship from the right hand of God. But that's what was in the people's mind, a national revival. We don't know exactly what was in Simeon's mind, only that he looked for this child. So as an old man, this is what he's living for. It's what got him up in the morning. This might be the day. And this day described what today, verse 27. And he came in the Spirit, that is directed by the Holy Spirit into the temple. Probably the temple court is what's meant there. And well it's not the temple proper, obviously. And when the parents brought in the child Jesus to carry out for him the custom of the law. We're not told exactly what happened in Simeon's heart, but he knew. He took him into his arms And blessed God and said, we'll read that in just a moment. But guided by the Spirit, when he saw the child, he knew this is the Messiah. He takes the child, he blesses God. For God had fulfilled his promise to Simeon, allowing him to see the Messiah. And his heart is revealed in verses 29 and 30. Now, Lord, you are releasing your bondservant to depart in peace according to your word, for my eyes have seen your salvation. He could die in peace, for the waiting on God's fulfillment was over. Fourthly, we appreciate his mission, which Simeon mentions here. And his mission is one of a universal salvation. I don't mean everyone saved. I mean salvation for every people group in the world. And that was surprising for Simeon to announce this. Verse 30, my eyes have seen your salvation. God's plan of salvation was sending Christ, sending the Son of God, the promised Messiah. And notice what Simeon says about this salvation. Which you, verse 31, have prepared. Which you have prepared. The salvation is God's work, a sovereign work of God you have prepared in the presence of all peoples. And he's going to go on and mention Gentiles, but all people, there is a universality of need for this salvation, for all have sinned. We know that truth. An Old Testament and a New Testament truth. And Simeon somewhat surprisingly declares a universal offer of salvation. Salvation for the Gentiles, verse 32. A light Of revelation to the Gentiles. I mean, not too surprising. The prophets of the Old Testament had declared it, but surprising in that Jews weren't thinking that way necessarily But by the Spirit, Simeon is thinking that way as he proclaims a light of revelation to the Gentiles. The shedding of light, the truth on hearts, darkened and deceived by sin. God prophesied this truth through Isaiah, that Gentiles would be included in the Messiah's blessing of salvation. Listen to Isaiah 49, verse 6. He says Is it too small a thing that you should be my servant to raise up the tribes of Jacob and to restore the preserved ones of Israel? I will also make you a light of the nations, so that my salvation may reach to the end of the earth. God's plan was always God's plan. to bless in a universal way. And Simeon expresses this by saying a light of revelation to the Gentiles. The revelation that God's plan of salvation was for all peoples is, of course, encapsulated in John 3. 16. For God so loved what? The world. Not Israel. It doesn't say that. The world. All peoples in the world. So that he gave his only begotten son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Salvation for the Gentiles, salvation for Israel. Verse 32, a light of revelation to the Gentiles, and the glory of Your people Israel. Light to Gentiles, glory to Israel. This is the manifestation of what had been What they had been waiting for, hoping for, although most, as I said, have had pictured it in an Israel rising to national prominence way. And most would reject the glorious Savior who would fulfill at the cross all that Israel had foreshadowed through their sacrificial system. They had pictured it. They had acted it out, still were in Jesus' day, going through the sacrificial motions day by day. They should have solved. They should have put two and two together. But they did not. Verse 33. And his father, Joseph, and mother, Mary, were amazed at the things which were being said about him. And I think the way to understand this is that they were further amazed by these prophecies. Because they had both heard from angels, Joseph in a dream and Mary more directly. They had heard about the miraculous conception and identity of the child. That she carried and gave birth to. And the shepherds in Bethlehem, remember, last week made known what they had heard from the angels. Mary treasured that in her heart. And here, 40 days since, God confirms that truth, that amazing truth, through Simeon. I think there's an application here that we need to always be amazed. I mean, they are further amazed by it, the way I take it. We need to be further amazed every time we read the glorious truth of the gospel that God would so love the world he would send his son. Fifthly, appreciating his impact, spiritual division. Strange thing to appreciate perhaps, but we do appreciate it in the world. We see it in the world in which we live. We see it in our own families. Verse 34, and while they were taking it all in, Simeon blessed them and said to Mary, his mother. Behold, this Christ is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel and for a sign to be opposed. Jesus would be a stumbling block to many. To others, he would be salvation. Many, because of their sinful stubbornness, would not believe, but others by the grace of God would believe. Peter speaks of this in 1 Peter 2, 6 through 8. And he connects this truth to the Old Testament prophecy. Listen, for this is contained in Scripture, behold, I lay in Zion. a choice stone, a precious cornerstone, and he who believes in him will not be disappointed. This precious value then is for you who believe, but for those who disbelieve The stone which the builders rejected, this became the very cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock of offense. For they stumble because they are disobedient to the word. And to this doom they were also appointed. As a sign, verse thirty-four, Jesus would show through miracles, through his teaching. That he represented God the Father's will, and that he was indeed God the Son. But many adamantly deny that Jesus could be for God. To the point that they would attribute, you remember, his signs, his miracles to Satan rather than to God. To the point that they crucified him. The fact that most Jews rejected Jesus at the end of his ministry, refusing to believe he was from God. Is announced here by Simeon at the very beginning of the Messiah's life. His words here foreshadow what we see in Jesus' ministry. Remember his hometown people driving him out of the city, wanting to throw him over the cliff to his death. Remember his lament over Jerusalem's unbelief in Luke 13 and 19 Remember the plot of the chief priests later in Luke and the Gospels. The shouts of crucify him from fellow Jews in chapter 23. Behold, this child is appointed for the fall and rise of many in Israel and for a sign to be opposed. Simeon tells Mary, verse 35, and a sword will pierce even your own soul. This was addressed to Mary that it that it was i i is an indication that Joseph, probably an indication that Joseph would die before Jesus' ministry and his crucifixion. A question to ask is, was this a prophecy of her pain in watching his suffering at the cross or a prophecy of her struggle with his ministry? She did struggle with Jesus' ministry. We know that Mary and Jesus' half-brothers sought to speak to him during his ministry in Luke chapter 8. 820 and 21. It was reported to him to Jesus: Your mother and your brothers are standing outside wishing to see you. But he answered and said to them, My mother and my brothers are these. Who hear the word of God and do it. Passage we heard, Friday evening. Mary had to Yield her position as concerned mother and receive Jesus as her Lord and Savior. Perhaps that's a part of this prophecy of the sword piercing her own soul. The result of Jesus' life would be the revealing of hearts. Verse 35 Notice to the end that thoughts, unbelieving thoughts, from many hearts may be revealed. See, everyone would have to decide about Jesus. Were they for him or against him? Would they receive or reject? God's Messiah, God's plan of salvation, or would they stubbornly trust in themselves or in something else? That they thought would make them right with God. And we need to say, we need to appreciate that today hearts are still being revealed on the basis of this dividing line. What one does with Jesus Christ. And then finally, appreciating his blessing, redemption. There was a prophetess Anna, the daughter of Thaniel, of the tribe of Asher, one of the ten northern tribes. A prophet or a prophetess is one who makes known to people God's revealed will. She was advanced in years and had lived with her husband seven years after her marriage. And then as a widow to the age of eighty-four, verse thirty-seven. She never left the temple, serving night and day with fastings and prayers. At that very moment she came up and began giving thanks to God and continued to speak of him to all who were looking for the redemption of the So in this scene, she comes up, probably a Simeon is speaking, and begins to give thanks. So now there's not one, but there's two. Two elderly Jews praising God You know, whether you're old or young, what a what a uh what an example for you and I. That we take advantage of moments to simply praise and glorify God. This in a public way. She's echoing Isaiah 52, verse 9, as she speaks truth about Jesus to those who were looking for the redemption of Jerusalem from that verse. That is the redemption of Israel that the Messiah would accomplish. Notice the Messiah would, as we've looked at this passage, pay the price to set people free. That's what redemption means. Paying a price to set one free. He would do that for us, setting us free from the penalty of sin. Paying sin 's price. Death. Physical and eternal death, which he, because of who he was, could pay that eternal death penalty through his being forsaken by God upon the cross. So he paid the price to set people free, setting us free from eternal conscious existence in a place of torment. Hades and one day hell, because that's the punishment for sin. It's not simply physical death, it is that Went to a funeral this past week. We'll conduct one this week. John was at his brother's funeral. We know physical death. We know that's part of the curse that's still upon this world. But spiritual death. Sometimes at funerals, people who've had a long illness, you'll hear the comment from people, well, he's better off now. Well, no. Not unless he knew Jesus Christ is he better off now. Or is she better off now? Some implications of this passage, of the presentation of Jesus, and I've been looking at it today as appreciating the truths that we've been looking at at Christmas. Number one, Jesus was sent to bless all men. Joseph and Mary's presentation of Jesus To God becomes God's presentation of Jesus to Israel. And through Luke and the gospel that we can read today to the world. We're part of the world. He is the consolation of Israel, the Christ. He is God's salvation. And we read a light of revelation to the Gentiles. That's us, I think. All of us in Israel. And the glory of Israel. He is the promised redemption. He necessitates a spiritual decision from every person. It's clear by the involvement of the Holy Spirit in this passage that God intentionally presents Jesus, a 40-day-old child, as the Savior of the world. It's what he wanted to do. It's how he wanted it to be done. Didn't want the priest to make a good a grand uh announcement and have everybody gather. Wanted Sinia to show up and recognize. Him. Wanted Mary to hear and remember it. Wanted Luke to record it for all who would read the gospel. Savior of the world. Jesus would say in Luke chapter 19, verse 10: For the Son of Man has come to seek and to save that which was lost. I wonder if you have come to the place where you know for certain, listen, that if you were to die today, not I'm not a prophet, okay? But if you were to die today, I wonder if you've come to the certainty that you would go to heaven And then I would ask, and I do ask people, what gives you that hope? Listen carefully to your answer in your heart right now. What gives you that hope? Because if you begin to answer that question with, well I try or I if it's about you and your goodness in some way or If there's somehow this picture of a scale in your mind that I've done enough, and the scale is tipped in my direction, I want to tell you that your hope is a false hope. The only thing that should come to our mind, what gives you that hope, is the person of Jesus Christ and not a scale but a cross that he died upon, taking the penalty for our sin. And if just relating that to you makes you realize this is a conversation that you need to have with a pastor or someone here that you know could help you. Then plan to have that conversation. Don't let it go. We're not all promised a long life like Simeon had. What we are told is that our life is like a breath, fragile. Be right with the Lord. Number two, be convinced that there's no other way of finding favor with God than faith in Christ. That's why we give to the Lati Moon Christmas offering. Jesus said, I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes to the Father but through me. So in Indonesia, in northern Africa, in the Arabian Gulf, no one has eternal life with God the Father other than through Jesus Christ And so gospel access is very important to us. It's important to us in our neighborhoods as well. Be convinced that there's no other way of finding favor with God. than faith in Christ. Thirdly, every time you hear of another religion, and we do hear of them, of course, remember the importance of our commission to call all people to faith in Jesus. Verse 32 is a clear statement in Luke of the universal intention of Jesus' redemptive work. It is not wrong for us to tell other nations who worship in pagan different ways that aren't going to lead them to God in any real way. It is not wrong for us to say, no, there is only one light of revelation to the Gentiles. It is the Lord Jesus Christ. He is God's salvation. He is God's hope for every man. And number four, every time you confess sin to God, you should feel your need for and thank God for a saving. A redeemer who paid the price in full. He was being redeemed on this day, but he came to be our redeemer. I'm going to invite the worship team to come back because if I don't do it now when I thought of it, I'll forget about it. But they're going to come back up here After prayer, I'm going to share a song with you, and then we'll sing a final song together. But one of the favorite songs that I've ever had the opportunity to write is a song about Simeon. It's just on my heart to praise God in that way and want to do that for you today. Let's pray together. Father, my my prayer request would be that each heart be right with you. You not only in this room, but those watching online, maybe some days after the service watching. But I pray that and I give the invitation that we would want to have that conversation. With any who has questions, with any who are struggling. We pray that by your grace you would reach the hearts that need to be be reached. You would open the hearts, you would show them their sin and their need of a Savior. And you would birth in their heart repentance and faith. And draw them to the Savior Jesus. We pray for that. We pray that even this morning as we sing the song of response, that there might be some who would respond. And declare their faith in you or declare their decision to be committed to this local church. We leave that in your hands. But we do pray that you continue to use us in this community. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.