Welcome to the North Harford Baptist Church Podcast. Pastor Matt here with Pastor Anthony. We continue our series on the power of God's Word. We've looked at a couple different aspects. Of this power of God's law to show us that we need to be saved, the power of the gospel to give us new life and to save us. Today we're zooming out a little bit to look at the power of God's word to accomplish God's purpose. So that's our topic. Power of God's word to accomplish God's purpose. And we will look at some specific aspects of what that means, like his purpose in what? What's that even look like? So what I want to do is start with Isaiah 55 verses 10 and 11. For as the rain and the snow come down from heaven, and do not return there, but water the earth, making it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater. So shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It shall not return to me empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose. and shall succeed in the thing for which I sent it. Pretty simple verse to grasp what's being said there, but it's so encouraging, it's so important to be reminded of this, but to let this mindset to let this faith come out and shine forth in the way we teach and preach. That we want to model and we want to commend and promote trusting in God's word to accomplish his purpose. not trusting in ourselves to accomplish his purpose. So real quick, just break this down. He started with an illustration, rain and snow coming down from heaven Show precipitation coming down from heaven and it says, do not return there But they water the earth, they make it bring forth and sprout, giving seed to the sower and bread to the eater. It's a very simple picture. Precipitation comes down from heaven, it goes to the earth. produces fruit, it does what it's supposed to do, and that is an illustration for God's worth going forth from his mouth. So shall my word be that goes out from my mouth. It will not return empty, but it shall accomplish that which I purpose. And that is the verse where I got this title, this topic for this episode, The Power of God's Word to Accomplish God 's Purpose. So moral of the story, we have to trust in God and his word. Yeah, and it's nice to think about like the Word of God, the Bible, isn't just information, data. Memorize it, learn it, but that it is It's working, it's active, it's doing something within us. Um, I think it can help us be more encouraged to study his word, to read the word, um, and not use it just as like a textbook but that trusting that the spirit's at work in our reading in our examining of the word and the word will will do something within our lives and will take action. action within how we live. But I think for people that are just hearing like, well why do I read my Bible? That Isaiah passage is really helpful to think about. That's doing something. It's it's working, it's growing, it's maturing. For me personally, some of the times when I'm most discouraged and where I least feel like or have the least amount of energy or discipline. 'Cause when we're stressed we lose discipline, we lose self control, we lose the the motivation to do what we're supposed to do. But in those times where I'm real discouraged and really in the flesh don't feel like reading the Bible Nevertheless, in those times when I do get into the Bible and I'm able to s spend some time in the Bible, God will use his word to lift me out of that discouragement If I get discouraged in ministry, I can go to the pastoral epistles and God can use his word, he can use those epistles to lift me out of that discouragement. If we get distracted in ministry and we're on we're just focused on the wrong things. So yes, I mean the point you're saying is so vitally important. that the word is not there just to fill our head with what do you call it data information right uh but it's meant to do something in this Yeah. So one of the things it does is the word equips believers, it equips us to live for God. So this is that that obedience aspect of the uh Christian life, we're walking the likeness of Christ, or following after who God is, and we are conducting ourselves as Christians. The most classic passage at 2 Timothy 3, 16 and 17, it says, all scripture is breathed out by God and profitable for teaching, for reproof, for correction, and for training in righteousness. that the man of God may be complete, equipped for every good work. The absoluteness there in the beginning of 16 that all scripture is breathed out by God really helps to take the Old Testament and the New Testament. Sometimes as Christians, we can say, oh, we're just New Testament Christians. We just want to read what the New Testament says. The Old Testament is what is being talked about here. And we see the totality of scripture is beneficial for us. Um it's the very word of God breathed out for 'em. from him and it's profitable meaning it's beneficial for teaching. So we learn, we learn who Christ is, we learn the nature and character of God, we learn about ourselves and what sin is. for reproof. So this is what's pointing out what is wrong. We can say this is a sin. This is wrong. But it doesn't end there. Then we have for correction. can see okay this is wrong and this is what we should be doing. This is the right way. This is this is where we talk about confessing of sin, the repentance of sin, uh turning from our sin to a new way of living. And then for training and righteousness. So notice that one's at the end. We have to we have to know God. We have to understand what is right and wrong. And then we have to be trained in how to live in that rightness. And the righteousness. Um and that's what scripture does. It trains us, it molds us. You mean that doesn't come naturally? Not not even slightly. Not even a little bit is that natural. Uh now it is natural to uh the new creature in Christ, the the new birth. It is natural there, but we are still in this flesh, we're still in this world that we have to be trained in it. So yeah, we have to be trained up in it and we get that from the Word of God. So let's let me just try to uh engulf or do an umbrella over all of scripture as quickly as I can We see the fallen nature in well we see God has created us Genesis 1 and 2. You see the fallen nature of Genesis 3. I'm not going to go through every chapter of the Bible, but we see that happens. Slow down what you're saying. So yeah. The fallen one word nature. The fallen nature, right? Okay. Yeah, yeah. That man is corrupt, man is sinful. since the fall of Adam in the garden. And that there is a punishment because of that. And this is where now the problem is in front of us. So sin, death, uh pain and agony of this life, that's all because of the fall of Adam, which we are born into. So we see that that's all scripture there breathed out. We understand it. And then we see history unfolding in the Old Testament. example of what man will do sinfulness but also the example of God's mercy and grace upon us so all that's teaching us right we're all learning from that Then we get to God's law, and that starts to teach us even more. The prophets teach us of destruction for the sinner, but hope in God. So that's all examples. Then we get to Christ in the Gospels our hope, the revelation of God to us, the revelation of salvation. Then we start to see how then shall we live as Christians, and then we have the eternal hope in Christ. That's all of scripture in a very quick synopsis that is showing us how then shall we live. The law of God points to that, the prophets point to that, Christ points to that, the letters to the church points to that. And that's what we should be using Scripture for. It's It's equipping us, it's teaching us, it's molding us into the likeness of Christ and commanding us of how we should live as Christians. So what you're saying is picking up on that first phrase in verse 16, all scripture for all of life. Yeah. Right. And so those things we the story that you walk through, the different aspects of it, and the different parts of God's revelation. of what's right, what's wrong, of the way of salvation. All that's designed to have an impact in our lives. I want to go back to this just for a second. This The difference you pointed out, which is so important, of reproof and correction, those are not the same exact thing, those are different things, and I think sometimes this list is read too quickly and these are all seen as basically the same thing. uh the teaching, then you have the reproof, and this is the distinction that you made. The reproof is God in his word pointing out the errors Yeah, in the way we think in our lives, what we're doing, our behavior, the way we speak. And we all need that. We need God's word to correct us and shine a flashlight on our lives, and upon our hearts, and show us where we are going wrong. And then in addition to that, you have the correction. You have God not just leaving us. in our error, but showing us the way of truth, showing us the way of righteousness. And when we come to church This is what we should be looking for. This is why we come. When I go to church , I don't need to be entertained. I don't need fun groups. I don't have any problem with having fun if it's done in a godly way, but that's not why I'm coming. to the worship assembly for and uh I don't go there for the socializing or for the friendships, you know, those will be there in a healthy church and those are good things, but I'm going for God in his word. Because I need God in his word to do its work. on me and in me uh to help me in all these different ways to live for him. Yeah. Yeah, I'm stealing it from someone, I just don't know who, but they say Sunday, the Sunday gathering and worship and preaching of the word. is what gives you energy to live the other six days of the Christian life. And the other six days of the Christian life, you're living to get back to gather together to hear the word preached. So it's this constant circle and it's good for us. We need it. Um, and we must see that the word of God is molding and active, it's molding us into the likeness of Christ, and it's active in our lives all the time. should be. We should want that. That's the way it's supposed to be. There's this widespread and it's really sad too, this widespread idea and practice of church being going to a church service. As being this one aspect of your life that's basically severed from the rest of your life. But what you just described as this integrated approach of you're going to get You're going to get built up, to be built up by the Word of God, for God to use His Word and by His Spirit to minister to us. He ministers to us in his grace and in his power and that encourages us and equips us and it teaches us to then go out Monday through Saturday and look for him in all areas of like home. Um yeah, and how often do we when we have a problem or we want to grow in some way, you know, whatever whatever category, you know, I want to grow as a father, I want to grow as a husband. As a student, as an employee, whatever it is, our first approach is to seek guidance and counsel from the world. Um self-help books, whatever it is that we we see everywhere else, and then maybe we'll touch the Bible. Maybe God has something to say. Which really we should reverse that. We should start with the Word of God because He speaks on all areas of the life and impacts all areas of life. And then from there comes out. God has blessed us with wise people that have written great books and do teach great things, but we need to start with the Word of God. I think 1 Thessalonians 2, 13, he says, and we also thank God constantly for this, that when you receive the Word of God which you heard from us, you accepted it not as the word of man, but as what is r what it really is, the word of God, which is at work in you believers. Um, I think it's a good challenge for us to think, do we value Scripture, the Word of God, as the very Word of God? And not just a tradition, not just a good idea, but it's the Word of God and it's active and working. When we value it that way, we will seek it first and more than anything else in our lives. That's such a powerful phrase. The word of God, which is at work in you And that's that's what we need. We need to get that word at work in us. And that that's God's grace. That's his work in us by his words. Again, it's not something we we're doing for God , something that God is doing in us. It's a complete paradigm shift for a lot of people. to to have the mindset where I'm not coming to church primarily um Because God needs me to do something for Him. I don't come prime , I don't come with the mindset of the most important thing here is what I'm doing for others or what I'm doing for God. No, man, the most important thing is I need God. I need God's help. Yeah. And I need God to do his ministry in my heart, mind. And life. I want to go to three verses about how the word builds the church. And so just rehashing a little bit the overall topic, how the Word of God accomplishes God's purpose. And then you talked about. And you brought us in some verses about how the word equips us to live for God. And it's sufficient to do that. And now I want to Take a broader view on how the word is sufficient to build the church of Jesus Christ. The first verse is Acts 6. Verse 7, and the word of God continued to increase, and the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem, and a great many of the priests became obedient to the faith. pretty cool the conversion of the of the priests the Jewish priests becoming Christians this phrase at verse 7 the word of God continued to increase And the number of the disciples multiplied greatly in Jerusalem. It's the word of God increasing that strengthens The church and that builds the church. It's the word of God continuing to increase that creates disciples It's the word of God continuing to increase that leads to conversions, that leads to obedience to the faith. That's what it says. The priests became obedient. to the faith. They became obedient to the Lord Jesus Christ. And we know, if you don't know this, just go back and read the book of Acts. You you will know it in about um five minutes of reading that where it says the word of God continued to increase, that's talking about the gospel. That's the word of the gospel in particular. And then that's being, at this time in history, that's being preached, the gospel is being preached from the text of the Old Testament. So they're preaching of the incarnation of Christ, his life, his death on the cross, his resurrection. And the meaning of all those things. They're preaching the work of Christ that saves from the text of the Old Testament, showing that the work of Christ is the fulfillment of the salvation that was promised. That's the word of God. And as that ministry of the word continues to increase, the church is built up It's it's built and built and built. And that's where our hearts have to be when we think about growing the church or the church growing or the church getting bigger. It has to be a gospel-centered mindset. The only thing that can build the church and bring sinners into the kingdom is the word of God, the gospel of Jesus Christ. That that word there increase I think can cause confusion. Is that saying that there's more revelation of God's word that God is speaking more and more and more and as long as he's speaking and being revealed then there's a multitude coming to him. Therefore, that we should still expect that the word of God is still being revealed to us today Well, in this context, the New Testament had not been compiled yet, so there is new revelation. In the early church there's apostles And there's also prophets who are receiving new revelation and preaching that word revelation. But even still, I don't think that's what the word means. following the narrative of Acts, it's the m the word of God increasing is a shorthand way of saying the ministry of the gospel spread further out. It advanced more and more. It increased more and more. And it's a way of expressing the successful advance of the ministry of God's word. That's the increase. And that's what we need to be about here is more and more and more ministry of the word, more and more and more going out of the gospel, not being stagnant in those things and focusing on focusing on one thing or another. Another verse in Acts is Acts 12, 24. But the word of God increased and multiplied. The word of God increased and multiplied. Same kind of thing there. And actually that's right before Acts 13, which begins Paul's missionary journeys So it's it's not as if the word is not spreading and then you have Paul as a missionary, then the word starts to spread. No, the word had been spreading. The church was already being built. And it was always centered on the ministry of the gospel, the ministry of the word of God, and of prayer also. And my final verse on this is Acts 19. Verse 20. So the word of the Lord continued to increase and prevail mightily. The word of the Lord continued to increase. and continue to prevail mightily. That's because it's God's word. Going back to that earlier illustrations like the precipitation that comes down to the earth, it produces what it's meant to produce. So also the word of God comes from God's mouth, it goes forth on the earth, and it accomplishes what it me what it's meant to accomplish. So then why do we feel the pressure to come up with New programs, new strategies to get more people in church and to get more Christians. Because right now it feels as though in culture, it feels as though the church is not growing and there's this temptation and this want of, well, maybe we're not doing something right by having a specific program for a specific group of people. How do we fight against that ideology that's so easily probed? I think there's different aspects. So you'll have we'll have to go back and forth and kinda fill this answer out. I think a lot of it's insecurity. Um we feel like we need to have results that are visible so that other people can look at them and and then They're impressed and we feel affirmed. So our sense of affirmation, our sense of maybe even identity comes from the outward results. It's and another aspect of it is a metric of success. It would be great success, staying faithful, living godly lives. The gospel is going out So it can be faithful and it can be successful from a biblical perspective, and it's it's honoring God, God is pleased with it, but in that very same situation, we can We can feel like we're completely failing. Um that happens when we use the wrong metric for measurement. We we measure things by the wrong standard. So if uh this completely worldly, completely ungodly, arbitrary standard of numerical growth at a certain speed that makes people feel excited. Yeah, that's your measure. you're for the most of the time you're gonna feel discouraged and feel like things are failing. Yeah. Yeah, I think it's so easy to be tempted to that because you can get numbers. You can get the masses out with a good program, uh charismatic talk. Um but numerical growth isn't uh the same as true spiritual growth. Uh a and we need to be cautious of that because look we love numbers, we love to report numbers, we love to think um by numbers, but uh that can be deceiving. We'd love to have other people think of us in terms of the numbers we're reporting. Yeah, yeah But and it's hard because when I I can't report uh how how much someone's soul has grown and matured through preaching. I there's no metric to show that to people. But if we believe, as we should, that the Word of God is increasing and that's how God grows his church, then that should be our primary tool and weapon. um than any other program or system. Always, no matter what's happening, Paul told Timothy to preach the word in season and out of season. And so the fact is there are going to be seasons where we're not seeing a lot of fruit. That's out of season. Paul doesn't say, okay, change your strategy. Yeah. But he says preach the word when it you're out of season. And then there'll be times when we're in season. God is providing fruit. Same strategy, centered on the word, preaching the word. Um It's the only it's the only thing that can that can save sinners. So it's the only thing that can truly Build the church and truly bring people into a relationship with God. It's relatively easy, very easy, to get lost people. um to enjoy a man-made religion. Yeah. Or a a shallow man made religious experience by entertainment or psychological m and manipulation or getting people emotionally stirred up with a concert style performance And don't talk about sin, don't talk about judgment, don't talk about God's calling upon your life to repent and change who you are by the grace of God. Just keep it as superficial as possible. Make it really fun. Make it entertaining. And Yeah, if if what you want is strictly numbers without true spiritual growth, that's all you have to do. It's not a secret. It's there's tons of it out there. You want to take us to our last section here? Yeah, so we talked about how the Word of God builds the church by by multiplying, growing it, but I want to look at how the Word of God builds up the church. So very much connected with every aspect we've already talked about. But looking at Colossians 3, 16 Colossians 3. 16 says, Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly, teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom, sing psalms and hymns and spiritual songs with thankfulness in your hearts to God. So that that aspect is really important, is that teaching and admonishing one another in all wisdom so that this isn't um uh in the army you'd say a John Wayne type religion where it's just you by yourself, grab your Bible, go sit in the woods, and isolate yourself from the world. But that the word of God is used within community, and that's why church is so important. That's why we gather together. It's because we believe that when we're together, the word of God is building us up as his his body. So it's the it's both and. So it's the individual is being built up by the Word of God The local church is or the church is growing numerically. There's more people coming to faith, and then that church is being strengthened by the word of God maturing just like the individual does. So it's it's really good to think about um if you had a business, let's say we had a business called Google and we ran that. business. We would want uh individual employees that were getting better at their jobs at the same time we would want the organization to be better improving and getting better and healthier. Well that's what God does. He has individuals that are being built up by the word of God and also his bride, the church, is being built up. by the word of God. So that community aspect is part of God's design. That's not something that um w man came up with. As an additive, but that's God's design. It's a great point. Um just throw this in here for good measure on this verse. Let the word of God Dwell in you richly. That goes back to the other verse you read about God's word, which is at work in us. Here's God's word living in us, taking up residence in us And there's the teaching and the admonishing and the warning and wisdom. And then he says, singing not just psalms. Okay, you can sing Psalms. And hymns and spiritual songs. You can sing all three, it's perfectly fine. As long as they're in uh in line with biblical doctrine. But then it says this with thankfulness and your hearts. If we don't have the thankfulness in our hearts, then that's a sign that the word of Christ is not dwelling in us. It's um there's some kind of stronghold that sin has in our hearts. So we need to come back to having a thankful heart. that's really gonna be the seed of growing in any of growing in any of these things that we've talked about. Um yeah, two things I think we don't do well. One is being thankful. uh it's much easier for us to complain, grumble and complain. Yes. I'm talking about you. Yes. Me, the church, Christians, Americans in general. But I think the other thing is that it's very easy for us to connect and have relationships with people. that have no involvement of Christ, his word, God, anything within that relationship. Sure, we recognize we're both Christians. We both go to church together. But do our conversations ever revolve around what God is doing in our lives, what who he is, um, dealing with sin? I I think uh too often the answer is no. That's not happening at all in a relationship. I'm not saying every time you get together you can only talk about those things. God's blessed us with a lot of sports and Like this contrived hyper spirituality. Yeah. Where it's like that then you can't even then you can't be just a normal person. Yeah, yeah. Then you can't even talk about sports. Exactly. But I think so I think we we probably are on opposite ends of that spectrum and never just being a normal Christian that loves good weather, sports hobbies at the same time loves God and wants to talk about his word with people. I don't know if we do that really well as American Christians. We can talk about the religious things. Yeah, my services. Yeah, ministries that are going on. Um, and to your to your point, we can talk about the things in church that we're frustrated about, that we're disappointed, like it's easy and that could give us the feeling of being spiritual because we're talking about something spiritual and it's coming across as like I have this great concern. But I know myself, right? And we we see this in ourselves, we see it in others too. It turns it's grumbling and complaining with this veil of spirituality, so it's easier to talk about that than to talk about the attributes of God the person of Christ, the work of Christ, what's going on in my sanctification, what am I what do I need to repent of? Different things like that. So it's there are different ways we fill we can fill that void of Trying to have a really was he's trying to have an appearance of godliness. Yeah. Um all right. Take it take it go ahead. We're not saying those things don't happen. Like there's problems in the world. There's plenty of times that we do um talk about hard things. Uh and you know we we'll recognize things we don't like and that our problems. So I'm not saying like, oh don't don't ever talk about those things. But I think we could graph out what our conversations look like with with Christians within the church. That grumbling complaining is probably the biggest piece of the pie out of that chart. There's I can there's uh there's a difference between being uh a negative cynical person on the one hand, and then being a person who's walking in joy and walking in hope. But also within that context is able to speak about those negative things, is able to critique, is able to discuss and take head on some of the problems and issues Jews and church and the world and the nation. But to not be to not let that define us and become a master over us and shape our mindset in a negative way. Do you did you have a final verse for us? Yeah, X twenty thirty two. Hopefully this is really an encouragement to us. X twenty better be or else cut it out of the video. And now I command commend you to God and to the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance among all those who are sanctified. Once again, hear that individual and corporate language at the same time. So he's talking to the individual that you're gonna be build up That's the word of God, the word of his grace, which is able to build you up and to give you the inheritance, all right, so that's individual among all those who are sanctified. So there's just the the individual personal study of God's word and the corporate gathering and hearing the word preached, we need both of them in our lives. Um and it is for the benefit of the church and to the glory of God. Amen. I love that phrase and that verse. The word of his grace. That's another one of those phrases in Acts that's referring to the gospel. The word of his grace. At one point in Acts, it's the gospel of the grace of God. And that's it it all it all revolves around that. Alright, we'll leave it there. The power to accomplish the power of God's word to accomplish his purpose. We've talked about the power of the word to accomplish his purpose in a Christian living to equip us to live for him. To build the church outwardly, to grow the church, and also the power of the word to build up the church, to strengthen and purify the church in the will of God. Alright, we'll see you next time.