Turning your Bibles to the book of John chapter eleven And I don't have much of an introduction, it was this morning. So I will say a few things and read a couple of verses, but This is part two of the glory of God in the rising, the raising of Lazarus. I said this morning that God's glory is the main issue that comes from chapter 11, verse 4. Jesus said this sickness is not to end in death, but for the glory of God, so that the Son of God may be glorified by it. We saw that God's love is constant through our trials. Verse 5, I think, is telling with regard to that truth. Now Jesus loved Martha. and her sister and Lazarus. So it wasn't any lack of love, any absence of love that this tragedy takes place in this family that Jesus was Love that Lazarus, who became sick, was not healed from that sickness, but died. No lack of love. And then we saw God has authority over life and death, the Famous verse, verse 25 in the chapter where Jesus said to Martha, I am the resurrection and the life. Speaking words that only God the Father, as the Jews would understand it, could speak. But he is speaking because we understand God to be a Trinity, God the Father, the Son. And the Holy Spirit. God has authority over life and death. Jesus has authority over life and death. Jesus and God equal persons of the Trinity Fourthly, God sympathizes with our grief. Look at verse twenty-eight Martha has just said, um, Lord, I believe that you are the Christ, the Son of God, even He who comes into the world. Great statement of faith. And then we read in verse twenty. twenty eight. When she had said this she went away and called Mary her sister, saying secretly, The teacher is here and is calling for you. When she heard it she got up quickly and was coming to him Now Jesus had not yet come into the village, but was still in the place where Martha met him. Then the Jews who were with her in the house and consoling her went When they saw that Mary got up quickly and went out, they followed her, supposing that she was going to the tomb, to weep there. Therefore, when Mary came to where Jesus was, she saw him. And fell at his feet, saying to him, Lord, if you had been here, my brother would not have died. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her also weeping, he was deeply moved in spirit. And was troubled. And said, Where have you laid him? And they said to him, Lord, come and see. Verse 35. Jesus wept. So the Jews were saying, see how he loved him. Grief will be a part of your life and mine. uh how we look when we grieve will be different, whether tears flow or we grieve in a different way than that Verse 35, as you know, you know of, as the shortest verse in the Bible, proclaims a very comforting truth, and that is That God through Jesus entered into through the incarnation. He feels our pain, is sympathetic Toward our suffering. We learn that about our God here. In the incarnation, Jesus sympathizes with human pain. Jesus, as Albert Moller said, to quote him again, Jesus authorizes our grief in this passage. I think that's good. In other words, grieving is something that God understands. God understands it as a part of losing loved ones God understands it as a part of facing some of the effects of sin, that effect of sin in our world, that death is a part of it. Jesus authorizes our grief. And we need his comfort in times of grief. We're told in 2 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 3 and 4 That he, God, is the God of all comfort, who comforts us in all our affliction. I would say he comforts us if and especially when we seek him in our affliction. Because sometimes People respond, even believers can, with disappointment in God. Even blaming God. We see that in the passage. Look at verse 37. Verse 36, some were saying, See how he loved, see how Jesus loved Lazarus. But some of them said, Could not this man who opened the eyes of the blind man have kept this man also from dying? In times of trial, blame can bring bitterness, not comfort God allows tragedy to take place, but we need to understand the reason for tragedy is man's fall into sin. uh through the deception of Satan. God has allowed the consequences of sin to remain, and He's not exempted believers from the consequences He has reasons for that ultimately to his glory that we would live above those consequences unto him. in the midst of sinful times and that we would walk through the effects of sin with faith in him. That pleases him, that honors him. So it never should be the thought that he doesn't care. Psalm 711 says God is a righteous judge and a God who has indignation every day. He cares. Sin in the world angers our holy God. It is what will bring a final judgment upon this world, where the earth and its works will be burned down He hates what sin brings into the world. Know that. But it is his choice to bring glory to himself through the believers walking through trial. And we see that here in the family of Mary, Martha, and Lazarus. And you've seen it in your family. Verse 33 shows Jesus' inner response to this pitiful scene. Look back there. When Jesus therefore saw her weeping, and the Jews who came with her also weeping, uh Grief and joining with someone in grief was a cultural thing, but but still on this day it was it was real. These were this was a family that was well loved. When he saw that he was deeply moved in spirit. To be moved with anger is what that literally means. It's like What we just read in or what I quoted in Psalm seven eleven, the indignation that God has, deeply moved in spirit at what had happened because of sin and The world, and he was troubled. He groaned on the inside. He despised as God the Son, just as God the Father, despised the effect of sin on these that he loved. And he despised the effect of sin on the faith of man in him and in God the Father. Because he saw that in verse 37. Could not this man who opened the eyes of the blind man have kept this man also from dying? So Jesus again being deeply moved within. At that statement, at those comments, came to the tomb. So comfort in our grief God notices and is moved by the effects of our fallen world. He cares. He cares. Secondly, God will help us as we suffer the effects of a fallen world. He'll help with comfort, will help with wisdom. And thirdly, just in thinking about this in a practical way, God will one day bring an end to the reason for grief, sin and Satan. Amen. Verse 38 again, so Jesus being deeply moved within came to the tomb. Now it was a cave, and a stone was lying against it. Jesus said , Remove the stone. Martha, the sister of the deceased, said to him, Lord, by this time there will be a stench, for he has been dead four days. Jesus said to her, Did I not say to you, That if you believe, you will see the glory of God. You remember that conversation. If you were here this morning, she wondered if he meant at the end when the dead are raised, now she will know or knows in verse forty that indeed he means now. And I think these verses here point out that we we need faith that God's glory Is not hindered by our earthly circumstances. In this case, Martha needed to believe in Jesus' authority over Lazarus' death, even though four days had passed, even though his body would stink. She needed to trust that he had authority over all And the lesson we learn is God's glory is not hindered by our earthly circumstances. We may give up, we may think it's too late. God doesn't think that way. God is achieving and accomplishing his purposes. Number five God's purpose is evangelistic. In the midst of this passage, there's an evangelistic element, and Jesus is thinking that way. Notice the reason for the miracle that's about to take place in verse 41 and following. So they removed the stone. Then Jesus raised his eyes in prayer and said, Father, I thank you that you have heard me. I knew that you always hear me, but because of the people standing around, I said it so that they may believe that you sent me. Jesus knew that the purpose of this sign was that many would believe he was sent by the Father. And so he prays In a way that others would hear and understand what this is all about He came to seek and to save the lost, and he is showing them who he is through this miracle, that they may believe that you sent me. You've heard me say on occasion we should we shouldn't be praying so others can hear. Well, here's an exception to that rule, okay? Jesus is allowed to uh pray the way he wants to pray. Normally we should our audience is is God the Father. We should be praying to Him is what I mean when I make that Comment, not think about others and start teaching in our prayers and so forth, but this prayer is sincerely for those who would believe through this miracle. So we see this evangelistic purpose in this sign. And of course, John reminds us of that at the end of his gospel. that he's written this gospel, including seven miracles, so that people would believe that Jesus is the Christ and believing in him have life in his Verse 43. When he had said these things, he cried out with a loud voice, Lazarus, come forth. If you could go back to Bible times and pick a place to be, you might pick this place. What an exciting event this is. I've always said I would pick the road to Emmaus to see how Jesus connects. And then I tell you after I say that that I believe Paul connects some other biblical, other New Testament writers connect them for us. So this might be a good place to be too, certainly it would be. But a voice of authority rings out. And neither Satan nor the reality of death could prevent Lazarus from obeying that voice. It's exciting. Verse 44, the man who had died, came forth, bound hand and foot with wrappings, and his face was wrapped around with a cloth. So his body revived, his spirit reunited with his body, Lazarus lived again. He becomes for us a picture of the resurrection that will take place when Jesus returns. And on that day there will be a shout as well. Jesus cried out with a loud voice here, On that day the Lord Himself will descend from heaven with a shout, a cry of command, I believe it is, and the dead in Christ shall rise. First Thessalonians four sixteen. The difference is we will receive glorified bodies if do not die again. Lazarus received his body that Eventually died a physical death. One day he'll get the glorified body. There's another picture here. Look at verse 44. Jesus said to them, unbind him. And let him go. You see, his grave clothes were not appropriate because he was now alive. They would bind his movement. They sent the wrong message. Wait a minute, Lazarus is moving. He's not dead. The picture here is of Christian growth. Think about it with me. When we are saved, we are alive from the dead spiritually. But the sins of the former life are like grave clothes. Paul puts it that way in Ephesians 4, 22 and following, in reference to your former manner of life, You lay aside the old self which is being corrupted in accordance with the lust of deceit. Deceit. And you That you be renewed in the spirit of your mind, put on the new self, which in the likeness of God has been created in righteousness and holiness of the truth. Grave clothes of your former way of life should be taken off. They're binding to your spiritual growth, your spiritual potential, and they send the wrong message to those around you. One way of looking at growth as a Christian, one analogy in the Bible is to think of shedding our grave clothes of sin, putting on obedience to Christ. That putting off and putting on is a theme. of Paul's letters. Now look at verses 45 and 46. Therefore many of the Jews who came to Mary and saw what he had done believed in him. Jesus prayed for that, and his prayer was answered. But some of them went to the Pharisees and told them the things with Jesus which Jesus had done. So how could it be that some did not believe on this day when Lazarus is risen from the dead? God failed in some way? Well, no. The lesson here, finally, number six, is that God is accomplishing his will. If we read forward, we see that. Because in this case, through the Pharisees and those loyal to them, God accomplishes his will. Note their blindness, verse 47. Therefore, the chief priests and the Pharisees convened a council. Remember, uh some had seen Lazarus rise, and they came and told them. So they convened a council and were saying, What are we doing? For this man is performing many signs. If we let him go on like this, all men will believe in him, and the Romans will come and take away both our place And our nation. Now, it is true that Rome had given partial freedom to the Jews. The Jews were under Roman control, but partial freedom to them as long as they were quiet and obedient. So maybe there's some legitimate concern here, but just look at the blindness of verses 47 and 48, that instead of believing, they decide Jesus is a problem. To our nation. And with that rationale they move forward. Forty nine. One of them, Caiaphas, who was high priest that year, said to them, You know nothing at all, nor do you take into account that it is expedient for you that one man die for the people. And that the whole nation not perish. So he's hatching a plan. Now he did not say this. Notice verse 51. And praise God, he is accomplishing his will. He did not say this on his own initiative, but being high priest that year He prophesied that Jesus was going to die for the nation. Isn't that amazing? Isn't that just full of things to think about there, the sovereignty of God. Here's one who's who's believing and we know a self-centered belief. We want to get rid of Jesus. Here's our rationale to do it. And yet God, in the inspiration of the wheat word, calls it a prophecy that Jesus was going to die for the nation. And not only for the nation only, but in order that he might also gather together into one the children of God who are scattered abroad. So from that day on they planned together to kill him. They refused to believe. They were so hardened that they preferred to reject God's Son rather than admit they were wrong about him. But notice, even their unbelief is sovereignly used by God. Because through it God orchestrates the sacrifice of Jesus on the cross. Cross, which is why the Son was sent into the world through the Incarnation. The sovereignty of God brings about that which glorifies God And so we read in Acts 2. 23, I think you have the reference there on the uh the outline. This man Speaking of Jesus being delivered over by the predetermined plan and foreknowledge of God, Peter says to these Religious leaders, you nailed to a cross by the hands of godless men and put him to death. So here's the point for you and I. Through the events, the people, and the circumstances of your life, God is accomplishing. his will. Sometimes you might have an enemy, sometimes you might have someone who let you down you were counting on. Things go wrong with people. But through the events, the people, and the circumstances of your life, if we remember that God is Accomplishing his will. In those times we may not understand it, but we can turn to him, ask him for help. That's the one It's not always having it figured out, but it's believing that God accomplishes His will regardless of how things appear. So just reviewing what we've learned today, what a precious chapter I repeat that again, that it is in just showing the glory of Christ. John, of course, including this sign so that we would believe he is the Son of God, that he came to do God's will on earth with all ultimately was to die upon the cross for sin, that our sin could be forgiven Because of his substitutionary atonement, death to take away sin upon the cross. But it also shows us God's glory is the main issue Prevailing through sorrow shows us that God's love is constant no matter what we go through. It shows us That the authority of God, that God is in authority in the midst of our lives. It shows us the sympathy of God for our sorrow and grief. Not that you needed permission to grieve, but certainly God enters into our grief, understands it. Death is an enemy. It will be defeated, but it is a difficult enemy. Some of you have walked through it in very personal ways as I look around tonight. You know The chapter shows us that God is using our life experiences to draw other people to faith in Christ. Jesus saw this as an evangelistic event. We should understand God is always drawing souls to Christ. The fields still have harvest left, and we see that God accomplishes His will regardless of how things appear to us. And as I said this morning, I repeat, these lessons compel us to lift our eyes from the physical temporal life that so often entrap our attention. And our mind, but we need to lift it from that and recognize, prepare for, live for that which is spiritual and eternal. That pleases and honors God. Let's pray. pray together. Father, we give you thanks. We thank you for the glory of this chapter. We see your glory in it. We see you glorifying the Son. And I thank you as I look around. I see people who believe in Jesus. Thank you that by your grace we came to that point. Thank you for opening our hearts. And Father, thank you for that which we will celebrate now, His death for our sin. Help us to never, never get over the truth of that or or or ever um Wane our interest in remembering it as we do through the Lord's Supper. So I pray that in spirit and in truth we would come to the table tonight. As believers and celebrate what Jesus has done for us. It's in his name we pray. Amen.