Tonight we are in John 9, 24 through 41. This is the power of Christ to give sight to the blind, part two. The power of Christ to give sight to the blind, a magnificent thing, an incredible thing that he has the power to give physical sight to the physically blind, which he did while he was here on his earthly ministry. But he has the power to give spiritual sight to the spiritual, spiritually blind, which he did in his earthly ministry, and he's still doing today. Jesus has the power to give sight to the blind. John 9, 24 through 41. The topic that I'm isolating for this study is the topic of spiritual Searching. And in just a moment, I'll read the whole passage and pray for us, and then we'll we'll open it up a little bit. But the topic of spiritual searching, and what we'll see in this passage is an example of a fake Spiritual searching. And then we'll see an example of a true and authentic spiritual searching. And then the last point is uh is the key. to any true spiritual searching. And we'll get that from after this account of the miracle and all the different responses Jesus has Jesus gives us straightforward the takeaway point, the teaching point that he does at the end of this. So it's the power of Christ to give sight to the blind, part two, but the topic we're isolating is spiritual searching. Let's read the passage, John 9, 24. All the way through forty-one. So for the second time, they called the man who had been born blind and said to him, Give glory to God. And we know that this man is a sinner. Who are they who are they talking about there? Yeah. Yeah He answered, Whether he is a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know, that though I was blind, now I see. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? He answered them, I told you already, and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? Do you also want to become his disciples? A little bit of sarcasm from the guy with his new sights. But you can't I mean you can just imagine how frustrating it was to deal with the Pharisees. I mean they knew everything. They had an answer for everything. They had the authority, and uh that was a tough bunch. Jesus doesn't pull any punches with them. Verse 28, and they reviled him. They reviled him saying, you're his disciple. But we are disciples of Moses. They thought that, but not really. Jesus said earlier. If they believed Moses, they would believe in him, because Moses wrote about him. So they were deceived about that. But anyhow, that's not the focus of this passage. Now verse 29 We know that God has spoken to Moses, but as for this man, we do not know where he comes from. The man answered, You know, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners But if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man, still talking about Jesus, if this man were not from God, he could do nothing. They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and you would teach us? And they cast him out. Jesus heard that they cast him out, and having found him, he said, Do you believe in the Son of Man? He answered, And who is he, sir, that I may believe in him Jesus said to him, You have seen him, and it is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe. And he worshipped him. Jesus said, For judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see, and those who See, may become blind. Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? Jesus said to them , If you were blind, you would have no guilt. But now that you say, we see, your guilt remains. Let's pray. Father, I pray that through this portion of your word , this portion, the account of this miracle and the teaching attached to it. That you would teach us, that you would strengthen our faith. Show us a little bit more of the truth of Jesus Christ. This evening that we may believe in him, that we may find rest in him, that we may find strength and perseverance For the walk ahead. Father, encourage us, help us, comfort us, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. Look at verse 34 before we get into the outline. First they had reviled him, and now they answered him, You were born in utter sin, and you would teach us, and they cast him out. See Cast him out. He's now ostracized. They all they have at this point is an insult. And we see that a lot. And hopefully you and I don't get sucked into that if we're in a discussion or in a debate. Spiritual or otherwise, maybe at home, maybe at work, maybe at a restaurant with your waiter or waitress. Don't resort to insults. Don't insult people. Don't go down to that level. But be civil. Christians should have integrity. That's part of our witness in the community. We should have the patience. And the wherewithal now we can't do this on our own, right? So we need to be praying and crying out for the Holy Spirit, asking for God's help daily, but we can grow in these things by faith, to have integrity and character and and have a patience. That shines and reflects the hope and comfort that we have in Christ. Not like the Pharisees just goes right to the insults. And I'm sure you've seen that. uh in our culture in our society, you've probably experienced it personally. You're you're in a discussion or something and it just it just the le the uh the nature of the discussion just degenerates into insults and little stabs and jabs and sarcasms and and uh honestly just unkind things But we want to guard against that. We want to guard against that mentality from even taking a little bit of root in our hearts. So Spiritual searching, just a little bit of what I mean by that. We're talking about seeking God. It's intriguing in the Bible that the Bible teaches that no one seeks God. But the Bible also commands us to seek God and promises us that if we do seek God, truly we'll find him. Well what's the deal? Does nobody seek God, or are we commanded to seek God, and then if we seek him truly, we'll find him Well, no one seeks God on our own wisdom, on our own power. God has to intervene in our hearts, in our lives, to to stir us up, to draw us, to seek him. You can think about dirt. A garden can't come from dirt. But all around you look and you see gardens coming up from dirt. Well what's the deal? Can garden not come from dirt or do does garden come from dirt? Well, obviously the point is easy enough for a first grader. Just dirt by itself can't produce a garden. It needs something from the outside. It needs seeds. or something to be able to grow a garden out of the dirt. Seeking God, a human being seeking God is sort of like that. We're the dirt. You know, we can't produce a true spiritual seeking of God on our own. But the seed of the Word of God can come into our hearts and lead us To seek God. That's the work of God. That's the work of the Holy Spirit. This is the power of the Word of God to draw sinners to seek him instead of sin. But naturally speaking, all we would do is walk away from God and seek sin. But when God intervenes He changes our mind. He changes our hearts. He stirs us up, plants the seed of his word, and we can seek him. So we're talking about spiritual searching. We're talking specifically about seeking God Himself. The first section Verses 24 through 29, we'll read again. This is a snippet, a little glance into a fake Spiritual searching, which you see all throughout the gospel narratives with the Pharisees and Jewish leaders, they have no problem talking religion. They have no problem talking the Bible, talking God's law, talking the requirements of God. Asking spiritual questions, wanting to talk about spiritual things does not mean necessarily that it's a true spiritual searching. And just because you want to ask questions and discuss spiritual things doesn't mean it's a true spiritual searching. Verses 24 Through twenty-nine. For a second time they called the man who had been blind and said to him, Give glory to God. We know that this man is a sinner. Right there, they just uh they just showed their hand. They've already have their mind made up. We know that this man is a sinner. Remember why? Because he did this miracle on what day? On the Sabbath day. So he didn't break God's law. Jesus didn't break God's law. He broke the man-made laws and commandments of the Pharisees. So they thought that he broke God's law because they equated their traditions with the word of God, with the law of God. So we know this man is a sinner He answered, Whether he's a sinner, I do not know. One thing I do know that though I was blind, now I see. They said to him, What did he do to you? How did he open your eyes? And he answered them, I've already told you and you would not listen. Why do you want to hear it again? So the man who has received his sight is on to their game. Basically he's saying, what good is it going to do to just give you the same exact information that I've already told you and you wouldn't receive it? They already asked these questions. They already know what happened, who did it, how it happened, with the mud remember Jesus spit on the ground, he made mud with his saliva, covered the man's eyes, the man went to go wash in the pool of salon. They said this has been settled. The news is out. The word is out. This is there one more example of the Pharisees troublemaking. Stirring up trouble, looking for reasons, looking for reasons, number one, to accuse Jesus publicly, and number two, in order that they would turn the masses against him because of his growing influence. And the threat that he posed to their influence and their leadership. The Pharisees are asking questions. What did he do? How did he do it? They're not really interested in this. They're not really interested in this. The blind man or the man who used to be blind is is on to them. I've told you already, and you would not listen. So why do you want to hear it again? Then he says, Do you also want to become his disciples? With that question, that is a sharp question , No doubt about it, but he's exposing the fact that he even he knows they don't want to become Jesus' disciples It's nowhere on their radar for them to repent, at this point at least, to repent and follow Jesus. That's not why they want to know what happened. W the reason you're supposed to want to know what what Jesus did and why he did it is so you can learn more about him, so you can follow him and worship him. But that's not the heart behind their spiritual interests. They have a heart of skepticism. That's all from the outset. They're committed to this heart of skepticism. We know this man is a sinner. Now tell us what he did. We know that this man is a sinner, is what they said. Skepticism never breeds faith If skepticism can be repented of, yes, but the skepticism itself cannot breed faith Where they are, and this is so common, I see it all the time, and so do you, where the Pharisees are, is they see themselves on the seat of authority as to what's true and what's not true. And Jesus Is the defendant. Jesus is on trial, and they are the judge, they are the source, they are the standard of truth, they 're the authority. And they're going to judge Jesus and what he does and how he does it and what he teaches and who he teaches it to and who he eats with and who he welcomes. And based on their judgment, they'll determine if he's godly or not godly or whatever. And we know what their judgment was. We know that this man is a sinner Well, they have the situation reversed. They should not see themselves as the standard of truth. They should not see themselves as sitting on the throne as arbiters. of what's true and what's not true, what's good what what's not good, that will never increase faith. That is a that's a seat of, it's a P-word, we all know it. Pride. That's pride. They don't see themselves as humble recipients of truth, but rather they see themselves as the judge in authority of truth and over truth. And they need to repent. And uh, you know, every every believer at one point or another will will uh battle with some kind of doubt Some kind of doubt. Maybe it's doubt your personal salvation. Maybe she doubt a particular doctrine. Maybe the doctrine of inspiration. Can this really be the Word of God? Because we're not perfect in any area of life. And becoming strengthened in our faith is part of sanctification. But struggling with doubt and battling doubt is different, it's categorically different than being driven along by a heart of skepticism where I see myself as the authority over God's truth. And that can happen with the Bible too, where if I see myself as the authority, the Bible is on trial. And I'll s I'll see what it says, I'll see what it teaches, and I'll judge whether it's true or not. No, that's completely true. opposite. Again, that can be repented of, but that is a that's an approach of skepticism that will not breed face. That will not breed face. It doesn't end well for the Pharisees. Hopefully and probably some of them repented, if not in Jesus' earthly ministry, perhaps on the day of Pentecost. We know there was Great and magnificent growth and conversions on the day of Pentecost and in the following weeks, months, and years. So we don't write them off forever. But we do want to be honest about where they are at this point. Skeptics. It's a fake spiritual searching. And the gospel writers even say that in these different stories. They wanted to trap him. They wanted to trap Jesus. They wanted to try to catch him in something. And Turn people against him. That's a fake spiritual searching. Now let's move on to a genuine spiritual searching. More of a happy, happy sub point here, right? A genuine Spiritual spiritual spirit. But that's important. And uh have the discernment uh for our for our own hearts uh and our uh but also others just Being willing to ask spiritual questions and talk about church and religious things, that doesn't necessarily mean there's a true searching going on there. There needs to be a humility to receive The truth. Not seeing yourself as the judge over truth. Genuine spiritual searching is verses 30 through 34, and we can highlight something of the progression of this man's beliefs. Even through the narrative, we see a clear progression. But let's begin with 30 through 34. The man answered, Why, this is an amazing thing. You do not know where he comes from. So he's picking up on what they clearly admitted. They said that. He didn't say that. They said that. They didn't know. So they're they're saying they don't know. You don't know where he comes from, and yet he opened my eyes. We know that God does not listen to sinners. So now he's arguing against the very thing they said. This was their premise This is their premise before anything else. We know this man is a sinner. Well now he's arguing against that. We know that God does not listen to sinners, but if anyone is a worshiper of God and does his will, God listens to him. Never since the world began has it been heard that anyone opened the eyes of a man born blind. If this man were not from God, he could do nothing. He's arguing. At this point he's lost. He comes to faith later in the passage, but at this point, he's still a genuine searching. I'll define what that is specifically in a moment. But he's saying to them, at the very least, the Pharisees, you have to admit this man is from God. He did a godly thing that would have taken godly power. How can you say he's a sinner? He wouldn't have been able to do this If he did not have the favor of God and the will of God on his side. Incredible, he's arguing against the Pharisees. This is a this is a man who is just a regular guy. He's been blind all of his life, was healed by Jesus, arguing against quite well, I might add, the religious authorities and leaders. of the day. They answered him, You were born in utter sin, and you would teach us, and they cast him out. Again, I think they buy into how the passage began. This question in verse two Rabbi who sinned this man or his parents that he was born blind. was a punishment against him or against his family. So they're using this now to slander him publicly, which for me that just exposes that he uh He got the better of them in this theological argument, in this exchange. He exposed their inconsistency. He exposed their pride and disobedience. This man does have a genuine Spiritual search that he's actually living out as we're reading this passage. A genuine searching for God is marked by Receiving by faith what's already come to you. Receiving by faith what's already come to you. So The whole Christian message doesn't come to you at once. The whole message of the gospel doesn't come to you at once. The whole message of God's law doesn't come to us at once. That's why we all, even when we're saved, need a steady diet of the Word of God. But you receive what's given to you by faith. You receive it by faith, and it equips you to receive what's coming next. By faith. So this man, and just because he was the recipient of uh of a miracle of healing doesn't guarantee this, right? The miracle didn't save him. The miracle didn't change his heart. It was a miracle that healed his blindness. But he's receiving by faith that which has come to him already. Look at the progression. Look at verse 11. He answered The man called Jesus. So this is how he refers to Jesus at first. The man called Jesus, made mud and anointed my eyes, and said to me Go to Siloam and wash. So I went and washed and received my cells. So he obeyed by faith. We don't know how much he knew about Jesus. We don't know how how much he heard about Jesus' teaching. We know he couldn't have seen any of Jesus' miracles. He might have heard of Jesus' miracles, but he refers to him as the man called Jesus, made mud and anointed my eyes. Well he's admitting, receiving by faith, admitting that it's true, Jesus did this. But it's interesting to me that he refers to him as the man called Jesus. Then go down to verse 17. They said again to the blind man, what do you say about him? This is always the question, isn't it? What do you say about him Well, because we're not saved just if we live and happen to live in a family where everyone else says he's Lord and Savior. You have to believe he's Lord and Savior. What do you say about him since he opened your eyes? He said he is a prophet. So, it's a little bit of an escalation. He's a prophet. He's a prophet of God. Only prophets have this power. Still not Savior, still not the holy one of God. The man called Jesus, but now he is a prophet. And then go down to verse 25. He answered, whether he is a sinner, I do not know. There's just more evidence. There's there's progression, there's growth here, because if that were a saved person, you would say, He's not a sinner. This is the Son of God. This is the Holy One of God. He's not a sinner He's the righteous one that was foretold by the prophets. So the man called Jesus, but then he's a prophet Not sure if he's a sinner, because prophets were sinners too, just like preachers are sinners and church members are sinners. There's only one who's in the other category of sinless. That's Jesus. So He's received by faith. He believes what has happened, and it's Jesus who did it He's re he's truly searching. Faith will breed more faith In receiving a bit of truth by faith will increase our faith and equip us to receive more truth by faith. Skepticism doesn't breed faith. Skepticism needs to be repented of. But faith, true faith, true faith could be the size of a mustard seed. Of a poppy seed, but true faith that's exercised will grow and will equip us to receive more truth. And more truth. And that will grow our faith. Faith breeds faith. And you see the progression, then we see the culmination of that in the last section, 35 to 41, his conversion. And we'll call I call this section the center of spiritual searching. The first section was on those Pharisees, the fake spiritual searching, just asking these questions doesn't make you spiritual. And then a genuine spiritual searching, which is marked by receiving what you have received by faith, not skepticism, not as if I'm the judge over it. But the center of all spiritual searching is what do you say about Jesus What do you say about him? When you hear the truth from the Bible about who Jesus is and what Jesus does and provides, what do you do with that truth? Do you bat it away? Do you swat it away like a wasp? Or do you receive it like a treasure? Like a blessing, like a pearl of great price that you didn't know existed? The center of spiritual searching is what will you do with Jesus? Verses 35 through 41. Now Jesus Heard that they cast him out. Okay, so stop. So now Jesus is back on the scene. He had disappeared from the scene for a while in this narrative. He did the miracle. The man went to wash in the pool of saloon like he was commanded, you don't you don't see Jesus in the narrative. There's a lot of talking going on about him and what happened, but once he sends the man away Jesus doesn't come back on the scene till now, after the man is cast out, after the Pharisees have exposed themselves and their true nature and their true heart to this man. They should have been happy for him. They should have thrown a feast for him. They should have been hugging him, lifting him up, carrying him through the streets, praising the Lord for what's happened. They cast him out. They reviled him. Get out, cast him out. It's incredible. Jesus heard that they cast him out, and having found him, he said, so that's noteworthy. Jesus went and found him. Jesus went and found the one who had been cast out. Isn't that something? Oh boy, that's that'll preach. That'll preach to the character of God, the mercy of God. Sinner cast out. Jesus went and found him. Do you believe in the Son of Man? Jordan, remind me to come back to this phrase if I forget to come back to it. He answered, Who is he? Sir, that I may believe in him. Jesus said to him, You have seen him. It is he who is speaking to you. He said, Lord, I believe, and he worshipped him. So the man called Jesus. To he is a prophet , but I'm still not sure if he's a sinner, whether he's a sinner or not. I do not know to Lord, I believe you are the Son of Man, and he worships him as God because he is God. He is not only a prophet sent by God, he is a prophet sent by God, but not merely. He is God in the flesh. And this man was converted. His searching that was orchestrated by the Holy Spirit of God working in his life, working in his mind, working in his heart. Came to fruition. And he became a worshiper of the Lord Jesus Christ. It's the greatest thing in the world. A far greater and more significant miracle than healing from physical blindness. The healing of a heart that's blind to the truth of Christ, eternal life, eternal salvation, the forgiveness of sins, becoming a worshiper of Jesus Christ is what we want for the world around us. Lord, I believe and worship him. They've got to say something about 39 to 41. But, Son of Man. Do you believe in the Son of Man? It's the most common phrase Jesus uses in reference to himself. The Son of Man, I'm going to summarize the prophetic significance of this phrase. The Son of Man is the one who receives the kingdom of God from the Father, and then grants sinners Entrance into that kingdom. He receives the dominion. He receives the authority. He receives the kingdom of God from God and shares that kingdom with sinners. And he receives that kingdom based on his righteous life, his sacrificial death. And then he's rewarded with resurrection, life, and power, and he's Ascended, lifted into heaven, and enthroned at the right hand of God, seated at the right hand of God as king Of all of heaven and all of earth, all authority in heaven and on earth has been given to him. Therefore, on that basis We go and make disciples. On that basis, we have been made disciples, and on that basis, we go and make disciples. But Jesus has supreme authority over all things. He's the Son of Man, Son of God. Is God's representative king. It's a human representative king. Son of man means the same thing. Son of man just has a different emphasis. It's just emphasizing that he's one of us. He's a human. He's a man. He's our brother. The Son of Man receives the authority, the dominion, the lordship of the kingdom of God. And it's by that authority, brothers and sisters, that he grants us access to heaven He brings us in. He brings us out of darkness. He reconciles us to God. Salvation is not just believing in an idea. It's not just believing and agreeing with philosophical facts. about God. Salvation is something that Jesus Christ does in our lives. He reconciles us to God. He gives us new hearts. gives us the gift of eternal life that can never be taken away. Oh what a glorious way that this chapter ends. For all the diabolical scheming You see in the Pharisees and the skepticism and and all and and casting this man out, his parents betraying him and lying so that so that they don't get cast out. What a grand note the chapter ends on. A sinner saved by grace becomes a worshiper of God. Think about the day that this man had. He woke up and he was blind just like every other day of his life and he was lost and probably didn't even know about it and didn't even care about it. When you're lost, that's where you are. But Jesus intervened. Jesus intervened so that, remember the purpose of this miracle? So that the works of God might be displayed And were they ever? I mean, were they ever? The power and the compassion of this miracle. But then Jesus didn't just go on to another town. He seeks this man out. He he finds him shares the gospel of himself. It's interesting. We share the gospel of another, of Jesus. Jesus shares the gospel of himself, the Son of Man, and the man believes. Let's quickly look at verse 39 through 41, the takeaway points Jesus said, for judgment I came into this world, that those who do not see may see. Now, in the story, who 's that representing? The man, and he didn't see, then he saw, in two different ways, physically and spiritually. And there's another aspect here, and that those who see may become blind. That's the Pharisees. That's the religious leaders who think that they see everything. They think that they know everything. They don't know one thing. They don't know anything Some of the Pharisees near him heard these things and said to him, Are we also blind? So they knew, just like with some of the parables, they know it's against them. They know Jesus is talking about them. Jesus said to them, If you were blind You would have no guilt. But now that you say we see your guilt remains. That's a difficult passage, but just zero your mind in on the irony there. No. If they would admit that they were blind, if they would admit they need to learn the truth from Jesus, then ironically they would be those who see But the fact that they continue insisting that they see properly. They continue seeing themselves as the seat of authority. Jesus is a sinner. Jesus is not from God. He he's a blasphemer, he's violating the Sabbath. Since they have this high and mighty self-righteous view of them of themselves, they in fact uh their guilt remains, they continue in their spiritual blindness. So it's uh it's one of those uh little counterintuitive spiritual things. If we really come to this point where we admit that we're blind. And we need God to give us sight, that's actually the the very first opening of our eyes to where we now see as we admit that we're blind. What a great, great way that chapter ends. I love the way that chapter ends. You know the gospel narratives are full of conflict. in arguments Jesus and the religious leaders but also you see these magnificent things Jesus is doing good deed upon good deed compassionate powerful miracles like like this earth has never seen, never will see till he returns and get the climactic miracles of God. at the end of history, at the end of time as we know it. But it's a uh it's such an engaging story. I mean the gospels I'm gonna pray for us in just a moment, but just something on the gospels, just in terms of literature and genre. In the Bible you have uh you have history. And you have prophecy , you have letters, you have poetry, you have different things. The gospel is kind of all of them together. You just biography of Jesus. It's also historical narrative. It's also the f fulfilling of prophecy. So you get you get theology on that And Jesus actually is a prophet, so there are sections of prophecy in the gospels. Incredible, incredible books. And of course there's prayers. in there and beatitudes in there, it's something like you you would see in the wisdom literature and the Psalms. It's just jam-packed. Whatever else you're reading in your devotional time, make sure you have a place in the weekly routine for reading through the gospel. The gospels of the Lord Jesus Christ that will help each one of us keep our eyes fixed on this man. This man is our salvation. This man is our hope. This man is our anchor. The Lord Jesus Christ. Let's pray. Father, we thank you. We thank you for Jesus. Lord Jesus, we thank you for all that you've done for us. uh in the world. We look at uh we look at the spread of your kingdom all over this earth and For me personally, it just boggles my mind thinking about the the extreme minority of the early church and they were hated, hated by the Jews, hated by the Gentiles and the Romans, and yet Look at look at your church today. It's all over the place and still growing and still spreading. And there are people on the other side of the world worshiping and lifting up the name of Jesus Christ. Today, filled with the Spirit. Father, we're so thankful. We're so thankful to have a part of it. It's in Jesus we uh we say thank you. It's in Jesus we praise you. It's in Jesus we lift this prayer. Amen.