Second Peter three is where we are going to be. And I'd like to at least read the whole chapter. But not all at the beginning, but throughout. You know, by the time we get to the end, even if we don't Take a close look at every verse. I'd like to look I'd like to read the whole chapter so we can get that concluding word. Verses 1 through 13 is about how scoffers come in the last day and doubt. And mock the belief that Christ is coming back. And then so then it's uh about that as well. It's about Christ's return. And then that last paragraph, his closing words from verses 14 through 18, start with this. Therefore, beloved. Since you are waiting for these, and what he means there is the new heavens and the new earth, since you are waiting for these, be diligent to be found by him. Dot dot dot. And so If you want to just think of it in the most general terms, this the first part of this chapter, 2 Peter 3, 1 through 13. is about Christ's future coming, his return. And then um the last paragraph is in light of that, here's how we ought to live. Okay? So truth Application. Okay. That's a good that's a good bit of introduction. Let's Pray together, and then we'll get on with the study. Father, we thank you for your word. We thank you for your goodness to us. We thank you for your mercy, your unfailing love. Thank you for Jesus Christ. We thank you for his coming, his life, death, resurrection. Father, we thank you for his Holy Spirit that he's poured into our hearts. And we thank you for his second coming. We thank you for his future coming, his return, and all that that entails. And Father, in light of that, we pray, we beg you now. That you would help us to live in light of his coming. We ask and we pray that you would sanctify us to be holy as you are holy, to be diligent in the work that you've given us. To be found in him, to be found ready at his coming. Father, we ask that you would help us in our Bible study this evening. By the power of your Holy Spirit and for the glory of your name, we ask. In Jesus' name. Amen. Okay, 2 Peter 3. And I'm calling this study the promise of his coming. If you've uh picked up this theme, I try to do this all the time. Although I'm sure I don't, but I try to take the title right up out of the passage. Not necessarily from the beginning or the end, but just a phrase that stands out to me. I try to make that the title of the class. So this is the promise of his coming. Alright, so you can skim. We will read through and you'll see where that comes from. But if you want to skim and see where that comes from ahead of time, feel free to do that. So the promise, this is something that God has promised. God has said, this is going to happen. So it's a promise from God, which means for Christians it is our sure hope. This is our hope. We live in light of this hope. The promise of His Coming. And his refers to the Lord Jesus Christ, who right now bodily is in heaven. Okay, in a glorified resurrection body. That's where Christ is. But he is coming back to this world. And that is the promise of his coming. Alright, let's read, see where that comes from, and then we will I'll give some overview. Application points for that, or just ways that should shape our thinking. A few of them I stole from Pastor John this morning we were talking about this. He said a few things that I plucked up and put in my notes. And then we'll work through starting in verse 1. So let's let's let's read the uh let's read the first paragraph. Hey, you like that? You got a credit. It's a midweek Bible study. Do you like that? Okay, 2 Peter 3, verse 1. This is now the second letter that I'm writing to you, beloved. In both of them, I'm stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder. Now if it's something pastors should do, that's something Christian brothers and sisters should do for each other, we need reminders. We are prone to forget. We are prone to wander. We need reminders. We need to be stirred up by reminders. Of who we are in Christ, by reminders of who God is, what He's done for us, how we're called to live, what our duty is, on and on and on. We all need to be stirred up by way of reminder, verse two. That you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets. So that's one thing he wants them to remember: the predictions of the holy prophets, and the commandment Of the Lord and Savior through your apostles. Okay, so there's a promise that had come originally through the holy prophets. And also predictions, or commandment, rather, commandment of the Lord and Savior. That's Jesus. Through the apostles. And so you have God speaking through the prophets, God speaking through the apostles, and he wants to remind his readers, he wants to remind us. Of those predictions and of that commandment. Right? You saw those words in there. Predictions and commandments. Predictions and commandments. Verse 3, he fleshes that out. What is he referring to? Verse 3, knowing this first of all. That scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing. Scoffers will come in the last days days with scoffing, following their own sinful desires. Spent a section of one of our classes that was either three weeks ago or four weeks ago, I think, on how we are in the last days. We looked at those verses that say we are in the last days. And summarizing what that means is it's the last era of history before Christ returns. It's the last days. It's the last era of history before Christ returns. And in the last days, scoffers will come. Mockers who mock the Lord, who mock the faith, who mock believers And who mock in this context God's promise. God's promise. We'll see that. So knowing this, first of all Alright, so let's get grounded. Let's get our feet where they need to be. First of all, that's what that means. First of all, scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing. How do they live? They follow their own sinful desires. They follow their own sinful desires. Now at one point in time, that was all of us before we were born again. But we're no longer people who live for our own sinful desires, but for God. And his desires. Verse 4, they will say. So now who's saying this? Who's the they? The scoffers. Slanderers, the mockers, the haters, they will say, Where is the promise of his coming? Where is the promise of his coming? Ah not going to Paul's after every phrase. Well, that's what I mean That's where the title comes from. Because this is the scoff. This is a question, but it's not said as a genuine question. It's a mock. It's a making fun of. It's a skeptical doubting against the faith. They will say, Where is the promise of his coming? And then now here's their thought process behind that, the scoffers. For ever since the fathers fell asleep, since days of old, that's just the way of saying, since days of old. Since ancient days, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. Now that's their reasoning And so what are they implying? Things have always been the same, things are always going to be the same. There is no uh ascended Lord in heaven that's going to come and change things. There is no future judgment, which the our last study that was one of the one of the topics, one of the themes in chapter two. This um This method of false teachers to gather a crowd by denying final judgment and by making people think and feel and believe that there is no coming judgment. So that ties back into chapter 2 here But that's what they're saying. Where's the promise of his coming? Things have always been the same. And so, therefore, things will always be the same. We're here, we're gone, and that's it. Do we hear things like that today? Do we hear reasoning like that? That's fallen human reasoning. And the details of that argument against the faith will be different in every age. But the underlying thought process is the same. Um And what it amounts to is pride to get away from the specifics of what they're saying and what their argument is. Really what they're saying, and t tell me if you see this or hear this, or maybe you used to think like this, really what they're saying is based on what we see, uh based on what we think That's not going to happen. That's what it amounts to, right? Based on what I observe and based on what I think in my mind what I can conceive of, that's not going to happen. That's nonsense. That's a fairy tale. The arrogant pride of sinful man. And so, but we live by the word of God, the word of the prophets, the word of the apostles The promise of God. And so there's the actual scoff and specific point of skepticism there. And then there's a little bit on their thought process. Verse five. For they deliberately overlook this fact That the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water. By the word of God. Now, when I'm done with verse 7, that's the first thing we're going to look at together. Almost like a uh an exc an excursus. Uh go back to Genesis one and look at what he's taught, what he's referring to by that. They deliberately overlook this fact that the heavens existed long ago and the earth was formed. out of water and through water by the word of God. So they deny creation, verse six, and that by means of these the world that then existed The original creation, right? The world that then existed, literally the then world, but we translate it so we can understand it in English. The world that then existed, the original creation. Was deluged, was flooded with water, and perished. Okay. So there was an original creation out of water and through water But then a catastrophic divine judgment came and destroyed that world. And what he's doing is making a statement, a counter-argument to the scoffers and saying You are wrong about this. Things have not always been the same. There was a major change in the world. There was an original creation, yes, but then there was a flood, a catastrophic, destructive judgment of God against sinners. The righteous judgment of God. That happened once, and he's going to say in this paragraph, that's proof and testimony that that is going to happen again. It Contradicts the thinking of lost man. It contradicts the argument that things have always been the same and there has been no divine intervention. So that's uh Peter's argument, his counter argument against the scoffers in their pride. But, verse 7, but by the same word, the same word , glance back up in verse 5, and creation came by the word of God. Now verse 7, by the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist Now exists. So he had he just made a statement about the world that existed then, the original creation before the flood. And now he's making a statement based on that, but by the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist, this is the Post -flood world. That's what that is. The post-flood world. He's structuring history here. Before the flood, original creation, catastrophic judgment of God, now post -flood creation. The heavens and earth that now exist are stored up for fire, not water, fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. There was the past Judgment and destruction that created a new world, so to speak, pre-flood, flood, post-flood world, and there is a future judgment and destruction. That's going to create a new world. Right? This right now we are in the post flood world, but we are still in the uh we are in the old fallen creation. It's still technically speaking the original creation. It's not in that original state of innocence and holiness and goodness, free from sin and suffering, but it still is that same order of creation. It's just now under the curse of sin and death And so, boy, a lot there in chapter 3, verses 1 through 7. It's not something we think about too often, but this is Peter's reasoning, this is his argument against the scoffers, anyone who would say the world has uh always been the same, there's been no divine judgment, therefore things will always be the same and there will be no divine judgment. Peter says, no, according to the word of God. According to his promise through the poly prophets and his word through the apostles And this is a constant theme for Peter, constant theme in the New Testament, that the word of the apostles is uh consistent with the promises. And prophecies of the prophets of old. Alright. Things have not always been the same. Things will not always be the same. There was a judgment. There will be a judgment. Okay. So the promise of his coming. The promise of his coming. Ultimately, that is what I would like to focus on most. But First, let me read it again and then keep a hand or a Bible ribbon on 2 Peter 3, and then we're going to go back to Genesis. Chapter one but look at what he says here in um where is it verse five right uh verse five yes they deliber did they deliberately overlook this fact That the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the Word of God. The earth was formed out of water and Through water by the word of God. Okay, keep a marker there. Let's go back to Genesis 1:1. Everybody there? All right, good. In the beginning, God created the heavens and the earth. The earth was without form and void I'll just put a finger right there, stop right there. Uh then the rest of the creation account will be God Giving form to creation and filling the void of creation Okay, here the earth is formless and void. It's without form and it's void. On days one, two, and three, he's going to give it form. So that it may be fillable. And then on days four, five, and six, he's going to fill it. So that then his purposes for creation might be worked out and achieved. So if you see this, it's without form and it is void, and then the days of creation are structured according to reverse that, make it livable. And then of course on day seven, what happens? He enters into his rest. He enters into his eternal heavenly rest. Okay. Form without form and it's void. And darkness was over the face of the deep. Now we have to picture this. Often we race right by that. The earth is without form and it's void. It is void, and there's darkness over the face of the deep. This uh these is the uh the waters of creation, the deep. The sea. And if you're not convinced by that, we'll just keep reading, okay? But this is this is the earth. It's unlivable. It's covered by the deep, and darkness is over the deep. And the Spirit of God was hovering over the face of the, say it out loud, waters. Okay, so now this is the earth as originally created. Covered by deep waters , darkness over the face of those waters, and the Holy Spirit of God. Who had descended was hovering there, poised to do something. Verse three And God said, let there be light. And there was light. So now you have word of God and creation. The word of God and creation. And God saw that the light was good, and God separated the light from the darkness, and God called the light day, and the darkness he called night. And there was evening and there was morning the first day. He's forming, he's structuring, he's organizing. And verse six, and God said, Let there be an expanse in the midst of the waters. And let us separate the waters from waters. Does anyone else have a different word other than expanse in verse 6? We may have a few. What does the New American standard say? Expanse. Expanse? Anyone else? Does everyone have expanse? Okay. Well that's that's rare. Okay, I thought we were going to have um maybe can be Firmament. Canopy or firmament, some maybe even say sky. Um firmament 's probably the best. It's uh The image that would have come into mind would have been like a dome-like structure. But here's the point of verse six. There's an expanse in the midst of the waters, those waters of creation, the deep. And it separated waters from waters. But look at the nature of that separation. God made the expanse and separated the waters that were under the expanse from the waters that were above the expanse, and it was so. And God called the expanse heaven. And there was evening and there was morning the second day. And so on day two, he's forming, he's structuring, he's organizing. He separates the waters He separates the waters this way, waters above, waters below, and now verse 9. And God said, let the waters under the heavens be gathered together into one place, and let the dry land A peer. And it was so. God called the dry land earth. And the waters that were gathered together, he called the seas, and God saw that it was good. Okay, so turn back to Second Peter. Water becomes very important in the Bible and things that actually happen in history and also as a symbol. But this original creation, Peter's alluding back to the primordial waters Of creation. God separated them this way, and then he pulled them back this way, and the world appeared. And that happened in a another in a parallel way, not the exact same kind of way, but it happened in a parallel way after the flood, where the waters receded. And the the um So to speak, new world appeared for Noah and his lineage. And we get to Peter and he says This is what they're denying. They're denying creation, that the heavens existed long ago, and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God. Um oh you know you know what I forgot to do, Pastor? I forgot to give those uh Four summary applications, and I said I stole a couple of them from you. Alright, let's go back to 2 Peter 3, we should already be back there. The promise of his coming, uh, this presents a great hope for the believer. That's one of the things I'm taking away. Uh Um this is a great hope for us. This is a hope we live in light of, and it also gives us a great urgency. It should give us a great urgency. And our mission here to get the gospel out to as many people as possible so that they might come to know God, so that they might be saved. It's our great hope our hope of salvation. It's our it's our great urgency, the urgency of evangelism and missions, because it is a great terror. It is a great terror for those outside of Christ, the terror of divine judgment. And it's the great perspective changer. It's a great perspective changer. That's a hyphenated word, perspective changer, or hyphenated phrase. Because the fact that Christ is coming back, the promise of his coming, should change everything about our lives. It should change everything about everything about how we're thinking, our perspective on life. Should change based on what Christ has done and based on what he is doing, but ultimately based on what he's going to do and coming back. This world is not the end. This world is not the end. This life that we have here on earth is not the end. It is not ultimate. We're just a vapor. We're just a breath. We are here and then we are gone. And then there's eternity. So this is the great perspective shaper, the great perspective changer. It's our hope. It's our urgency. The promise of his coming. Alright, now we officially, I think that's enough introduction. What do you guys think? Um I like to connect dots, right? So if I get a I get a verse like the creation uh w was uh the earth was formed out of water and through water. Boy, it's hard to resist. Um Any any questions before we start going through verse by verse or passage by passage here? Okay, verses 1 through 3. A lot of this uh I talked about as I in the original reading of the passage. So I'm not going to race, but I'll go relatively quickly because I did talk I did talk about some of the stuff. Verses 1 through 3 first Scoffers will come in the last days, which again is the last era of history before Christ returns. He says, now this is the second letter that I'm writing to you. 1 Peter would have been the first letter. Uh that I'm writing to you, beloved. In both of them, I am stirring up your sincere mind by way of reminder. We talked about that Uh you should be having an active part in that on both sides of it. You should be one who reminds others of the great truths and promises of God and The calling of God upon our lives in order to stir them up. And when others do that to you, when others do that to me, I need to humbly receive that word. I need to be one who's open to being stirred up by way of reminder. And then he says that you should remember the predictions of the holy prophets and the commandment of the Lord and Savior through your apostles, knowing this first of all, that scoffers will come in the last days with scoffing, following their own. Sinful desires. So that's verses one through three. Scoffers will come in the last days. We are in the last days. Scoffers are here And we need to um we need to know about it. We need to be prepared for it, always be ready to give an answer for the hope that we have within us, with gentleness and respect, sanctifying Christ as Lord in our hearts. Verse 4, their criticism, what is their specific criticism, at least in this instance , their criticism is Um has to do with the promise of his coming. Where is the promise of his coming? So here you have skepticism. Just One specific bullet bullet point of skepticism, but it's skepticism based on their reasoning about their interpretation of the world. And of course, the only true lens is To interpret the world correctly is what lens? The word of God. Right, that's that's the ultimate lens for interpreting anything. Ourselves. Our mind, the nature of our mind, human nature in general, our hearts, the world, the seasons, days. Nights, the moon, everything. Morals. God's word is the lens through which we interpret the world. Their criticism is the promise of his coming, verse 4. They will say, Where's the promise of his coming? For ever since the fathers fell asleep, all things are continuing as they were from the beginning of creation. They're wrong about that. They deliberately overlook this fact that the heavens existed long ago and the earth was formed out of water and through water by the word of God, and that by means of these the world that then existed was deluged, was flooded, destroyed with water and perished. It came up out of water. It was destroyed by water. Verse 7: another judgment is coming. Verse 7, another judgment is coming. And another world is coming. Another judgment is coming. Another world is coming on the other side of that judgment. Which means another salvation is coming. Another salvation is coming. Salvation being spared from that coming judgment, so that you may be made a partaker of the new world. Okay, so another judgment is coming, another world is coming, and another salvation is coming, that sinners, though we've sinned against God, may enter into this new world and enjoy fellowship with Him forever. That's salvation. Verse 7. But by the same word, the heavens and earth that now exist Are stored up for fire, being kept until the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. Another world is coming. Uh Day of Judgment. I'm just going to I want to write this on the board. I'm going to shorten it and just write Day of Judgment. It's a longer phrase than that. It's the day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly. But this is the day of judgment, popularly known as Judgment Day. Okay. What verse is that Day of Judgment? Seven. Okay. Let's keep Reading. Let me make sure I didn't miss anything in that first paragraph. Let me skim it quickly. Okay. Let me just circle. So he's coming. And Day of judgment. Verse 8, but do not overlook this one fact, beloved, that with the Lord one day is like a thousand years, and a thousand years As one day. The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness So the differences in how you count, the differences in how you interpret time, the differences in how you measure time, what you say is slow and what you say is fast is not what God says is slow and what God says is fast. And um there's no scientific formula like a conversion table, right? Oh this is uh this is how we see time, and you put it through this formula as a oh well it must must be Um three hundred thousand six hundred and seventy-four years. No, there's it's just a principle. It's a metaphoric use of language To say that God doesn't look at time the way we look at time. He doesn't count slowness the way we count slowness With the Lord, one day is there's a thousand years, and a thousand years is this one day. It's because God is an eternal being. He dwells in eternity. He he reveals himself in creation, but he's not a created being There's no duration for God. He doesn't pass from moment to moment to moment. He doesn't get smarter. He doesn't get stronger. He doesn't get weaker. He doesn't forget things. He's the same always, and he dwells in eternity. Verse 9: The Lord is not slow to fulfill his promise as some count slowness, but he's patient toward you, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance something about the patience of God, the merciful heart of God towards sinners And he's talking specifically to Christians here, to the church. He's already said beloved twice in chapter three, but the whole letter is to Christians. And so this God's patience here. And not wanting them to perish, and wanting their repentance, working toward their repentance, is to the body of Christ. He's pacing toward you, beloved, not wishing that any should perish, but that all should reach repentance. So the reason The day of the Lord has not or the we didn't get to that phrase yet. The reason he's not come back yet, the reason Day of Judgment has Not occurred yet is very simple. Biblically, it's very simple as to why. God is patient. God is patient with sinners. He has a merciful, loving patience with sinners. He is fulfilling a purpose. He is sovereign over history. He's fulfilling a purpose. He's patient. So it's the heart of God that's really missed here. Verse Wait. Let me just make sure there's nothing in that um in verses eight through nine that I want to write on the board. That's why I say wait at the end of those. Okay. Okay, verse ten. But the day of the Lord. Okay, so here 's another phrase that I want to write up right on the board. This is verse 10. The day of the Lord. So he's talking about the same day, the same sequence of events or group of events. But he's talking about it using different phrases He's called it his coming, the coming of Christ. He's called it the day of judgment and destruction. Now he calls it the day of The Lord. The day of the Lord will come like a thief, and the heavens will pass away with a roar. We've already talked about that. A new world is coming. The heavens will pass away with a roar. And the heavenly bodies will be burned up and dissolved. He's already mentioned that, verse 7, stored up for fire, the fires of judgment. Burned up and dissolved, and the the I the imagery there of dissolved is strong and clear that this Order of creation will be done away with, and the earth and the works that are done on it will be exposed. Referring to judgment, a moral judgment that will occur as this order of creation is done away with under the fire of divine judgment. One of the things to notice there is the quick and surprising nature of when this happens, like a thief in the night. Verse 11. Since all these things are thus to be dissolved, what sort of people ought you to be? In lives of holiness and godliness, waiting for and hastening The coming of the day of God. I gotta put that up there too, and then we'll finish that sentence. So this is what verse is that Verse twelve Day of God So his coming when Christ comes back. It's the day of judgment. It's the day of the Lord. It's the day of God. And um let's finish through thirteen, then we'll pause for questions and insights from you. And then I have two more sections. See if we can get through them. Okay, uh verse uh twelve waiting for and hastening the coming of the day of God, living in light of it. Living in hopes of it. Moving toward it. We live as those who are moving toward it. Because of which the heavens will be set on fire and dissolved. Well, he's pretty uh redundant here. We sh should get the point. And the heavenly bodies will melt as they burn, but according to his promise, and that's what we study tonight. The promise of his coming. According to his promise, we are waiting for new heavens and a new earth in which righteousness dwells. Which is the opposite of this heavens and these heavens and this earth. Talking about the created heavens there. Um This is where sin and death dwell. There is where righteousness and only righteousness dwells in the new heavens and in the new earth, the new creation. The new creation. So Questions or insights? Don't be bashful. You guys are so bashful Now don't make up something just so you can have something to say. But I know you guys are thinking things. End of verse three, yeah. Yep. In the in the old days I always used to say, well what does a scoffer have to do with lust? Like lust is a sin and scoff is different But since then I realized this that um they like sin. They genuinely like it. They love it. They love it. So what they're saying is nature is Sin nature, the fallen world is sinful. This is what's normal. You guys are abnormal and you're unnatural and you're doing something you don't need to. Nothing's like you said nothing's gonna happen. Whereas we live our lives basically uh self uh self-disciplining, right? And in uh denial of our flesh. They live in complete I don't want to use the word harmony, but because the flesh isn't harmonious, but in darkness. They're in darkness. And that's where we would have been So to me that's where that 's But for the grace of God, brother. That's like two different uh outlooks and that's it why the s well that's why the luster is gone for because Good right. That's right. So the comment I can't repeat all of it, my memory's not that good, but it was uh referring back to verse three where the scoffers Something else is said about the way they live. They're following their own sinful desires. So something about the connection between those things. Uh when I was lost and when I was living uh for my own sinful desires. I scoffed because that was in service to me living out and pursuing sinful desires. So there's a there's a method to the madness, so to speak. And another the other part of the comment was how that is the opposite of who we are to be in Christ and how we are called to live. We don't scoff at the truth of God. We rejoice in the truth of God. We don't pursue our own sinful desires. We flee from them. The word for that starts with an R is called repentance, right? We flee from that in order to pursue holiness under God's grace, under the umbrella of grace. Not we're not working or trying to be holy to earn God's favor or to or to work our way into heaven. And so by God's grace and by the power of the Holy Spirit. I mean, where would we be in holiness? Where would we be? How far would we get in fleeing sinful desires without the Holy Spirit? Nowhere. We wouldn't even want to take that journey. Anyway, any other questions or insights? So I 'd love to hear how you speak about the idea of hastening or the coming of the day of God. I know what I said about it in a sermon, but I'm just curious to know how you connect that to to the context um the because I don't think we're saying that we have some control of the timing Right, because because God n already knows exactly when Christ is going to return. We can't change God's um plan or the times and seasons. that he has set. There is some kind of connection here though about the the there is some sort of connection, it appears, between How the people of God live to the return of Christ. And I think the admonition, I don't have all the answers and insights on on exactly what that means hastening, but W but in terms but the admonition is the key point and how we live should be in such a way that we we want the day of God to come quick and come soon. And that's the way we should live. That's the way we should Uh that's the way we should do missions and evangelism and serve one another. I'm open to hearing how you preached on it. To me that when God uh completes the work of salvation um that Jesus will come. And so one way to read verse nine is when he has saved all that he will save. And his patience in doing that. But we the but holy living Verse uh eleven helps the work of evangelism. So I think living holy, it's not that we are actually bringing the day closer, but we are doing As you said a moment ago, I forget how you put it, but we are we are involved we're taking seriously the work that God is completing, the work of salvation and holy listening is uh a help to that work. It's a help to the witness of the church. So I you know I what I wrote was um We can be said to hasten on the return of Christ through holy living because holy living helps the work of evangelism That was the best I could do. Yeah, no, I think that's that's really good. Thank you for uh sharing that. Maybe uh a good word The kingdom of God. Right, as the kingdom of God advances toward its fulfillment That fulfillment is drawing near. And so in so insofar as we have a role in in advancing that kingdom, we're bringing closer to a I thought of that as you were talking, just trying to get uh some kind of image into um into my head as to what God is doing, he and uh how we have a role in that. And uh it is true that every second that passes, um the day gets closer. The day get the day does get closer. I saw another hand in the back. I couldn't tell if it was Denise or John. Go ahead. Just as it loves comments. These passages are used by Christian apologists to challenge the theory of uniformitarianism and that the present is the key to the past, that's it. And therefore the geologic processes have accumulated over a very slow period of time, billions of years. And therefore the wooden processes have been the way Will you write. Yeah. And so these passages are another other thing, too. And isn't it intriguing uh because it was basically the same debate in the ancient church long before the modern age of of science. But you see the the general argument. So the comment was about how this argument, this debate for how things have always been the same and using that as a basis for denying God's word still exists today. in uh denying the flood and saying that things have always been the same and therefore will always be the same. This debate still exists and uh so the comment was about how that exists still in apologetics, it's still a hot topic in apologetics And very relevant. Okay, so we have the day of his coming, or his coming, which is the day of judgment, which is also called the day of the Lord, and also called the day of God. Uh go to verse sixteen of chapter one. For we did not follow cleverly devised myths when we made known to you the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Do you remember way, way, way, way back when I drew the Mount of Transfiguration on here? It's one of my best drawings. And how that was a foreshadowing of the return of Christ. It was a foreshadowing of The power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. Now I'm not going to write that up there, but one other thing we could write up here would be chapter 1, verse 16, the power and coming of our Lord Jesus Christ. He brought that topic up way back there, and he's been talking about related topics, the things that happened before that, and now he's cycling back to this. He's just using different phrases. And so he refers to the second coming of Christ in different ways. This day will be the last day of the last days Not trying to be cute with that. I mean that's literally true. It will be the last day of the last days, right? Because the last days is that last era of history before Christ returns. And on the last Today, I have four things. If you think of another one, let me know. I try to get the four things that will happen. First of all, um Four subheadings. I mean the main thing is Christ returns, and I think that's clear. Christ returns. He comes from heaven in resurrection, glory. Christ returns, it happens quickly. It happened surprisingly, that's the thing of things. Capital T, Thing of Things. And now four subheadings of four things that happen on that day when he returns. Number one, judgment. That was clear in our passage, judgment. Destruction of God's enemies. That is uh clear. We saw that in verse seven The day of judgment and destruction of the ungodly, and then s uh several times about the destruction of this whole realm, the destruction of this order of creation. So judgment and destruction. Of God's enemies, that's the first thing. And then number two, I already said that, the destruction of this world. The doing away of this old fallen creation. So that's two there. Okay, that's numbers one and two, although I combined them at the beginning. But uh let me correct that and just be clear about it. Number one, judgment. Number two, destruction of this old fallen creation. Number three, the creation of a new redeemed world. The creation of a new redeemed world. Now the new creation Has already come into existence in reality Where? That's a question that I'm really asking. The new creation does exist already. Somewhere. In heaven in our hearts. Yeah, those two things. What was said was in heaven in our hearts. Now, how in heaven? Where in heaven? I'm trying not to give it away. Everybody knows it. It's the most important word in the Christian church. It starts with a J. G. Yeah. The resurrection body of Jesus is new creation, is actually the existence of new creation Water break. I guess if you're watching live, you don't see the peanut gallery, you can't hear the peanut gallery, but Come be a part of the Pina Gallery. Streets are open. Um Yeah, yeah. But generally speaking, what Bunch of you said initially and quickly, which is great, is right, in heaven and in our hearts, right? So the resurrection body of Christ is the inauguration of the new creation. It is the inauguration of the new creation. And when he pours his spirit into our hearts, when we come to faith in repentance through the gospel , We have the spirit of the risen Christ in our hearts. We become partakers of the new creation now while we're on earth. That's why Paul would write that we are seated with Christ. We are seated with Christ, Colossians 3. And Ephesians uh Ephesians 2. We're seated with Him. Our life is hidden with Him in God. So the new creation does exist. It has been inaugurated in Christ. We become partakers of it by the Holy Spirit, but it's not been consummated. It's not been consummated. And it's not what that means is it's not been brought to its fullness. It's not been brought to its full Final, irreversible, glorious form. That will not happen until his coming, the day of judgment, the day of the Lord, the day of God. So when Christ returns, judgment Destruction, the consummation of a new world, creation of a new world. And then number four, the glorification of the church. The glorification of the church. Romans 8 would be a great personal devotion to look at both of those things. The glorification of the saints, and then how that's uh connected to the glorification of this whole Realm. Both of those things happen. Here he says where righteousness dwells, where righteousness dwells. So he doesn't in this passage flesh that out that aspect out in detail but Peter has consistently talked about that. 1 Peter 1, it's pretty close, so we can flip back to it. This is For Peter, primarily, this is what he means when he says salvation. So the word salvation, being saved from sin and judgment, is used in different ways. It's used to talk about the new birth So we can be s you when we say, have you been saved? Are you saved? What what we mean is have you been born again Uh salvation in Scripture also can uh refer to that process of sanctification and being made holy. And it could also mean to that future glorify it also can mean that future glorification. That's how Peter uses it primarily. 1 Peter 1 5 through 7. By God's power you're being guarded through faith for salvation ready to be revealed in the last time. In this you greatly rejoice. Though now for a little while, if necessary, you've been grieved by various trials, so that the tested genuineness of your faith, more precious than gold that perishes though it's tested by fire, may found to result in praise and glory and honor at the revelation of Jesus Christ. That's The next list I have, because there are more ways that this day is referred to in Scripture. Another way is it's the revelation of Jesus Christ And that is when the saints come to share in this great salvation, this final glorification that is waiting for them. Also, 1 Peter 1, verse 13. Just a paragraph down. Therefore, preparing your minds for action, being sober-minded, set your hope Fully on the grace that will be brought to you future at the revelation of Jesus Christ. Okay It's coming, day of judgment, day of the Lord, day of God, the revelation of Jesus Christ. Because he's in heaven now. He's unseen. You can't see him. I can't see him because we are in this realm. If we were in that realm in heaven, we would see him. But one day he will be revealed in this realm when he returns in glory. We will see him if we're still alive when that happens. Well, either way we'll see him. But if we s are alive when we see him, still bodily, and he he's revealed, we'll see him. Second Peter Second Peter four thirteen. Second Peter four Oh, first Peter four thirteen. First Peter four thirteen. I have uh the cross references in columns and rows and the first Peter's and the second Peter's. Well, hopefully it's 1 Peter 413. If not, I have no idea what four thirteen it is. Um yeah, absolutely it is. But rejoice insofar as you share Christ's sufferings right now. That you may also rejoice and be glad when his glory is revealed. Okay, again. The revelation of Christ, the revelation of Christ, when his glory is revealed. And uh 5-1. So I exhort the elders among you, as a fellow elder and a witness of the sufferings of Christ. As well as a partaker of the glory that is going to be revealed. So remember, we're still in this fourth thing that happens on the day of God, the glorification of the church. To share in that final salvation, to share in his glory when he is revealed. A partaker in the glory that is going to be revealed. Chapter 5, verse 4. And when the chief shepherd appears, that's another one, his appearing, it's his revelation. His appearing, and then the other one is his coming. When the chief shepherd appears, you will receive the un fading crown of glory. When will you receive the unf unfading crown of glory? When the chief shepherd appears. When he appears. And so there so that is going to happen when he returns. On the day of judgment, the day of the Lord, the day of God, the revelation of Christ, the appearing of Christ, the coming of Christ, the glorification of the church. I am not going to oh no, yes I am. I I take that back on record. I reserve the right to take that back. With a five-second rule, okay. Um if you want this sheet, just let me know. I'll email it to you, or um just take a A screenshot and text it to you. But these are cross-references of three different things. Okay, there's a set of passages that talk about the return of Christ as his appearing. And then there's a set of passages that talk about the return of Christ as his revelation. And then there's a set of passages some big ones in 1 and 2 Thessalonians that talk about the return of Christ as his coming, okay? His appearing, his revelation, his coming. And there are there are even more phrases to refer to it than what we've already seen. One of my favorites is from 1 Corinthians chapter 1, verse 7, as you wait for the revealing of our Lord. Jesus Christ, and then verse 8, who will sustain you till the end, guiltless in the day of our Lord Jesus Christ. I like that because it gets all all three of those titles or names in there. The day of our Lord Jesus Christ There's just two verses I definitely wanted to read and then we'll be through. Okay, I wanted to read one from 1 John 3 and I wanted to read one from Hebrews and then we'll close. Sound good? Brother Jason, is that good? Thumbs up, we're doing it. First John 3, 2 and 3. Glorious verse. Oh, glorious verse. Beloved. We are God's children now. But what we will be future has not yet appeared. But we know that when he appears, we shall be like him, because we shall see him as he is. You see the connection there? Christ appears, Christ is revealed, we see him, and we become partakers in his resurrection glory. And everyone who thus hopes in him purifies himself. as he is pure. And finally, Hebrews 9. This is a passage, not a verse. Hebrews 9, 26b, which means the middle of 26. Hebrews 9, 26b through 28. But as it is, he, Christ , has appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. That's something that already happened He appeared. He appeared once for all at the end of the ages to put away sin by the sacrifice of himself. And just as it is appointed for man to die once, and after that comes judgment. So also Christ, having been offered once, to bear the sins of many, will appear, he will appear a second time. Not to deal with sin. But to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. He appeared once, he did the work to accomplish salvation. He's going to appear a second time. He's not going to repeat what he already did, but he's going to save those who are eagerly waiting for him. He's going to make them partakers of eternal glory. Giving them resurrection bodies, bringing about the new heavens and the new earth where righteousness dwells, where they'll see their Lord and Maker and have fellowship with him forever. Let's pray. Father, thank you for your word. Thank you for Jesus and His work. Thank you for the promise of His coming. Father, let this be our hope. Let this be our guiding light in the world of darkness. Let this be our encouragement. Let this be our motive, our perspective shaper, our perspective changer, that we might hasten the day and wait for the day. and minister in Christ's name for his glory, for his kingdom. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.