Tonight we are in Matthew chapter five, Matthew chapter five, verses one to 12. It is the first passage in the Sermon on the Mount, probably the most popular sermon. In the Bible, the most popular section of teaching, or what you'll read if in a commentary on Matthew or a study Bible, of the five discourses of Jesus. This is This is the first one, the Sermon on the Mount. And the Beatitudes are words of blessing for the people of God. That's what a beatitude is. It's a word of blessing. It speaks a blessing on the people of God. You've probably heard the word doxology. Doxology is a word of, anybody know? Praise, glory, worship, and that comes from God's people to God. We speak a word of glory. We speak Speak a word of praise to God. Well the Beatitude is God speaking a blessing down on his people. And you have these different phrases. Phrases for different kinds of utterances in Scripture. You have uh uh the woe, the W -O -E. You'll see some woes in Revelation, you see Matthew 23 Jesus speaks the seven woes against the Pharisees and the scribes, and a woe is a word of judgment. But today we are Beatitudes, words of blessing. for the people of God. Let's read Matthew 1 or Matthew 5, 1 to 12. Seeing the crowds, he went up on the mountain. And when he sat down, his disciples came to him. And he opened his mouth and taught them, saying, Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Blessed are you when others revile you and persecute you You and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Let's pray. Heavenly Father, we praise you and we thank you for all that you have given us. And we ask now that you would open our hearts And open our minds to your word. Show us your goodness. Show us your will for our lives. Show us the wonder of your grace that you have shown us in Christ. Father, we pray by your word and by your spirit that you would strengthen us in faith. And in hope and in love. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. I want to give some other examples of beatitudes in scripture. Scripture, because there are many beatitudes, many words of blessings in Scripture. I wanted to pick some of my favorites. One beatitude is spoken in Revelation 14 That's a good Bible study if you want to look up the Beatitudes that are in Revelation. Revelation 14, 13. And I heard a voice from heaven saying, Write this. Blessed are the dead who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed, says the Spirit. that they may rest from their labors for their deeds follow them. Isn't that nice? It's a word of blessing. Blessed are the ones who die in the Lord. Yes, your body has died, but you had already had in spirit union with the Lord, so now you enter God's heavenly rest. Another beatitude actually is the way that the book of Psalms begins. Psalm 1. Verses 1 and 2. Blessed is the man who walks not in the counsel of the wicked, nor stands in the way of sinners. Nor sits in the seat of scoffers, but his delight is in the law of the Lord, and on his law he meditates day and night. That is encouraging. And that calls us to the Word of God. It's a blessing spoken upon. The person who is seeking after God's law, seeking after what God says is right, and meditating on what God says is right, and we have to do that because we're surrounded by all kinds of ideas of what's right and what's wrong. The final example is one that Jesus spoke And you'll know this as soon as I begin reading this, you'll know the context. This is the risen Christ. So not exactly his earthly ministry leading up to the cross, but it is Christ on earth in risen His resurrection body, John 20, 29, Jesus said to him, Have you believed because you have seen me? Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. I told you you would know it. I learned that probably second grade. You probably I mean I mean, I don't know for sure, for sure. And I just it's as long as I have had memories, I remember learning this verse of doubting Thomas. And then Jesus says, Blessed are those who have not seen and yet have believed. And we're included in that because we've not seen the risen Christ. We've seen him with the eyes of our hearts by faith, but we've not seen The evidence, the in-person physical evidence of the risen Christ, and God speaks a blessing on those who have not seen and yet believed. Now the Beatitudes in Matthew from verses one to To 12 deal with character traits of God's children on the one hand, and then they also talk about blessings or rewards Given to God's children. So who we are, what we're like, right, character traits of God's children on the one hand, but they also deal with what we've received. What God has given us or what God has promised us. So there's two aspects of these beatitudes. What we're like, what we've received. And it's they quite often it's been said, not only for the Beatitudes, but for all the Sermon on the Mount, that they deal with that it deals with kingdom living Kingdom living. And I've even heard it said in one book on the Sermon on the Mount that it deals primarily the main theme throughout all the Sermon on the Mount is Living for the kingdom of God while you're in a fallen world. But that's what the Beatitudes plunge us into this world of kingdom living. And so it's our character of Christ-likeness as we're living for the kingdom, but it's also the inheritance that we have and the blessings that we have, knowing that we're citizens of the kingdom. Kingdom of Heaven. And so when we look at both of those aspects of the Beatitudes, the character traits on the one hand and the rewards and blessings on the other hand, right away there's two kinds of practical application for us. And the first kind of practical application is a reminder of our calling. God calls us to be a certain kind of people. God calls us to live a certain kind of way. He doesn't want us to reflect the character of the world. He wants us to reflect the character of Christ. He wants us to walk in the way of the Spirit, not the way of the flesh. And so there's teaching, there might be correcting and a call to repentance At the very least, there'll be an exhortation to the imitation of Christ and the kind of character we should have on this one hand of character traits. But there's another kind of practical application when we see these blessings, these rewards, this inheritance that we are guaranteed because of our union with Christ, there should be an assurance and a joy that floods our heart. There should be a hope that floods our mind. And Strengthens us and anchors us in life when we are reminded of the blessings and the rewards That we have as children of God, it should take our hearts immediately to God's love for us. Because all of this was this was preached on this morning, all of these graces, as they were called this morning. Are manifestations of God's love for us. And so, yes, we glory in the eternal blessings that we have from God. But more than the blessings, we glory in the one who has blessed us. Amen. It is God who has given us these rewards. It is God who has called us to this kind of character and this kind of kingdom. So with those two kinds of application in mind, the exhortation, the call to repentance for character traits, and the assurance. and the hope, the certainty of God's love from the rewards and promises. Let's just go through these one at a time. Does that sound good? All right. First of all, let's just go right to verse 3, and we'll look at the poor in spirit. Verse 3: Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. To be poor is to lack certain resources. You can be poor in different ways. You can be financially poor, you lack resources, and you need help. To be spiritually poor is you you lack the resources in and of yourself to be spiritual. And you need help. To to be spiritual, God has to make us spiritual. Only God can enable human beings to be truly spiritual. The poor in spirit are those who recognize that they are spiritually bound. Those who've come to grips with the fact they've acknowledged they're spiritually bankrupt and therefore they depend on Jesus Christ. 100 % to meet their spiritual needs. They are poor in spirit. That's the kind of attitude that we should have. We don't want to be presumptuous. We don't want to have spiritual pride. We want to be humbled by God and realize that in and of ourselves we cannot be spiritual. We cannot be who God has called us to be or do what God has called us to do. We cannot, we cannot, we don't have the resources To remove the guilt of our sin. Only God can do that. We don't have the resources to give ourselves a new heart that hates sin and loves God. Only God can do that We don't have the resources to reconcile ourselves to God. Only God can do that. So we give 100% credit to the one we rely on, and we want to be poor. In spirit, this in this involves uh a radical self-awareness I can think back to when I was lost, and I just didn't have any awareness of my lost condition. I didn't have any awareness of my guilt. I didn't have any awareness of the holiness of God and the implications of that for my life. I didn't have any awareness of a coming judgment, even though I heard it taught my whole life. I just was living life as if it wasn't real and didn't exist I didn't have awareness. I didn't have a self-awareness, but the poor in spirit are fully aware that they are not righteous. apart from Christ. They're fully aware that they cannot remove their own guilt. They need the blood of Christ. The poor in spirit are are fully aware that they cannot cleanse their or sanctify their own hearts. We need We need the Holy Spirit. The poor in spirit are fully aware that they cannot overcome temptation on their own. I cannot have victory over temptation on my own. I can in Christ and through Christ by his grace and through faith, and so can you. The poor in spirit are fully aware that they cannot secure victory over Satan on their own. In faith And looking to Christ, they know that they have victory over Satan. But that's the point. Since they're poor in spirit, they're not depending on themselves, they're depending on Christ. Fully aware, self-aware, recognizing that we're spiritually bankrupt and depending on Jesus Christ a hundred percent to meet our needs And what is the blessing of the poor in spirit? Blessed are the poor in spirit, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Not theirs will be the kingdom of heaven, although it will be in its full manifestation. But the point is it already is. There is the kingdom of heaven. We are already citizens of heaven. We already have citizenship in the kingdom of heaven. And that is what guarantees our entrance into heaven when our bodies die, is because that citizenship is already ours. Philippians Philippians 3, 20 and 21. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. This redemptive reign of God. Manifest in the world through Christ and through the gospel. The gospel has transferred us out of the kingdom of Satan and brought us into. The kingdom of God's beloved Son, Jesus Christ. Colossians 1, 12 and 13. Double check me, please. It's not my notes. Twelve and thirteen. Pastor John is on that. Verse four Number two, verse four, those who mourn. Blessed are those who mourn. Verse 13, Colossians 1:13. That's what I said, 12 and 13. I wanted to give the whole sentence. I don't know. Yeah, Colossus one thirteen. Thank you. I appreciate that. Blessed are those who mourn, for they shall be comforted. And this is one where it's so important to understand the greater context of scripture. And the specific use of those who mourn, because everybody mourns in one way or another. I mean, everybody goes through tough times, everybody suffers loss in this world, and everybody cries, everybody gets sad. But this is in the greater context of Scripture, and even in the context of just this paragraph, the spiritual reality of mourning our sin, mourning our condition apart from Christ. Those who mourn are those who grieve both their sins that they commit, and they also grieve their sinfulness. And they're our corrupt nature. Those who grieve both their sins and their sinfulness. Because, right, that's not the end of the sentence, there's more to this sentence, because it offends, dishonors, and grieves God. God. We don't just grieve sin, but brothers and sisters, we grieve sin for the right reasons. Grieve sin for the right reasons. Because there's so many different ways sin it has such a bad impact. For example, let's let's say that a person uh grieves let's say that a man grieves his sin, maybe it's some kind of addiction, uh because he lost his job over it and he's ruined his his family. Now to an extent that's good, but that doesn't mean that he's saved That doesn't mean that he's grieved because he's offended God and now he's looking to God for a savior. Our sin is grievous and has lots of negative impacts in life. Those who mourn Citizens of the kingdom grieve our sins for the right reason. And quite simply because they are grievous to God. When we receive the Holy Spirit We start to learn how to love what God loves. And we have to grow in that. Amen? We've got to grow, and that takes time. And we learn to hate what God hates. And so now we see our sin in a different light. We see it as something grievous, not something to pursue, and not something that's fun, not not something we're indifferent to. But there's a proper mourning. 2 Corinthians 7 10 for godly grief produces a repentance that leads to salvation without regret, whereas worldly grief Produces death. You see, I wasn't making that up. There's two different kinds of grief. Judas had one kind of grief over his sin, that was a worldly grief. That led to despair and more sin and his death. When Peter sinned and denied Christ three times, he had a godly grief and it produced repentance. repentance and broad helps him to grow and move forward in his relationship with God. When we sin and we all sin, we need to have a godly grief. Not a war not just a worldly grief that spirals inward in despair, but a godly grief where we're grieved because we We did something grievous toward our God, the one we love, the one who loves us. We've dishonored him, we've defamed him. Him, defamed him, we've offended him, and so we're grieving over that. And also we're looking to him for grace and mercy in our time. Of need, we're looking to Christ for help to restore us and use it in our lives to bring about repentance. Godly grief produces repentance that leads to salvation without regret. That's encouraging to me. Because I have a lot of repentance that I need in my life. So I like that. Psalm 51, 12 is another good verse. For this, David cries out, Restore to me the joy of your salvation, and uphold me with a willing spirit. Now, if you know Psalm 51, you know it's one of the classic chapters, classic passages on repentance. And part of what David is c praying for is that the joy of his salvation would be restored to him, which tells you what? That he had lost the joy of his salvation. Sin will do that to us. It doesn't take our salvation away, but it can take away the experience and the enjoyment of the joy of our salvation. And so what David was going through was a proper, godly mourning and grieving of his own sin. sin and depravity and that comes out in Psalm 51. And therefore he's asking God to restore joy to him. So even it's such an object lesson. It's a it's a real life lesson when we fall into sin. God will use that to teach us to rely on Him more as a source of joy. We can take our joy for granted. Just like we can take our comforts for granted, and we can take food for granted and water for granted and our freedom for granted and each other for granted and our families for granted and our incomes. I mean it's just so many things. We can we can take for granted the joy of the spirit that we have. have. And if we let our guard down, if we slide into apathy, if we if we get caught in a snare of sin, we could lose that Julie. For certain. You've probably seen it happen. Someone's life. Maybe it's happened to you for a season. You've got to cry out to God to restore that joy. What's the blessing here in verse 4? Blessed are those who mourn. For they shall be comforted. Now that's future. I I believe that's looking forward. They shall be comforted. I believe that's looking forward to the perfect and ultimate experience. Of comfort in the presence of God. As long as we're here on earth, as long as we're in these bodies, these bodies of death that Paul calls. These bodies of sin, these bodies that belong to this fallen order, there'll be some degree of mourning and grieving. But once we go into God's presence, once we're perfected, that won't be there anymore. There'll just be joy, they'll just be comfort. Comfort, ultimate comfort, perfect comfort, irreversible comfort. I like that part of Christianity. What about you all? That's good, right? No sin in the presence of God, it'd be a wonderful thing. And verse five, number three, verse five, the meek. Blessed are the meek, for they shall inherit the earth. The meek are those who have been humbled by God and submit to his will in humility, gentleness. And gladness of heart. They've been humbled by God, and they submit to God's will in humility, gentleness. Gentleness and gladness. I heard one preacher use the phrase, uh he made it into a hyphenated phrase. He said, We all need to be gospel humbled We all need to be humbled by the gospel because because the gospel has these these two parts of when the gospel came into our life. First, God's law and holiness convicted That we're sinners and we can't save ourselves, and then the gospel of Christ's death and resurrection, his substitutionary death on our behalf, and his glorious resurrection. He alone is the one who can save us. And that has to humble us. That absolutely has to humble us. We don't boast in ourselves, but we boast in Jesus Christ and his cross. And the meek, once we're humbled by God and our lives are given over to submitting to his will in humility and gentleness and gladness of heart, that changes How we treat others. That changes how we look at others. Self-righteousness is off the table. Looking down on others is off the table because we didn't save ourselves. And there wasn't something good in us that God looked at and then said, Oh, well, you know what? I'll save them based on that good thing that I see within them. Philippians 2:3. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit. But in humility count others more significant than yourselves. You see, being humbled by God and being made into a meek person. Instead of a harsh, critical, self-righteous person, changes how we treat each other, changes how we look at each other and how we think about each other. We are all sinners. Saved by grace. We were all in the same boat, and when we were lifted out of that boat, the boat of destruction, we were all lifted out by the same grace, by the same grace Same Savior. Romans twelve ten, love one another with a brut brotherly affection. Outdo one another in showing honor. Interesting phrase. Outdo one another in showing honor. Now in the world, the system of the world, the fallen world system. and corrupt culture of the world definitely agrees with this outdo one another part. But not outdo one another in showing biblical honor , godly honor and esteeming of each other. Romans fifteen, two, let each of us please his neighbor for his own good to build him up. Let each of us in the church please his neighbor for his good. That's the definition of love. I seek your good. That's love. You seek his good, that's love. You pray for her good, that's love. You want my good, that's love. And we want what's good for each other. That's the definition of love. To want Harm for each other would be the definition of hate. To want blessing and good for each other is the definition of love. Let each of us please his neighbor for his good To build him up. Which is the opposite of what? What's the opposite of building up? Tearing down. So we want to be a people who are building up. seeking each other's good, not doing anything from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility counting others more significant than ourselves. We can only do that if we're meek, if we're gospel humbled and submitting to God's will in humility, gentleness, and gladness of heart. Well, that'll drive us to prayer, won't it? Because none of that comes naturally. This is only supernatural stuff we're talking about here. And what's the blessing? What's the blessing? They shall inherit the earth. They shall inherit the earth. And At the end of all things, there's only going to be one kind of people on the earth after the final judgment The only kind of people that are going to be on earth are going to be the meek who are in Christ. The meek who are in Christ in resurrection bodies forever. We'll inherit Number four, and this comes in verse six. Number four, those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. Verse six Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness, for they shall be satisfied. Righteousness is That which aligns with the law. That's what it means to be righteous. It means to be lawful. So righteous thoughts Are thoughts that align with God's law, with God's commandments? Unrighteous thoughts, and we've all had them Are thoughts that are in contrast to God's law? They're in violation of God's commandments Unrighteous desires are desires that contradict God's will for our lives. Righteous desires are in line with God's will. For our lives, uh, our lives. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness. I like how there's an illustration built into that because we all know what it means to hunger and thirst To desire, to feel like you need. I need this. I need to eat. I need water. Hunger and thirst. Here For spiritual food and for spiritual drink, for righteousness. Those who hunger and thirst for righteousness are those who want their hearts, minds, words, and lives. To conform to God's character, not to the world's character, not to the flesh, but to the spirit. They have a abiding Longing to have all of who they are and what they're about line up with God's law and God's commandments. That's what it means to hunger and thirst. For righteousness. Now, that'll cause the world to turn against us. That'll cause unbelievers to hate us. But God delights in that. God wants that for your life, that you had hunger and thirst for righteousness, that everything about you would line up with His character. 1 John 2, 15 to 17. Do not love the world or the things in the world. If anyone loves the world, the love of the Father is not in him. For all that is in the world, the desires of the flesh, and the desires of the eyes, and the pride of life, is not from the Father. But is from the world. And the world is passing away along with its desires, but whoever does the will of God abides forever. You could own all the property in the world and all the treasure in the world. Every priceless piece of art in the world, which is a lot of priceless pieces of art. But it will pass away. As soon as we're done breathing our last breath, we're immediately separated from all the earthly treasure and from all that land That we work so hard to attain. But what we have in Christ will last forever, and not only last forever, but once we leave these bodies, we experience it in a higher level, to a better degree, to in have heavenly glory. And the world is passing away, along with its desires. And so why will we give ourselves to things that are passing away? Whoever does the will of God abides forever. Let's repurpose our hearts, repurpose our lives, all the more, all the more to hunger and thirst. Thirst for righteousness. For the very thing that the world scoffs at is what we should be chasing after. What's the blessing in verse Verse 6 for they shall be satisfied. And uh hopefully you can have just a picture. It's hard to get a picture because we know Ever seen this? It's a spiritual thing. Words cannot express, mind cannot conceive of what this will be like. But however you can picture this, just picture yourself walking into the heavenly presence of God. In all of his goodness, in all of his greatness, in all of his glory, and all of his love, mercy, grace, compassion, picture God welcoming you into heaven as his Beloved child, to forever dwell with him in sinless perfection, and with the presence of all the angels, never to have to fight temptation or battle against Satan again Never have to ask for forgiveness of some sin you committed that morning ever again. Yeah, I think satisfied is the right word. You will be satisfied Satisfy and in the ultimate sense Hunger and thirst for righteousness. Number five, and this will be verse seven. Number five, the merciful. The merciful. Blessed are the merciful, for they shall receive mercy. This is people who reflect God's mercy to others. Pretty simple, right? They reflect God's mercy to others. We've received, so we show. We received this m gift of mercy, this mercy coming from heaven, and now we Dispense, we reflect that mercy to other people on earth. The alleviation of suffering, helping people in need. Restraining judgment, restraining uh vengeance, not having vengeance, not wanting to take revenge, not holding grudges, all this is mercy. Where in some way we're Restraining anger and judgment, and also proactively giving compassionate care to those in need, alleviating the horrible effects of There's just so much suffering for life under the curse of sin and death. And so where the people of God step in to give aid and compassion, that's mercy. Blessed are the merciful. For they shall receive mercy. And we've already received a mercy, and every day we receive mercy from God. Isn't that right? His mercy is new. Every morning his mercies are new. But we'll continue to receive mercy. And I'm pretty sure that as we grow in the faith, as we mature in the faith We see God's mercy more clearly, and we see it more abundantly because we're maturing It's like as children as children get older, they have to learn how to clean their rooms. They have to learn how to clean up after the themselves. They have to learn proper behavior and proper manners. And they just don't see the world the right way. They're still developing, they're still learning, they're still growing. And so Are we as children of God? And as our eyes are sanctified, we start to see God's mercy in more places. It was always there But we just see it now, better and better. And that helps us to be more merciful as we grow in the Lord. Blessed are the merciful. They shall be. Showed mercy. And of course, the supreme mercy, the ultimate mercy, will occur on the day of judgment, final judgment When all sinners are brought to final judgment, but sinners in Christ will be spared. Sinners in Christ, because we're still sinners, we'll be sinners on the day of the final judgment, but we'll be sinners who there's no condemnation For us, because we're in Christ. It's that final mercy of when that judgment of God is dispensed on all the wicked, on all the legions of Satan, we will be saved. We will be delivered. We will be spared on that great day. The great show of mercy. Blessed are the poor in spirit. Blessed are those who mourn. Blessed are the meek. Blessed are those who hunger and thirst for righteousness Blessed are the merciful, those who reflect and represent God's mercy to other people. Number six, verse eight, the pure in heart. Blessed are the pure in heart, for they shall see God. First of all, straight to the blessing Straight to the blessing on this one. This is arguably the most straightforward one. All the other ones are bound up with this. We shall see God. We shall see God and we'll see God and receive his favor. This isn't like standing before God and receiving judgment. This is seeing God in the good way. Is being received into his favor and his eternal blessedness, welcomed into glory. We will see God. So that's where That satisfaction comes when it says they'll be satisfied, and that's where the comfort comes when it says they will be comforted because you'll see God. It's called in theology the beatific vision. This blessed vision, this blessed sight of God's heavenly glory, his heavenly throne, with Christ at his right hand. We will see God. But what about pure in heart? How can anybody be pure in heart? Because even the most sanctified sinner In this world still has some sin in their heart. But the point is they're no longer enslaved to sin. Sin is no longer their master. Romans Chapter six. The pure in heart, this is the easiest one I think to define. This is the easiest one. The pure in heart are those who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit That's what makes their hearts pure. Their hearts are purified by the presence of the Lord. Holy Spirit. The Holy Spirit is God, not a lesser God. Not an impersonal force of God. The Holy Spirit is the third person of the Trinity. The Holy Spirit Spirit is God. And so the presence of God in your heart purifies your heart because God now is your master. God is more powerful than sin. He sanctifies, he purifies. God is present with us. Christ is in heaven. But we are united to Christ through him. Faith. And the Spirit does dwell within our hearts. To the pure in heart are those simply who are indwelt by the Holy Spirit. Our hearts have been made new Our hearts have not been brought to sinless perfection, and they will not be brought to sinless perfection in this life. But they have been brought to a state of purification. And holiness because of the presence of the Holy Spirit. We are marked By holiness, we are marked by a desire for holiness, we are marked by a love for God, we are marked by a hatred of sin We are marked by a zeal for God's kingdom. We are marked by a hunger for God's word. We are marked. The love for God's church, we are marked by the Holy Spirit. And that's what's conforming us to the likeness of Christ. Amen. It's not something we're doing for God, making ourselves more like Jesus. Beloved, it's something God is doing for us. Making us more Like his beloved son. Think about stuff like that, and it's the best thing that could ever happen to us. Nothing better will ever happen to us than Receiving the Holy Spirit and being saved by Jesus, receiving the Holy Spirit, and then progressively being conformed to the likeness of Jesus by the presence of the Spirit And then one day, leaving these sinful flesh packages and stepping in to heaven, and what's the text say? See God. It's good news. It's good news. Blessed are the pure in heart. Hopefully it's come through. But But I'll say it just in case it hasn't come through. We're not talking about things to do to be saved. We're talking about things the Bible says is true about those who are saved. We see the difference there. Right. We're not saying be pure so that God will love you. Hunger and thirst for righteousness so that you'll be forgiven. Or be a meek person so that you can be good. No. These are things that are true about kingdom citizens. And again, not true to perfection, but true. Hopefully we know that difference there, right? You can have something truly because of God's grace and because of the presence of the Spirit, even though you don't have it perfectly yet. Because Of sin. Number seven. Number seven is verse nine, and this is the peacemakers. The peacemakers. Verse 9: Blessed are the peacemakers, for they shall be called sons of God. There's a popular book. I think it's called The Peacemaker , but it's about being a peacemaker in the local church. And so things like forgiveness, conflict resolution, reconciliation, those kinds of things in the local church setting. But the author has these different categories. And he says there are some who are peace fakers, right? They just give the superficial smile, but aren't aren't willing to do the hard work of forgiveness and reconciliation. and conflict resolution. So there's always something under the surface, just swept under the rug. Peace fakers. And then he has another category, peace breakers. Your grumblers, your gossipers, your complainers, those who are divisive and stir up conflict. You have your peace fakers, you have your peace breakers, and you can guess the third category, the peace. Peacemakers, the peacemakers, those who are peaceable, not only in their relationships, but helping others when there needs to be a mediation, a conflict resolution, when there needs to be Be a forgiveness instead of stirring somebody up in the flesh. Don't stir people up, but bring them down to mercy and grace and be a peace. Peacemaker. That's hard. The peacemakers are those who seek and promote peace rather than conflict. That's pretty simple Right. They seek and they promote peace rather than conflict. They seek and promote forgiveness rather than fighting. But this this makes me think about home life too. We all should be living this way at home, leading the charge, leading the way at home seeking and promoting peace rather than conflict, forgiveness rather than fighting, and seeking and promoting reconciliation rather than division and grudges, or heaven forbid, vengeance. Toward each other. The peacemakers. We are very much like Christ when we seek and promote peace. And very much like the devil when we seek and promote peace Conflict. And what is the blessing? They're called sons of God. They're declared children of God, heirs. Of God, co-heirs with Christ. And finally, verses 10 to 12, and we're going to take these together, Numbers 8 and 9. But we'll take them together. Verses 10 to 12. Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. So there you see you're persecuted for the thing that you're supposed to be hungry. Hungering and thirsting for in verse 6. You're persecuted for the sake of righteousness. Theirs is the kingdom of heaven. Verse 11: Blessed are those. Blessed are you. Blessed are you. When others revile you and persecute you, and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account, rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. So they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Even when the world turns against us, we're still blessed? Yes. Even when people hate us for teaching and preaching biblical truth, we're still blessed? Yes. Spiritual warfare is real. The spiritual forces of darkness, the devil. Demons, the wicked, wicked people, wicked leaders, even groups of people in wickedness who intentionally and obviously set themselves against God and His Word and His purpose and His church and His kingdom That stuff is real. So we need to remember that in God's eyes we're blessed. And no matter what happens to us here on earth. Our reward is great in heaven. They cannot detract from our eternal reward. They could burn our house down They can confiscate our stuff. They can throw us into prison. They can kill children of God, but they cannot detract. from our reward in heaven. And so in the final analysis, blessed, blessed are those who keep the faith in the face of persecution. Blessed are those who keep a faithful, biblically accurate witness in the face of hatred and threats and danger. But they persevere and they overcome by the blood of the Lamb and by the word of their testimony They conquer. Blessed are those who die in the Lord from now on. Blessed indeed, says the Spirit, that they may rest from their labors, for their deeds follow them. Father, we thank you for your goodness and for the great inheritance we have with you and in Christ. By the power of the Spirit, we pray this evening. That you have continued your faithful work of strengthening us, of sustaining us, of sanctifying us, of comforting us, of giving us victory over temptation and victory over Satan. to see his schemes and to avoid them, to resist the devil that he might flee. Let us see more and more your mercy in our lives. Turn our hearts to Christ every single morning we wake up. In his name we pray, Amen.