Well, let's grab our Bibles and turn to Romans eight nine to eleven. That's our main passage. Romans eight nine to eleven, talking about the presence of Christ. Not just the presence of Christ in a general sense. Christ is God, and in one sense he's omnipresence, omnipresence But we're talking about the presence of Christ in a particular way, the presence of Christ with his people in a special spiritual and redemptive way, the presence of Christ. From Romans eight nine to eleven. Since children of God are indwelt by the Spirit of God, number one We have Christ. Number two, we have life. And number three, we will be risen. There's your there's your roadmap right there. Since children of God are indwelt by the Holy Spirit Number one, we have Christ. Number two, we have life. And number three, we will be risen. Hopefully you see that. A present reality, a present reality, and then a future reality. We have Christ, we have life, and then future, we will be risen I know our main passage is Romans 8, so stay there. I'm gonna read Math uh Matthew 2820 as a launch point. because uh the phrase that really gave rise to this message comes from Matthew 2820, picking it up in the middle of the Great Commission where Jesus says, teaching them to observe all that I've commanded you, and behold, I am with you to the end of the age. So you can even hear and pick out the phrase that really captured my attention. That I wanted to pick a passage that was about that particular thing to be able to open this topic up for us where Christ says, I am with you So the question is how? How is he with us? In what way is Christ with his church to the end of the age? And the very simple answer is uh he fills us with his spirit. Christ is present with us by his indwelling spirit. So now Romans eight to nine, eight, nine, and ten. See if that's um or Romans eight, nine to eleven. See if that truth pops out to you as we read it. That Christ is present with us. by the Holy Spirit. Romans 8, beginning in verse 9. You, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. If in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. But if Christ is in you, Although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, he who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies through his Spirit who dwells in you. Always in the background of this entire sermon should be the Holy Trinity. Because if you didn't see it in there, as you continue to look at that passage and think about that passage, This morning, you'll see the activity of the Father, the activity of the Son, and the activity of the Holy Spirit. This great salvation of God, the work of the Father, the work of the Son, the work of the Spirit. It comes out, it's all throughout this passage. But what we're highlighting is the indwelling of the Spirit of God, which is the way that Christ Is present with you, child of God, in this life. And is present with us, children of God, as a church in this life. And you can see it in verse 9. The very beginning, actually the second clause, if in fact, if in fact The Spirit of God, and then what does it say? Dwells in you. That's where we get that word. Many of you have heard this many times before: indwelling. We're indwelt by the Holy Spirit. And it says, dwells in you. The Spirit of God dwells in you. But not only that, but the Beginning of verse 11 as well. If the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead, and then what does it say? Dwells in you. Now that's twice. The Spirit dwelling in you. And yes, the Spirit dwells in all believers everywhere, but as this message is coming to you, beloved of God, believer in Jesus Christ, disciple of Jesus Christ, I want you to hear. That the Spirit of God dwells in you if you have faith in Christ, if you've been born again. So don't let this be abstract theology for some people out there somewhere. This is about the Holy Spirit of the Almighty God who made all things living within you. He dwells within. It means lives inside. It means has taken up residence in, dwells in. Now there's one more at the end of verse 11. The very end of this passage, the very end of verse 11, through his spirit who, and then what does it say, dwells in you. Well, if I wanted to find a passage that talks about the Holy Spirit dwelling within his people, this has got to be at the top of the list. Dwells in you. Dwells in you. Dwells in you. The Spirit of God. You're indwelt by the Spirit of God. And since you have the Spirit, since you have the Spirit, number one, you have Christ. Number two, you have life. Now those things weren't true and could never be true as long as we don't have the Spirit. So please let's not take for granted the greatest gifts that we could ever receive. One, you have Christ, two, you have life, and three, you will be risen. That's what the passage works out. So let's look at the first one. You have Christ. This comes from verse nine. And then it also comes from the beginning of verse 10. But look carefully at verse 9 and see if you can spot the transition. As Paul moves to the end of the verse, he begins, you, however, are not in the flesh, but in the spirit. Now, in the context, not in the flesh means you're no longer a slave to sin. You're no longer living under the ruling dominion of sin. You're not in the flesh, but you're in the spirit. Which means you're living under the influence of the Holy Spirit. In the Spirit, comma, if in fact the Spirit of God dwells in you. Now look at this transition. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. So which is it that lives within us? Is it the Spirit of God or is it the Spirit of Christ? It's both. Because Christ is God. Because God is three persons in one eternal unchanging essence. If you have the Spirit of Christ, you have the Spirit of God. If you have the Spirit of Christ, it's because you have the Holy Spirit. It's one Holy Spirit. There's It is the Spirit of God, the Spirit of the Exalted Christ. You have Christ. That's verse nine But then in verse 10 he continues, but if Christ is in you. Isn't that a wonderful picture? It's talking about a spiritual reality. You can talk you can think about the metaphor of a person living in the house. Or certain kind of creatures live in the sea. Different other kind of creatures live in the air. Birds and bats and bugs and they dwell in the air. The air is indwelt by these kinds of creatures. The sea is indwelt by other kinds of creatures. And you, your house is indwelt by you and your family It's taking a metaphor of living inside something, and it's applying it to the spiritual reality that Jesus Christ, who bodily lives in heaven, reigning on the right hand of the throne of God. But spiritually, he lives within his people. You have Christ. What is the best thing that you have? What is the best thing you have ever experienced? Let it come to your mind that Christ is the best thing that you have. Let it come to your heart first and foremost that a relationship with Jesus Christ is the best thing you have ever experienced or will ever experience. What is it that you treasure most? What is it that we seek most? What is it that we're most thankful for? What is it that we most rejoice over? Let it be that we have Christ. And what we have in Christ can never be taken away. He's so much better than money. It it's it's it's funny to even mention that comparison He's so much better than the approval of the world. That comparison shouldn't even be made. He's so much better than things and cars and trucks and the lawn we want and the house we want. And the stuff we want, and the collectibles we want. Jesus is so much better. We're going to lose all that stuff, brethren. We're going to lose it all. But what we have in Christ will not only endure, but will be enhanced as our souls depart the body and ascend into heaven to be with Christ. Oh, live for Christ Live for the Lord Jesus Christ. Isn't that what discipleship is? We're not a people who just check off boxes and believe bullet point facts, but we're a people who are giving our lives over to live for Christ. You have Christ. It means it means very simply you've been brought into eternal spiritual communion with the risen Lord. That's what it means when he said you have Christ Eternal spiritual communion with Jesus. Now, before we knew Jesus, we did not have the Spirit And before we were born of the Spirit, we did not know Jesus. The two go together. The way to be filled with the Spirit is to believe in Jesus. And the way the way to receive Jesus is to be filled with the Spirit. Well that sounds confusing. How do I do that? By believing in Jesus as your Savior. That's not confusing. Put your faith in Jesus as a perfect Savior, based on his righteous life, based on his sacrificial death, based on his glorious resurrection. based on his free offer of salvation, and the offer of salvation is free. You don't have to work for it, you don't have to pay for it, and you never will. Based on gospel truth, believe in Jesus, and then you'll have Jesus and simultaneously you'll be filled with the Holy Spirit. You don't work for the Spirit. You don't work for a relationship with Jesus. Good works, good deeds, good morals, so-called, as we would call them in the world, don't earn us. God. Don't bring us closer to the Holy Spirit. There's only one step to being filled with the Spirit. Only one step to say, I have Christ, and that is faith in Jesus. Put your faith in Jesus. You mean I can't do anything? I can't do anything to fix myself up? That's right, you can't do anything except believe in Jesus. I don't have to fix my life up in a and get it morally clean so that I can present myself to God and then He'll forgive me? Absolutely not. That's not the Bible's message. The Bible's message is come as a guilty sinner. Come full of the corruption of sin and believe in Jesus Christ, and he'll take care of that problem. He'll take care of the guilt of sin. He'll take care of the intercorruption of sin by giving you the Holy Spirit and erasing your record of guilt against God. Brothers and sisters, that's what salvation is. That's what salvation is, so that you can say that you have Christ. Now, under the old covenant, in the Old Testament, the Spirit filled the tabernacle of God. Exodus 40 Verse 34, the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And then later on in Israel's history, uh it filled the temple of God. From 2 Chronicles 7. 1, the glory of the Lord filled the temple. Glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle, which was a A tent, specially designed a tent for worship and sacrifice, and then also filled the temple. But that's under the old covenant. Under the new covenant, the inward presence of the Spirit indwells every single believer. The Holy Spirit indwells every single believer. First Corinthians 6, 19 and 20. Do you not know that your body? Believer. Believer, get your antennas up. Do you not know that your body is a temple of the Holy Spirit within you, whom you have from God? And then Paul works out implication of this. Still in verse 19, 1 Corinthians 6, he says, This you are not your own, for you were bought with a price. Therefore glorify God in your body. So under the new covenant, the inward presence of the Spirit, the Spirit presence of the glory of God indwells every single believer. Which is better than a visible manifestation in a architectural temple or tabernacle. Having the spirit within you is far better, exceedingly better, than those earthly manifestations. Also in the New Covenant, it's not only the individual believer that's the temple of God, but the church collectively is the temple of God. First Corinthians 3, 16 to 17. Do you not know? And it's talking in the plural. It doesn't come out in English, but it's in the plural, and Paul here is talking to the church collective, the local church. Do you not know that you are God's temple and that God's Spirit dwells in you? If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him. In other words, you set yourself against the church, God will set himself against you in judgment. If anyone destroys God's temple, God will destroy him, for God's temple is holy, and you are that temple. And also in Ephesians 2. 22, Paul writes, In him, which means in Christ, right? In union with Christ, in him You also are being built together into a dwelling place for God by the Spirit. Now, what's the dwelling place for God by the Spirit? Well, you have the pictures. The shadows in the old covenant was the tabernacle and the temple. But what's the dwelling place for God by the Spirit under the old covenant? It's the believer and it's the church. It's the believer filled with the Spirit. It's the church filled with the Spirit. Indwelt by God's Spirit, you have Christ. He says verse 9, the Spirit of God dwells in you. Anyone who does not have the Spirit of Christ does not belong to him. And then verse 10, if Christ is in you. You know another another great verse for this is Galatians 2. 20. As I start to read this, many of you will bring this whole verse to mind immediately. In Galatians 2. 20, Paul writes, I have been crucified with Christ, and it is no longer I who live, but Christ who lives in me. And the life I now live in the flesh, I live by faith in the Son of God, who loved me and gave himself for me. Praise the Lord that Jesus gave himself for sinners. That's the only reason we're able to genuinely offer salvation to anyone who we would meet. And I don't mean just like visit a church, but I mean anyone who we would meet Me, anyone in our family, anyone in the workplace. Christian, you you are you have been authorized by the Creator of the universe to offer free salvation of the soul to anyone Based on this, that Jesus gave himself for sinners. That his sacrifice is sufficient for the forgiveness of sins. The thing that gives us confidence in our sharing of the gospel and praying for unbelievers to come to faith is the fact is number one that the cross of Christ really is sufficient. For the forgiveness of sins. And number two, we know that the Spirit of Christ uses that gospel to change hearts. So all the confidence, all the boldness, all the clarity and All of your sharing of the gospel is based on the gospel itself. It's not based on us or how slick we are, how persuasive we are. What uh what illustrations can we come up with? What's this great starting point question we can come up with? There's no perfect way to share the gospel. It's just a perfect gospel. We do the best we can and we trust God with the results. So that others might have Christ the way that we have Christ, filled with his Spirit. Now, if we if we have Christ and we're indwelt by the Spirit, number two, we also have the life. Now this is what Paul says and this is the second point. You have life. This comes from verse ten Some unique phrases in verse 10. We'll parse out the best we can. Verse 10 says this But if Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. Read it again. If Christ is in you, although the body is dead because of sin, the spirit is life because of righteousness. Now we make this point, we we call this point you have life, and it's based on that verse. What does it mean to have life? It means that you inwardly Have been delivered from the curse of sin and death. That's what it means that in Christ you have life. Inwardly, you have been delivered from the curse of sin and death. I want to say that up front because I want to try and Uh flesh out these two main clauses in this verse. I don't want to get too far in the weeds, but I want us to think carefully about these what might be confusing or difficult clauses. And the first thing he says is, if you if Christ is in you, he says this, although the body is dead because of sin. Now, that should wake us up. That should get our attention. Because clearly I'm looking around, and you're looking around, and there's lots of bodies. Are they dead? No. They're living, they're breathing, they're talking or listening, they're seeing. Um there's all kinds, there are all kinds of signs of life of the body. So why in the world would Paul say, although the body is dead, present tense, is dead because of sin? When he's writing to people who are going to read this and the fact that they can read this, they're alive. Does this make sense while there's a there's a little tension here? So he's talking about a spiritual reality, but he is talking. about the body. What does it mean that the body is dead? The body is dead is what he says. Um it means that our bodies still belong to the sin cursed creation Now that's a nutshell. That's the reader's digest definition, but that's exactly what it means. That the body is dead. Because it doesn't say the body's on its way to death, although the body is on its way to death. But it means that our bodies still belong to the sin cursed creation. Our bodies, your body has not received the benefits of salvation the way that your soul has received the benefits of salvation. Benefits of salvation. That's what it boils down to. Your soul has received the benefits of salvation in Christ. Your soul has been redeemed. Your soul has been liberated, truly, from the reigning power of sin, from the curse of sin and death. Your soul has, but your body has not yet been redeemed. Your body is still under and still belongs to the sin cursed creation, which makes it spiritually dead. And that's it what he says in terms of the reason. He says the body is dead because of sin. because of sin. For example, if you're in Christ, your heart has been born again. We saw that in one of the readings. The stubborn disobedient heart is taken out, and the soft obedient heart is put in By the giving of the Holy Spirit. Your heart has been born again, and your heart, if you're in Christ, is no longer a slave to sin. Now we still sin. And there's still the the corruption of sin, but spiritually, in the heart, in the soul, the believer is not in enslaved to sin. The believer is not blinded to his or her sin. But has been convicted of sin and has been set free from the ruling power of sin. Now that liberation from the power of sin and that liberation from the curse Has not yet happened to the body, but only to the soul. Another example is the mind. The mind of the child of God is being renewed in holiness. Being we're being renewed inwardly day by day, even though outwardly we're wasting away. That's 2 Corinthians 4. 16. I think I'll have that later in my notes. Um the body's not being renewed. The body's not being renewed. The body is aging and um maturing To full maturity, but then what's inevitable after that? Aging, weakening, and ultimately these bodies will die and will decay. Our will, as children of God, our will has completely changed direction. And this is what it means to turn from unbelief to belief in Christ. Our will, that part of us that makes decisions. That part of us that's in charge of the rest of us, the will, has in Christ has completely changed courses. Once we were living for self, now we're living for Jesus by God's grace. Once we're living according to our own opinions, our own ideas, now by God's grace, living according to His word. Striving the best we can in that. Amen. Striving, battling, battling sin, battling temptation. But the will has completely changed course. But the body has not completely changed course. The body is on the same course that it was before we were born again And she's got the same destination. In fact, this is the issue. This is the problem that Romans chapter 7 ends on. So it may be on the same page, it may be on the previous page, but look with me at Romans 7, 21 -25. Chapter 7, Paul is dealing with the battle against sin in the believer's life. And in verse 21, he says this, so I find it to be a law that when I want to do right, evil lies close at hand. For I delight in the law of God in my inner being. But I see in my members Which is talking about his body, I see in my members another law waging war against the law of my mind. And making me captive to the law of sin that dwells in my members. See the difference between the inner being and what's going on there? And the outer being, the members of the body, something different is going on. And it creates this tension. Tension's too light of a word. It creates this ongoing battle of good against evil that we each are living out in our own individual lives. Verse 24, Wretched man that I am, who will deliver me from this body of death? That's the question. Who's can deliver us from this body of death? So don't generalize that Yeah, yes, there's deliverance from the guilt of sin. Yes, there's deliverance from the inner corruption of sin. But there are other aspects of deliverance. Who's going to deliver us from these bodies of death? Which means bodies that are still captive to sin and cannot escape sin. Well, it's very simple. We need new bodies We need new bodies. And that is coming, but that's the third point, so we'll get there. But this is the issue, the question that Romans 7 ends on. Now, uh one more verse in Romans 7, 725. Thanks be to God Through Jesus Christ our Lord. So there's the answer to his question. Who will deliver us from these bodies of death? Jesus Christ our Lord. So thanks be to God. Through Jesus Christ our Lord comes the victory, comes the escape, comes the deliverance. So then, I myself serve the law of God within my mind. That's one of the evidences. It's not the only one. It's I don't even think it's the strongest one, but it's one of the evidences Paul's talking about a child of God here He's not talking about the unbeliever. He's talking about the believer. Because unbelievers do not love and serve God's law of holiness and righteousness in their mind. When we're unbelievers, we're set against the law of God. When we're unbelievers, we love unrighteousness, not righteousness. When we're unbelievers, we're given to unholiness and wickedness, not holiness and purity. This is a believer who 's struggling, who's battling, has fighting. Have you found that you need to do that as a Christian? You need to battle temptation You need to battle sin, wage war against sin, wage war against the passions of the flesh. I myself serve the law of God with my mind, but within my flesh I serve the law of sin. As long as we have these bodies, these bodies of death, these bodies of sin, we'll never be able to escape the presence of sin. And in this qualified sense, being enslaved to the presence of sin in our lives. You have life, but still the body is dead. Which makes the life that we have all the more glorious. And we should be all the more thankful that we do have life inwardly. Our bodies are aging. Eventually, our bodies will begin to weaken. These bodies are prone to sickness. These bodies are prone to weakness. These bodies cannot escape the corruption of sin Every step we take, every breath we take, every morning we awake. We're closer to the death and decay of these bodies. Not being negative, I'm just being realistic And then what? And then what? What about our soul that endures? Will the soul enter into the glory of God's presence or be banished forever? 2 Corinthians 4. 16. Our outer self is wasting away, but our inner self is being renewed day by day. And in this passage, in this verse, verse ten, you have life. The way that that is said is this. The Spirit is life because of righteousness. Let's take a breath. I feel like I'm coming at you like a fire hydrant this morning That's not Eastern meditation, that's just a mental pause for the sermon, okay So all that is mental pause, mental reset. I see you, Bob. Praise the Lord. Mental reset for the sermon. Now. The spirit is life because of righteousness Just as sin renders the body dead, so also the righteousness of Christ renders your soul alive. That's the point. The righteousness of Jesus Christ, given to you as a gift , comes with spiritual life. And so it comes it brings to mind the two main blessings of salvation , two of the main blessings of salvation that are distinct, but they always come together. They always come together. Number one, the blessing of justification. The blessing of justification is where God declares us righteous in his sight. And we're justified by faith, not by works, but we're justified by faith in Christ. God declares us righteous in his sight, a a verdict from the courtroom of heaven that could never be overturned. That's justification, a change in legal status, a change in the verdict that's pronounced over us. Righteous in the eyes of God. And the right our righteousness in the eyes of God is based on the righteousness of Christ. We are clothed in the righteousness of Christ. We stand before God clothed in the righteousness of Christ. So we're judged based on the righteousness of Christ, not our own foolish Wicked, unrighteous lives. Praise God for that. That's what justification is. That's one blessing of salvation. But there's another blessing of salvation that's called sanctification. Sanctification is not a legal declar declaration. Sanctification is a moral, spiritual change that happens in the heart. It's a change of condition. So you have a change in legal status, justification, which here is called righteousness. Because of righteousness. You're a person who's received the righteousness of God through faith in Christ. You've been declared righteous in God's eyes, but along with that comes life. The presence of the life of God within your hearts. We didn't have that before we were saved. So he says, the Spirit is life because of righteousness. Alive to God. What a glory, brothers and sisters, to be alive to God. What a wonder to be reconciled to God. What a joy, what a privilege to wake up every day , put right foot, right foot in front of the left foot, and then left foot in front of the right foot in fellowship with Jesus. A relationship with God. Yeah, there's two ways to live life. Reconciled to God or alienated from God. Alienated from God and rebelling against Him or reconciled to God. Humbled by the gospel, changed by the gospel, alive unto God, in joyful possession of the blessings of his great salvation. What about the body? Well the body still belongs to the sin-cursed creation. Well, what about the soul? The soul no longer belongs to the sin-cursed creation. Your soul has been redeemed. Your soul is no longer under the dominion. of sin and death. No longer. Your body, our bodies still, yes, live here in this realm that's under the curse. But what does it mean to be redeemed? What does it mean to be saved? It means to be saved out from under that curse. And that's why we have hope, because when that we have hope that when that final judgment comes, there is a final judgment coming because because God is a righteous God. He's a righteous God, he's a righteous lawgiver, he's a righteous judge, the final judgment is coming, everyone will stand before God, everyone will give an account, and when that final judgment comes, how will we be saved to make it to the other side Through faith in Christ. That's ultimately what it means to be saved. To be saved from that final judgment. Now we do have blessings of salvation we've already received. And one of those is the soul has already been saved. The soul has already been saved and redeemed and no longer under the dominion of sin. I'm sorry to linger on it. I'm just so happy that I'm not a slave to sin anymore. I'm just so thankful. I'm just so delighted. If I could do cartwheels, I would do cartwheels somewhere. Not here. That'd be irreverence. But I do them somewhere in joyful celebration. I'm just so thankful that God saved me. I'm so thankful He brought the gospel into my life. He didn't need to do that. God was not obligated to save me You understand that about your pastor and about yourself. God wasn't obligated to bring mercy into our lives. He did it of his own his own free will, his own sovereign grace. To reveal his goodness, to reveal his kindness, to reveal his love so that we would know him and love him and serve him and praise him and worship him and preach him and teach him and share him, sing of him for the rest of our days. Amen. Amen It's all because the Spirit is life. The Spirit is life because of righteousness. Just as sin renders our bodies dead, dying, decaying, still under the dominion of God. On the other side, on the flip side of that, the righteousness of Christ renders our souls, here's a good key word, alive. We have a life. We know Christ and we have life. Here's a good verse on that. 2 Corinthians 5, 17 to 18. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. Intriguing, isn't it? He's a new creation. Wait a minute. I'm looking at myself. I'm the same creation. Well, it's a new creation inward Spiritually. If anyone is in Christ, he is a new creation. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, isn't it true? All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Spirit is life because of righteousness. The indwelling Spirit of God is what makes us children of God. And because you're indwelt by the Spirit, Christianity Number one, you have Christ. You can't receive a greater treasure than that. You have Christ. Number two, by virtue of having Christ and His righteousness, number too, you have life. You're alive unto God. You're no longer dead spiritually and inwardly, with a will set against God, and a mind set against God, and a heart in love with ungodly things. Well you've been saved, you've been redeemed, you've been changed, you've been renewed. In other words, you have life. And third, you will be risen You will be risen. Children of God are indwelt by the Spirit of God. They all have Christ, they all have life, and they will all be risen. Verse 11. If the Spirit of Him Who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you. He who raised Christ Jesus from the dead will also give life to your mortal bodies. Through his spirit who dwells in you. So you see, if you are an underliner or a highlighter or a circler or whatever Also give life to your mortal bodies is the phrase you want to hit up. Because that's talking about a future thing that God's going to do. And he says to children of God, he says to believers, That God, b because it says um the spirit of him who raised Jesus from the dead dwells in you, so that's the spirit of the Father. That's the Father raised the Son, the Father also will raise you. will also give life to your mortal bodies. Again. Well if I'm reading that, I, in one sense, am alive. I am in my mortal body. My mortal body is alive. Yes, only, only in a physical sense. The giving of life to the mortal body is talking about the giving of heavenly life. Spiritual life to the body that happens in the resurrection will also give life to your mortal bodies. How is he going to do that? Through his spirit who dwells in you. You will be risen. You will be risen. The current redemption of your soul Absolutely guarantees the future redemption of your body. In fact, in Romans 8. 23, that's what Paul calls the resurrection. He calls it the redemption of our bodies. And the current redemption of the soul guarantees it. The current redemption of your soul, the current possession of Christ points forward to The redemption of the body. It's a down payment of the redemption of the body. It ensures our hope in the resurrection of the body. Um in the resurrection, it will be a physical resurrection. It will be a physical resurrection. It won't be of this same natural fallen order, this mortal under the curse of sin order. But I challenge you to read First Corinthians chapter fifteen tonight. It's a big chapter. So maybe tonight into tomorrow. Read first Corinthians fifteen. Or at the end of it, Paul describes, which means he gives adjectives for, he gives attributes of the resurrection body that you'll receive. He calls it a body. It is a body. And one of the things he says about it is it's a spiritual body. It's a spiritual body. So let that marinate. But then to make sense of it, go to 1 Corinthians 15 and read about the resurrection. All those who are indwelt by the Spirit of God Number one, you have Christ. Number two, you have life. Inwardly, your soul has been redeemed. And number three, you will be risen. That redemption will expand. You will get a new body like unto the glorious body of Christ. In your current possession of Christ, the current indwelling of the Holy Spirit is a down payment, absolute guarantee that your body will be risen. When the Lord returns, let's pray