If you would, take a Bible and turn to Ephesians chapter 3. Today we're in Ephesians 3, 1 to 6. Looking at the mystery of Christ. Alright? The mystery of Christ from Ephesians 3, 1 to 6. Even more particularly, Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ. Because that's what we see in. This passage. Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ. What did he believe about it? What was his approach to it? What did he say about it? Now, the mystery of Christ is not a puzzle that God gives us that we need to figure out. That's not the way mystery is used in the Bible. Mystery in the Bible is a truth that was previously cloudy Is now clear. A truth previously cloudy, God has now made clear to us. It's a truth that previously was hinted at But it was not fully understood. But now, since God has revealed it, now we can understand it. Think of a statue that is covered in a sheet. And you're looking at it, you can see the general things about the statue. You can see its height, you can see its shape, you can maybe you can guess if it's a statue of a horse that's going to look different than if it's a statue of a person But you don't know the details. You don't know everything about it. You don't know what it's made of. You don't know if it's in good condition. You don't know if there's if it's colored. You don't know anything. You don't know Any of those finer details So you have a cloudy idea of what it is, but not a clear idea of what it is. And that's what a mystery is in Scripture, a truth that was previously cloudy, God has now made clear. I think another good illustration, this is not original to me. This is uh a common illustration for this kind of thing. You can think of a room that's dimly lit And you can see a little bit of what's going on in that room. Piece of furniture over here, maybe something hanging on the wall over there. But because it's so dimly lit, you don't know the details. You can't see clearly what's going on in that room. But now if you turn the lights on, now you can see clearly That's the way the mystery is used in Scripture. It's a truth previously cloudy that's now made clear. And today, this morning, is the mystery of Christ. So let's read Ephesians 3, 1 to 6. For this reason I, Paul, a prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles, assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, how the mystery was made known to me by revelation , as I have written briefly. When you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ, which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations. As it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. This mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs. members of the same body and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Summarizing the point, the mystery of Christ is that God's promise of salvation was not for Jews only, but also for Gentiles. That's the mystery of Christ Summarized. That's the mystery of Christ encapsulated. That God's great salvation, God's promise of salvation was not for Jews only, but also for Gentiles. Verse 6 again. This mystery is that the what? Gentiles are fellow heirs. What does that mean? That means heirs together with. Heirs along with. Gentiles are fellow heirs Jews were the heirs, or you could say Israel was the heir, but then fellow heirs are the Gentiles. The mystery is that Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the Different body? Same body. Same body. Fellow heirs. Heirs together with, heirs along with, and members, brothers and sisters, not of a different body. So that you have a people of God over here and a people of God over there, members of the what? Same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. that the way that you become a fellow heir, the way that you become a member of the same body. The way that you're a partaker of the promise is in Christ Jesus. It's a relationship with Jesus You hear the gospel, and that's what it says. In Christ Jesus through the gospel. So think of the gospel as this instrument that brings sinners into relationship with God. The gospel came into our lives. And we learned about it by the Holy Spirit, we learned about our need for our Savior. And then by the gospel, we learned about the Savior whom God has provided. And by the Spirit, we put our faith in Jesus Christ. Through the gospel, now in Jesus Christ, as Gentiles, we are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise. That's the summarized mystery of Christ, that God's promise of salvation was not for Jews only But also for Gentiles. Now, historically, it came to Jews first. Historically, it came to Israel first, but then it spread to the Gentile nations. Now, what's the practical importance of this? What's the relevance for this? Well, first of all, individually. Individually, each one of us should search our hearts and say, have I become a fellow heir in Christ? Have I become a member of the same body in Christ? Or am I still alienated? Am I still lost in unbelief? Have I become a partaker of the promise? Through the gospel? Or have I rejected the gospel? And the promise is still outside of me. And God's salvation is still outside of me. The Bible teaches that our sin has separated us from God And the Bible teaches the gospel that Jesus died for our sin to bring us back to God. And when we put our faith in Christ based on his life, death, and resurrection, we Become a fellow heir. We become a member of the same body. We become a partaker of God's great promise of salvation. The first practical importance It is personal. It's individual. Search your heart. Have you believed in Jesus Christ? Are you? Are you a fellow heir? Partaker of the promise? Member of the same body? That's most important. That is most, this is the most important thing in our lives. Right there. Have you been joined to Christ and received his salvation? Now, another part of the importance or another part of the practical relevance is really just seeing that this is a historical point. The more we see God's plan throughout history, the more we'll see God's grace and wisdom. Because that's how God's grace and wisdom is put on display as he accomplishes His plan throughout history. We do cherish God's work in our hearts, in our lives, in our church right now, but we also have to look at God's plan throughout history. The more we see of his plan, the more we'll see of his wisdom and of his grace. And brothers and sisters, the more we see of his wisdom and his grace, the more we will love, appreciate, and worship him. That's the relevance. That's the relevance. You may have conviction, 100% assurance, you believe in Christ, you believe in the gospel, you are a fellow member, you are a fellow heir. I hope you have that assurance. But also we all must grow in our faith. We all must continue learning, continue growing, continue striving after the will of God. And one of the things we need to learn is God's plan throughout history so that we see more of his grace, more of his wisdom. And that fills our hearts with love. It fills our hearts with appreciation and gratitude. It fills our hearts with a desire to worship Him. If we sense that we don't desire to worship God, if we sense that our hearts are not filled with love and gratitude for God, that's the problem. That's a problem. That means we're going through the motions. That means we're not seeing our sin. Because if we're not seeing our sin, we're not seeing our need for Christ. And if we're not seeing our need for Christ, then guess what? We're not looking to Christ daily. We're not crying out to Him in prayer. We're not hungering after the Word. So that God would administer the power and the promise of Christ to our hearts. So it all tracks back. If there's no love, there's no gratitude, there's no desire to worship, it tracks back to a spiritual apathy in our hearts. So, this is important for all of us to see God's plan, to see his grace, to see his wisdom. God's promise of salvation was not for Jews only, but also for Gentiles. That's verse 6. I want to read verse 6 One more time. The mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Now, he says in He says he's already written about this in verse 3. The mystery was made known to me by revelation as I have written briefly. As I have written briefly. He's just alluding to what he just wrote in chapter 2. Jesus says, I've written about this briefly to you. And so just to review, in case you weren't here for the messages in chapter 2, let's look at where Paul has just written briefly about this mystery of Christ. Look at chapter 2, verse 12. And 13. And he's talking to Gentiles. We know he's talking to Gentiles because just quickly look at verse 11. He's talking to Gentiles. He says it. Verse 12, remember that you You were at that time separated from Christ, alienated from the Commonwealth of Israel. Strangers to the covenants of promise, having no hope and without God in the world. But now in Christ, you who were once far off have been brought near by the blood of Christ. You see it? Gentiles used to be far off, used to be alienated, but now in Christ, now you've been brought near, near to the commonwealth of Israel, near to the citizenship of Israel, you've been brought into The covenant people of God. Verse 14. Of Jews and Gentiles, Paul says, made us both one. In verse 15, of Jews and Gentiles, he says, One new man in place of the two. You have the two separated by the law of Moses, separated under the old covenant. God has created one new man in the place of the two. That's verse 15. Now, verse 16 of Jews and Gentiles, Paul writes, God reconcile us both to God in one body through the cross. One body, Jews and Gentiles together. Through the cross. That means the way that this happened, the power behind this is Christ's sacrifice on our behalf. Verse 17. Verse 17 in chapter 2 still speaks of how the gospel, the message of peace with God, came to both Jew and Gentile. Verse 17, he came and preached peace. to you who were far off, that's the Gentiles, and peace to those who were near, that's the Jews. And keep going. Verse 19 Picture of how Jews and Gentiles together in Christ to make up the household of God. Verse 19, chapter 2. So then you are no longer strangers and aliens, but you are what? Fellow citizens, fellow citizens with the saints and members of the household of God. And then it leads perfectly, it leads smoothly right into chapter 3, continuing to talk about the unification of Jews and Gentiles in Christ. We see that put on display in the world, in the church, in local churches, growing and worshiping and celebrating the Lord's Supper and preaching the gospel and evangelizing their neighborhoods. And sending missionaries into the world, sending church planters into our cities. This wisdom, this grace, this power of God, this plan to bring Jew and Gentile together in Christ is put on display in history. Through churches. And you're a part of that. We're a part of that. Come to chapter 3, and Paul will explain more of this unification, more of this bringing in of the Gentiles to his people. And so with that, we can look at four aspects. Four aspects. You can see it there on your outline if you saw that outline in your bulletin. Four aspects of Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ. Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ, number one, was clear. It was clear That means he wasn't confused about it. All right. Number two, it was dangerous. That means Well, it landed him in prison. In Acts 21, the Jews that arrested him wanted to kill him. Paul appeals to Caesar to save his life, but it was because of his gospel ministry, it was because of his message. His grasp of the mystery of Christ was clear. It was dangerous. Number three, it was revealed. It was revealed to him by God. And number four, it was the international. It was an international vision. It was a global vision he had for God's people, a global vision for the church. Well let's go back to the 1, 2, 3, 4. We'll look at them in order. First of all, Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ was clear. And here what I want to do here is just look at his use of that phrase. And look again at his definition, because this is so clear. So first of all, look at the very beginning of verse 3. How the mystery, the mystery was made known to me Alright, and then in verse 4, if you look at the second part of verse 4 You can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ. And so first he says the mystery, and now he says what? The mystery of Christ. And then also you can look at verse 6, where not only does he use the phrase, but he gives us the definition. The mystery is that the Gentiles are fellow heirs. Alright, so Paul is this is not a side issue for him. This is the main theme. This is the main concept tracking through this paragraph, through this section, that he wants us to get is that Gentiles our fellow heirs. Now you can go back to Ephesians 1. Ephesians 1 Seven to ten sheds light on this issue. Because the issue really is understanding God's plan of redemption in the world It's a plan of redemption that centers on Christ, and that's why Paul can call it the mystery of Christ, because it centers on this person, Jesus, and what he did and what he accomplished. And so Ephesians 1, verse 7, talking about Jesus, Paul writes, In him we have redemption through his blood. Let me pause. In him, do you have redemption through his blood? In him have your sins been forgiven In him have you received the Holy Spirit? In him have you been set free from the tyranny of sin in your heart? In him, do you have redemption? If not, you can receive it today. We don't have to send you out on some religious program. You don't have to attend church for four months and prove that you can be a good Christian. Come empty-handed to God. Come desperate to Christ. Seeing your need for salvation, seeing that you're a sinner, seeing that you are guilty, seeing that you're headed for judgment, and put your faith in Jesus Christ and have redemption in him. How? Through his blood. Through his blood. On the basis that he died in your place. He died for your sins, taking the wrath of God that you deserve. In him we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace. According to the riches of his grace. Which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the what The mystery of his will. Wherever you see this word mystery, most of the times you see either right before or right after this idea of it was made known. He made known the mystery, or the mystery was made known. Like I said at the beginning, it's not a puzzle. It's not something we don't know. It's something God has made known. He made known the mystery, the preaching of Christ. Redemption in Christ for Jew and for Gentile. This is God's plan in history. And we must embrace that plan to see his wisdom, to see his grace, to fill our hearts with love, gratitude, and worship for him. We don't have time to go here, but for your studies later today, Colossians 1, 26 and 27 is another terrific cross-reference on this topic. Colossians 1. 26 to 27, you'll see the same thing. The mystery of Christ, God's plan of redemption, to unite Jew and Gentile together in him. Now what this is supposed to do for us, it's not supposed to confuse us. It's not supposed to send us off rabbit trails of speculation and different kinds of theologies. The main thing, the number one thing that this doctrine is supposed to do for us is remind us of God's love for the world. That's it. God has a love for the world. Think about that. Because you've seen the world. You know what's out there. We know what's in our own hearts, and we know what's in our own lives, but we also know what's out in the world. What's in the nations? The idolatry, the immorality. The lies, the oppression, the murder, the violence, the division. We know what's in the world and yet the Bible comes to us with this message that God loves the world. Read your Old Testament. You know what was in Israel. The same things that you said, the idolatry, the violence, the oppression, the corruption, the sexual immorality, the murder. God had a love for Israel. And he has a love for the nations. And he brings the message of salvation to Israel. He brings the message of salvation to the nations. God loves the world. Blows the mind, doesn't it? If you understand sin, if you understand people , humanity, the doctrine of God's love for the world will melt your heart and make your brain explode. But we don't know sin. We don't know sin. We don't know wickedness. It's because we don't know God's holiness and his purity and his majesty. God 's love for the world should bring us to our knees, and that's the story of the Bible. He has a love for a world of sinners. I'm thinking about myself when I'm preaching this, by the way. I'm thinking about my old life. I'm thinking about my old heart. I'm thinking about the way I lived and how I ran from God and how I rejected God. And I'm not alone in that. That's the world. And here comes God with an infinite love for sinners. Yeah, but what time is the game on? Yeah. Yeah, but where are we going to eat? We're so caught up in the trivial. We're so caught up in things That we miss the greatest thing in all of existence, God's love for sinners. God's love for sinners. John 3. 16, God so loved the world, he gave his only son. He didn't give us a $100 gift card. He gave us his only son. He gave us the greatest gift, the priceless gift. He gave his only son. That whoever, and if you don't know Jesus this morning , Forget about everything else and tune into this, please. Whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. Amen. John 3. 17, for God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. The world, the world, the world. He brought salvation to the world. John 4, 42. Many Samaritans said this. We know that this is indeed the Savior of the world. 1 John 4, 14, we have seen and we testify that the Father has sent his Son to be the Savior of the world. Acts 10, 34 to 35. So Peter opened his mouth and said, Truly I understand that God shows no partiality. But in every nation, anyone who fears him and does what is right is acceptable to him. How do you do what is right? Believe in Jesus Christ. That's how you do what's right. You believe in Jesus Christ, He'll take it from there. You believe in Jesus Christ, you're immediately reconciled to God. You believe in Jesus Christ, immediately, your sins are forgiven. Think of a blackboard, a chalkboard, really dating myself now, where all your sins and all the guilt of your sins is just written up and covering the chalkboard. If you believe in Jesus Christ, it's all erased. You have the gift of eternal life if you believe in Jesus Christ. Romans 10, 12, for there's no distinction between Jew and Greek. For the same Lord is Lord of all, bestowing his riches on all who call on him. How do you call on him? Believe in Jesus Christ. Look to Jesus Christ, and you will be saved. Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ was clear. Absolutely clear. It's that God's promise of salvation was not for Jews only, but also for Gentiles. Paul understood that Jesus is the Savior of the world. Now, number two, Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ was dangerous. This is verses 1 and 2. Ephesians 3, 1 and 2. For this reason, I, Paul. A prisoner of Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles. Now that's interesting, isn't it? He's a prisoner on their behalf? He's a prisoner because of them A prisoner on Christ Jesus on behalf of you Gentiles, assuming that you have heard of the stewardship of God's grace, that's a that's um that Paul was made a steward of the gospel, the stewardship of God's grace. The stewardship of God's grace that was given to me for you, for you Gentiles, in short Paul preaching this mystery of Christ, and Paul including Gentiles in the covenant community of God got him into a lot of trouble. Not all of Israel, with unbelieving Israel. And this story is told in the book of Acts. We cannot survey the whole book of Acts unless Dave would you want me to survey the whole book of Acts right now and then come back to the sermon in about a half hour? But the book of Acts tells this story, and if you want to read about this later today, I'm giving you a lot of homework this morning, aren't I? This is Acts 21. Where Paul is in Jerusalem, and because of his fellowship and inclusion of the Gentiles, and because of his message of the gospel, the unbelieving Jews, especially the leaders, arrest him and want to kill him. Now it sets a chain of events in motion that bring you to the end of Acts, where Paul is in Rome, in prison, still preaching the gospel. to Jews still preaching the gospel, to Gentiles, and many of the Jews believe, but many of the Jews, especially the leaders, do not believe. But because Paul had such a commitment to the inclusion of the Gentiles, it got him in a lot of trouble, it landed him in prison, it brought him great persecution in his missionary journeys. Now, your faith might not land you in prison, and your understanding of the mystery of Christ might not land you in prison. Maybe one day it will. I don't know. I don't know the future. But it might get you alienated from your family. It might get you alienated, ostracized from your family and from some some friends, possibly. It could cause you to be on the outside of things and look down upon. It might not land you in prison, it might not get you stoned outside the city, but it might get you rejected and looked down upon at school. The mystery of Christ, the message of the gospel. Might get you looked down upon at school. It might get you bullied at school. It might get you bullied at work. Adults can bully just like kids can bully, just in different ways, sneakier ways. Adults are smart enough to know how to do it to whether they can, on some technicality or loophole, not get in trouble for it. The mystery of Christ, the message of the gospel, the inclusion of Gentiles, can get you alienated from your family, can get you rejected and looked down upon, it can get you in trouble at work. It really can get you in trouble at work, it can get you fired. It can get you fired. You can miss out on a promotion. You can miss out on being a part of the inner circle. It can cost you a relationship with someone. You're in a relationship with someone and you're both atheists or you're you're both whatever, you're neither of you are Christian, whatever it is. And you turn to Christ and you're devoted to Christ and you want to obey Christ, you want to be baptized, you want to join his church, you want to live for Christ and not for yourself, it could end that relationship. And this person you thought once loved you now turns against you and you're enemy number one. So the gospel can cost you. It can be Dangerous quote unquote. Brothers and sisters, there's always a cost to following Jesus. There's not a cost to be saved except for the blood of Christ that's already been paid. But there's a consequence, there's a cost, there's a risk involved. If you want to live in this world, if you want to go to heaven and live for Jesus, you won't have any problem But if in this world, if you want to live for Jesus, there's a cost, there's a risk. Standing on God's truth brings the possibility of danger. Sharing God's truth brings a possibility of being alienated. And it was the same for Paul. It was no different for Paul. I mean you see that in Jesus' life, you see it in all the prophets of the Old Testament. And you'll see it in the church, you'll see it in our lives in different ways. Matthew five, verse ten, Jesus says, Blessed are those who are persecuted for righteousness' sake, for theirs is the kingdom of heaven. And blessed are you when others revile you? And persecute you and utter all kinds of evil against you falsely on my account. Rejoice and be glad, for your reward is great in heaven. For so they persecuted the prophets who were before you. Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ was clear. Absolutely clear. The inclusion of the Gentiles in this great salvation of God. It also was dangerous. It brought him persecution, it landed him in prison. And number three, it was revealed to him. The mystery of Christ was revealed to Paul. This is verses three to five He says, how the mystery was made known. There it is again, right? The mystery was made known to me by revelation. As I have written briefly. And when you read this, when you read this, you can perceive my insight into the mystery of Christ. Which was not made known to the sons of men in other generations, as it has now been revealed to his holy apostles and prophets by the Spirit. It was revealed. AKA, not his idea. Paul didn't come up with this. The apostles didn't come up with this. The uh this was not an uh an innovation of the apostles, where they changed the New Testament or the Old Testament, right? rather, create something completely alien and new. No, they preach that what's happening in the church age is the fulfillment of the Old Testament. It was revealed. It's not from church tradition, not from popular opinion, not from Paul's feelings or personal preferences. It was revealed From God by the Holy Spirit to the apostles, to the prophets of the early church, it was made known. Made known This here is not talking about general revelation. General revelation is God's revelation in creation Which is all can see. And general revelation is God's revelation in the conscience. We have a conscience because we're made in God's image. And the created order. Or you could just say nature reveals something of God. That's just called general revelation. But that can't save us. That can't save us. It can convict us that God exists and it can teach us about God's power But what can save us is what's called special revelation, supernatural revelation, not natural revelation. specific special revelation and the climactic special revelation is Jesus Christ God in the flesh God incarnate, the eternal Son of God, came to live as a human, like us in every way, except without sin. Without the corruption of sin, without the guilt of sin, Jesus Christ, both God and man, and therefore the only mediator between God and man Climactic, this is the highest, this is the greatest, this is the best special revelation. And it's faith in Christ, it's knowledge of special revelation that can bring us to God. And this is in that category. God made this known. If God did not reveal this in a supernatural way, if God did not teach this to the apostles, And to the prophets of the early church, if God did not make it known, we still wouldn't know about it today. This doesn't come from philosophers This doesn't come from theologians. This teaching comes from God. Paul's grasp of the mystery of Christ was clear. It was dangerous. It was revealed. It also was international. This is verse 6. Mysteries that Gentiles are fellow heirs, members of the same body, and partakers of the promise in Christ Jesus through the gospel. Now, if you want more on what Gentiles means, you have to go on our sermon audio page. Go to our website and just find the link to our church's sermon audio page. And you'll have to listen to the sermon from Ephesians to 11 to 16, where I gave a biblical overview of the Gentiles. Basically, if you go to your Old Testament, you have Israel is God's chosen nation in covenant with God, and then around Israel you have the nations of the world. And the nations of the world are not in special covenant with God. They are not God's chosen people They are given over to darkness. They are given over to idolatry. They are the nations surrounding Israel. That's the Gentiles. That's the Gentiles. And now you come into this new covenant era, and they are brought in Only in Christ they're brought in to the covenant people under the new covenant. Gentiles are fellow heirs means the nations. The nations are fellow heirs. The nations are fellow heirs. So You see basically, not basically, you see, this is what you see. You see three phrases in verse 6 that tell us what the mystery is. The first one you see is that Gentiles are fellow heirs, right? So Israel inherited Christ and his kingdom, and the Gentiles are fellow heirs with them. Gentiles inherit Christ. Gentiles inherit the kingdom as well. Fellow heirs. The second phrase you see is the Gentiles are members of the same body members of the same body. And so Israel was filled with the Holy Spirit and reconciled to God. Gentiles also would be filled with the Spirit. And reconciled to God. Fellow heirs, members of the same body, and the last phrase you see is partakers of the promise. Partakers of the promise. So Israel received the fullness of salvation in the new covenant, and then the Gentiles also are partakers of the fullness of salvation, partakers of the new covenant. Gentiles and Jews together in one body in the place of the two. It's a remarkable historical change that happened in the first century with the coming of Christ and the day of Pentecost, the giving of the Spirit, and the establishing of the church, and the taking of the good news of Christ to all nations. The last thing I want to do today is go back to these essential personal questions. These essential personal questions. Have you become a fellow heir in Christ? Have you become a member of the same body filled with the Spirit through faith in Christ? Have you become a partaker of the promise, the promise of salvation, the promise of eternal life, the promise of Christ? Maybe you're in a season of life where God is just awakening you to the things of Christ. You're not there yet. You don't really feel the weight of your sin yet. You certainly haven't come to faith in Christ yet, where you have a settled rest for your soul and the assurance of salvation. But God is stirring you up God has maybe done some things in your life to get your attention, to get you thinking about your soul, to get you thinking about your accountability before God, to get us thinking, to get you thinking about how your life is temporary. This is this life is not forever. And one day you will stand before God just to start thinking about the things of God. Maybe you've been awakened. God says in Jeremiah 29, 13, you will seek me and find me when you seek me with all your heart. And that's God's call to you, awakened soul this morning. Begin to seek God Seek him in his word and reading the word and keep coming, keep hearing the word, seeking God. Go home, read the word, seek God. Go to God in prayer, cry out to God, plead with God, wrestle with God in prayer, seek God, seek God. Because you're awakened But maybe, maybe one day you'll be burdened. Maybe you're here today and you're past the awakening. Maybe your soul is burdened. Maybe your soul is in the season of Conviction of sin. Maybe God has done more than just start to get you thinking about these things. Maybe God has come into your life and He's brought His Word into your life to where you are feeling the guilt. Feeling the perversity of your sin, feeling the reality of God's judgment weigh down upon you and press down upon you. Maybe God is doing more than stirring you up. Maybe he's convicting you and burdening you with your need for salvation. Psalm 38. 4 My iniquities are over my head like a heavy burden. They're too heavy for me. So what does the psalmist do? Looks to God for mercy. Maybe you're awakened, but maybe you're more than that. Maybe you're further along. Maybe you're convicted. Maybe you're burdened for your soul. And to that I say, praise God. But don't stay there. Don't stay there. Salvation does not come by guilt. Salvation does not come by feelings of guilt. Salvation comes by faith. Under the load of your sin. Under the weight of your guilt. Under the feeling of God's judgment upon you. Look to Christ a mighty and merciful Savior and believe in Christ. That's what saves. Sometimes we try to move people along too quickly. Just any kind of little spiritual things going on. We want to snap them saved and get them baptized. Let them wrestle with God until they have true faith in Christ. Refuge. Matthew 11, 28. Jesus invites you Burdened soul, convicted soul, Jesus invites you. Come to me, all who labor and are heavy laden, and I will give you rest. And then he says in the next verse, Take my yoke upon you and learn from me, for I am gentle and lowly in heart, and you will find rest for your souls. If you come to Christ in faith, you become a follower of Christ and you have rest for your soul. New birth. New birth. You need to be born again. You must be born again. And the only way to be born again. is through faith in Christ on the basis of his life, death, and resurrection. And you can be, you can be a fellow heir. You can be a member of the same body. You can be a partaker of the promise. That's all from verse 6. And the mystery of Christ can become the most glorious truth in your life