Well the words in which we'll examine this morning come out of Hebrews chapter 12. This is one and two. Hebrews chapter twelve, verses one and two. The founder and the perfecter That's who our Lord is. He's the founder and the perfector of our faith. Some translations have possibly the author and the sustainer. There's two words. There's four words essentially. Founder, perfecter, author, and sustainer should give us encouragement this morning, brothers and sisters. We should be encouraged to recognize that Christ is the one that has secured our salvation, and he's the one that keeps us on the path towards righteousness. John Bunyan is an older gentleman now, but at one point he was in prison and he wrote what is one of the most classic writings called The Pilgrim's Progress Pilgrim's Progress is a story that he wrote, uh made up, but it follows the journey of this young man named Christian. It's a convenient name for him. He travels down the road of life, and everywhere he turns, there's a temptation, there's a struggle, there's something trying to pull him off of the path. He's going down the path he's keeping before him, knowing that we're at the end of the path he goes into the eternal celestial kingdom. He's heading towards heaven. As he's going down the path on this side, there's a festival going on that seems real appealing, seems real attractive to him He diverges off of the path of times, but he gets back on and he continues down and at another time there's th there's this idea over here of legalism and there's something Something kind of attractive about that. It draws him in. He realizes how that's actually pulling him away from the kingdom. It's pulling him away from the goal. He gets back on the path and And this is the story. It's a wonderful story. It's been rewritten and created into movies now or cartoons that you can watch, or you can read the original. No, you can do that. But ultimately we see that the journey of the Christian life is full of trials, is full of temptations, is full of suffering. And each and every time Christian in this story took a step, he was tempted to veer off of the path that God has laid before him. But through faith he stayed on the path, even in weaknesses. He got back on the path. And he got to the kingdom of God. To be in the presence of the Lord forever. Well this morning, brothers and sisters, I want us to examine our lives in a similar way. Are you walking the path of the Christian life And you come to faith in Christ. You recognize Jesus as your Savior that He died on the cross for you That he resurrected from the grave, defeating sin and death. And that he sits in heaven today, having dominion over heaven and earth. We say that now. Many of us have have professed that with our our mouths. We've been baptized. We're gathered here worshiping God because we say that and we believe that But can we all admit that the times are hard? As we walk this path, as we as we try to stay on the path of righteousness, as we try to follow our Lord, there's a lot of temptation and stuff. There's a lot of pain that causes us to go, is this worth it? The world around us seems to be going crazy, does it not? And we go, is God really in control? Is he really the sovereign one? Is he really the King of Kings, the Lord of Lords? Well, brothers and sisters, I'm here this morning reading out of the Word of God to reassure us that yes, He is. He is in control. He is the one that has given you faith. He is the one that will sustain your faith. And we follow after him. He will keep us on the path of righteousness. He will see us to the glorious end. And that glory's end is to be an eternity in his presence. So the question we must answer this morning is how can we run the race of faith to the glory of God Let us see what the author of Hebrews has to tell us. Hebrews chapter 12, starting in verse 1. Therefore Since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witnesses, let us also lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Looking to Jesus, the founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame. and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. How are we to run this race? How are we to wake up tomorrow? How are we to deal with the temptations? How are we to deal with the pain? If you were here last week, Jason wonderfully laid out, tells Christians, we look to God in times of anxiety. In times of pain and suffering, we must look to God. We must keep the world around us in the correct position. We must recognize that the world around us, our pains, our suffering, our anxieties, our sadness The temptations, they are not greater than our Lord. We must keep that front in our minds. May our eyes be laid upon that regularly. And really, this sermon, this passage is just continuing on that. May we put some some practical examples upon how do we keep our eyes upon the Lord? How do we run the race of the Christian life? When things are tough. The first thing that we see here in Hebrews is that we must be encouraged by other saints. We must be encouraged by other saints. Why are we encouraged? Why is this to our benefit to think about other Christians? Because we must be reminded that we are not alone in this journey. We are not the first ones to go down through the path of glory. We're not the first ones to walk the life of the Christian life. We're not the first to be tempted. We're not the first to experience suffering and trials. But we must recognize that those that have gone before us have withstand the suffering and the trials. Those that have gone before us have withstand the temptations. They've gone through it. They've seen the glorious end. Not because of their own strength, not because of their own power and their own might, but because of the faith they have in the Lord. Hebrews chapter 11 essentially lays out what is commonly referred to as the hall of faith. I encourage you tonight to go ahead and read Hebrews chapter 11. And you're going to get sick and tired of hearing the word faith. Faith, by faith, Abel offered to God. By faith. Enoch was taken up. By faith, Noah being warned by God concerning events to yet unseen. By faith, by faith, by faith. It's this repeated theme throughout this chapter. It's the repeated theme throughout all of Scripture. Is that those that are following after the Lord are doing so by faith. Not by their own strength, not by their own wisdom, but by the faith in the Lord. So we must be encouraged. You walk the very similar life that Abraham walked many, many years ago. You are walking by the same faith that King David walked by as he led the nation of Israel. Should be encouraging to us. We love reading those stories. Who doesn't love the story of David going to fight a giant and being victorious with a little stone in a slingshot? And then cutting off the head of the giant, holding it up for the the enemy armies to see it and run in fear of the Lord. Right? We all want to we want that, right? That sounds cool Yeah, he did that by faith, the exact same faith that you and I have in the Lord. We read by faith these these these men and women walking by faith, trusting the Lord throughout the scriptures We see it throughout history. We gather together here in a building, having freedom to do such because by faith, men and women throughout history have fought for the gospel to go forth. By faith, men and women went to their death because they trusted and knew that proclaiming the gospel, proclaiming that there's salvation in Christ alone is the only thing worth proclaiming, and they were willing to go and die for it. Go to Italy, go to Rome, and you'll see the monuments put up for men and women fighting that Christ alone, faith alone, scripture alone was sufficient for salvation, not works. May we stand on their shoulders. May we praise the Lord, thank him that he has brought men and women throughout history, has given them the strength and the ability, the faith to follow after him. May we rejoice in it. May we recognize that we are not new to history. We are not unique to history. We, just like all the other saints, are walking by faith. But we must not only be encouraged by old dead people. We must be encouraged by the saints around us today. When I use the word saint, I'm talking about all those that have faith in Christ. All those that will be in the glorious eternal worshiping the Lord. Those that had been redeemed by the blood of Christ, they are called saints. If you have that title, if you've placed your faith in Christ, you are considered a saint. We should be encouraged by the saints to your left and right. But how often are we? Often we allow their flaws and their failures to be the main focal point of our relationship The frustrations we have with them, the the struggle we have with them, the disagreements we have with them, the the dislikes we have of what they post on the internet Well, that's not what we're told to do. We should be encouraged by this. Hebrew actually, the book of Hebrews tells us that when we gather together, we should spur one another on in love and in good works. Spur one another on. We should be encouraging one another. Now spurring, if you ride a horse, refers to to taking the heel of your foot and kicking them a little bit, the horse to speed up. Don't kick your neighbor It's not what we're told to do here. But are we encouraging one another? Are we driving one another to love each other better and more and love God deeper and recognize what that means? And are we encouraging one another to do good works? Not just mission trips, that's good. Not just going and helping the homeless, that's good. But good works in our everyday lives. Loving our spouses better. Raising our children in the fear and adoration of the Lord. Are we encouraging one another for the good works of going and being a banker, being a teacher, being a lawyer, whatever your profession is? Re-encouraging one another to live in the reality of who they are in Christ. May we be encouraged by one another If we are not encouraged by one another, it is pointless for us to gather together. It's meaningless. We can worship the Lord by ourselves. We really can. We can sing the same songs at home. You can read the same scripture at home. And unfortunately now we can even we can well fortunately and unfortunately we can go online and hear sermons preached We can give online. Everything's able to be done outside of that. But God says the gathering together is a unique and special experience. That when we gather together with other saints, we're encouraged. When we gather together with other saints, we actually enter into the heavens and worship the Lord. As we gather together with other saints through faith, we actually go to war with the enemies of God. Do you recognize that right now? Are you encouraged because you recognize that the man or woman to your left or right is the soldier that we are fighting the enemy against right now Do we recognize as the culture is exploding and going out of control, following after their own passions, that we are defeating them with the gospel moment by moment right now? The preaching of the word of God defeats the enemies of God. We should be encouraged that we're doing this together. And our last encouragement of the saints should also be the future saints. Are you encouraged to look in the eyes of the young kids in this church and go. . . Someday they too could be a saint. Someday, maybe even now, they have faith in Christ. Do we love them? This is why the answer is yes, I know this church It's why we have a kids camp, a VBS, a basketball camp, Wednesday night youth programs, Wednesday night kids programs, Friday night youth programs, Sunday school youth, Sunday school k And we look towards the future. We have hope in them that they will raise up in the faith. We should actually be excited by that. I know sometimes it's hard. There's three, four year olds screaming, crying, busting. Those nine, eight-year-olds screaming, crying, fussing. Just like the fifty-four, fifty-five, fifty-six-year-olds screaming and fussing. They just have a better mask on it. But may we actually be encouraged by the youth and by the children May we not say they're they're lesser and segregate them, push them off to the side. No, may we may we call them into our lives. May we call them in to see us worship to try and God. May they see us living lives to reflect that we have been redeemed by the blood of Christ. And may we be encouraged for the future. Don't get disheartened. Don't look at the culture around us and say, ah, look at this. Look what the internet has done. Look what cell phones have done. Look what hip-hop has done. Sure, but look what the gospels do. Look at the kingdom of God going forth. The gospel would defeat all those things that they're against God. The gospel will will take the children and make them into saints. We should believe that and we should be encouraged by that. Brothers and sisters, we're encouraged by the saints, both present, excuse me, past, present, and future. This helps us stay on the path of righteousness. This helps us keep our eyes on the goal, to keep our eyes on the eternal Because we're surrounded by other saints. We should be encouraged. May we have the team mentality as we walk this walk. How can we run the race of faith to the glorious end? Be encouraged by the other saints. But number two. Get rid of the things that weigh you down. Get rid of the things that weigh you down. If right now I said, hey, let's all go run a marathon. I don't all of us are going, no, that's a foolish idea. But what if it said we're gonna go run just we're gonna do one lap around the church parking lot? Some of us would be okay with that. But I said here you gotta wear this this vest, this weighted vest You gotta wear a backpack with fifty pounds in it. You 're starting to think maybe we're in the military, right, John? Yeah. Yeah, that's a little light. But but we see that if we're trying to if we're trying to go down this path, we're trying to run the race. Why are we going to weigh ourselves down with pointless things? Why are we going to take on more weight that's going to slow us down and hinder us? We're called to get rid of the things that weigh you down. Look back with me in chapter 12, verse 1. Since therefore since excuse me, therefore, since we are surrounded by so great a cloud of witness Let us also lay aside every weight and sin which cling so closely, and let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. Don't we all want the easier race? I'm not saying easy. I'm saying easier race. The journey of the Christian life is already challenging enough. Where are we going to allow more baggage to weigh us down that we do not need? So what are we to get rid of? The first thing is get rid of your former ways. Get rid of your former ways. You were dead in your sins and your trespasses. You are a child of wrath. You were a slave to sin. But God made you new creation. Live in this reality right here. Live in the newness. Your new identity in Christ. Stop going back to your former ways. Stop going back to your former addictions. Stop going back to your former thought patterns, your habits, stop going back to your former ways of conducting business if it was against the Lord. Stop going back to your former ways of how you led your household or or failed to leave your household. Stop going back to your former ways and live in the newness you have in Christ. Turn with me to 1 Corinthians chapter 6. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, we're going to see this laid out right before us. 1 Corinthians chapter 6, verse 9 reads. Or do you not know that the unrighteous will not inherit the kingdom of God? Do not be deceived, neither is sexually immoral, nor idolaters, nor adulterers, nor men who practice homosexuality. Nor thieves, nor the greedy, nor drunkards, nor revilers, nor swindlers will inherit the kingdom of God. Pretty clear, right? Those wicked, the the unrighteous, those that rebel against God will not enter his kingdom. But here's the gut check, brother and sister. Verse 11. And such were some of you We shouldn't look at them and go, oh, they're disgusting. They're the worst. They're unbearable. We should look at them and say they're actually disgusting and terrible and rebellious. And you and I used to walk just like that. But because of the grace of God, we have been washed and made new. Verse eleven, and such were some of you, but you were washed, you were sanctified, you were justified in the name of the Lord Jesus Christ and by the Spirit of our our God. So stop living in the old ways. Are you struggling with sexual immorality? Look to the Lord. Live in the reality that you have in him. Are you struggling with thievery, greediness, drunkenness? Do you revile? Are you struggling with homosexual identity? That is not your identity anymore, brothers and sisters. Who you once were before Christ is not who you are anymore. You are a new creation. Through the blood of Christ in the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. This is good news. Sure we're going to struggle with sin. Sure we're going to struggle with temptation. But we're not enslaved to it anymore. We're not engulfed by it. We don't have to wear those clothes anymore. We wear the new garments of the eternal kingdom. Get rid of your former ways. Stop going back to your former ways. The second thing that we must get rid of is sin. Hebrews tells us, get rid of sin. This really ties into our former ways, what's weighing us down. But may we see that the sin that is so tempting to us actually hinders our walk with the Lord. That's quite obvious, but I don't think we fully grasp how deep that cut is. How deep it hinders us, how much it really slows us down, how it really pulls us off the path of righteousness. It completely distracts us. Turn with me to Galatians chapter 5. Galatians chapter 5, verse 16 reads, But I say, walk by the Spirit. And you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the spirit, and the desires of the spirit are against the flesh. For these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. Now the works of the flesh are evident. It goes through the list of the works of the flesh. But notice here that if we are of the Spirit, we are not of the flesh. Which means we don't have to partake in our sin anymore. We have been liberated. We have been made free. Ephesians 2 talks about this. While we were in sins and our our trespasses, while we were dead. But God, being rich in mercy, made us alive together with Him. Our newness, our new identity, allows us to fight against sin. Before Christ You loved your sin and there was no chance of you going against your sin. And it felt good. We liked it. We went with it. We followed it. We were enslaved to it. But through Christ, we are now new creations. You are not enslaved to your sin. You don't have to follow after it. You actually have the ability to fight against sin. You actually have the ability not to live in your sin anymore because you have the Spirit of God. This is good for us. We should want this. We should recognize it. Are we tempted? Yes. Will we fail? Yes. But we must fight. We must fight daily. A book I read yearly is uh The Mortification of Sin. In there, smortification is is not just killing sin or that sin has been killed, but that you are constantly and regularly killing sin. Each day we wake up, we see the sin and the temptation laid before us, and we must put it to death. We must recognize that it is an enemy of God and that we shall not partake in it. And when we fail, we confess before the Lord, knowing that we are forgiven. We laugh it off after it. We may not like that language for sin and laughing it off, but we must recognize that if we have been cleansed by the blood of Christ, that that enemy really is not powerful. Sin really has no power over us. And when we grow, when we mature, when we start to recognize the temptation as it really is, as a weak little mouse that's going up before before the mighty Lord. We must grow and become strong enough to laugh at the temptation. Mock it. Call it out as what it is. That it's a lie, that it's pointless, it's it's just a temptation. And we don't have to follow it. And we walk in one more. We trust the strength of our Lord. We trust the strength of the Spirit that is driving us to fight against our sin. But it's a daily battle. We will all go to our grace fighting sin. But we must. We must fight against the sin. This sin will pull us off the path. Our sins will drive us into the gutter. We will crash our cars into the gutter. You can't drive with a crash car. We must fight against sin. We must get on the path. When we fall into the gallery, we call before the Lord in forgiveness, calling out our sins, and we trust and know that we are forgiven. The third thing that we must get rid of, we must put away, so it does not weigh us down on this journey, is the lies of the enemy, the lies of Satan. Once again, just a reminder, it says to lay aside every weight and sin which clings so closely, and r let us run with endurance the race that is set before us. I think one of these weights is the lie of the enemy. You're forgiven in Christ, but what's the enemy constantly doing to you? No, you're not. You're not that good. You call yourself a Christian? And you you got upset because someone stopped at a red light for one point two seconds longer than you wanted? You're not really a Christian. You're not really a Christian because think about how you You 're not really a Christian because you haven't memorized the whole Bible yet. You're not really a Christian and and that lays out here Yeah, that sin actually can't be forgiven. This is the lie of the enemy. He's constantly whispering in our ears. He's constantly trying to drive us away from our confidence and our faith in Christ. He's constantly trying to convince us that God really can't save sinners like you and I. He's trying to magnify our sins. He's trying to magnify our guilt. And he's trying to destroy and diminish. The forgiveness of our sins. He's trying to destroy and diminish the work of Christ on the cross before us. He's trying to say that faith, faith, that's going to save you Yes, we must look at the enemy. We must face the enemy and say, you are a liar. Faith is sufficient. Christ's work on the cross is sufficient. The scriptures tell us they are sufficient. Our sins truly, actually, and eternally are forgiven. We actually are made righteous before the Holy Judge. We must face the enemy and deny his lives. Fight against him. Mark this down. We don't have time to look at it, but 2 Timothy 2, 25 through 26. It talks about how if we're not speaking truth, we will be encaptured and enslaved by the lies of the enemy. But the truth of the gospel breaks the chain to the enemy, and we don't have to fall for his lies anymore Revelation tells us the great beast and that that the great dragon has been defeated and that Satan has been banished out of the throne room of heaven so that he cannot accuse the saints before God anymore. Recognize that. Satan, Satan, the liar is essentially what his title is in scripture. The liar cannot go before the Lord and lie anymore. He can't lie about you and I. Why is this? Because Christ, our mediator, sits in that throne room. Who's Satan going to come? To Christ, to Jesus and say, Look at these, they're not Christians and Jesus is saying, No, my blood has been poured out upon them. I have died for them. I have defeated the grave for them. Stop lying. May we take joy. May we take joy that he is a liar and that he is banished from heaven. May we take actual joy that he is so frustrated with the situation. That he's going around all of creation trying to disrupt the kingdom of God. That's not a being that thinks he's going to win. That's a being that recognizes that his time is short. That's what Revelation tells us. He knows that his time is short. So he scours the earth like a lion trying to destroy all that he can. He's weak, brothers and sisters Our God is mighty and powerful. Don't fall for the lies. Don't fall for the lies Those lies will pull us off of the path. Those lies will tell us that maybe if we just work on all the laws, if we just perfect our acts and our deeds, we'll be saved and we don't have to walk the path of faith and righteousness. That's a lie. Maybe the lie is that look at this, this appealing thing over here. Just follow after your passions, after your lusts, and you will be fulfilled. That's a lie. The path of faith and righteousness is before us. Don't fall for the lies of the enemy. Some of them are loud and obvious, but often they're quiet. They see maybe there's something there. Legalism doesn't seem that bad, does it actually make sense? Don't do drugs Don't sleep around. Go to church. Right? You're here and it's like, yeah, yeah, is the pastor about to say those are bad things? No. They're good things. But what the enemy wants to do is tell us that that's where our salvation is found If you're just a morally good person, you're going to be saved. If you're if your good works are more than your bad works, you're going to be saved in the end. But we know that's not the case. That's a lie from the enemy. He's trying to distract us with a grain of truth and draw us away from the path of faith and righteousness. Brothers and sisters, get rid of the things that weigh you down. Don't make this journey harder than it already is. Get rid of your former ways. Don't fall for them. Don't follow after sin. Fight and kill your sin and don't fall for the lives of the enemy. Point number three, this is the most important point. We must keep your eyes on Jesus. Keep your eyes on Jesus. Look with me at verse 2 of Hebrews chapter 12. He lays out that we are reminded of the saints around us. He tells us to get rid of the weights that are slowing us down, but here's what the foundation of this is laid on. Verse 2. Looking to Jesus The founder and perfecter of our faith, who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross, despising the shame, and is seated at the right hand of the throne of God. Looking to who? Jesus. Now I I think this actually gets biased and we don't catch that he uses the title Jesus. Throughout Hebrews he uses Jesus, he uses Christ, the Savior, the great high priest, the Mount Zion. He uses a lot of titles for our Savior Jesus. But here, in this instance, he uses Jesus, his earthly name. Why is he doing this? It's because he wants us to keep our eyes on the man Jesus that has saved us. Fully God, fully man. All the time. He's fully God, fully man, all the time. But in this instance we must keep our eyes that he was man. Why is that? It's because Jesus walked a very similar path that you and I are walking. He was tempted. He experienced suffering. He could have sinned. Sin was laid out before him. He was calling him. We see this in the temptation out in the wilderness. We're looking to Jesus. Why? It's because we know that he knows us. He's experienced life that we are living right now But we must see something else here. Jesus, our Messiah, he is the source of your salvation. He is the source of our salvation. Look into Jesus, the founder The author. I actually like the word author more, but the ESV uses founder. It's a good one. But this idea that God is the greatest storyteller is something that has really encapsulated me and and draws me in He has created all things and he is telling the story of history. He's telling the story of salvation. So that when we get to heaven, we will sit in the heavens and we will sing the songs about what he has done throughout history. How he has redeemed all of creation that has rebelled against him. And he has redeemed sinners like you and I. So when we start to see that he is a storyteller, he is the author, he is the founder, he has created our salvation. We start to see that our salvation is quite special. Our salvation is not because we've mustered up enough strength, strength. It's not because we finally figured out all the right answers. Our salvation is not based off of us walking down the aisle and being baptized. Our salvation is not based off of our works or our deeds. Our salvation is based off of God. He is the provider of our salvation. We see that unfold before us because we place faith in him. Who gives us faith? Our Lord. Ephesians 2. 8. But by grace you have been saved through faith. By grace, by the gift of God, He has given us faith. He has given us the ability to believe in Him. He has given us our salvation. You are not saved by your own doing. Amen. Because if you're saved by your own doing, you will be unsaved by your own doing very quickly. No, no, no. We rest in the security that the Lord is the provider of our salvation. We can't follow the law to perfection. We can't follow after another deity. We can't vote the right way. We can't earn our salvation. We can't give and tithe enough. There's no way of earning salvation. Our salvation comes from the Lord. Our salvation comes from the work of Christ on the cross. His blood was poured out for you and I We see that the punishment for sin is death and destruction, separation from God. The punishment for sin for you and I is an eternal punishment Think about that. It will take you and I eternity to pay off our punishment. It took God a moment on the cross to tone many, many sins. May we rejoice in this, that He is the provider of our salvation. May we not look anywhere else. Hebrews chapter 5, verse 7 through 10 reminds us of this beautiful truth. Hebrews chapter 5, verse 7, in the days of his flesh, Jesus offered up prayers and supplications with loud cries and tears to him who was able to save him from death, and he was heard because of his reverence. Although he was a son, he learned obedience through what he suffered. And being made perfect, he became, what's he to become? The source of eternal salvation to all who obey him. Being designated by God a high priest after the order of Melchizedek. Being made perfect, he became the source. of eternal salvation. The Lord is our source. Jesus is the source of our salvation. Which then leads us to the second piece. The second part of this, what should our eyes be focused on, is first that Jesus is the source of our salvation, and then we must also keep our eyes that he is the source of your sanctification. He is the source of your sanctification. If his work, his life, his death, his resurrection, and his reign as king is sufficient to save you, it is sufficient to keep you. It is sufficient to make you like him He is the source of your sanctification. This is good news for us, brothers and sisters. As we walk this journey of faith, This road of the Christian life laid before us, and we think we don't have the strength. I can't do it. I can't kick these sins and this temptation. I want to go back to my old ways of life. I don't like the people you've surrounded me with, God. I can't do this. I'm gonna I'm gonna depart the path. This isn't for me. We must recognize that He is the power, He is the source that keeps us. on the past. First Corinthians one verse thirty reminds us of this. And because of him, you are in Christ Jesus, who became to us wisdom from God, righteousness, and sanctification and redemption. So that, as it is written, let the one who boasts boast in the Lord. The only way that we can walk this walk, the only way that we can live this life as a Christian is to keep our eyes on Christ To trust him, to have faith in him, to recognize that he is the one sanctifying us. He gives us the strength. He gives us the ability. He gives us the desires and the passions to walk in obedience to him Are you being obedient to Him? Yes and absolutely. How are you doing that? Through the power of the Holy Spirit. Never take your eyes off of Christ. He has given you your salvation, He is keeping you. We know and trust that he will keep us on this path. We know and trust that he will never let us go. That if we are his, we are his sheep, the good shepherd won't lose any of his sheep. He will keep us to the end. We will enter into glory worshiping him that he has saved us and he has kept us till we made it there. We worship him. We keep our eyes on him. The other thing we must keep in mind back in Hebrews chapter 12 is that Christ Jesus he went to the cross for you because it brought him joy. He went to the cross for you. He died the death for you. He paid for your sins. Why? Because it brought you him doing. He recognized the mission before him. He saw the work that the Father had sent him for. He knew the plan. He knew how history was going to be brought up. He knew how all the victory was going to be accomplished through his work. And it brought him great joy. Brothers and sisters, you bring Christ joy as he died for you. As he died for your sins. Who's joyful to do it? Look back in verse 2. Who for the joy that was set before him endured the cross. Do not miss the grave difference between the joy set before him and the endurance of the cross The death, the physical pain and suffering he experienced on the cross. The the the deep spiritual death and separation he had from the Father. The only time in history that has ever and ever will happen. How he took on our sins, the pain and suffering he experienced there, both physically and spiritually. He did that with joy. How can such things be? How can he go to the cross with joy? It's because he knew that he is victorious. He knew that he would defeat sin and death. He knew that he would atone for the sins of you and I. He knew that he would make many saints. He would bring many people into the kingdom of God. He knew that the glory of God would be magnified through his work. He knew that he was building the kingdom of eternity. He knew that the gospel was going to go and transform the world around him. He knew the joy that he was going to experience, along with the understanding of the pain he was going to suffer. Do we recognize the joy God has in you and I? Do we recognize the joy God has in this church? Do we recognize the joy God has as the gospel goes forth? Proclaiming, proclaiming that the Messiah has died for sinners. How can he be so joyful? It's because he knows that he is victorious. He knows that he is king. He knows that the gospel will be victorious. He knows that the church will grow. He knows that the enemy will lose and not prevail. He knows that the gates of hell will not withstand the preaching of the gospel and the church advancing. There will not be an inch on any part of God's creation that will have even the stench of sin and death. Once God is done. How is He going to do this? Proclamation of the gospel of the church will go forth, the church will grow. God is not worried about the election. God is not worried about the wars. God is not concerned about what may happen tomorrow in Maryland. God is in control. Jesus is King. He's the Lord of Lords. He reigns and he promises that the gospel will have victory, will slain the nations, and that many will praise him. We know that he'll come back as judge. With great joy he knows that the work is finished. With great joy he knows that sin is atoned for and sin will be judged rightly. With great joy, our Lord went to the cross. Keep her eyes on that, brothers and sisters. Don't lose hope. Don't lose focus. Have faith that Jesus actually is the Savior. Have faith and trust that Jesus actually is the King in heaven, having dominion now, right now over heaven and earth. Not tomorrow, not in the future. Not when he returns holy. No, he's doing it now. So what the gospel tells us, are you going to believe it? This brings us to point number four. Keep your eyes on Christ, the source of your salvation, the source of your sanctification. The recognition that he went and did this with joy, but also keep your eyes that he reigns now and into eternity. How can we live this life? How can we stay on the path when things are hard? How can we stay on the path of faith and righteousness when there's pain and suffering? As the world crashes, as the new tell the news tells us everything's bad, how can we do it? It's because our Lord reigns. Maybe you missed that. Jesus reigns. He he he actually reigns. He's actually king. He doesn't just serve a four-month or four-year term and then hope he gets re-elected. He's not waiting for enough people to come to him and profess faith in him So that he can become king. He's not saying once I have this many baptisms, then I'll be king king. He's not saying once I make enough money from tithes, I will be king. No. He's king now. He reigns now. Sure the enemies appear to be flourishing. He's king. They will be destroyed. They will either come to faith in him or they will receive the just punishment of eternity. He reigns now. He's the king over your life, your thoughts, your habits If he reigns over your life, can he reign over your temptations? I sure hope you trust him. I sure hope you recognize how great he is as a king. He's the king over your family. He's the one that guides and s instructs us of how to lead our family. He's the one that guides and instructs us of how to love our spouses, how to raise our children, how to care for them, embrace them even when they get boo-boos. He is the king of kings. He's the king that reigns over the civil authorities. Make all the laws you want, Governor. And each law you make against the law of God, you will receive the punishment for. Or I call you to come to faith and repentance in Christ, so that Christ can bear that punishment for you. He's the king over the president of the United States, whoever it is, the next few months. President Whoever you are, next year we call you to make laws according to the law of God. We call you to come and repent of your sins and follow in faith to Christ in Christ alone. Stop trying to make a kingdom for yourself. Follow the true and eternal King, Jesus. He's the king over all nations that raged war against one another. He's the king of all creation. And we can trust and know and be assured that all of creation someday will bow down to him. Walk the path now. Rejoice. We can skip down the path of faith and righteousness knowing that our King reigns. May we walk this life with joy. May we walk the walk of faith, fighting against sin and temptation, putting off our former ways, keeping our eyes on our Lord and Savior, and rejoicing in the King. As we walk this path of the Christian life, as we keep our faith in Him, may we keep our eyes on the kingdom before us. Each step we take, we recognize that we're building in the kingdom here on this earth now. Each step we take, we see the kingdom become bigger and more realistic to us, just like the mountains are. As you walk in the mountains, as you're far off, each step you take, the mountains take a new form. You start to see a new angle out of the of them. They start to get bigger and bigger before you. That's what the kingdom of God is before us as we walk the life and the journey of faith. As we walk this journey Of faith, may the reality of God become real. May the reality of your salvation become real. And may we proclaim it to the world. Call the world in. Call the enemies in to repentance and faith. Call the enemies to walk with you on this journey. Call them to join you and worship the King of Stress. Father, we thank you. We thank you that you have provided salvation for us. Father, we thank you that you sent your son to die the death that we deserve. We thank you that you have redeemed us through the blood of Christ. Lord, I ask that you remind us of this reality now. And those that don't know you, I ask that you spur their hearts now, pierce them open with the gospel. Reveal the truth to them. May the Holy Spirit stir up in that. Call them to faith in Christ. Lord, I ask that you reveal to us the path you laid before us. May we take this journey with confidence, knowing that you reign. May we keep our eyes on you for all of us. In his name we pray. Amen.