The sermon today will actually be from two passages, Luke 24, 36 to 42. You can turn there first. And you could also put a marker in 1 Corinthians 15, 42 through 44. I know it says 49, but we'll only have time to go up to verse 44. Because we want to go home and eat lion at some point. The glory of the resurrection body Try to be as streamlined, try to be as laser focused this morning on this topic, the glory of the resurrection body. Looking forward to this inheritance. Looking forward with a certain hope of what God has promised. The glory of the resurrection body. From Luke 24, 36 to 43, and also 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 44. What's the goal? Of Christian living. The end goal. What's the finish line? Us to dwell with God in the wonder of his presence. In the glory of a resurrection body. That's the finish line. That's the end goal. Does that make you happy this morning, church Let's read Luke twenty four, thirty-six to forty-three. As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them and said to them, Peace to you. But they were startled and frightened, and thought they saw a spirit. And he said to them, Why are you troubled? And why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself. Touch me and see For a spirit does not have flesh and bones as you see that I have. And when he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet. And while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? They gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate before them. And now, where you obediently put a marker, 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 44. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is shown is perishable What is raised is imperishable. It is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. It is sown a natural body. It is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body The two main points of this message is number one, or number one, that Christ was risen bodily. And number two, Christ's people will be risen bodily Christ was risen bodily. Christ's people will be risen bodily. And our future resurrection Grounds our present perspective. Our future resurrection. That just means it hasn't happened yet, but it definitely will happen because God has promised that it will happen. Our future resurrection grounds our present perspective. There's the roadmap. There's your whole outline right there. Our future resurrection grounds our present perspective. That just means it shapes the way we think. It directs the way we think. It guides us. It gives us a sure footing in how are we going to live our lives? What are we going to be about? Well, through faith in Jesus Christ, on the basis of God's promises, our future resurrection grounds our present perspective. You know what that is, beloved? That's the opposite of materialism, isn't it? It's the opposite of materialism, which is living strictly for the here and now, for things, for stuff, for collectibles, for um popularity, for image, for wealth, materialism. Well the opposite of materialism is a Christian worldview where the promises of God that come to us in Christ And terminate with this finish line of resurrection glory, our future resurrection grounds, our present perspective Let's pray together. Father, we thank you that Christ was risen bodily. And we thank you that all who believe in him will also be risen bodily. And I pray that you'll bring our minds together like one sharp arrow to be laser-focused on this one thing, the glory of the resurrection body. Help us. Help us that our lives would be grounded in this hope. That the hope of resurrection, that the future of resurrection life, and the glory of your present. Would shape our perspective in the here and now. Father, set us apart for this. Strengthen us in this Encourage us in this, that we might live for your name and for your glory and not our own. Help us to not live for the approval of the world Help us to not live for riches and pleasures that will be gone one day, but to live for you and to live for Jesus To live for the Holy Spirit, to live according to your word, to live as people of hope, hope and resurrection glory. Father, we thank you that you've made it possible by the life, death, and resurrection of Christ. By changing our hearts by the Spirit, and I pray that you would help us this morning. Help us to see. Help us to believe that Christ was risen bodily. And help us to believe that we will be risen bodily. And let this future resurrection ground our present perspective. It's in Jesus we pray. Amen. Can you imagine having to run a race where there's no finish line? Well they just said, start running. Where am I running to? Don't worry about it. Just keep running. I mean it's hard enough to run. I know I get an amen on that. It's hard enough to run. But what keeps you going during the race is knowing that there's a finish line. Keeping your eyes on the finish line or even if you can't see it in a long distance race, keeping your heart and your mind on the finish line That's the should be a uh a parable for us of Christian living. There is a finish line There is an end goal. Your labor in the Lord is not in vain. Your battling against sin is not in vain. Your striving in prayer is not in vain. There is a finish line in the presence of God. Where you will receive a resurrection body on the last day. You know what else I thought of as illustration? Not only running a race, knowing that there's an end goal, but parenting an infant. Parenting an infant is one of the hardest things you'll ever do. Amen, mothers? If you imagine if there would always be an infant? If that was the deal, have this infant, stay up all night, you can't eat when you want. You can't go to the bathroom when you want. You always need to attend to the needs and the safety of an infant. Imagine if there were no endpoint to that, if there would just always be an infant. Well, one of the things that keeps you going, well, the thing that keeps you going is love and care. Amen. But mentally, one of the things that keeps you going is knowing that they're not going to be an infant forever. Are you with me? There's a goal! Someone went like this. There's a goal. There's an end point. Maturity. Growth. The grind of work. As you said, they'll work forever and work forever and work forever. Never stop working. But there's a goal, there's a finish line. What about bigger things? What about spiritual things? Not just a race or not just parenting or the grind of work. What about battling against sinful desires? And battling against uh temptations that live within us. What if there were no end goal? What if there's no end to that? That was just always to be our situation. What about dealing with the sufferings and tragedies in the world around us? And in our own lives, trials and sufferings and hardships? What if there were no endpoint What if there was no finish line? What if there was no hope? What if there was never something better to aspire to Something better on the other side. What if this was just it? What about dealing with the perverse evil in the world? The vile abuse in our world and culture. Sometimes in our own homes, extended family, friends, neighborhoods. What if there was no end to that? What if there was no goal? What if there was no finish line? It's just a race that never ended of hardship, sin, temptation, and perverseness. Well, there is an end. There is a goal. There is a finish line. The future and the certain and the glorious inheritance of resurrection The future and the certain and the glorious inheritance of resurrection. Christianity is not just about putting a layer of religion on our lives now In fact, it's not about that at all. That's what you think Christianity is. Just, here's my life, it's okay, it's fine, it's good, but what will make it better, a little bit better, is if a layer of external religion is put on it Christianity is about coming into communion with God through faith in Jesus Christ. And that is not just for this age, it's for the age to come. Future, certain, glorious inheritance of resurrection. Hebrews 10. 36 is a really good and really encouraging verse. Hebrews 1036. For you have need of endurance. So that when you have done the will of God, you may receive what was promised. Do you want to receive what was promised? Well, then you need endurance. You need endurance, so that when you've done the will of God, you may receive what is promised. Let's look at this Luke passage, Luke 24, 36 to 43. And this passage is here to prove that Jesus was risen bodily. Jesus was risen bodily. Look at it again, verse 36. As they were talking about these things, Jesus himself stood among them. And he said to them, Peace to you. Now this is after Jesus was crucified. This is after he was killed on a cross. Jesus stood among them and said, Peace to you. Then verse 37, they were startled and they were frightened, and they thought they saw a spirit, which Brethren, that's not altogether crazy. Throughout history, and we have a record of it in Scripture, throughout Scripture, people do have visions of God They have dreams where God appears or an angel of God appears. They have visions on earth, manifestations of God. It's not altogether crazy to think that this could be a vision. It's merely spiritual in nature. But that's what they initially thought. They thought they saw a spirit. And verse 38, and he said to them, Why are you troubled, and why do doubts arise in your hearts? See my hands and my feet, that it is I myself, touch me and see, for a spirit does not have flesh and bones, as you see that I have. His first order of business is to prove to the disciples that they are not seeing a spirit, they are seeing a body. Jesus was risen bodily. This is not just a vision. This is not a supernatural apparition. This is the body of Jesus Christ. Risen from the dead, and also renewed, but we'll get that into the second part of the message. But he wants to give them evidence See my hands and my feet, that is I myself. So they would, in the greater context of scripture here, Not speculating, but in the greater context of Scripture, he's showing them the wounds from the cross that they would have recognized. And he says, see my hands and my feet, that is I myself. Touch me and see. For a spirit does not have flesh And things as you see that I have Whatever else you want to say or not say about the risen Lord is that he had flesh And he had bones, and he had the wounds from his crucifixion still on his hands and his feet. Are you tracking with this? Not a spirit, not a vision, not a dream, not a trance, a body, a real, tangible body Verse 40. When he had said this, he showed them his hands and his feet, and while they still disbelieved for joy and were marveling, he said to them, Have you anything here to eat? Now, earlier it said they were startled and frightened and troubled and had doubts in their hearts, but now they're a little further along. There's still some kind of Disbelief here, verse 41, they still disbelieve, but it also says, for joy and were marveling. So they're starting to grasp, but they're more here, they're just awestruck. This is incredible. They saw it. They saw what happened to him. His being and mangled, bloody, broken body on the cross. They saw it. So how would you feel? If now his body is back with you and renewed, a different kind of body, but still him, flesh and bones. Yeah, I would say all struck Struggling with some kind of unbelief, but full of joy, just dumbfounded, really? She should be. The risen Christ walked in here right now It would immediately rip us out of all of our boredom and disbelief of spiritual things. We'd be marveling and we'd be we'd be filled with such awe and shock. We wouldn't know what's going on. We still disbelieve for joy and were marveling. And he said to them, Have you anything to eat? And they gave him a piece of broiled fish, and he took it and ate before them. So whatever else you want to say or not say about the resurrection body of Christ, not only does he still have his wounds from his crucifixion on his hands and his feet. To show that it's him. He is flesh and bones. But you also could say that he eats. He eats. He eats fish. And early in the book of Acts, Luke will refer back to this and he'll call this many convincing fruits. He gave the disciple a series of convincing proofs to convince them, to prove to them that he is risen, bodily, risen bodily. Now that should wake us up. That should wake us up. Because sometimes we picture our future as Strictly, strictly the soul living in heaven with God. And that will happen for all believers. As soon as this body dies, your soul will depart and go and be with God in heaven, but that's not the end. That's not the finish line. When Christ returns, You will be risen bodily, and you will receive a resurrection body just like he received. That's why it's important to dive in on this first to see that Christ was risen bodily, and that'll be the foundation, the proof. That we also will be risen bodily. And sometimes it's hard for us to think about this or even grasp its significance Because it just doesn't have to do immediately with this life, with our struggles, and at least we don't think it has to do immediately with this life. with the immediate concerns of this life. And there are lots of spiritual blessings in this life. And lots of things to do in this life. So, just for those who are so wrapped up in this life, it's hard to get our minds and hearts fixated on the future life. In a new body, in a new world. But that is the finish line, whether we want to fix our hearts and minds on it or not. This is the goal of believing in Christ. It's our future hope. Part of the Christian life. It's an interesting thing because we want to grow and try to do all of these at one time. Part of the Christian life is looking back to what Jesus did. Came to earth. He lived a righteous life. He died a sacrificial death. He was buried. He was risen. He ascended on high. He poured out the Holy Spirit. We're always looking back to what Jesus did. To accomplish our salvation. But another part of Christian life is always looking up to Christ who lives in heaven as our great high priest. And we're always looking up to him in prayer. We're always crying out to him who lives in heaven for strength and for help and for endurance and for wisdom. We're always looking back to what he did to win our salvation. We're always looking up to the living Lord who helps us daily as we strive to live out our salvation. And we're always looking forward to the return of Christ To the final judgment, to the resurrection, to the new heavens and the new earth. We're always looking back, we're always looking up, we're always looking forward, and then, if that weren't enough to try and do all of that in our hearts. In that context, we're always looking around us to be good representatives of Christ to the people in our lives. We're always looking around us in our homes. So how do we love the people in our families? How do we love people in our homes with the love of Christ? We're always looking around at work. We're always looking around at school to be a representative To be the light of Christ in the world. We're always looking around at church to have brotherly sacrificial love for those at church. We're always looking around to the world. We want to have a part of the God's great work of bringing his gospel to the world. We're always looking back to what he did. And we're always looking up to who he is. We're always looking forward. To a future of glory with Him. And we're always looking around us to see who we can serve and love in His name. That's the Christian life. There's a lot going on there. And God will provide. But Christ had to be risen bodily first. This is part of his salvation work, his salvation accomplishment. Christ was risen bodily. He was not just a spirit. And now secondly, turn back to that 1 Corinthians 15 passage. 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 44. And if and I don't I don't say this a as a joke. I mean this seriously, if that passage does not convince you that Jesus Christ was risen bodily, please come and see me. There are groups. Of Christians, small groups of Christians or professing Christians, I should say, who want to reject the doctrine that Christ was risen bodily. But that is a dangerous heresy. The Bible teaches the opposite. Christ was risen bodily. This is not a side issue. So if you struggle with that, please come see me or someone else who's grounded in Scripture. Secondly, Christ's people will be risen bodily. Now, 1 Corinthians 15, the whole chapter is centered on the idea of resurrection. This would be a great chapter for your devotionals. Every paragraph, in one way or another, is about the historical significance or the personal significance of the resurrection of Christ. We only have time to look at a snippet, just a sliver of this. Christ's people will be risen bodily from 1 Corinthians 15, 42 to 44 So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown is perishable. What is raised is imperishable It is sown in dishonor, it is raised in glory, it is sown in weakness, it is raised in power, it is sown a natural body, it is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there is also a spiritual body. I want that. That's what I want. Amen, brother. Yes. That's what I want. And we'll go through each of these contrasts You see this language of sown and raised, and sown and raised. In the previous paragraph, Paul used as an illustration for the resurrection body, Paul used as an illustration a seed that would be planted in the ground. Um that's that signifies the death of these bodies. It's a seed planted in the ground. But then it what it grows up to be is different than the seed. What it grows up to be becomes uh a seed A symbol or a representative of the resurrection body. So again, the whole chapter is really your go-to chapter on the resurrection And when you have time, just go back a paragraph or two and you'll see this illustration of Paul using a seed that is sown and then grows up. He uses that as a symbol for the resurrection body. These current mortal bodies are the seed They will be sown, but then in the resurrection they'll come back to life. But they'll be different than the seed that was put in the ground. There'll be a new body, with a new flesh, with a new glory. This all comes from the the previous paragraph. There'll be a body, but it'll be a body of a new order of creation. So let's go Is it A, B, C, D? Did I put that on your outline? Or is it just uh hash marks? Is it A, B, C, D? I've got the node so it makes sense. Alright. So A, B, C, D, these contrasts. So letter A, we will be risen imperishable, imperishable. This comes from verse 40 2. So it is with the resurrection of the dead. What is sown perishable, what is raised is imperishable. So current bodies, current mortal bodies of this creation. Perishable. That's one thing we don't have to argue from the pulpit. This is one thing you came in here knowing this. The perishability, the certain perishability of this body, of these bodies And what is sown is perishable. That's that seed that's sown in the ground. But what is raised is imperishable. Perishable means it will suffer death and decay. Unless, of course, Christ returns before your body suffers death and decay. But still, that doesn't change the nature of the body. Our bodies by nature are prone to death. And decay. Will not last. That's the idea here. Will not last Imperishable is the opposite. We'll never suffer death. We'll never decay Will last forever. Oh, to enjoy the glory of imperishability. And that's coming for the children of God. 1 John 3. 2 says, when he appears, we shall be like him. When he appears, we shall be like him. When Christ appears, when Christ returns, and we receive resurrection bodies, we'll be like him, and he is imperishable, and you will be imperishable What is sown is perishable. But brothers and sisters, what is raised is imperishable. Praise God. Glory. Hallelujah. This world is not the final chapter The here and now is not all there is. There's an eternity to live for. There's a God to attain to. There's heavenly resurrection power to experience. Now you've already experienced that in your soul and in your heart. But the point is, one day you'll experience that bodily. It's incredible. Isn't this not incredible? You already have been saved. You've already been redeemed as to the inner self. And one day you'll be redeemed as to the outer self, the body. And saints of God, you will be like Jesus in resurrection glory, clothed in an imperishable body. But he also says, glorious. This is important. Because what if you had a body that was imperishable but still sinful? Two thumbs down. And another possibly was the corniest gesture in the history of preaching. But you see what I'm saying? It's not just the length of life that never ends. It's going to be the nature and condition of that life. Do you want to live forever in a body that's that where you where you um always have sin living inside you? I it's the last thing I want. Do I want to live forever, completely separated from the favor and glory of God? Whew, what? So it's not just the imperishability. He also says. B, letter B, we will be risen glorious, or we will be risen in glory, however you'd like to put it. This comes from verse 43. It is sown in dishonor. It is raised in glory. Dishonor means defiled by sin. We have dishonored these bodies. These bodies are dishonorable. They have been defiled by sin inwardly and outwardly. That's why he contrasts dishonor with glory. Because the opposite of the corruption of sin is the glory of God. And in the resurrection body, the resurrection body will be a perfect Reflection of the glory of God, which we all fall short of in these bodies. We all contradict the glory of God. We are not a perfect reflection. Of God's glorious character in these bodies, and our thoughts and our desires and our words and our actions of these bodies do not perfectly reflect The glory of God's character. Are you with me on that? These bodies have been defiled by sin, but not so the resurrection body. What is shown, what is shown is dishonorable, but it's raised in glory. You can simply take glory to mean uh has not been dishonored by sin Has not been defiled by sin. Philippians 3:21 says that when Jesus returns, he'll quote, transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. Transform our lowly body to be like his glorious body. And as the person of Christ has always been a perfect reflection of God's character. From eternity always, the eternal Son of God has always been a perfect reflection. Of God's character. The incarnate Son of God, Jesus of Nazareth, was and remains a perfect reflection of God's character. Well, when you are risen, When the saints of God are risen in their new imperishable bodies, we too will be a perfect reflection of the glorious character of God, which is a great blessing. And a great benefit. You will be raised imperishable. You will be raised glorious. And now, letter C will be raised powerful. You will be raised powerful. This comes from the end of verse 43. It is sown in weakness. It is raised in power. What is sown, that seed of these current mortal bodies, is weak, but what is raised, that resurrection body, imperishable and glorious And no longer characterized by weakness, but characterized by its opposite. Power. Power Which is shorthand for the mighty working of the power of God within you. The fullest expression of the power of God we'll ever experience in the resurrection body, in the wonder of his presence. Well, right now we are weak. And there are multiple aspects of our weakness. Aren't there many ways in which we're weak? Physically? Going to age? We get injured. We suffer illness. Spiritually we're weak. We're not able to do what God has called us to. Understanding that is the key of Christian living. Understanding that you don't have the power to do what God has called you to do. Well, that sounds crazy. How in the world am I supposed to do what God has called me to do? You go to God so that He provides the power so that you can do what He's called you to do. You can't produce that. I can't produce that. Only God can produce in us that which He requires of us Is that Siri? We have Siri questioning the doctrine. Alright, let me explain it to you. God doesn't want you to trust yourself. God doesn't want us to depend on ourselves to obey Him. Are you tracking with this? God wants us to trust in Him. To obey him. We've got to see our weakness. And our weakness, his strength and his power is magnified. Physical weakness, spiritual weakness, emotional and psychological weakness. There's more in us than just sin. A lot of our struggles are because of sin within us, but not all of our struggles. Sometimes our struggles a lot of times our struggles is just from weakness with within us. That's why in counseling we're not always we're not always and only looking for how have you sinned, how have you sinned. You might just be s Going through suffering. And it might just be an area of weakness where you need to cry out to God for strength, not for repentance, just for strength. We need to cry out to God that He would strengthen us, that He would uphold us, because we're fraught with weakness. physically, spiritually, emotionally, and psychologically. And sometimes the uh the remedy is to repent from sin, but oftentimes that's not the remedy. Oftentimes the remedy is just Recognize your weakness and cry out to God for strength. Um. Letter D. Letter D Not only will we be risen imperishable, glorious, and powerful, we also will be risen spiritual. Verse 44. It is sown a natural body. It is raised a spiritual body. If there is a natural body, there also is a spiritual body. A natural body is a body that belongs to this first And to this fallen order of creation. That's where we live. This world and everything that belongs to this world. That's a natural body. It came to existence in, and by nature it belongs to this first order of creation This fallen order of creation that's plagued by sin, that's fraught with weakness, that's under the judgment of God. Of course, it's a reserved judgment until that last day But that's what natural is. It's a body that belongs to this first creation from Genesis chapter 1 and then fallen into sin Genesis chapter 2. A spiritual body is a body that belongs to the new creation. It's a body that has no sin. It's a body that is not fraught with weakness. It's a body that in every way imaginable is defined by the presence and the joy of the Holy Spirit. Holy Spirit. Spiritual body. Spiritual body. That's why we don't pitch spiritual against having a body. Because in the resurrection, you'll have a body, but it will be a Spiritual body, 100% characterized by the presence and the joy and the righteousness of the Holy Spirit It's opposite to the body now. Romans 8:23, Paul says that we eagerly await, and I quote, the redemption of our bodies. Now If you've heard the gospel, which is the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ for the forgiveness of sins and for the gift of eternal life, just in case some of you are sleeping, I'll say that again If you've heard the gospel, which is the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ, for the forgiveness of sins, which means erasing sins. And for the gifts of eternal life. And if you have put your faith in Jesus Christ on the basis of that gospel, on the basis of the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ for the forgiveness of sins You put your faith in Jesus Christ, and listen to me, you already belong to the new creation. You already belong to the order of the Spirit. Because the Holy Spirit of the exalted Lord lives within you. The Holy Spirit of the exalted Lord, Jesus Christ, lives with has you filled your heart, has changed your heart. You have been spiritually united to the Lord Jesus Christ. That's who you are Because of your faith in Jesus Christ, you've been united to Christ. You belong to the new creation inwardly. You've been united to Jesus Christ spiritually. But as to your outer self, as to our bodies, we do not yet belong to the order of new creation. What do we belong to? We still belong to this fallen order. But what that will not always be true. One day the body will be redeemed, just as the soul has already been redeemed. And that's what he says. What is sown A natural body is raised a spiritual body. Spiritual body. You have a spiritual body, spiritual mind. Totally sanctified. You'll be able to worship God in the way He deserves. Can you imagine? That's the key blessing. That's the key blessing as the practical application. When your soul, I mean, this will have this will actually start when your soul goes to heaven. Here we love God, but we don't love Him in a perfect way. Because we still have sin in our hearts. And we still have sin in our lives. And we all have the tendency to love other things. Instead of God. Or love other people and love other things on the equal plane to God. But when we go to heaven, when our souls are made righteous, We'll love God with the love that He deserves. We'll be able to worship God. We'll see God with perfected eyes. We'll contemplate God's goodness with perfected minds. We'll love God and desire God with perfected desires and perfected emotions. In the resurrection body, you'll be able to serve God with Perfected hands, perfected feet. We won't go places we shouldn't go. We won't do things we shouldn't do. We'll be able to speak to God and speak of God and speak to others and speak of others with perfected lips No longer slandering, no longer gossiping, no longer complaining, no longer with bitterness and bitterness and bitterness and angst and anxiety and hatred and all kinds of vile things fewing from our lips, but perfected lips. All that to say, spiritual. Truly hundred percent spiritual with none of the sin and none of the corruption From this current fallen order, resurrection body, resurrection body in the glory of God's presence And I want to close with three conclusions for practical application Three conclusions for practical application, with hearts fixed on the glory of resurrection. Endure. Endure and embrace God's purpose in all of your suffering. This is the only way to do it the proper way because we all suffer and we all need to endure. With a heart that's fixed in the glory of resurrection, endure Which means what it means. Don't give up. Don't give up. Hold fast to your profession of faith. Serve the Lord faithfully Strive to grow in prayer. Strive to grow in your discipleship. Endure. And embrace God's purpose in your suffering. And just for your homework, God's purpose in our sufferings, Romans 5, 1 Peter 1. God's purpose in our suffering is to mature us. And to grow us. And we all need those things. He'll strengthen us, he'll mature us, he'll grow us, he'll sanctify us in and through our sufferings But we've got to have a heart fixed on that finish line. Heart fixed on the glory of resurrection. Endure and embrace God's purpose in all of your sufferings. One of the things we can agree on is our sufferings are not going to come to an end. In this life. One way or another, we're going to have suffering in our life, but how will you go through that suffering? Outside of God's will or inside of God's will for maturity and growth? Secondly, with a heart fixed on the glory of resurrection, cling to Christ daily as your only hope. Cling to Christ daily as your only hope. Remember that Jesus is real. Remember that Jesus is alive. Remember that Jesus loves you with an everlasting love. Remember that Jesus is available to you at every moment of your life. Go to Him in prayer. Cry out to Him for wisdom. Cry out to Him for help. Fall down before him. Cling to Christ daily as your only hope. Do not see him as a free ticket to heaven that you don't ever have to think about again until the moment you die. That's not Christian Living. Cling to him daily. And number three, finally, with a heart fixed on the glory of resurrection, strive for holiness Strive for practical holiness. The Bible says, strive for holiness without which nobody will see God. Strive for holiness. In the way that you think In your affections and desires, and the way you speak to and about others, your hobbies and actions, the things you watch, things you listen to, the things you talk about, the jokes you laugh at, the jokes you share. Strive for holiness. Doctor Holiness. Those who've been saved by Jesus Christ have new hearts. Not perfected hearts. Not perfected hearts. Nobody's perfected in obedience. Nobody's perfected in holiness in this life But there's a difference between striving for obedience and not caring about obedience. There's a difference between crying out to God for holiness, God, please purify me on the one hand, and then on this other hand, not caring for holiness. Don't be deceived. Don't be deceived. The saved person is a person who strives for holiness through faith in Christ. Let's pray. God, thank you for the free salvation you've given us by the death, burial, and resurrection of Christ I pray that you fix all of our hearts on the resurrection glory of Christ, the resurrection glory that we'll share in one day It's beyond what we can comprehend, but we certainly do rejoice in the fact that one day we'll have imperishable Glorious, powerful, and spiritual bodies in the likeness of Christ and in the presence of Christ, for the glory of Christ, forever and ever. Amen.