Welcome to the podcast of North Harford Baptist Church. I am Matt Fortunato here with Anthony Wilson. We are the pastors here. Visit us at northharford. org if you have any questions from something that we're talking about, something you want to request counseling for from a biblical perspective or Bible study. on a specific topic or if you're burdened for your soul and want to follow up about the gospel, issues of your personal salvation, just contact us at info. at northharford. org. Today our topic is the gospel, which is the central theme of scripture. Should be the central theme of our lives and of the church. Before we get into that, let me say a prayer for us, and then we'll jump into it. God, we thank you for your word. We thank you for the great salvation that you've given us. I pray that you'll bless this time, that our conversation would be pleasing to you and helpful to anyone who listens. It's in Christ that we ask. Amen. So obviously we didn't plan it to be like this, but we're recording the week after Charlie Kirk's assassination. such a tragedy, uh so heartbreaking in so many different ways. One of the things that's put on people's mind, uh that it's put in people's discussion is uh change in America and Praying for a revival and hoping for a spiritual awakening. And you and I talk about this a lot. We know there's different layers to that. There's different things that need to happen. and what can bring it about, and what will the results be in culture and society. But if we zoom in at the heart of what will bring those things about, it's going to be the gospel of Jesus Christ. That's the only thing that can change our hearts and therefore change our morals, change our ethics, change our values and principles, and then as we go out and live life uh as children of God it starts to have an impact in culture and society. So today when we talk about the gospel, I want us to be talking about that kind of stuff. Real life, rubber meets the road. But we'll do it grounded in a passage of scripture. We'll be in Romans 1, 1 to 7. Um I guess I'll start with a reading of that, and then we'll just get into a conversation on the gospel, its significance, its importance, and see where the discussion goes. Let me call this up. Alright, Romans 1, gonna go on to read verses 1 to 7. Paul, a servant of Christ Jesus, called to be an apostle, set apart For the gospel of God, which he promised beforehand through his prophets in the Holy Scriptures, concerning his son, who is descended from David according to the flesh And was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the Spirit of Holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord. through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name among all the nations, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints, grace to you and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Anthony, can you start us off with a discussion, Bible study within this passage about the gospel? Yeah, the gospel 's all about God. We have to keep that forefront in our mind that it's all about God. It's easy to get distracted because the gospel is salvation for the sinner, but ultimately it's focused on and glorifying the creator of the universe. While we were sinners, he sent his son to die for us and to redeem us. And Paul helps to draw the attention to uh the supremacy of God in this. And some of the language here he's pointing to, uh, praising and thanking God for what he has done, how he has set us up, how he has prepared us, how he has accomplished this work. And it's uh we have to keep that in our minds. Well yes it's our salvation, it's all about God. And in Romans Chapter 1, verse 16, he helps clarify this. He says, For I am not ashamed of the gospel, for it is the power of God for salvation to everyone who believes. So when we think about the gospel, we can immediately tie it to the power of God and be thinking about how this is his great work. It's his wonder, it's his might. He should be praised for the simple proclamation of the gospel, but even more the accomplishment of what has happened through the gospel. Immediately as you started talking, I was thinking about how the gospel, by its very nature, is countercultural. We think about our culture and obviously everybody knows that the way of our culture, the spirit of our age is It's not all about God, it's all about me and what I want and my glory and my kingdom and my accomplishments and um my bank account and my popularity and on and on and on how many likes that that I get on social media. But yeah, amen to this. The gospel is all about God. It's it's uh it exists only because of God's plan and his accomplishing of that plan and It brings us into relationship with God, but ultimately, yeah, that's for his glory. Yeah. That's he gets the praise. And that self-centeredness has crept into the church. Uh because you'll hear so many so often people talk about my testimony and my story and uh well yes they're they're recognizing that they've been saved uh and that they once were a wicked sinner, now made righteous by Christ. But if you hear people's testimony, it's really just a story about themselves. And they completely forget that the reason they're saved, the reason this story is so good, is because of what God has done Uh so we we gotta be aware within the church that we become self-centered in the gospel that it's all about Jesus saving me instead of the reverse and recognizing it's amazing that Jesus saved me. Yeah. Yeah. Amen to that. Um this is probably gonna sound cynical wh when I say this, but I've heard a lot of testimonies that don't make their way around to Jesus and the cross. Sometimes I think it's just because when people share their testimonies they're nervous, they don't do it a lot And they're speaking just from excitement and emotion that they don't quite say things the right way and so we have to have a lot of grace for that. But it is important to distinguish On the one hand, being born again, receiving a new heart from God. And on the other hand, just having a really big change in my life. that just happens to center around religion and I feel really emotional about. You can have that, but that's not salvation. Yeah, and to help the people understand that, that yes All you can do is tell your testimony from your point of view, how you experienced it, and it's helpful to think about how the only way you got there is by the grace of God. Yeah, amen. So as you're th recounting your testimony, if you're in that right now saying, Well, no, that is my testimony. It is about me. Well no, it's about God and to see his grace and his mercy that your story only was accomplished by God. So to wrap this first point up of yours, that the gospel is all about God um the gospel's out all about God once it changes us now our lives. become all about God, not about ourselves. It sets us on a new path. The next phrase that I want to highlight is this phrase at the beginning of verse 3. Concerning his son. This is not the first thing that he says about the gospel. We don't have time to go over everything that he says in uh verse one and two. He says some things about the gospel as well. Um for verse one he set apart for it. Verse two it was promised beforehand through the prophets and the holy scriptures. But verse three gets to the main theme of the gospel or the the center of the gospel. concerning his son. So just to be clear, just to be thorough, the last phrase in verse one , gospel of God First phrase in verse 3 concerning his son. That's our first two points. So you said all about God. It's the gospel of God. I'm saying if we're going to get it right, if we're going to understand the gospel properly, it's we have to understand that it's first and foremost about his son. Who is Jesus Christ? And it says here, who is descended from David according to the flesh. It's talking about the incarnation of Christ. who is legally an heir of David, which is important because the Christ was promised to come in the house of David, and was declared to be the Son of God in power according to the spirit of holiness by his resurrection from the dead, Jesus Christ our Lord. As you really just compacting the incarnation and the work of Christ and his righteous life and his incredible ministry and his suffering and death and resurrection and ascension. He is the Son of God, incarnate, descended from David, but he is now the exalted Lord living in heaven. In power, the gospel cannot be changed To be focused on something other than the sun and retain its saving power. Like once you change the gospel , once you Take the sun and the biblical message of the sun out of the gospel, you'll still have some kind of emotional and religious experience that you can concoct. that you can use to manipulate people, but there's no saving power apart from Jesus. He is the gospel. It's the proclamation of the Son that reconciles us to God when we receive it in faith. Yeah, and how sweet that end of verse six is, including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. How do we belong to Him? Well this is the gospel is that he shed his blood as a purchase for us to cleanse us to bring us into the family of God to belong to Christ We we should want nothing else. There's nothing greater. No nothing we'd rather see or have than to belong to Christ because we recognize that He has purchased us by His blood. I love that you brought that up because I hadn't even thought about this as we were as we were going. What if there's someone listening who doesn't even know what the word gospel means or doesn't know the summary definition of the gospel? So let's do that real quick. Gospel means Good news or glad tidings. It's specifically it's the good news of salvation in Christ. And the summary of the gospel is Jesus lived a righteous life. He died a sacrificial death in the place of sinners, and he was risen to eternal life. And in doing those things, he accomplished our salvation. So that's The gospel, good news or glad tidings of salvation, and then the substance or the content of that message summarized his life, death, and resurrection, his righteous life. His sacrificial death, he died as a substitute for sinners, and his powerful resurrection to be the source of salvation. Um because if you're You're gonna have to rein me in here, right? Please. We are saved by being spiritually united to Christ. Through faith. It's a miracle. It's a supernatural event. Only God can do it. It's all by his grace, all by his power. We're united to the living Lord Jesus Christ. Now that that can't happen if he's not living. That can't happen if he's still dead and in the grave. Um so he died to accomplish and earn and earn and win our salvation. You can say it in different ways. And then he's living to be the accessible source. of salvation. I'll let you follow up on that if you want to, but if if not, I want you to transition us into a time of talking about some different levels of practical relevancy that we can pick out of this or different layers of relevancy. I think there are some really good um highlights from this paragraph that can help us think about what does the gospel mean for this? What does the gospel mean for that? Yeah Before I I jump into that and I will as soon as you answer this correctly, you said faith. So we're talking about the gospel. What's that, say? Faith. Okay. That's a good word to use. I said faith. But uh lay that out. What is faith? How do I so I hear the gospel, it's about Jesus, that he's the only way of salvation. How do I get into that club? is maybe the question and you use the word faith. Yeah. Faith is relying upon Jesus. Again, there's different ways you can say it. And um When we start to flesh it out and describe the nature of faith, I just hope it doesn't come across as like we're saying you have to do a whole bunch of different things. But it's one thing that unites a sinner to Christ, and that is faith. So now let's just flesh it out, let's talk about the nature of faith. It's trusting in Christ. As my source of salvation. It's believing that he is God and man, right? It's believing that he died on the cross for the forgiveness of sins. It's believing the gospel. It's faith in Christ. It's trusting in him. A good illustration. is receiving. Faith is empty hands that receive. They're not working, they're not earning. They're not helping Jesus. They have nothing to bring to the table except for sin and guilt and a need for salvation. Faith is when your heart Did I get it? Is that right? You nailed it. Good job. This then leads into the first layer or one of the layers of relevancy. is that this gospel is the same universal for the entire world, for all nations. So it's not This is specific to um American Christianity, or this only works uh if you have this education or this background. But we see it's for the nations. This is the only way of salvation for everybody in the world. And uh Paul points it out in the end of verse 5. He says so he's verifying who he is through whom we have received grace and apostleship to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake here's what it's for, is for the sake of his name among all the nations. And especially at that time this was a radical idea that uh the gospel of Christ and the salvation um that God has for people is for all nations, not just Israel, or not just those that associate with Israel, but for all nations. And now this letter's being written to the center of the universe at that time, r the Roman Empire, and right into the heart of Rome. And it's saying it's the gospel's going here to the heart of Rome, to the heart of the known world, because the Gospel is for the entire world. And and we see this many places in scripture. This is what Jesus gives as the Great Commission, is that it goes into nations, making disciples of all nations, all people group, all tongues. uh all levels of status of society, from the poorest to the richest, from the politician to the beggar, the gospel sufficient for all. Then in Revelation, especially chapter 7, we have this image of all tribes, all nations, all tongues singing praises unto Christ. It's a great picture. So for us, as we understand that, we are now preaching the gospel to everyone. We're not limiting it to The good person, the good grandma that lives across the street from us, uh, the rich person, or just for the poor. It's for all people around the world. Yeah, and it is the power of salvation, which Paul will say later in verses one uh chapter one, verses sixteen and seventeen. But as you were talking about the gospel for the nations, spreading to the nations, I was just thinking about the promise of the gospel and the power of the gospel, how it works. And what I mean is The message that's going out to the nations is not fix yourself up Reform your life, reform your religion, and then you can come to Christ and be saved. That's not the message. The message is the gospel of Christ as God and man and his life, death, and resurrection as the source of salvation. That changes hearts. It's received by faith, and then we make changes in our lives. And then we start learning how to worship God properly. Then we start learning how to be the right kind of husband, the right kind of judge, the right kind of senator, the right kind of wife, the right kind of parents, the right kind of students, and on and on and on. But it's the gospel that leads to that, practical obedience. I know it's uh interpreted in different ways in verse five, when he says, to bring about the obedience of faith for the sake of his name. The obedience of faith can be taken as uh the obedience that is faith, right? That's the obedience, and Paul wants the gospel to bring about This specific obedience of believing in Christ, and that could be called obeying the gospel, receiving the gospel and trusting in Christ, or it can be interpreted the obedience of faith can be interpreted as the obedience that results from faith. It's the obedience, what kind of obedience is it? It's the obedience Of faith. You have faith in your heart that leads to obedience, which is the way I take it. Evangelical obedience or gospel obedience. That's the end goal. So it's a really neat picture. It's a simple equation. The gospel goes to the nations, the gospel saves sinners, and then those sinners are able to obey God and worship Him properly. Not perfectly, but truly Truly, right? If you're united to Christ and you have the Holy Spirit and um you're under the grace of God, you can obey God and worship him properly. It's that new birth of the Holy Spirit that Jesus talks about in John three, that we must be born again. And if we are a new creation, if we're born again, then we have a new spirit, a new attitude, a new desire or wants, new ability to fight against sin. Um and we're still children in our new identity as Christians. And we're still growing in that obedience, but we do have it and it is there. Yeah, you at least have the seed of it, that tiny seed of genuine desire to obey and uh growing in practical obedience. All right, so that's one area of relevancy for the world, or as it's written here, and as you said, the nations, the gospel relevancy for the nations. The second one I wanted to highlight is the relevancy for Christians, the relevancy for local churches. Alright, people who are already saved, people who are already brought into the church and worshiping and serving God. And you can see this in verse seven. Well, verse six really too. Including you who are called to belong to Jesus Christ. To all those in Rome who are loved by God and called to be saints, the holy ones of God, grace, do you, and peace from God our Father and the Lord Jesus Christ. Rome is this for Christians. First and foremost, it's a letter to Christians. It's a letter to a ch a church or a network of churches in Rome at the time, local churches, local congregations house churches, whatever. The point is it's for people the gospel is for people who are already saved. It'll build us up in the faith. It'll strengthen us in the faith. It'll is the power of sanctifying us, which means making us more and more like Jesus. The gospel is for the nations absolutely the Great Commission, like you said. But Uh we've not moved on from the gospel as as Christians God forbid we would ever move on from the gospel as the center of our lives as pastors. We would need to resign immediately. In fact We can make a strong case that the more we mature in our faith, the more we feel, not just no, but the more we feel our daily need for the gospel. Um in our lives. Yeah. Absolutely. And if we ever lose that, uh if we ever think we've uh matured or graduated out of needing the gospel, uh We're in danger. That's a sharp warning to us that we need to turn around. We need to go back to the cross of Christ because we we have missed what the Christian life is all about. So just a warning, if you ever say, oh, that's not for me. I did the I did the gospel thing years ago. I'm now a mature Christian. No, you you actually haven't matured at all. Um you are still an infant, uh, in your understanding. So You're the preacher. Blessed to say. I'm one of your church members. And I've noticed this thing that you do in just about every sermon. you you're you chunk out like at least fifteen or twenty minutes covering the gospel The life of Christ, the sacrificial death of Christ, Christ as the source of salvation, how we need to believe in Him and turn to Him. And And I'm worried, I'm concerned that you're you're just preaching for lost people, but you've forgotten that you have Christians that you have to pastor. You have to pastor us too. Aren't your sermons And isn't the the public gathering of the church primarily for Christians and we want to be discipled, but you're giving all of all of this preaching every week or using all of this time as if we're lost. How would you respond uh to that or or counsel me in that. It's probably the worst complaint I could get. But it is a uh a valid question that We've got we've received that question. Right. And if it if it ha if you haven't been discipled well in understanding what's happening, it it could be confusing and we've ha seen really bad examples um in recent history where a church is only reaching and trying to reach unbelievers and is not caring for the flock as they're called to. So the question is valid. Uh first off, I would say absolutely I am preaching to unbelievers. Paul says in Romans 10 about how will they believe if they haven't heard, how will they hear if someone's not preaching. So We are called as pastors, as leaders of the church, to preach the gospel to the lost. And we know, and I think most people recognize that. Everyone sitting in church on Sunday morning isn't saved. Uh and that's just the reality of it. So we're standing at the pulpit preaching the word of God. We are recognizing that we have some unregenerate people sitting amongst us And we want to herald Christ and plead with them, plead with our souls to turn from their sin and come to faith in Christ. So absolutely that's happening. But that preaching of the gospel is not just for the unregenerate. It's also for the saint that's sitting in there. And if if they're saying, uh uh it's not good, I've already done that, I don't need that right now. I would say, well you're missing how the gospel affects every aspect of your life. So when we're talking about uh Christ's sacrifice on the cross for us Do you think that might impact how people understand our marriage? If we're to be like Christ and we see his sacrifice on the cross, if we're talking about how Christ was willing to take shame and a punishment for us Does that maybe encourage the saint to understand how to deal with uh someone that's attacking their faith at work? We start to see that the gospel is of salvation for salvation. But it also impacts every single aspect of our lives. In the household, in the world, in the workplace, in the church uh wherever else we can think of that preaching the gospel does impact our lives it strengthens the saint And it should challenge them or at least remind them of the mercy of God to be able to wake up tomorrow and face another day if that's all they need. They need that encouragement. Well be reminded that Christ died for you. Okay, I can face tomorrow. Yeah. A traditional phrase would be it's it's the means of grace. It's the central means of grace. It's all It's a means by which God administers his grace to our hearts. So I love the practical and concrete examples that you that you drew out on the how the gospel should change how we live in different ways. I would say that the got that the heart of practical Christian discipleship is Our ability to feed on the gospel, to receive the gospel into our hearts, humbly, joyfully, be and it's I think there's a really simple equation here of how this works, but uh you know, it's been years of having this Of learning this over time and learning the significance of this. It can take a time, it can take time for it to crystallize in our minds. But at the end of the day, as we're receiving the gospel And we're seeing what God has done for us. We're seeing his love. Um, we're seeing what he's given us. The simple equation is this. That's supposed to be filling our heart with love and gratitude. And then from that love and gratitude, We obey him and strive to obey him in all of life. And there's always the gospel that creates love and genuine gratitude. And those are the source of practical obedience. I think sometimes what people want is just tell me what to do. Just tell me what the outward obedience looks like. I'll do those things. And then that's what there's they see as discipleship when man, I just want their heart to be full of love and gratitude and the and wonder of what God has done for them. And and that's what makes us worshipers. I think a good question to ask for that person , say, why do you react in a negative sense when you hear the preacher share the gospel? What's your tension there? Why does that bother you? And do you do that in other instances of when someone expresses love? You know, if if your wife said, I love you, would you go, Yeah, yeah. We talked about that twenty years ago. She told me that on our wedding night. Yeah, why are we why are we re engaging? Well when we hear the gospel, it's a reminder of God's love for us So we we shouldn't wince at that. We should embrace it. I do have the warning for pastors if we say we're only about the gospel. And that we only share the life, death, and resurrection of Christ, and we don't get into politics, we don't get into raising children, we don't get into education. Well, you're missing how powerful the gospel is. But that's why we preach the gospels because we believe it is powerful in all those areas. Right. That's a very good balancing word. And you can do it with the text as well. So you can you can use whatever text you're in. and just make a beeline to the gospel, but you didn't talk about the original context. You didn't do any exegesis in the text. You're not dealing with the specific points of um application or whatever doctrine in the text. You really just use it as a stepping stone. You hopped off it as quickly as possible. So yeah, you preaching the gospel, but in its But also preaching whatever text you're in properly, connecting it to the gospel properly, and then connecting it to life, real life, so that we're not in this abstract bubble world of religion that's not connected to anything else. Yeah. Because then it's just it's all just a psychological experience at that point. Um let's see One more layer of practical relevancy, you talked about relevancy for all the nations. We just talked about its transformative power for Christians and for churches is Central to our discipleship, central to our sanctification. Point out this third and final one for us. That we have to have it and well it's it's the motivation, the driving force for all things we do. So we see Paul starts off the letter about being a servant and he's sharing the gospel, but then we see throughout Romans the entire letter respectful with a lot of wisdom for everyday situations for some major things. I mean Romans thirteen a very common, popular one, about how to deal with the government. And Uh but he grounds it and roots it here and we must do the same. We must ground and root all things in the gospel and then from there make wisdom decisions. Make choices in life, lead as we're called to, but we have to start with that base and that foundation. Yeah. Individual calling. For Paul as being apostle. set apart for the gospel of God. We're not apostles. We're pastors. A lot of people out there are not pastors. Um but Any Christian has been set apart by God. That's what it means to be sanctified. And I forget exactly how you worded it, but the gospel is the driving force behind uh what we what we believe, how we think, and how we conduct ourselves in the world. So this is a practical word for all of us here. The go believing the gospel and living according to the gospel can never be reduced to just knowing things about it or just being able to talk about it, even being able to share it with other people. What if I share it with a thousand people a day, but I go home and treat my wife and kids like garbage? Yeah. This is hypocrisy. This is fraudulent. I want to talk about some common misconceptions about the gospel, about how to be saved, just ideas that are common out that are out there that we come across all the time. We see them in different ways. I know there will be overlap on some of these But the first common misconception about the gospel or about how to be saved is that salvation is uh uh to be received through our good works, either completely or partially. So like for exam an example would be someone who believes that you have to have faith to be saved But that's only part of it. You also have to do the right works, and in doing the right good works, that's how you get salvation. So this idea, and it's said in different ways. And when someone believes this, we can kind of see the red flags and how they're talking. But address this issue, this misconception of salvation through works or by works. Yeah. But people trying to find salvation or be secure in their salvation by what their hands are doing. That's and that's very uh that's natural in our flesh to do that I can do these things, I can see the work of them, I can see the outcome of them. And then that's where my insurance lies is doing that. The problem is uh you can't work hard enough, long enough, uh perfect enough to earn salvation Uh as soon as we broke the law, we received the just punishment of death. And all the works we have, everything we do, cannot pay that debt that we owe to God. um for breaking his law. It takes uh the blood takes the blood of Christ to pay for that. So yeah, we can work. I s I think uh a common one if someone's at church and then you ask them, are they a Christian? They're almost confused because they're saying, well yeah, I'm at church. Of course I'm a Christian. Why would I be here? But In that little layer right there we see this glimpse of trying to work for that salvation or your church attendance is some form of labor or work that you can rest assured that you're saved because of that. Right. A couple of Bible verses on this. Romans 3, verse 20, for by works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight. Since through the law comes knowledge of sin. So God's law, God's or God's commandments, if you want to say it that way Show us the character of God, they expose the fact that we're sinners. They expose the fact that we're guilty and that our hearts are corrupt. But They don't have any power to remove the guilt of sin or to save us. And so by works of the law, no human being will be justified in his sight. Justified means being declared righteous in the eyes of God. Romans 3. 28. This is one of the clearest statements in all of Scripture. For we hold that one is justified by faith apart from works of the law. So it's by faith or through faith in Christ that we're declared righteous in the sight of God. justified by faith apart from works of the law. There are there is there are help me on the grammar here. There are two things. Yeah, there are. It's plural. It's getting late, man. I don't know which word you need unless you hear the full sentence. Two things we need to be reconciled to God. And those two things are you have to uh find a way to Get rid of the guilt of your sin, right? You've got to pay the penalty for all your sin, right? And then after that you ha for the rest of your life, you have to live a perfectly righteous life in every single way. So in your thoughts, in your words, and in your deeds. Now, obviously, that's theoretical. We can't do that. But Jesus has already done both of those things on our behalf He's paid the penalty for sin on the cross. He lived a righteous life that we receive the righteousness of Christ on our account when we come to him in faith So again, that's the gospel. That's the heart of the gospel. He paid the penalty for sin on the cross. He lived a righteous life. He's our representative. He's our substitute. So when we come to faith in him, what's his becomes ours. His righteousness becomes our righteousness. His eternal life becomes our eternal life. His right standing with God becomes our right standing with God. That's the glory of salvation. You can't work For that. You can't earn that. You can't earn your way out of uh out of guilt and corruption. So what do we do with the language in James where It sounds looks like he's saying you must have faith and works to be saved. Well you definitely, as a Christian, you will have faith and you will have works. The word because the word justified is used in different ways, right? One is that legal declaration. So many words are used in different ways, in different contexts. Uh like ball, right? Are you bouncing a ball? Did you go to a ball? Are you having a ball? Yeah. Um it's also used like for crying too. Uh I was bawling over this. Justified the word can be used as a legal declaration, declared righteous. Another way justified can be used is like a public vindication or like a show that something is true. Like if someone accuses you of lying Or or stealing, someone accuses you of stealing and there's an argument, and they're telling everyone you were stealing, you're stealing. But then the video footage is released released And everybody has the outward evidence. They have the evidence, the proof that you were not stealing. Well you've just been justified. You've been vindicated. That's how it's used in James as a as a testimony to others. So it's in James uh chapter two, starting in verse fourteen is the section. Let's let's see. Uh yeah, what good is it, my brothers, if someone says he has faith but does not have works, can that faith Save him. And n the answer is going to be no because this is a not real faith. It's a it's a counterfeit faith So no, fake faith doesn't save. Real faith saves, and real faith by itself is sufficient to save. How do you know he doesn't have faith fake uh real faith? He's a hypocrite. He's saying he's something and he's not. That's obvious Um yeah, verse 17. Faith by itself, if it does not have works, is dead. Right, so if I tell you I have faith, I tell you I love Jesus, I love Jesus. But I don't give a rip about going to church, about reading the Bible. I'm still living in blatant sin, outward sin. There's just no fruit, no evidence of salvation That's called being deceived. That d does not mean Okay, so let me ask this and I I'm rambling on this now. You really got me fired up on this. I didn't know you were gonna bring this up. Well Paul Paul's Paul's or James's solution is not Is not what you need to do is now just go do more works. Yeah. So now that you can get saved. His solution is you need to have faith. You don't have faith. Yeah. So let me let me add in our our second uh what is it misconception? Because it's the salvation by intellectual agreement. Oh yeah. And I think this ties in really well with this. So there's the idea that we we say we believe I can I can tell you all the Bible verses to see the gospel, I can explain Explain the story of the gospel, what Jesus did on the cross. I have all the right answers when asked the question. Why is that not saving me? I know of answers. I believe it as fact, but is that salvific, is that sufficient to say I have belief that it is It sounds like you're looking to your knowledge as the source of your salvation instead of looking to Christ, like you're pleading what you know instead of pleading Christ So that's a red flag for me. Like I would want you to say like, listen, I don't I don't know it all and the things I do know, I'm not able to express them just the right way. My only hope is Christ. All I have is Christ. That's the testimony. Why are you looking to your knowledge as uh as as the source and assurance of your salvation? And does your knowledge, has your knowledge changed? how you live it all. Has it and does it have any impact? And I think that's where that faith in the works c you can use them at the same time of understanding what's happening. So you say you believe in Jesus as uh your savior, you say you believe in Jesus, lived, died, resurrected. But once again you go and do whatever you want. You don't care anything about the law of God. You don't have any interest in spiritual things. You would probably say You just have a head knowledge. You know some facts, but you don't believe in your heart who Jesus is. Because if you do, if you believe Jesus died for your sins and purchased you at a great price, You you're following after him. You're you're going to live for him. And that's not a subjective opinion. That's biblical teaching. John in the book of First John would call that person a liar, someone who's deceived, and the truth is not in them. So we're not saying that works are part of salvation, but definitely salvation leads to godliness and leads to works. Not perfection, no one's saying that. Yeah. Um but I just had another thought as you were talking and then it escaped me. Hopefully I can get it back before this podcast ends. Um oh, yeah, it just came back to me. So We can people have these struggles and and often there are legitimate struggles of genuine believers who are trying to work through these different things. um trying to not fall prey to the schemes of the devil and to the deceptions of the devil, right? They're trying to work through these things as genuine believers. So they have all these feelings, all these confusions, all these questions, and we just want to encourage Always pointing people back to Christ as the source of salvation. He's the answer. He's always the answer. It's not like we're going to figure this out, figure out discipleship, figure out salvation, and then once we figure it out now we'll come back to Jesus and we'll s we'll start Christian living. No, we have to look to him as as the uh solution, the practical solution. But the thought that I almost lost but then I got it back was this in all of that talking about feelings and confusions and questions. It's just objectively and clearly true. The Bible does not teach that you are saved by a head knowledge. It that's just it doesn't teach you're saved by works, doesn't teach that you're saved by head knowledge. So any approach that Leaning in those directions. We've we've got to be careful. I've got one more here. Salvation received by sacrament or salvation received by some kind of outward religious event. It could be praying a prayer, it could be baptism. I mean churches today make up all kinds of different things. Right? Let's talk about this just a little bit. I know it's connected to the salvation by works, but that w I think we were more talking about uh through like moral living and just good deeds and doing the right thing. Here specifically sacraments, outward religious events. A lot of people think that salvation is received by those, either partly or wholly. Can you respond to that? Yeah, that it's a challenge because we use many of these things, um sacraments maybe is a foreign word to some, but we use these symbols and marks and Christian or religious doings and working as uh markers or signs for things that truly have happened. So we use baptism as a mark and a sign of the faith and regeneration that has already occurred in the heart and the soul of man. We're using the going down the waters and coming up as the mark and a reminder of that. So we do it with other things like You already love back to our spouses. I've already loved my wife before I got married, but the marriage is the mark and the sign of that union there. It's not it doesn't form it, it doesn't make it happen. It's the mark and sign. So when we have all these systems and all these things in place which are good, you know, you do say a prayer after salvation and you're working through that trying to understand after is the key word, right? You know, and there is a time where you publicly profess and for some people that was walking down the aisle. Um but there's some there's these things that do happen in our lives, but we gotta recognize they're just a sign or an event that happened. after the salvation or because of the salvation. And so when we have those in the right order, we start to value those things and those times and those remembrance. uh correctly and praising God for them so that we can remember when what when did I come to faith? Oh yeah, it was at this time. I was with a group of friends and they helped me understand what was happening, what sin was. They showed me in scripture. I prayed a prayer that day. I can mark it down maybe that day. I remember the day I was baptized. So it's these things God has graced us with. to help us remember what he has done within our lives. But to mark those as your salvation is very dangerous because it's it's something other than God at that point. Yeah, and they are good things. And on all the misconceptions, they've all been centered around good things. Right. So These outward signs, if they're biblical, right? Not the ones we just randomly make up but biblical signs Biblical outward observances are good as long as they're understood the right way and kept in the right place. For the other misconceptions, you talk about In l intellectual knowledge of the gospel. A grasp of the gospel. That's incredibly good. Yeah. But That you can have that an intellectual knowledge of the gospel and pass the multiple choice tests on the gospel of flying colors But your heart hasn't been changed and you don't believe. So it's it's a a thing that formally is good, but it's Uh not in its right place. And the same with good works. Good works are God's will for us. He saved us to do good works that he's prepared beforehand for us to do. Good works are God's idea, God's idea, not ours. And all of these things are good, but they've got to be in their right place. And When they become the source of our assurance, or when we try to make them the sh the source of our assurance, or the way of salvation. That's horrible. That's the worst thing to to get them in the in the wrong place that way. Because salvation comes through relationship with Jesus Christ. Through faith. I have one more verse that I want to read. It's the last verse in 2 Peter, 2 Peter 3. 18, which is a command For us, for all Christians, but grow in the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To him be glory both now and to the day of eternity. Amen. I'll read it again. But grow. In the grace and knowledge of our Lord and Savior Jesus Christ. To Him be glory, both now and to the day of eternity. Amen. So we should seek to grow In his grace, we should seek to grow in the knowledge of him. And we, at every point, need to remember that it's all for his glory. now and forever, which is the point you started on that it's all about God, all about his glory. Then the second point, the gospel, is concerning his son. It's all about it's all about his son. Um Any closing remarks from you or questions, practical practical or pastoral issues or questions we you wanted to handle before we wrap this up? No, I think we covered a lot. All right. All right. Let's pray. God, we thank you for your love for us. Thank you for the gospel. Apart from the gospel, we would have no way of coming into a right relationship with you. Thank you for the blood of Jesus Christ. That is able to wash away our sins, reconcile us to you, and and thank you for the Holy Spirit that's brought into our life and experience the the experience and the gift of eternal life, communion with you that will never end. Father, we thank you To Jesus' name we pray, Amen