Anthony, welcome back to the podcast. Today we're on our second installment going through our core values So the first time we did an overview of each one, today we're doing the first core value, the glory and praise of God. Now to try to zoom in on both of those would be too much for one episode. God's glory and then the praise of his glory. But I do want to talk about the distinction of those to start in general terms. And then for the main part of our discussion, we'll talk about God's glory, what it is. And so the glory and praise of God is the core value. That's what you'll see on the poster in the lobby God's glory in general is the shining forth of who God is. And then the praise of his glory is when we see God shining forth who he is, and we respond in awe, in reverence, we we respond in adoration and singing his praises. So really it's worship. God shines forth who he is. He reveals himself. That's his glory. We respond in awe and worship. That's the praise of his glory. So these two things go together. The reason we put them together is Ephesians 1. Ephesians uh one verse we find this here, verse six. Where Paul is summarizing the father's role in salvation, And the purpose of salvation, he says this, it he says that it's all, and here's the quote from Ephesians 1, verse 6 to the praise of his glorious grace. End quote. So you have two things, his glorious grace, which is revealed in salvation, and then the praise of his glorious grace And then very similar, it is parallel in verse 12, when Paul talks about the son 's role in salvation, it is quote. To the praise of his glory. End quote. And then also for the Holy Spirit's role in verse 14, same thing, to the praise of his glory. So you have the glory of God God revealing, manifesting, shining forth who he is, and then the praise of his glory, that response of faith and love and worship and adoration. So that's the overview on the concepts and the importance of it. And what I want to do is talk with you about God's glory. And I wanna we could start all the way back in the the creation account with the manifestation of God's glory, but we're picking it up in actually between the Red Sea and Mount Sinai. Where Exodus 16, 10. As soon as Aaron spoke to the whole congregation of the people of Israel, they looked toward the wilderness And behold, the glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud. It's a nice verse to start on because it makes the idea Simple and clear and concrete. God revealed himself. He manifests himself in what's known as the glory cloud, this theophany, this appearance of God in the cloud, and it says, just behold. The glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud. So it is when we talk about the glory of God, there are concepts involved, like the concept of grace or the concept of power, but it's It's a concrete visible revelation of God. So it's something you can behold. It's something that appeared. The glory of the Lord appeared in the cloud. That's Israel. between the Red Sea, the Red Sea and Sinai. And then I have one from Sinai, then I'm going to shoot it over to you just for any preliminary thoughts you've had so far. or just to bounce back on this idea of Israel seeing God's glory. Now you get to Mount Sinai, Exodus 24, 16. The glory of the Lord dwelt on Mount Sinai. And the cloud covered it six days. And on the seventh day he called to Moses. out of the midst of the cloud. So visible, experiential, concrete manifestation manifestation revelation of God, the glory of the Lord dwelt on Mount Sinai. Yeah, it's important for us to see that. The glory of God is a tangible thing. Sometimes we we make it this kind of mystical, uh not tangible. It's just an idea we have. But we use this idea in other language. So like we talk about the beauty of something. Sure, you can't grab the beauty of something, but we have an understanding. Like we s we're seeing it. It's demonstrated. It's tangible of what we're talking about. Um and really I think that's what the the glory of God is just that. It's the beauty of God, it's the the reality of how good he is. I think of Exodus 33. Starting verse 18 there, Moses says, I pray you, show me your glory. So he's he's praying that he can see God's glory. He's already seen it, as you've read before, but he's asking for in a unique way. And this is how God responds to him. In verse 19, he's and he said, I myself will make all my goodness pass before you. So Moses cr prays f to have to see the glory of God and God's response to him is, All my goodness will pass. So it's just the beauty, it's who God is, it's his blessings that we have. So it's a tangible reality. that we can hold on to. Yeah, I like that emphasis. It's not just going to be uh a subjective, emotional religious experience. It will be a real, tangible, supernatural revelation of God that Moses experiences. Yeah, I like I like that focus that you put on the tangible and then also how there's examples of this, reflections of this in the world. We talk about the radiance or the the glory, the beauty of a diamond. It's a tangible thing. Or the glory of a beautiful sunset. Or the glory of the starry heavens. um the uh n the glory, the shining forth of the stuff that's really great. And I like that verse you pointed out also too, the idea of God's goodness to pass before him. It's a revelation of God's goodness. Still sticking in this same context, but moving a little bit forward in Israel's history Once the tabernacle is constructed, then the glory of the Lord fills the tabernacle. So you have that glory cloud that they see in the wilderness And then the glory that's manifest on Sinai. And then the glory of God's goodness, revealing himself to Moses in a special way. And now Exodus 40, 34 to 35. Then the cloud covered the tent of meeting , which is uh the tabernacle, which he's going to say in just a second. The cloud covered the tent of meeting, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. And Moses was not able to enter the tent of meeting because the clouds settled on it, and the glory of the Lord filled the tabernacle. One of the most important things about where we are right now in this topic and in this Part of Scripture is the association of God's glory with God's presence. God is present with his people in a special way, in a supernatural way, in a gracious way, in a fatherly way. He's their redeemer and he is with them. And this is the way God dwells with his people. At this point, the glory of the Lord is filling the tabernacle. Later that will be true about the the temple too. If s when Solomon's temple is built, the glory of the Lord fills the temple, and then in the judgment On Judah and on Jerusalem, the glory of the Lord will depart from the temple. Another aspect of God's glory is not just his revelation. of his goodness and a revelation of his presence on earth, but his glory in heaven. There's a real revelation of God's glory in heaven. Psalm twenty-six eight. O Lord, I love the habitation of your house and the place where your glory dwells, which is talking about the temple. But you see that same kind of language about heaven. Just one example, Psalm 113, 4 to 6. The Lord is high above all nations, and his glory is above the heavens. His glory, his abode, his dwelling place, his throne, which you see over and over in Scripture. The Lord is high above all nations and his glory above the heavens. Who is like the Lord our God? Who is seated on high, who looks far down upon the heavens and the earth? So not only his glory revealed in the world, but his glory revealed in heaven. And with that, there's a a separation between sinful man in God's glory in the Old Testament. So here the well in Exodus we see the glory of God dwelling, um being in the tabernacle. but the people outside of it. Not even Moses, the really the the highest, holiest man at that point can't enter into uh the glory of God. Same with when he's on Mount Sinai, there's still this v uh this veil between him and the full glory of God. It's always veiled in some aspect with the cloud, with the um the the sh sh shining light. And in the Psalms here, we're seeing that the fullness of the glory of God is in heaven. So we have this separation between sinful man. and the full expression, the full understanding of the glory of God, because of our imperfection, we can't fully partake in the glory of God. We cannot go there. Yeah. But notice that it's in heaven and and we'll p probably talk about this soon of well then how do we how do we get to the glory of God? How is that or how do we enter into the presence of the glory of God? We can't do it ourselves. There must be a solution to this. And that's where we start to get into the New Testament and Christ's revelation of that. Yeah. That really is that's where the practical relevance of this comes into focus because to talk about God's glory in heaven and and how can we how can we get there, how can we dwell there That's the question of Scripture. How can we be reconciled to God and dwell in His presence? So before we jump fully into that. Just to recap real quickly what you just said, and I do want to share a couple verses from Ezekiel. Because that's another example in the Old Testament of God's glory is revealed in prophetic visions. So when you were when you were just sharing those comments, um it really summarizes When we talk about the glory of the Lord on Sinai or the glory of the Lord filling the tabernacle, those were provisional. And partial revelations of God's glory. They were truly revelations of God's glory, but they were not the ultimate. They were not the final. They pointed forward to something else. They pointed forward to a full and final revelation. of God's glory. And then also, yeah, that so the provisional aspect, but then the um the other aspect that you pointed out of access, right? That glory in the holy of holies. Yeah. Um not any citizen under the old covenant had the right to walk into the tabernacle and enjoy and experience and wonder. at the glory of God filling the tabernacle. You would have been put to death if things were happening in a proper way according to God's law. Um and then So the provisional that points forward, but then this separation thing that anticipates a different situation under the new covenant. But real quickly here, and then I'll I'll shoot it back over to you to bring us fully zoomed in to Jesus Christ and what we get to in the New Testament. I have a question before we get to that. Yes. So what What we're talking about here, you're the doctor, not me, so I'm asking. Correct me. When I barely barely barely. You paid enough they they're gonna give you the degree. Um When we think about the glory of God, is there and that it's veiled in some aspects, so then is there revelation of the glory of God that is common to all men? That's just not uh they're not praising correctly because they haven't understood it correctly, then there is a special go glory that is revealed. Um in Christ. Yeah. I think of creation. I think of Romans 1 talking about that. They they don't uh they exchange the glory of God for a creature. Yeah, that's a a great verse. they they traded it in for a lesser glory, a temporal um a temporal glory. Another verse or set of verses that that makes me think of is the whole earth is full of his glory. Right. Over and over again. And that's because the whole earth is full is filled with God's Self-revelation. Yeah. General revelation. Yeah. Not redemptive, not special, supernatural revelation, but true, objective revelation of God as creator and his infinite power. So yes, in one sense, his glory does fill the earth and is manifest everywhere. So what we're talking about is special redemptive revelation. Is that what you're thinking or were you going different directions? No, that's what I'm thinking. I want to make sure I was correct in saying that. Thanks. You are. I'm approved. I think you are. We could both be we could both be wrong. Um The uh the impulse of sin, the driving force of Satan and evil is to try to rid the world of that which glorifies God. Of course it can't do that, but that's what it tries to do. Yeah, and suppresses it, supplies it, denies what it is. Yes. That's un sinful man is that. A couple of verses from Ezekiel and then over to you for New Testament fulfillment of this glory of God idea. Ezekiel 323, so I arose and went out into the valley, and behold The glory of the Lord stood there like the glory that I had seen by the Kabar Canal, and I fell on my face. Again, there's this phrase, the glory of the Lord. It's something he could see. It's um the glory of the Lord stood there. So some kind of Theophany or Christophany that's standing there In a revelation, and he says it's like the glory he had seen at the Khabar Canal. So you could just go back earlier in Ezekiel and Compare it to that. And then Ezekiel 8. 4. And behold, the glory of the God of Israel was there like the vision that I saw in the valley. So again, uh Uh well I just want to m maybe I'm going overboard. I just want to make sure that this isn't just some abstract idea floating out there. Yeah. The glory of God. But I want, like you said, this tangible, concrete realities, uh a real revelation of God that we're supposed to see, to experience, to enjoy. It it changes us It guides us in all things. It's the glory of God manifest before us. Yeah. And and that's why the second part of our core value is the glory and praise of God. So as we rightly see his glory then we rightly respond in praise and worship. So we see the goodness, the beauty of God, then we worship and are in awe. And the way we do that is uh ultimately revealed in Christ. This is where we see the glory of God, I think, in its fullest form, until we enter into glory or into heaven. into his presence. But in in our experience, in our understanding, the glory of God is most manifested in the sending of his son and the work of Christ. John 1. 14 tells us this John 1. 14 says, And the word became flesh and dwelt among us, and we beheld, we saw his glory. Glory as of the only begotten from the Father, full of grace and truth. So so in the ascending of the Son, Jesus taking on flesh to redeem sinners, here is his glory, the beauty, I mean the the reality that the Son of God has been sent down to take on flesh for us. What a beautiful picture. And that's what's um that glory is radiating, and that glory can only come from the Father. Uh where in Ephesians, uh that same Ephesians one it says that he is the Father of Glory. Um I think at verse fifteen maybe or seventeen, he's the father of glory, so God 's beauty and grace and mercy, all the good aspects and attributes of God are revealed in Christ. And then likewise in chapter 2, verse 11 of John, it says, Jesus did this in Cana of Galilee as the beginning of his signs. and manifested his glory and his disciples believed in him. So now his disciples are believing that he is the Son of God Because of these signs, which was a manifestation of his glory, just like Moses saw the cloud, the glory was descended onto the tabernacle, now the glory of God is revealed to them in Christ. standing right before them. It's it's an amazing uh reality that Moses couldn't enter it. Now they're communing with the very glory of God. It's a greater revelation. It's a better revelation. Which is interesting because if you see it, if you if we would have been in the presence of Jesus does earthly ministry, right? God incarnate. But just from outward appearances, just looking, he looks Like a man, because he's truly human. Now when you see the signs and miracles, you see something supernatural, but just the person you see a man and If you're a citizen of Israel and you saw the glory cloud, that's something supernatural. That's kind of it's count it's not kind of, it's counterintuitive that the greater revelation of God's glory is the man, not the clout And you already put out some of the specifics. Um grace, mercy in his earthly ministry, revelation of power, revelation of authority. He is God in the flesh. And he is the well here, the Hebrews verse uses the same same phrase. Hebrews 1, 3. He is the radiance of the glory of God and the exact imprint of his nature, and he upholds the universe by the word of his power. So This is it. Yeah. This is everything. This is the glory of God. If you want the glory of God, look to Jesus Christ. Yeah. And how how much more y you're right that we're in awe of hearing about a cloud descending onto the tabernacle. Unless it is amazing. Like it's genuine and we would have been in awe, be amazed. But that was for a specific group in time and history in that place. It wasn't the glory cloud didn't just stay there constantly. We see it actually removed at different times throughout history, we see other nations not witnessing this. But here in the Christ, now it's for all people. This is Luke 2. I'll start in 31. Actually, Luke 2, verse 30, it says, For my eyes have seen your salvation, which you prepared in the presence of all peoples, a light for revelation to the Gentiles, and for the glory of your people Israel. So here the revelation of the glory of God is to all people and to uh to the Gentiles and to also show how God has used Israel to get to this point of the Messiah coming for the whole world. Yeah. It brings my mind immediately to the preaching of the gospel in the church age. Yeah. Because that's the way the glory of Christ is made known to all nations and to all tribes. The Holy Spirit working through the preached gospel opens the hearts of sinners to see Christ and see his glory and believe in him and be saved. And so there is a globalizing now in the new covenant. Um we've talked a lot about the glory cloud and now we're talking about Christ and just for those um theologians out there who who or seminary students here like who are thinking don't uh don't make too strict a dichotomy between Christ and the glory cloud, they're right. Um and we don't have time to Delve into all the cross references here, but it it was the pre-incarnate Christ who saved Israel and was with Israel. 1 Corinthians 10, 4 talking about Israel in the context of the Exodus, 1 Corinthians 10, 4, they all Drank the same spiritual drink, for they drank from the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. And if you go back to the context and the passages of the Exodus, you'll see that rear guard, the cloud. The presence of God with them is the pre-incarnate Christ, the spiritual rock that followed them, and the rock was Christ. So just a little side note there. Now coming back to your point about the revelation of God's glory in Christ, which is the full revelation, and bringing that to all the nations through the preaching of the gospel. Now, let's try and bring this home to what you mentioned earlier about the ultimate experience of God's glory will be dwelling in heaven the throne of God, the exalted Christ, how do we get access to there? How can we wrap this up in in the most practical, simple way possible? Yeah, so there is an uh um an eternal, ultimate, unveiled revelation of God's glory. Even in Christ, there's still some aspect of veiled because of the corrupt corruptness of the world and then so not till all of creation is redeemed and uh restored is the full revelation of the glory revealed. And so Revelation 21 Verse 22. So this is the new heavens and new earth. And I saw no sanctuary in it, for the Lord God the Almighty and the Lamb are its sanctuary. And this city has no need of the sun or of the moon to shine on it, for the glory of God has illuminated it, and its lamp is the lamp. So we are still in a So we see the revelation, the glory of God in Christ. This is our call to all people that we see the glory of God in Christ and we respond rightly. But we also have a hope that one day we will enter into the full presence of the glory of God with no veil between us and no sin within us. And all things will be made right. And we look forward to that. We're excited for that. And that's our plea to the nations. Come. See the glory of God, his goodness in saving sinners. Worship him rightly, and you will taste of those blessings for all of eternity. I like how you tied it to hope because, you know, that's a good bridge. From the topic, the glory of God, to practical Christian living. We have this hope of entering God's glory, a hope of the perfect enjoyment of God's glory, the perfect reflection of God's glory. We have that hope for the future, which is certain because of the promise of God, but that guides how we live now. Yeah. That that hope shapes how we live so that we cannot compartmentalize faith or compartmentalize um our religion over here so it's one portion of life but then the rest of life I'm just going with the flow. No all of life is to be shaped by this hope we have in Christ. Yeah, Martin Louis Jones, uh when he would talk of heaven, he would call it glory. I will enter glory. I think it's very common historically And it comes out of Romans where in the golden chain of redemption, the end status, the end chain link is glorification. That this is what we will do. We will enter into the perfect unblemished goodness of God, the full beauty of God into eternity. So w if we are experiencing that glory now, we should be living to the praise of God and all that we do. Because we're already recognizing it and how much sweeter it will be when we fully see it unveiled. Yeah. So everything we have now is is a taste, is a foreshadow. Yeah. We can never become more children of God. In Christ, we are children of God, but we can enjoy and experience and receive the fuller and fullest blessing. Yeah. Of being children of God in that glorification. And so let's try to end on a few, let's try to think up real quick, just some encouragements basic practical applications. I'll go one. Hopefully it's enough time for you. Let the wheels turn. Come up with at least one. I would encourage, exhort ourselves and the listeners to think about Sunday congregational worship through this lens of the praise of God's glory. Come So that you will, with the eyes of your heart, see God's glory Through his word and through his spirit, that God will show you his glory in Christ, that he will strengthen in your heart the hope of eternal glory in Christ And then what you're doing as as you worship is res your heart, your whole mind, your your soul is responding in singing his praises, in crying out to him in prayers of thanksgiving. You're receiving his word. You're being worked on by his spirit. God is showing you his glory. You're responding in praise. Now, if we do that , well now Attending church on the priority list will shoot way, way, way up to the top. Yeah. And that To to go along with that, but also add is that we are living to the glory of God. He has indwelled us. So the presence of God is within us. We belong to him. Uh he is glorified in our living, in our being, in our existence because we're redeemed. That should then change our minds of how we think about everything around us. This should change how we do things, how we love one another. This changes how and why we gather on the Lord's day to worship. It's because everything we do is to his glory. So if that's how we're we're perceiving things then as a student, I want to be really diligent in my schoolwork to the glory of God. It's his blessing that I can have my brain, my education, it's his beauty there, and I want to demonstrate that well. Loving our spouses. We want to do that to the glory of God. It's the demonstration the world sees God's glory and how we love our spouses and treat ourselves. how we conduct ourselves in the workplace, how we treat others on the road. Like it just starts to span out that we are proclaiming and demonstrating the glory of God with the title of Christian in everything we do. Um should have kept talking while you were typing. No, this is just a verse that summarizes the point you just expounded and applied. 1 Corinthians 10 31. So whether you eat or drink or whatever you do, do also the glory of God. That doesn't come naturally, but it does come by the grace of God And by the work of God within us. We can learn to live for the glory of God in all areas of life imperfectly. But truly, because of God's Spirit. And so let's strive after that. And um let's remember the glory of God is not just some spirit vague spiritual idea for elite Christians or theologians or scholars off in uh in office or library somewhere is for every Christian everyday Christians, wherever we wherever we are, to behold God's glory through faith and respond in praise. Will you pray for us? Yeah, absolutely. Holy God, we thank you that you have revealed your glory to us and your Son, that we are partakers of this, that we are forgiven and redeemed by His work and His blood. So Lord now give us eyes to see your wonders and your works here. Give us a confidence in who you are. Strengthen us. May we live to your glory and praise in all that we do. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.