Coming to Psalm 9 on this particular Sunday was not planned in any way. It just I was looking over those Psalms that I felt fit the theme of showing God's glory. And uh came back to this one that I've not chosen before, but wanted to, because it shows an aspect of God's glory that is Um I think maybe sometimes overlooked in our praise of God and that is his justice. Now this particular day is nine eleven and so we would think back some twenty one years, I think it is, if I did the math right. And we would remember a day when our nation somewhat came together and was thinking about justice for those who had perpetrated crimes. uh at the World Trade Center and the Pentagon and of course in the field in Pennsylvania and many lives were lost We can think back to that. Certainly God does ordain governments to enact justice. And uh Romans chapter 13 speaks to that. But if you were a believer in a country like Afghanistan or China , Cuba, Egypt, Indonesia, Nigeria, North Korea, Pakistan, Saudi Arabia, Sudan, Uzbekistan, Vietnam, and et cetera, etcetera. You you you wouldn't think about nine eleven being attached to an attack on World Trade Centers. You're you're not from America, you wouldn't think about that. But what you would be thinking about week by week if you tried to gather with other believers was your own safety. Because these are areas and lands and nations where you are persecuted for the Christian faith. And justice for the action of the persecutors would be a cry of your heart. Also a prayer for their souls. But A prayer for justice, as it was David's cry concerning his enemies. Now we don't live in one of those countries, but from time to time We have endured injustice in different ways, certainly in smaller ways, and thankfully less frequent ways Psalm 9 teaches us to, by faith , do two main things that are the outline. Praise the Lord for his justice. And pray to the Lord for his justice. Justice, in this sense, I'm thinking of it as God giving each person What is due. Now we realize as soon as I say that, I'm thinking, well, I'm not getting what I'm due in Christ because I'm forgiven true, but God still satisfied his justice on the cross, okay? in that sin was paid for. So God giving each person what is due. Many believe this psalm was David's response. After the death of his son Absalom, who, if you recall in scripture, had rebelled against his father David, usurped the throne. And the reason people think that is because of the uninspired heading that is under Psalm 9. It says for the choir director on Muth Laban. Whatever that means. And one interpretation of Muth Laban is death to the sun. And and so many people think this was written after sometime after the death of Absalom. in a way of praising God for justice. Now you might remember David was heartbroken over the death of his son, but through his military commander came to understand he needed to accept that as God's discipline of his son. God 's justice of the situation and good for his kingdom. So the thought is that though he mourned the death of his son, David comes to the important place of celebrating God's justice in Psalm 9, recognizing Absalom's death as an example of God's justice. And we see in verses one through twelve, praise for the Lord's justice. Verse one I will give thanks to the Lord with all my heart. We owe the Lord this kind of gratitude from the inside out, not just mouthing words. I will tell of all your wonders. If it is something on the inside, it's going to come out in our conversation. I will be glad and exalt in you. Uh whatever the circumstances, God is enough. And so I can be glad in that. I can exalt in that. Even when circumstances in my mind take a turn for the worse. I will be glad and exalt in you. I will sing praise. to your name, O Most High. The phrase I will sing praise to, sing praise to, is actually the word for psalm. So David is literally saying, I will psalm your name. I'll write a psalm. To your name, O Most High. Or I'll praise you, like is done in the Psalms, O Most High. So heartfelt gratitude That's where we began in verse 1. It always finds expressions. Telling, being glad about, singing Real love for God translates into songs of praise to him, not necessarily writing them, but singing them, songs of praise to him that is to his So I just another exhortation in passing, because it's here in the text, let us, each individually as believers, and let us as a congregation Guard against mouthing the words of praise while in reality just listening to something that's entertaining to us, the music. So if you like the flute this morning. That's great. I did too, Patty Lynn. But the flute is there to lift our hearts in praise to the Lord. uh the guitar uh the guitars plural the piano whatever instruments we use uh It it's not for your entertainment. It's for the Lord's glory. If it entertains, it should be done excellently. So in and of itself, I understand we could hear without the words and it would be entertaining to us. Should be. Should be well done. But let's guard against coming to church and just being entertained. Will you do that with me? I mean, I think it's a constant uh issue for anyone that we come and we set our minds on the Lord. And when we hear the first notes of music, that we turn our heart to Him and to praise Him. By the way, in verse 2, Most High is a designation of God that should humble us. Because we know him. We know the most high. He is above everything that would come into our minds with regard to injustice in the world. He is the most high. And it gives us confidence. Well, the topic of David's thanksgiving and praise is the active justice of God. God acts for his children. God acts against his enemies. Verse 3: When my enemies turn back, they stumble and perish Before you, David writes. See, David recognized that victory in battle is God's victory. And so God is credited accredited with it. They stumble and perish before you. No other power can stand before God. This was demonstrated at the Red Sea in the swallowing up of the Egyptian chariots who were chasing after God's people Israel. This was demonstrated At the city of Jericho, when the people shouted and the walls tumbled down. This was demonstrated through Gideon's army of 300 as God confused the enemy and destroyed them. This was also demonstrated in a very interesting way that I like to reference in Jesus' arrest. Listen to what happened in John chapter 18. Judas then, having received the Roman cohort and officers from the chief priests and Pharisees, came there with lanterns and torches and weapons to arrest Jesus And Jesus, knowing all things that were coming upon him, went forth and said to them, Whom do you seek? They answered him, Jesus the Nazarene. He said to them, I am. I am he is supplied. He is supplied. So we know that he meant he was identifying himself, but what he used was the name of the Lord. I am And Judas also, who was betraying him, was standing with them. So when he said to them, I am, they drew back. And fell to the ground. An example of verse 3 in our text. They stumble and perish before You verse four. For you have maintained my just cause. God is credited with supporting David And God does so because David is walking in obedience in his kingship. You have sat on the throne judging righteously. What a strong boost to a believer's confidence to know that the Lord is on the throne. But it's a much higher throne. Remember, he is the most high God. Yes, he's acting for David's throne, but he is on the throne, his throne, judging righteously. He's active on his throne. And his heavenly throne is above all earthly thrones. He is, the text says, judging righteously. He does, the text says, maintain David 's just cause. And so David gives God and not his mighty army the credit in verse five. You have rebuked the nations. Another passage concerning the same thought is Psalm 2, just a few pages back, verses 2 through 5. The kings of the earth take their stand, and the rulers take counsel together, counsel together against the Lord. And against his anointed, say, Let us tear their fetters apart, and cast away their cords from us. He who sits in the heavens laughs. The Lord scoffs at them. Then he will speak to them in his anger. And so David writes here in Psalm 9, you have rebuked the nations. You have destroyed the wicked. You have blotted out their name. Forever and ever. That is the idea there at the end of verse 5 is to be remembered no more. Contrast that with God's name in verse 2, which will be praised forever. One writer uh commented, the quickest way to be forgotten is to rebel against God. Verse 6. The enemy has come to an end in perpetual ruins. David says, You have uprooted the cities. You Lord have uprooted the cities. The very memory of them. Has perished. In Psalm 34, verse 16, a similar praise, the face of the Lord is against evildoers to cut off the memory of them from the evil. The very memory of them has perished. Verse 6. Verse 7. But the Lord abides forever. So again, this comparison, they perish , memory of them perishes. Who is left standing? Well, of course, the creator of the universe, the Lord, abides forever. He has established his throne. For judgment. So that throne that's higher and above every other throne because he is the most high is established, notice one purpose of it, for judgment. And so we have to say when we come to this text, God is glorified through righteous judgment from his throne. Now the importance of that is it becomes something we need to praise him for. God is glorified through righteous judgment from his throne. I mean, he made us, all creatures. He has the right to judge us, and verse 8 says, and he will judge the world. In righteousness. He will execute judgment for the peoples with equity. So notice the scope of God's judgment. It is the world And the standard by which he judges is, verse 8, righteousness, right behavior, as he has defined it, as he has revealed his commands concerning right behavior. Behavior. And notice the exercise of the Lord's judgment. It is done with equity. No favoritism No discrimination, no missing evidence. I mean one of the reasons that our court system sometimes moves so slowly is because they're trying to be careful about these things. God has all that knowledge. So whether swift or slow, no favoritism, no discrimination, no missing evidence. Those in the world who abuse the people 's And the peoples who are abused can be assured that justice will be done. But just because there's no favoritism doesn't mean there aren't some people that God will particularly Watch out for that God will particularly it seems support. Look at verse nine. The Lord also will be a stronghold for the oppressed. How do we interpret that? I think when a person or a group of people are being taken advantage of by those who are stronger, God is ready to be their stronghold if they will look to him in submission and faith, as this psalm will point them to do just that. But God is ready to To take care of the bullies, so to speak. He's ready to do that. Verse 10 and those who know your name, if they will respond in this way, those who know your name, that is believers, will put their trust in you. For you, O Lord, have not forsaken those who seek you. Listen, God is never too busy on his throne, on his most high throne, for any who honestly seek his help. He is faithful, and he particularly looks at those who are oppressed. Verse 11. Sing praises to the Lord. And and again the phrase is Psalm the Lord. So what the Psalms lead us to do is what we are exhorted to do here, sing praises to the Lord who dwells in Zion. Now Zion was the hill where the temple uh would be located. And God is, as David is writing this, and God is present with the oppressed in the world. That's the point. The idea of tabernacle and temple is God is present with us. The idea of verse 11 is that is that God is indeed dweller. With them. Verse 12. For he who requires blood remembers them. He does not forget the cry of the afflicted. So I want you to notice a couple things here. We'll come back to requires blood, but remembers them. It's not that everyone who looks to God uh lives to a ripe old age in peace. No, some die for their faith. Some die because of oppression. That's happened in Ukraine. That happens to the persecuted church. But notice verse 12, he, the Lord, requires who requires blood, remembers them. He does not forget the cry. of the afflicted. What that brought to my mind is Genesis chapter 9, verses 5 and 6, and you'll recognize this passage probably. Surely, uh this is after Noah is off the flood, uh off the off the ark after the flood, and and God is covenanting with him as Human history goes forward, and God says, Surely I will require your lifeblood. From every beast I will require it, and from every man. From every man's brother I will require the life of man. Whoever sheds man's blood, by man his blood shall be shed, for in the image of God he made man So I think God is saying in verse 12, justice will always prevail in the end. And so by faith, we praise the Lord for his justice. We'll come back to that. Well, we'll we'll see it really in in the second point, which is prayer for the Lord's justice. Verse 13. Prayer for the Lord's justice. Be gracious to me, O Lord. Any help God would give us is gracious help, for though we may be on the right side of a confrontation with others, We are not without sin. Why should God help unholy creatures? Well, there's a sense in which we would answer, well, he shouldn't. But he does because he is gracious. Be gracious to me, O Lord, David knew of that grace. See my affliction from those who hate me, you who lift me up from the gates of death. David had been close to death at the hands of enemies, and most recently, probably sadly, his own son Absalom. Notice that in the midst of his affliction, David's heart is God-centered. Not self-centered. Notice how verse 14 follows. Be gracious, see my affliction, that purpose, that I may tell of all your praises. That in the gates of the daughter of Zion I may rejoice in your salvation. So David's expressed motive in wanting to be spared his life was so that he could give God glory. Amen. You're going to wake up tomorrow? We all are kind of counting on that. Well, our expressed motive should be the glory of God. David, who had who went through uh difficult times, dangerous times, whose life was in danger. Praise to God that he would be spared, and he is spared here, that he may rejoice in God's salvation, that he may in the gates tell of God's praises. By the way, gates of the daughter of Zion is contrasted with the gates of death. And so David is saying, in the most public places at the gates, I will praise God. For answered prayer. Now notice David's faith in prayer. God will use the wicked one's devices To execute judgment. You see that in verse 15. God uses their plans and turns those plans on them. The nations have sunk down in the pit which they have made In the net which they hid their own foot has been caught. A couple psalms back in chapter seven, verse fifteen. speaks of a similar way of enemies. He has dug a pit and hollowed it out, and has fallen into the hole which he has made. His mischief will return upon his own head, and his violence will desvent descend. upon his own pate. Verse sixteen, the Lord has made himself known. He's manifested himself as a helper of the oppressed, as David is declaring him here. The Lord has made himself known, he has executed judgment. In the work of his own hands the wicked is snared. And then you see these two words. Selah we recognize may mean pause. Hagaon, we don't recognize as much. Perhaps it's resounding music, so a crescendo perhaps of some sort, or some people think it means meditation, but here Is an opportunity in this psalm to reflect on what has been said. And it comes right after verse 16. The Lord has made himself known. He has executed judgment. In the work of his own hands, the wicked is snared. And that's just one of the ways that God shows That his throne is above any others, and that any any intention of man to do whatever he wants, to be his own God, can be thwarted at any moment by the Lord God. Verse 17. The wicked will return to Sheol, the place of the dead, even all the nations who forget God So all nations and people who forget God, they are wicked and they are doomed. That's the meaning of Sheol here. It's a place of doom for them. So so uh this is not a world where the wicked will flourish indefinitely. Now, hear that correctly. It is a world where the wicked flourish. That is admitted to in Scripture, but it is not a world where the wicked will flourish indefinitely. God will see to the that. For the needy, verse eighteen, will not always be forgotten, nor the hope of the afflicted perish forever. So these statements reveal God's character. He resists the proud. He gives grace to the humble. You've learned that in the book of James on Wednesday night. By faith, we wait for the Lord's justice. So as we pray for it, we read a verse like verse 18: the needy will not always be forgotten. And we by faith wait for God's justice. Even if it doesn't come in our lifetime, if there's something that is is pressing upon a people group that you're praying for or upon your life, some injustice. And it doesn't come. God is pleased by you knowing, by you declaring, by you praying that in the end, in his time All things will be made right, and justice will be accomplished. David prays for God's action against injustice in the world. By proud nations. And this prayer is just as important today. Look at verse 19. Arise, O Lord, do not let man prevail In the way of usurping your purposes, God. Don't let man do that. Let the nations be judged before you. As Absalom was in his rebellion. Put them in fear, O Lord, verse 20. In fear of Israel's God, and thus in fear of oppressing Israel. That's how he's praying as King of Israel But in a larger sense, in fear of afflicting others who are made in the image of God. And thus we pray today that God would put in fear those who enslave others Those who oppress others, those who traffic human lives for their own profit, those who murder others, including the murder of abortion Today we pray that persecutors of Christianity would fear the Lord Jesus and refrain from oppressing his church. Let the nations know that they are but men. Sila. They're not masters of their own destiny. They don't sit on the throne. They may have places of power. But God does sit on his throne, a throne above all, and God's people can trust his justice. We praise him for it, and we pray for it. The simple lesson of Psalm 9. And let me give you some implications to make this more practical to you. First of all, oppressed and afflicted ones who look to God have hope. Jesus taught this in a in a very special parable, Luke chapter 18, one of the difficult parables to To understand, but understanding it alongside Psalm 9 is i i is helpful. He was telling them a parable to show that at all times they ought to pray. And not to lose heart. So there he's telling us why this is for prayer, to encourage us in our prayer. In a certain city there was a judge who did not fear God. And did not respect man. There was a widow in that city, and she kept coming to him, saying, Give me legal protection from my opponent. She is being oppressed. For a while he was unwilling, but afterward he said to himself, Even though I do not fear God nor respect man, yet because this widow bothers me, I will give her legal protection, otherwise by continually coming. She will wear me out. And the Lord said here what the unrighteous judge said. Now, will not God there's some contrast here, because God is not like this Judge, will not God, who is for the oppressed, bring about justice for his elect who cry to him day and night? And will he delay long over them? I tell you he will bring about justice for them quickly. However, when the Son of Man comes, so there's a hint at when justice will take place, at the return of the Lord, When the Son of Man comes, will he find faith on the earth? We pray for the persecuted church. That they would walk by faith through injustice. And it is, as I mentioned, say ten nations at the beginning It's it's around our world. It images God to support. Listen, it images God to support the oppressed and afflicted of the world And to do that in a hands-on way, I think of our International Mission Board's efforts and Saren Mack's efforts, serving refugees from war-torn countries, that's one hands-on way, and we can support that with our monies, our all our Offerings. But all of us can pray for those who are being oppressed, particularly the persecuted church. Note David's requests in the Psalm, verse 13. Be gracious to me, O Lord. Verse 13, again, see my affliction. Verse 19, Arise, O Lord, do not let man We can turn those requests toward uh use those requests in our concern for those who are being persecuted for their faith and ask that God be gracious to them. Ask that God take note of their affliction. Ask that God not let man prevail. In the short term, I have no trouble praying for God to do something now, but then acknowledging Him and praising Him. That in the long term, long to us, indeed, Christ will come and all things will be made right. So oppressed and afflicted ones who look to God have hope we should be supporting them in prayer. And then, secondly, judgment awaits the wicked. Those who oppress and afflict others are doing so to God's creatures Those who are made in God's image. And those who persecute Christians are persecuting Christ. Jesus made this clear to Saul. You remember on the Damascus Road, Saul, Saul, why are you persecuting me? It is right to pray for God's judgment. Verse 19 is a prayer we can pray for God's coming judgment. Arise, O Lord. Do not let man prevail. Let the nations be judged before you. Now that prayer goes alongside uh a prayer uh for the work of the Great Commission, as the window of salvation is still open and as missionaries are going here and there and as we meet people on the street or in our neighborhoods and we share the gospel and present the gospel and model the gospel to others, hoping that people will be saved, knowing that people will be saved. until Christ comes. And so we're praying for the salvation of souls, the salvation of the world in a general way. I could say it that way. But at the same time, it is right for us to say Lord Jesus, come. And when you pray, Maranatha, O Lord, come, do you realize you are praying for a coming judge on a white horse? Not coming to die upon a cross, not coming to save more, but coming to judge sinners, to divide sinners from those who are believers. As 2 Thessalonians describes it, chapter 1. For after all, it is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you. So here was the situation of believers in Christ being afflicted for their faith. It is only just for God to repay with affliction those who afflict you and to give relief to you who are afflicted and to us as well when the Lord Jesus will be revealed from heaven with his mighty angels in flaming fire. This is what we pray for when we pray for the Lord to come, dealing out retribution to those who do not know God and to those who do not obey the gospel of our Lord Jesus Christ. These will pay the penalty of eternal destruction, away from the presence of the Lord, and from the glory of his power, when he comes to be glorified in his saints on that day, and to be marvelled at among all who have believed. For our testimony to you was believed. How should we respond to that? Well , if you've been saved , If you came to a place of repentance and faith because of God's grace, you can thank Him that that passage and that judgment of God does not include you. That's one way to be thankful. But another way to respond is to understand that God is going to bring this about in his time, and it is something That we are, according to Psalm 9 and according to the book of Revelation, something that we are to pray for, something that we are to Praise God now that He will do. As we want souls to be saved, we know this judgment is coming. We know that God is just, and we know that He will judge the world in a perfect righteousness, in any oppression that has not been repented of. And thus been covered by Jesus' death on the cross, any oppression will be paid for in the judgment of Christ when he returns One writer said it this way, or said this as part of the just coming to grips with Psalm 9. God has an inflexible standard by which he will judge all people, namely His righteousness. God has an inflexible standard of judgment by which he will judge all people, namely his righteousness. So, speaking of judgment, where does that leave you? It's a question we should praise God in answering or Repent and believe in answering. Look at verse eight again. He will judge the world in righteousness. He will execute judgment for the peoples. The world of peoples with equity. Now, if your mind begins to go toward the many ways that you've tried to be righteous, And thus, you'll be okay when he comes to judge the world in righteousness. Let me just humbly stop you. I think every person is there to some degree. uh even though I was saved at a fairly early age, I was there to some degree thinking I was a pretty good young lad. I never used the word lad when I was a boy. Okay? But I know now that I wasn't as I'm scripturally educated. But if your mind begins to go there, let me just humbly stop you. God's standard is His righteousness, not your best effort or my best effort at righteousness. We are taught we fall short. We need a savior. Praise God as I close. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. He made him, Jesus, who knew no sin, to be sin on our behalf, all who would repent and believe on him. Repent of our sin, believe that he died for it. He made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. So I humbly stop you from thinking about your own righteousness and fall upon Christ and his righteousness. Let's pray together. Father, it humbles us to realize that what we praise you for and what we pray for By your grace, by your mercy, as believers in Christ, we are ready for. Not because we earned or deserved it. Because you sent your son to die for sin. And thank you that in believing him, we are dressed in his righteous life. And it is accomplished what we could never do on our own, stand before you righteously. In Him we can, and we thank you for that. Lord, we do pray for our persecuted brothers and sisters, whatever they're facing today. Some of them, of course, having already lived their their day, whatever and whatever their day of gathering for worship is, if they're able to Lord, we thank you that you kept many safe. We pray that you would this coming week. We pray, Father, that you would help them to walk by faith, that you would give them strength, that you would give them thankfulness. And Father, that you would give us a heart for the larger body of Christ, our brothers and sisters, many of whom face oppression for their faith. And Father, as we pray for them, we thank you that there is a day of reckoning coming. We thank you for the window of opportunity for souls and for All of the ways the gospel is going forward and all of the ways the church is growing and your kingdom is increasing. We thank you for that But we also thank you that there is a day when that window closes and judgment comes upon the oppressors, comes upon those who have seen the glories of creation but have not turned to you. But we know that that is right as well. And so we can pray for it and we praise you for it. And then, Father, I pray that each person in this room would be ready for that day and that they would not be described by the verses I read from 1 Thessalonians chapter 2 Thessalonians 1, but the ones that come just after that Of those who in Christ are saved from such a demise, but who are kept safe in Him. Lord, I thank you for that. I thank you for righteousness in Christ. I pray that each here in this room would know it and if they have doubt, Lord, would reach out. for some help. I pray that for this day. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.