Let's go ahead and turn to Matthew 28, verse 18. And before we get into the message, which is called the authority of Christ in the local church. I'm going to go over this handout, which is a setting the context for the sermon. The authority of Christ in the local church. What I mean by that is the exclusive authority of Christ in the local church through his word in the Bible. The church and the Bible are not co-equal authorities to determine The will of God. The Bible, which is Christ's word to his church, Christ's command, Christ's requirement over his church, is our soul supreme authority for faith and practice. The authority of Christ in the local church. Matthew 28, 18 through 20. I'm going to begin by reading it, praying, and then getting right into this sheet. Jesus came and said to them, All authority In heaven and on earth, has been given to me. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them in the name of the Father, and of the Son, and of the Holy Spirit. Teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. And behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Let's pray. Father, I pray, we pray that you would teach us by your word this evening, that you would help us, that you would humble us. Give us a pure devotion to your word. Give us a trust in your word. Give us a love for your word. Give us by your spirit an ability to receive, humbly receive, understand, and apply your were to not just be Bible believers but Bible doers, Bible appliers, Bible practicers. Father, we pray that you would help us in Jesus' name. Amen. Alright. The context of tonight's sermon This is what we're going through, and I'm going to attempt to go quickly but not rush. This is the prelude to the message on Matthew 28, 18 through 20. Number one, the context is that we have proposed revisions to the church covenant. Those revisions need to be voted on by the church. Which will be at the business meeting next week. Number two, the major proposed revision is no longer requiring a commitment. That's a fill-in-the-blank. A commitment to abstinence from alcohol, to be a member of the church. So whatever else we say about the sin of drunkenness, whatever else we say about biblical wisdom toward alcohol in general, um, and that handout. Pastor John Tandout is still in the lobby. There's plenty of them. We're talking specifically about what's required to be a member of the Lord's church. It's a very specific Item of practical application. And that's the major proposed revision is no longer requiring a commitment to abstinence from alcohol to be a member of the church. Number three The Bible, which is your second fill-in-the-blank, the Bible does not require that commitment to be a member of the church Number four, which means God does not require that commitment to be a member of the church, which He owns, which He established, which is His Church. Number five, my message is an attempt to be the biblical foundation Of why we don't have the authority. That's your blank there. Hopefully that word authority has it's been clear that that's the key word this evening. It's in the title of the sermon. It's in the passage off the lips of Jesus. And it's here in number five. We don't have the authority to require something for church membership that God does not require. Alright, so what I'm trying to do with this prelude is uh not this is not going to launch us into the details of the practical application of this in the covenant. Pastor John did that this morning. This is to be a transition time to summarize the major, the substance of the major revision, and to summarize the basic reason. for that revision is to be more faithful to the scriptures in honoring the authority of the scriptures and recognizing that God has not delegated to us to require something for membership that He Himself has not required. With that said, let's go ahead and get into the message. The authority of Christ in the local church. A foundation. would be a good illustration for this doctrine of the authority of Scripture and the sufficiency of Scripture. It's the foundational doctrine when it comes to the life and practice of church, what we do as a church, what we believe and teach as a church, our doctrine of Scripture is a foundation. Uh that's maybe not the central teaching of Christianity or the mountain peak teaching, which would be the gospel. That's the center. That's the mountain peak. the life, death, and resurrection of Jesus, the identity of Jesus, the gospel and the salvation of Jesus. And uh this is maybe not the deepest doctrine we could talk about. That would be the doctrine of God Himself. But in terms of foundation for how we function and operate and what we teach as a church, The doctrine of the sufficiency and the inerrancy and the authority of Scripture is the foundation. I'll give you one more example. Pastor John and I don't have the authority to preach on whatever we want to preach on. Sunday school teachers and then us again pastors, we don't have the authority to teach teachings that Jesus has not taught and God has not taught in His Word It all comes back to this foundational doctrine of Scripture, Christ's word to his people. The supreme authority of Christ. Here's my central proposition for the sermon. The supreme authority of Christ restricts us from making rules Christ has not made, from teaching doctrines that Christ has not taught, and it restricts us from setting terms for membership that Christ has not set. To be a member of the Lord's Church, you must be a baptized believer. And I want to look at this from three angles that come out in this passage at the end of Matthew's gospel. We're going to look at it from the angle of supremacy, and then we're going to look at it from the angle of sufficiency, and then we're going to look at it from the angle of intimacy. Supremacy Sufficiency and intimacy. Supremacy means the supremacy of Christ's rule. Let's look at verse 18. Jesus came and said to them, All authority In heaven and on earth has been given to him. That's supreme authority. That's exhaustive authority. There's no higher authority This is universal authority. Supremacy means greatest, greatest and highest over any other authority. The supremacy of Christ's rule. over all things in heaven and on earth, and then especially in the centerpiece of his rule, the centerpiece of his kingdom, his church which is his body. All authority is given to him in heaven and upon earth. That's both realms, invisible, visible. It's all authority. He has supreme authority We must remember that. We are not a co-authority with Christ. The church collective is not a co-authority with Christ. The government of the church is actually a monarchy because we serve a king. It's not an earthly monarchy like Israel was in the old Covenant kingdom establishment. In the new covenant, in the last days, which we are in, God has established his end time kingdom, which has not yet come to its consummate form, its glorious form when Christ returns. But he is king, he is lord over us, his people, and his word is supreme. You can think of citizens in a country. Think of ourselves. We don't have the authority to create laws That we think should be in place apart from the government. We just don't have that authority. Think of students Students don't have the authority to set standards and set rules and set guidelines for the classroom. Teachers have that authority. They give children in the home. Children do not have the authority to make the rules to make the expectations for the home and what that house is going to be like. The parents have that authority. And in the church The church, the church members, the pastors, the deacons, whoever, the church in no way has the authority to make rules that Christ has not made. to teach teachings or to teach doctrine that Christ has not taught, or to set terms for membership that Christ has not set. This is the first angle, the headship of Christ, the supremacy of Christ over his church. I have some cross-references to share about this. Ephesians 1, 22 and 23. I'm going to go through these quickly just to drive this point home, like hitting a nail Ephesians 1, 22 and 23, he put all things under his feet, under Christ's feet, and gave him Christ as head over All things to the church, which is his body, the fullness of him who fills all in all. Christ is head over the church Christ is a part of the church. We don't think of ourselves in isolation from him, and we don't think of him in isolation from us. But you see, he holds a different place in the church than you and I. He is the head of the church. Well we are members of his body. Ephesians 4, 15. Rather, speaking the truth in love, we are to grow up In every way into him who is the head, even Christ. He's the head, he's the top, he's the chief, he's the authority. Colossians 1. 18. And he is the head of the body, the church. He's the beginning, the firstborn from the dead, talking about his resurrection That in everything he might be preeminent. And brothers and sisters, in everything he is preeminent. He is Lord of Lords. He is King of Kings. He does have supreme authority over everything. Colossians 2, 18 and 19. Let no one disqualify you insisting on asceticism and worship of angels. Now these aren't the issues that we're dealing with, but these perhaps are different examples of extra-biblical rules and practices that some Christian or Christians would want to impose on themselves or others. Let no one disqualify you, insisting on asceticism and worship of angels, going on in detail about visions, puffed up without reason by his sensuous mind, and not holding fast to the head. Not holding fast to the head. Coming up with our own doctrines and practices that God hasn't told us, God hasn't given to us. is related to this issue of falling away from the head. We want to hold fast to the head, from whom the whole body nourished and knit together through its joints and ligaments, grows With the growth that is from God. One of the things I love from that passage, and it was Colossians 2, 18 and 19, is the idea of growth. Spiritual growth. is a normal part of the Christian existence. The individual Christian, there should be growth. The Christian home, there should be growth. A Christian church, there should be growth. Matthew 16, 18, final one on this section. And I tell you, this is Jesus speaking to Peter, I tell you that you are Peter, and upon this rock I will build my church. That's the phrase. That drew me to this passage. Jesus says, my church. It's his church. He established the church He's taken away our sins by his blood. It's his righteous life that's credited to us, to the church, so that we might stand righteous before God. He lived a righteous life. He died a sacrificial death. He rose from the grave to eternal, glorious resurrection life. He's the one who from heaven shared that life with us. It's his church. I will build my church, and the gates of hell shall not prevail against it. And the reason the gates of hell shall not prevail against it is because it is Christ's church and it's his power that fills the church. And it's his power that advances the gospel through the church. The gates of Hades, the gates of hell, will not prevail against the Lord Jesus Christ. And you could be certain about that. In a world of uncertainty, friends, you could be certain about that. Christ will not be stopped. in fulfilling his purpose that's been delegated to him from his father, by his father, from before the foundation of the world. The supremacy. The supremacy of Christ's rule. The second angle I want to look at this from is the angle of sufficiency. The sufficiency of Christ's word. So what was the first point? The supremacy of his rule. And the second point is the sufficiency of his word. Verses nineteen and verse nineteen in the first part of twenty. On the foundation of his authority, here's what he says. Go therefore and make disciples of all nations, baptizing them. That's evangelism, right? Making disciples and then baptizing them. What you have there is baptized believers Baptizing them in the name of the Father and the Son and the Holy Spirit, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. Now just focus your eyes on that phrase. And this is a very common paragraph to be preached from and for devotions and the memory verse and usually the evangelistic aspect is the one that's emphasized and rightly so. But there's something in here that happens after the evangelism, teaching them to observe all that I have commanded you. We don't have the authority to teach disciples or to train in discipleship based on our own commands. What we think is right, what we think is the way to godliness, what we think the church should look like, no. We've been commissioned, we've been called, we've been We are required by Christ and by God, by the Holy Spirit, to teach what God has commanded. Teach, Jesus says here, teach all that I have commanded you. Now ultimately, you have apostolic teaching in that first generation of the church. What we have now is the New Testament, the consolidation, the God-inspired, authoritative, inerrant. New Testament, God's word, Christ's word for his church, a sufficient word for the faith and practice of local churches. A sufficient word. Sufficient means enough to do the job. If you have an SUV, three tires are insufficient. They're not enough to do the job. Four tires are sufficient. They're enough to do the job. You don't need a fifth tire. You need four. Sufficiency. One wing on a plane is insufficient. It's not enough to do the job. Two wings on a plane is sufficient. You don't need a third wing. You may have a fin or something like that that has other functions other than the wings. Supplemental or complementary functions. Sufficient, enough to do the job. The sufficiency of Christ's word. The sufficiency of the word of God is enough to do the job for local churches to function how local churches should function And for the Christian as an individual to live as the Christian ought to live, God gave us a document to govern. Our life as his people. The supremacy of Christ's rule. All authority has been given to him in heaven and upon earth. All authority. The sufficiency of his word, his commands. Teach them to observe all that I have commanded you. Supremacy, sufficiency, and finally, you remember it, intimacy. Intimacy. So we looked at the supremacy of his rule, the sufficiency of his word. Now we look at the intimacy of Christ's spirit. You also could put the intimacy of Christ's presence. Look at what he says in At the end of verse 20, on the heels of commanding that they disciple the nations, baptize believers, and teach obedience, he says, Behold, I am with you always to the end of the age. Christ is with his church. There's the opening vision of Revelation. There's a glorious picture of this. Christ, the risen Christ. Ministering and serving in the midst of the lampstands, his churches. One of the reasons he says this is to give confidence that we know we'll be able to do fruitfully and effectively these things that he's just commanded us to do, only because he's with us. But another thing is the accountability You know, when we go outside of the Word of God, when we try to usurp the authority of Christ, it's not like a speeding ticket. When you are pulled over for speeding or any other traffic violation, which is just one example, one set of examples we could give, it's not a personal offense. Against the police officer. He's not walking up to your car heartbroken, weeping, full of sorrow that you've personally offended him. You broke a law. But you see, violating God's word is not just breaking a law. It's an up-close personal offense to the Lord who fills the church with his Spirit. He is with us. We should never ever think of ourselves in isolation from Christ, and we should never think of Christ in isolation from us. But we should always remember that he is the head and we are his body. He is the master, we are his students. He's the one who calls, and we are the ones who answer. And when we call him in prayer, he answers us. His rule is a loving rule. His love is a compassionate, gracious rule. But make no mistake, brothers, sisters, he has all rule over all things and that includes local churches. And in fact local churches are is the Group of people, the groups of people scattered all over the world who model humble obedience to God's word for the rest of the world. We set that example for the world around us. We humble ourselves under the authority of Christ, gladly so. We know that his rule is a loving rule You know, it's the intimacy of Christ's Spirit, the intimacy of his presence in us and with us, filling us, filling the church, binding us together. Should it should be a sober reminder to us that we are people under authority. And any offense that we have is an up close and personal offense. You know, one story in Scripture that really stood out to me as I was meditating on this point was the sin at the base of Mount Sinai, which is the sin involving what had been made. The golden calf. Most of us have known known this story since we were four or five years old. And it's y you see this Mountains seen at the top of the mountain is God graciously revealing himself to Moses, who's representing the people, giving them a covenant document, giving them Ten Commandments. And this whole this whole thing is part of the complex of God redeeming Israel. Bringing them into a covenant relationship with himself by his grace, by his power, for his glory, and for their benefit and salvation. But at the top of the mountain, you have God graciously appearing revealing himself, revealing the covenant at the base of the mountain, you have one of the most infamous, vile acts of idolatry, community acts of idolatry ever. It's going on at the same time. It's going on at the same time. Up close and personal sin. You can think of the sins against Christ and the slander against Christ when he was on earth physically Up close and personal, the intimacy of Christ's Spirit should humble us and be a sober reminder to us that we are under authority. Now, there's a big difference between a text message and an up close and personal conversation. at a table. There's a difference between hearing something on a radio and being live in concert. To see an orchestra, which I've never seen, I think it would be glorious. to see it live, to hear it live. There's a there's a difference. And we need to think of our church as a group of people With whom Christ is present. With whom Christ is present, in whom Christ is living. He is our authority. And this is important so that we don't think primarily In terms of rules and laws and prohibitions and things like that. This is a this is a personal, this is a spiritual personal thing that's going on. So what restricts us From making rules Christ is not made, from teaching doctrines Christ is not taught, from setting terms for membership that Christ has not set. Well, the supremacy of his rule restricts that. The sufficiency of his word restricts that And I have some cross-references on that too. I'm going to close with those cross-references for the sufficiency of his word. And then four uh four applications. And then the intimacy of his spirit in our hearts should be a sober reminder that we are under his authority. Not our own, and we are not a co-authority with him. Now, you can write these down or just watch on the replay to get these. I'm going to go through these quickly too, but these are important Passages on the sufficiency of God's word to his people. Deuteronomy four, one and two. And now, O Israel, listen to the statutes and to the rules that I am teaching you, and do them that you may live. And go in and take possession of the land that the Lord, the God of your fathers, is giving you. That's verse 1. Do you want to hear verse 2? You shall not add to the word that I command you, nor take from it, that you may keep the commandments of the Lord your God that I command you. The part of keeping God's commandments and obeying God's commandments Let's just say they're over here is not adding more to them and it's not chipping away, removing from them. Again, Deuteronomy 12, 32. Everything that I command you you shall be careful to do. That's the first sentence. Do you want to hear the second sentence? You shall not add to it or take from it. The part of obedience is understanding the sufficiency of his word for faith and practice Proverbs 30, 5 and 6. Every word of God proves true. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Amen to that. Praise God for that. He is a shield to those who take refuge in him. Do not add to his words, lest he rebuke you and you be found a liar. That's Proverbs 30, 5 and 6. Revelation 22, 18 and 19. I warn, I warn everyone who hears the words of the prophecy of this book, the prophecy of the book of Revelation, if anyone adds to them. God will add to him the plagues described in this book. And if anyone takes away from the words of this the book of this prophecy, God will take away his share in the tree of life and in the holy city, which are described in this book. Again, that's specifically to the book of Revelation, as those in Deuteronomy were specifically to the commands of the Mosaic that were coming in the Mosaic covenant, but the principle is the same. What God gives us as his word is a sufficient word. What he gives us as his commands is the sufficient command. What he gives us is his gospel promises. which is the foundation of spiritual growth. Commands and rules and law don't bring sanctification. Gospel and grace bring sanctification. But his word to us is sufficient. And we need the way we honor that and the way we live that out and put that into practice is by not adding or taking away or changing. 1 Corinthians 4, 6. Paul says, I've applied all these things to myself and Apollos. for your benefit. Don't have time to go back to really open up on the context there, but I'm going to read a another verse in just a second that will give us a little window into it. But he says, I have applied all these things to myself and the Paulus for your benefit, brothers. that you may learn by us not to go beyond what is written. Don't go beyond scripture. Don't go beyond what God has said. That none of you may be puffed up in favor of one against another. A systemic problem in the church of Corinth was division. All kinds of different reasons and aspects of that division. But in this verse, 4-6, Paul connects this idea of their pride and this I and the division it was causing to the fact that they were going beyond what had been written, going beyond God's word. So that's 1 Corinthians 4. 6. Now 1 Corinthians 4 1 and 2. The first how that paragraph begins. This is how one should regard us. He's talking about himself and Apollos. Remember he said, I've applied these things to myself and Apollos? This is what he's referring back to. This is how one should regard us Servants of Christ and stewards of the mysteries of God, which is another way of talking about the doctrines of God that were once hidden but now revealed. Servants of Christ and stewards of God's mysteries. They're his mysteries. They're his truths. They're his teachings. It's his word. We're stewards. And then here's what he says in verse 2. Moreover, it is required of stewards that they be found faithful. Faithful to honor what they've been given. That doesn't belong to them, doesn't belong to us, it's God's. It's God's truth, it's God's word, it's God's church. We need to honor that. And the way we do that, the foundational way, is honoring the sufficiency of God's Word to us. Four applications. I said this one in the opening, but just in case you forgot. Number one, the church is not a democracy. The church is not a constitutional republic. That's not taught in Scripture, that's not modeled for us. The church is run by a king who lives in heaven. And that king has given us his word, and his word is sufficient. And this king has supreme authority over all things, including us. And so it is not by popular opinion We don't have the right by popular opinion uh to come up with uh you how we think the church should best function or what we think the church should be about, what we think the church should require for membership. It's not by tradition It's not by emotion, the emotion of nostalgia or sentimentality. It's not by personal background or history. As God's people, we must seek after a pure devotion to God's word that says, God, your word is sufficient for the faith and practice of the church. The church is not a democracy. Christ is the supreme head and authority. Number two, law does not sanctify. Law does not sanctify. Gospel sanctifies. This is another issue that's maybe a tangent, but it's extremely important. Thinking that more rules and more laws in your life will make you more holy is completely unbiblical. That's not to say that laws and rules aren't important, but they are not the source and power of holiness. They show us our sin. They can help bring us under conviction that we are sinners, but the source of holiness is Jesus Christ alone and his grace that's revealed in the gospel. So let's put away any thought or any idea that if we can make this rule or that rule for ourselves as an individual or for the church and that this will be the source and help us be more holy, we must get rid of those thoughts. That's not biblical. The law does not sanctify. Only Christ, by his Spirit, through the word of his grace in the gospel, has the power for sanctification. And every time I say that I always got to give a disclaimer because I know some people somewhere will hear that wrong. We're not saying law is bad. God's law, his moral commandments and requirements are is good. It's holy, it's spiritual. We're the problem. We are sinners. We are weak. And that's why the law cannot sanctify us. We need God's grace. Uh number three, the Bible is sufficient guide for faith and practice. Hopefully that's been the thread application through this whole thing. God, your word is sufficient for our faith and practice. And number four Christian unity depends on the pure devotion to the Word of God. Christian unity is not just an idea. It's not just a feeling. It's grounded and centered on the pure devotion to God's Word. That is what brings us together by the power of the Spirit. God's word, God's truth as a supreme The supremely sufficient, powerful word from Christ who has supreme authority over his church, and that makes us glad, not angry. Let's pray. Father, we thank you for the salvation that you've given us. This is a privilege to come together as your people. It's a privilege to have Bibles. It's a mercy, it's a grace, it's a gift, it's a wonder, it's a glory. What a blessing, what a privilege to belong to Jesus Christ. So we thank you. Help us, guide us, be our wisdom, be our unity, be our strength, be our encouragement, be our hope. And through us, spread your gospel. Spread the aroma of Christ through this church. For your glory we pray. Amen.