Let's turn to John 3. 16. I've called this message the incredible gospel of God's Son. The last time I did a Sunday evening, I did something called the Simple Gospel of Free Grace. And this is something of a part to the incredible gospel of God's Son, John 3, 16 and 17. Just a a little bit of a word of perspective before we read it and pray and get into the message of how important the preaching of the gospel is. Not only for the unbeliever, but for the believer. In the New Testament, it's the preaching of the gospel and the power of the Spirit that creates spiritual life. in the hearts. And the it's the very same thing that cultivates spiritual life in the heart for those who've been saved. The preaching of the word and the teaching of the word in general, the uh the church fellowship and the celebrating of the Lord's Supper and the worship. And the prayer of the saints, all of these are are connected and involved in spiritual growth. But right at the center, the centerpiece of this Is the preaching of the gospel. It is through the gospel that God makes himself known to us. And it's through the gospel he shows us. That we are sinners, and he shows us the way of forgiveness that he may create in us more and more and more of a dependency in faith on Jesus Christ. We come to faith, but then the rest of life is growing. in our faith. And that's connected to growing in the gospel. And so I hope, I hope and pray that when you hear that it's the gospel that's being preached, that we don't turn We don't turn it off. We don't tune out. But rather we sit up straight and think, yes, I need this. I need the gospel. I need to hear this. It's the way we grow in our faith, the central way we grow in our faith. But also the best way to grow in sharing the gospel is to grow in the gospel, to hear the gospel, and to have it just more ingrained and ingrained into our hearts, into the way that we think and the way that we speak. But I don't want us to think it's just it just has to do with equipping us to better share the gospel. Um it's to help us to grow. Growing our love for God and what He's done. Okay, that's the end of my introductory spiel on the relevance and perspective. Let's uh read the passage. Two verses, John 3, 16 and 17, and then I'll pray and get into the incredible gospel of God's Son. For God so loved the world that he gave his only son, or his only begotten son, that whoever believes in him Should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his Son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Let's pray. Father, open our hearts and our minds to your word this evening and by your spirit, by your holy Spirit, in power, would you move upon us and change us? Help us to see. Help us to believe. Use us for your glory, Father. It's in Christ we pray. Amen. So this passage obviously is about a gift. God so loved the world that he gave his only son. It's about a gift. That God gives to people who would otherwise what? They would otherwise starts with a P perish Or be condemned, verse 17. That's why it says Jesus God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world. The world was already under condemnation. We're already condemned. We're already heading Toward perishing. God gives a gift to people who otherwise would perish. So, first of all, it's a gift of mercy where we don't get something that we deserve. But instead, instead of perishing, instead of being condemned, we would have what? Based on this gift. The gift is the Son. Okay? The gift is the Son. God gave His only begotten Son. So that those who believe in Him. Would not perish, but have eternal life. So not only is it a gift of mercy, we don't get what we deserve what we do deserve, we do get something we would never deserve, eternal Life. Let me give you a simple relation uh simple definition of that. And then we'll move on. Eternal life There's many ways you could summarize this, okay? Here's the way I like to do it. It's life and relationship with God that will never end. I think that's a simple way to sum it up An adult can understand that and who's never heard anything about the Bible. A child could understand that. It's a relationship with God that will never end. It's eternal life. So right off the bat, we know that we're talking about something spiritual. We're talking about something supernatural. We're talking about something awesome and wonderful, something that's not of this world. In other words, something that's incredible. This is incredible. A relationship with the being Who created the universe? Who's holy and perfect in every way? Far beyond what we could imagine. We can have a relationship with God that lasts forever. It's incredible. That is to supplement the title of the first gospel message I did uh a few weeks ago. Where it was called the simple gospel of free grace. Simple does not mean simplistic. Simple does not mean this is something you can do, like four easy steps. The simple gospel of free grace, if you didn't hear that message, all that simple meant was it's understandable. You could understand this, you can grasp this, you can hear this message. An adult who's never heard anything from the Bible, a child can understand the simple message of God's grace. But it's not only simple, it's incredible. This is not of this world. This is a relationship with God that will never end. The world has nothing to offer like that The world can offer us things that we can have for a little while and then we'll never see them again. And the world's not even that good at giving us those things that it offers. It's the incredible gospel of God's Son. Gospel last time I said was good news, not bad news. Sometimes we start hearing about Jesus When we're when we're lost, ever unless God changes our heart, we start hearing about these things and we turn it off when we think bad news, bad news. We're just conditioned to think that way. But it's good news. It's good news. The gospel is not advice. News is different than advice. Advice is about something for you to do. I think you should do this. And if you do this, this will happen. That's advice. I really think you should make this decision. News is about something, not that you should or shouldn't do. News is about something that already happened. And nothing you can do, think, or say can change what happened. It's news. It's good news. To receive. It's an incredible good news of God's Son. The first message, the simple gospel of free grace, was somewhat of a skeleton. Of the gospel. The basic, understandable, simple gospel. This is more like putting muscle, putting meat on the bones, putting muscle to that skeleton. We get to the heart. This is about a person. in what he did. This is about a person, Jesus, God's Son. The incredible gospel of God's Son. And what I hope to do tonight, what I aim to do is to give a straightforward, clear presentation of Jesus, the way to eternal life. John 3, 16 and seventeen. God so loved the world that he gave his only son. That whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Saved from what? Saved from what came earlier in that verse, being condemned, and saved from what came the verse before, verse 16, from perishing. Saved, saved from those things, delivered from those things. There's two layers of salvation that we need to know about By him and in him. Just get those two prepositional phrases in your mind, and then we'll fill in the substance. Salvation is by him and in him. It's accomplished by Jesus and it's received in Jesus. It's accomplished by Jesus in the past. Salvation is accomplished. No more work needs to be done to reconcile sinners to God. Salvation has already been accomplished. By him, by the Son. But that doesn't mean you and I are saved automatically Salvation must also be received in him. And this is the message. This is the call. This is what we have to cry out and to invite and to urge and plead with all to come to Christ and find salvation in him. Based on what was accomplished by him. Those two layers are so important. One of the things that's happened is We live in perhaps the golden age of trying to reduce the gospel down to a sales pitch. And the shorter you can get it, the better. He does it in five minutes. Yeah, well, he can do it in three minutes. Yeah, well, she can do it in ninety seconds. Well, he can do it in thirty seconds. And we try to get people to agree with bullet point facts. And say that they want to go to heaven and they want to be forgiven, and we tell them they're saved, that's not being saved. Just agreeing with the fact that Jesus accomplished salvation doesn't mean A sinner is saved. They must receive salvation. They must be found in Christ. And I talked about that last message through faith and repentance. Through turning from sin and placing faith in Jesus Christ as Lord and Savior. We must be born again. We must come to Christ. And this is so important and it's so relevant for us. This will help us. And sharing our faith. And understanding the difference between a false conversion and a true conversion. This is a real thing. See people start to get interested in spiritual things, start to get interested in the Bible. Don't tell them automatically they're saved just because we're so anxious to get someone saved People coming under the conviction of sin and feeling guilty for their sin doesn't mean someone is saved. They must come to Christ. They must be born again. And I tell you, giving out that false assurance is big business. There are big bucks in that But we care for souls. We care about souls. People's eternity is at stake. And so Yes, salvation was accomplished by Jesus. And we must understand that, we must believe in that. But the individual, sinner, me, you. Must receive salvation by coming to Jesus in faith and repentance. So those are the two layers. You can just think of it this way. It's very, very, very easy. Layer number one is the historical. The historical. Jesus accomplished salvation. That's our message. We preach it. We proclaim it. We celebrate it. We study it. We grow in it. Who Jesus is, what Jesus did to accomplish salvation. Historical layer. The other layer is the personal. The personal layer, the historical layer, the personal layer. The individual person has a duty to hear this gospel and respond in faith and repentance. And we know that can only happen by God's power. But we leave that to God. We preach the gospel. We urge all to come to Christ. We urge all to come to Christ. But they must come. And we want them to come and we urge them to come and we believe in the power of the gospel to change hearts. So what I want to do is zoom in on What Jesus did in the past to accomplish salvation, because the focus is the incredible gospel of God's Son. What did he do to accomplish salvation? What did the son do? Because that's what the verse is focused on, that God so loved the world. In other words, he loved the world this way He gave his only son. What does that mean? What does that look like? What does the giving of his son look like? That's what we're going to talk about. And I'm going to give you four points on this. And you don't have to memorize these, but you can memorize these. It's one of the ways I like to share this aspect of the gospel of Christ's work. He came. Tell me if this is. Too difficult or if this is as easy as I think it is. He came, he lived, he died, and he rose. Now there's more that he does after that, but we're just talking about the heart of the gospel. Okay? The core historical events of the gospel. And I want to go through these just in a clear, straightforward fashion. He say them with me if you got them the first time. He came, he lived, he died, he rose. What's that? Eight words Four phrases, eight words. He came, he lived, he died, he rose. Now, it's not just enough that we know and believe that those things happened We must understand the meaning of those things. We must understand what Jesus actually accomplished in each of those things. That's so important. Chase a little rabbit here. Keep me on track if I go too far. If I fall down the hole. If I fall down the rabbit hole. It's a wonderland of distraction and okay. Here's the rabbit. It's important to understand that God reveals Himself in both word, which is speaking, and in deeds, which is acting All right? And his words interpret the meaning of the deeds. Just for example, think about if Moses saw the burning bush Or the bush that appeared to be burning but was not being consumed. Imagine that Moses sees that and experiences that, but God never speaks to him. From out of the bush. And God never tells him what's going on. He never interprets for him The revelation, the supernatural revelation, the deed, the act. It's God making himself known. But he must speak. Moses is like you and I. He's not that smart. He would have had no clue what was going on. And that's true for throughout history. World history. God has intervened to accomplish his purposes, and he's done marvelous thing after marvelous thing. In the process of redeeming a people for himself. But he's also interpreted his actions so that we can understand them and benefit from them. He's given us the Bible. So that we would understand his works. And this is how, this is a paradigm for how we will not only share the gospel in a proper way, but how we can grow in the gospel. So many different aspects of who Christ is and what Christ did, and we can grow in each of them and get a clearer sight of God and His mercy. So He came. He lived, he died, he rose. First of all, he came. He came to share in our situation and to qualify as our representative. It's very simple. Definition, very simple explanation rather, of the significance of the meaning. He came, he came to share in our situation and to qualify as our representative. The eternal Son of God became a man so that he could represent men before God. You can think of this with the phrase, compassionate brother. Jesus is a brother. He's a compassionate brother. He has compassion toward sinners. Compassion To human beings. So much to the extent that he left the glories of heaven. This is the central miracle of the Bible, the incarnation. He came. God came in his son. He came. to share in our situation under the curse of sin and death as a human to qualify as our representative If uh you're going to rescue someone who's drowning, you actually have to go to them If you're going to rescue someone who's lost in the wilderness or lost up in the mountains, the rescue team has to go to them. God, to rescue sinners from our sin and from death, came to us. To share in our plight. Hebrews 2, 17 and 18 is a good cross-reference. Therefore, he, Jesus, he had to be made like his brothers. In every respect. So that he might become a merciful and faithful high priest in the service of God. In the service of God, but representing humans. To make propitiation for the sins of the people, to pay for the sins of the people, right? To take the wrath for the sins of others, not for himself. For because he himself has suffered when tempted, he is able to help those who are being tempted. He's able to help. He empathizes. He's a compassionate brother. God did not kick humanity to the curb He didn't kick sinners to the curb, because central to his purpose of all things is God showing forth his grace that he might be worshipped and honored and praised for it. And he has grace toward sinners. So he came. He came to share in our situation and to qualify as our representative. He's going to save humans. He came as a human. He's our compassionate brother. It's a very simple concept Okay, we can continue to grow in that as we learn of Christ and learn the word, but a child can understand that. In a miracle, in a supernatural work. It's incredible, incredible. God came as a man in his son. He came, and then the second one is what? He lived. He lived. And I'm not even going to get into his ministry of miracles and teaching. That would be One major subcategory of this. I'm not saying that that's not important, but what I want to focus on is broader his obedience to the Father. He came, he lived. He lived a righteous life that we never could, a holy life that we never would. He lived a righteous life that we never could The holy life that we never would. So not only is Jesus a compassionate brother to you and I, he's an obedient son to his father. He's an obedient son. No matter what people say, everyone believes in right and wrong. Everyone believes that there should be consequences for breaking the law. Everyone believes in justice and injustice. We don't want to see criminals go free. Now different people with different philosophies and different politics can disagree on who the criminals are. And that happens all the time, right? You can disagree on you think this is right, well I think that's wrong, I think this is right. We can disagree on those things, but at the end of the day we all agree that something is right and something is wrong, that one thing is just and the other thing is unjust That this is righteous and the opposite is corrupt, and someone else would say, No, that's corrupt. This is righteous. We all believe in right and wrong and that there should be consequences. We don't want to live in towns with either no judges or corrupt judges. We agree with, and this is because of the conscience that God gave us. We agree that there's a requirement of righteousness, that if it's failed to be met , Deserves consequences. And the question is, are we going to go with our own definition of right and wrong or God's definition? God is the definition of righteousness. He is the right. He is the good. He is the pure. He is the holy. He is the just. But to be right in God's eyes, we need something. To be able to enter into God's presence and not fall under his wrath. We need something. All of us on our own have a great and pressing need. Righteousness. We need Righteousness. And since we know we do not have a righteousness of our own, we need a righteousness that is not of our own, but that's given to us God does forgive sin. He's compassionate. He's gracious. He forgives sin. But God does not ignore sin and act as if it doesn't exist. Righteousness. 1 Peter 3. 18 is a good cross reference for this. Christ also also suffered once for sins. That's talking about his death on a cross. The righteous for the unrighteous. He suffered once for sins. The righteous For the unrighteous, that he might bring us to God, being put to death in the flesh, right, dying on the cross, but made alive in the spirit, his resurrection. Vivid picture there. Now here's the righteous one. And what he's going to do is suffer for the sins of the unrighteous. And now here are the unrighteous ones, if they have faith in this righteous one, all of their sins will be forgiven And here's what that verse, 1 Peter 3. 18, says, summing up what Christ did as the righteous one dying in the place of sinners. Quote, that he might bring us to God, end quote. A relationship with God. A relationship with God that will never end, eternal life Christ suffered for sinners so that sinners could share in the glory of God. He came as a compassionate brother. He lived as an obedient son, providing a righteousness for those who could never attain righteousness on their own. Thirdly, He died. He died. He died a sacrificial death in the place of others. If you can come up with a shorter way, now being short is not the goal, but Try to give simple, understandable definitions of at least each component, each aspect. Something that's easy to remember And then from there you could flesh it out. He died a sacrificial death in the place of others. He is a compassionate Brother, he's an obedient son. He is a substitute offering. He is the Lamb of God who takes away the sin of the world. He's a substitute offering. Last time I focused on that, that Christ is the sin bearer. He bears the sin of his people. He bears the guilt. of his people's sin. He receives and bears the judgment of God against the sin of his people. Who are his people? All those who come to him in faith. He's the sin bearer. 2 Corinthians 5. 21. For our sake, he made him, the Father made the Son, to be sin. He made him to be sin. He counted him as a sinner. He counted him as unrighteous, who knew no sin, that in him we might become the righteousness of God. You see it all centers on the cross. It's not the only thing that had to happen for our salvation, but that's the centerpiece. That's the heart. That's the core The sin bearer. Now, here's what I did not really expand upon. I believe I said something about this last time. I mean you have to say something about this. Well I suppose you don't have to. But if you want to be accurate and helpful, you've got to say something about what sin is, if the idea of a sin bearer is going to make any sense. Talking about the definition of sin and what it is is not optional when we're sharing the gospel. Gospel makes no sense and the gospel actually is lifeless apart from a true understanding of what sin is and then of of what of who God is. She can't understand what sin is unless we understand who God is. It's personal, sin is a personal rejection of God by ignoring, violating, and despising his commandments. Very simple. Now that's a longer definition. You can put just suppressing the truth. Romans 1. Personal rejection. Personal. Personal. Sin is a personal offense against God. It's not impersonal. It's personal rejection of God by ignoring, violating, despising God's commandments. Now, how out of fashion is that? How out of fashion is this? But this is what we want to be about. You think about a guy who ignores and violates and despises traffic laws. Or would you want to live down the street from that guy? He ignores consistently violates and in his heart despises laws that regulate how to drive on the roads. Of course you wouldn't you wouldn't want to live anywhere near him. Well what if there was someone who felt that way about all laws? Just a madman criminal didn't care. In our own natural selves, that's how we are regarding God's commandments. Personal rejection of God by ignoring, violating, and despising God's commandments. So I'm going to go over the first four commandments. Alright. And it's these commandments that show us two things simultaneously, the character of God and how we, in our own natural selves. are the opposite of God and the opposite of his character and violate his law. The first commandment is essentially this. I'm not going to quote them, just give the essence to it. Just give the heart the commandment. The first commandment is worship God only. These are found in Exodus 20. Worship God only. That reflects God's character. God alone should be worshipped because he's the only God. God alone should be worshipped because he's the only thing, God's a personal being, but just he's the only thing that exists that's deserving of worship So the commandment to worship God only is based on who God is. We haven't lived like that. We've worshipped And loved and adored other things above God. Or we think we can do that with something side by side, like it's a it's a tie. It's a race between God and this other thing, my favorite hobby. What does that show us about our hearts? Shows us that we're sinners. It's not complex, deep stuff, it's not new stuff. If you want innovative stuff, I'm not your guy. Shows us that we're sinners. It shows us that we need a sin bearer. It's the p this law, every every commandment of God is meant to show us our sinfulness, our need for righteousness that could never come from us, that we might look to Christ. That we might look to Christ. And rest in him and trust in him as our sin bearer. Our violating of the first commandment, every day of our lives, deserves death and judgment. Jesus bore that on the cross. So don't think just about sin in general. And don't think of just about philosophical things, uh theological truths floating out there in space. I'll think about mine, you think about yours, your violation, my violation of this commandment, just this one, really does deserve death and judgment. Jesus bore that on the cross. He bore that judgment on the cross. What's the second commandment in essence? Don't make images of God. Don't make images of God. The heart of that, the spiritual essence of that is don't create your idea of God. Don't make A God, don't make a representation of God out of a created thing. Or also, you a created thing, don't create your own idea of God. God is invisible. God is wholly spiritual. He's not of this earth. He's far beyond the limits of our mind. The only reason we know anything about God is because He's made Himself known to us. We never know anything about God unless He reveals Himself to us. Think again about our hearts. Our violation of this commandment deserves death and judgment. Here's the gospel. It's incredible. It's really incredible. Jesus bore that on the cross. He really actually bore that on the cross. Third commandment. I'll give you the essence of it. Modern language. Don't disrespect God's name. And in the Bible, God's name is representative of God. It's representative of God, who he is, his attributes, his works. Don't disrespect God. Don't use your lips To disrespect God. God is good. God is honorable. God is holy. Since He's good, he should be treated with and spoken of with gratitude. He's honorable in a transcendent way. He should be treated with the utmost respect and reverent, holy fear. Fourth commandment. Any guesses? Sabbath. I like that. One word answers, yes. The fourth commandment is two things in regards to the Sabbath. Two things. Remember it and keep it holy. And remember it means observe it. It doesn't mean just, I remember the Sabbath day, just an intellectual thing. No, it's almost like Uh like about your wife. Did you remember her anniversary? Do you men you remember her birthday? Did you remember her your anniversary? It means are you doing something about it? Are you going to observe this or did you completely forget it? And keep it holy. It means to set one day apart each week. In the Old Testament, under the Old Covenant, it was the seventh day. In the New Testament, under the New Covenant, it's the first day of the week. We're not going into the reasons, but set one day apart each week to do two things. Remember it Remember the Lord. Observe the Sabbath day and keep it holy, which means this: set it apart. Set that one day apart. The day. It doesn't say remember to keep holy the Sabbath morning. Keep set this apart specifically for worshiping and serving the Lord with his people in the way that he's commanded. We violated that. Certainly we have. Certainly we have. But Jesus bore the judgment for that. Now those are the first two, the first four commandments, and they focus on The first greatest commandment which sums up all four of those, which is love God. All of those summarize what it means, what it looks like in practical living, love God. And the fourth command the fourth commandment, remember and keep holy the Sabbath day. God's the one who created days. He's the one who created weeks. He's the one who created us and keeps us alive. We give him one day. We give him the other days too, but in a special way with his people to worship him and serve him. So the first four commandments. How have you done? How have you done last week? Even as a believer who has the Holy Spirit and has been growing in grace. How have we done? You see, there's a reason why the book of Hebrews particularly makes such a big deal about that Jesus continues to live, continues to intercede for us, which assumes we continually have a need. We have a need for the intercession of Christ in heaven. It's not because we can lose our salvation. It's not because our salvation isn't settled. It's because we still sin. We still sin. We still need help. We still need a mediator. Becoming a Christian and being saved is not a static thing. Or something you do once and move on with your life. It's a dynamic thing. It's a dynamic process of spiritual growth. Daily communion with Jesus. And in that relationship, He's the mediator. We're the sinner who needs mediation. He ever lives and serves as our high priest. So all, and those are just the first four commandments. We need a sin bearer. We need someone to die in our place, someone who qualifies as a representative. Someone who's lived a righteous life so that his sacrifice will actually be accepted. We need Jesus. We need the Son of God. We need God to give us His Son, His only begotten Son, a compassionate brother. an obedient son, a substitute offering, which means he offered himself as a substitute for us. He went in our place. He went in our place. So that we don't come under the judgment that we certainly deserve. And if we're honest with ourselves, if we could just tune out the world and the messages from the world and from our own sinful flesh. If we could just tune it out and stop believing the lies that we're just fine the way we are and there's no problem. And if we could just be honest. If God's Spirit will enable us to be honest with ourselves, we know that we're unrighteous. We know that we're unworthy. We know that we've we've just made a practice of breaking God's commandments like it's going out of style. And think nothing of it. We need a Savior. We need a Savior. We need Jesus. One of the one of the key components of our witness to the world around us, to the watching world is we are keenly aware of our need for a savior. And we talk about our need for a savior. We talk about our need for the forgiveness of sins. If we're never talking about these things, it's almost as if it's not real for us. It's almost as if we don't believe these things. We must be a people who are living examples. Living examples of those who have a desperate, deep felt need for forgiveness. Now that will wake people up. They'll see that. And it's just completely the opposite of the self-righteousness and self-confidence and self-esteem movement in the world. He came, he lived, he died, he rose. He rose to eternal life, providing hope in the face of certain death. He rose to eternal life, providing hope in the face of certain death. In the incarnation, that's the point one Jesus came. To qualify as our representative to share in our situation. He lived, he lived a righteous life that he then gives to us as a gift to all who would come to him in faith. He died a sacrificial death, bearing our sin, bearing our guilt, bearing the wrath that we deserve. On the cross He says is where he saves us from sin and from the law, from sin, and in his resurrection, he saves us from death by providing eternal life. That's where he provides the uh the alternative to condemnation. You know the reward for obedience is eternal life. Now, that's what all of this is about. The whole Bible is about this. Adam forfeit this reward. And God came With judgment, but judgment that was restrained. God also came with the promise of a redeemer. The rest of the Bible is about this The rest of the Bible is about this Redeemer, this promised Redeemer that will one day come, fulfill the law, obey God's commandments. And provide eternal life. He earns the reward for himself. And then what he does, he graciously shares that reward with sinners. Eternal life. It's incredible. It's incredible. He shares this gift with us. Jesus is a compassionate brother. He's an obedient son. He's a substitute offering. And he is the resurrection and the life. He's the resurrection and the life This is not of this world. Christianity is not a r uh a religion of this world. This is otherworldly. This is supernatural. This is spiritual stuff that has to do with your soul. It has to do with heaven. It has to do with your eternal future. This is eternal life. This is incredible. This is absolutely incredible. How we could ever think this is boring or somehow make this boring is beyond me. Well, no, it's not. The sinful flesh. That's how, right? We're all sinners, and we need to we all need to grow. Let's make sure we're moving in the right direction. Salvation is accomplished by Jesus. Please don't ever forget. The individual, that's the historical, the individual, the person, must receive Jesus by faith. And anyone could come on any given day, any time, place, any sinner. can come to God through faith in Jesus. The gospel has the power to do that. John three sixteen, God so loved the world, he gave his only Son, that whoever believes in him should not perish, but have eternal life. A relationship with God that never ends. For God did not send his son into the world to condemn the world, but in order that the world might be saved through him. Through him. Let's pray. Are you guys doing another song or are we through? Through. Alright. I'll pray and then we're done. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Thank you for your work in our lives. We pray that you continue that work. We trust that you will. We expect that you will. We ask for your help. We ask for strength by the Holy Spirit. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen.