Well, Church, the words in which we'll examine this morning come out of 2 Corinthians chapter 7, verse 1. 2 Corinthians chapter Chapter seven verse one. It's all I can handle this morning. One single verse. And that's good enough for us. The Lord speaks through his word and reveals his truth to us, even in one simple verse. This morning we're talking about the fear of God. The fear of God. We're going to see how the fear of God in our lives as Christians Causes us, drives us, motivates us to live differently. To live different than how we were before Christ, before we had faith. But before we get there, we must understand there's another side of the fear of God, the fear of the Lord. Picture a a quarter. I don't know if we still have those today, everything's digital, but if you if you have a quarter, you know there's two sides to the coin. That's two sides to the coin this quarter, a heads and a tails. And on one side you see the face of the president whose name is George Washington. Good. I've seen the younger generation if they knew it or not. Yes, George Washington. Well and then on the back side, it's different, right? There's a bird on there. A crow? An eagle, yes. So on one side it's a picture of George Washington, on the other side it's an eagle. But it's the same question. Point. It just looks different as we appear at it from a different angle, from a different side. Well, likewise, the fear of God, we must understand, has two sides of it. There's the side that we see the fear of God we have, the fear of the Lord we have before being his child. And then we're going to see the other side this morning. This is where we're going to spend most of our time. It's seeing that the fear of the Lord looks quite different once you recognize, once you have faith in Christ and you are a child of God, you'll recognize the fear of the Lord is much different. As we see the dynamics, the beauty of the fear of God, the fear of the Lord, we must recognize that all throughout Scripture it's talked about. So we must We must have an understanding. But this word fear can cause great harm if we do not understand it. You know, sometimes when we think about fear, the first thing our mind goes to is is Halloween, you know that see the signs for the haunted houses or the scary movies. Or sometimes we just think about uh maybe a broken and and corrupt relationship we were in that we were fearful of that person in that relationship. Or if you've ever been in a car accident, the moments of that car accident, you just you're fearful for your life. And when that sits on our mind is the only thing that fear can mean. It really corrupts our understanding of what it means to fear God, does it not? I if this is all we're thinking about is you want me to be afraid, like scared of God, this This doesn't seem like a God I want to follow. This doesn't seem like a God that's out there to redeem and save sinners. This doesn't seem like a God that actually cares and loves Me. Well it's because this language of fear is is very specific in English, but actually it can be broader, both in English, we just don't use it as much. but especially in the the language of the Bible that fear actually has a a range of meanings The first fear we're going to look at, the one you have before being a child of God, before faith in Christ, before you are a Christian and redeemed by the blood of Christ, this is the type of fear It's a fear that you are shuddering in God's holiness and your understanding of your wretchedness. That fear, that's that's the the ass scary. The the uh oh this is bad type of fear because you're shuddering in God's holiness, his perfection. Him being the perfect judge that judges all sin righteous. And you recognize that you are a wretched sinner that has rebelled and sinned against that holy God. I hope you feel fear there. If you're recognizing God's holiness and you're recognizing your wretchedness and your sinfulness, oh brothers and sisters, we should Shudder in the presence of that holy God. But we actually see a turn here. This is the one side of the coin that we're talking about, but on the other side, this is the side of fear as the Christian. As we are amazed and in awe of the might, the glory, the love, the grace, the mercy, the holiness of our God That word all is going to be essential for us. Are you amazed at who God is? Are you amazed at what God has done for a sinner like you? Are you amazed that the Father sent his son to die on the cross for sinners like you and me That he paid the price for your sins, that he was buried in the grave, that he was resurrected from the tomb, and sits in heaven today, being king over all of heaven and earth. Are you in awe of this truth? Are you in awe of a God that the Spirit has come into you, has taken you, the dead sinner, and brought you alive in Christ? Are you amazed at this? truth and this beauty. Well friends, if you recognize this fear of the Lord, the amazement, the all-struckness that we have for God, we will be living lives that look quite differently. So now let us look at our texts. Second Corinthians chapter 7 verse 1 Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear. of God. Let me read it again. Since we have these promises, Paul's pointing back to the previous section, chapter 6, where he talks about God dwelling with his people. Since we have these promises that God dwells with us, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion in the fear of God. For my desire this morning is to spur us on as Christians, to fight against sin, to fight against temptation, and put it to death every Single day. day. And then also to fall in love with God and be obedient to His commandments, be obedient to His law, be obedient to walk with Him every day of our lives So this is the fear of God. The first one, the first eye of the coin we must look at is number one, the fear of God convicts the soul of the sinner. The fear of God convicts the soul of the sinner. When we recognize, this is the fear, recognizing that God is holy and you are a wretched sinner. God is the judge that will judge all our deeds, and we don't have a good uh report to give to him. sinner. That fear before Christ, before we have faith in Christ, that fear should grip our souls. It should convict us of our sins. It should cause us to weep in pain and agony, recognizing that we will stand before a holy God and we are sinners that have no way to pay for our own sins. Friends, if you're in here this morning and you're not a Christian, if you've never placed faith in Christ, let me tell you now that one day you will stand before the judge. And you are a sinner, just like every other person in this room. And you cannot solve this problem. You cannot fix your sin problem on your own. You can't pay it off. You can't work hard enough. You can't go to church enough. You can't pray enough. There's nothing you can do on your own strength to fix this problem. May you see that you will be found guilty on the day of judgment. The moment you go stand before the Holy Judge, you will be found guilty of your crimes. Of your sins. But the only way to solve this problem is to recognize that Christ has paid our debts. Christ has paid for our sins on the cross The fear that we have before Christ, the fear we have before a holy God, recognizing that we are a wretched sinner, should cause us to run to the cross of Christ. It should cause us to fall down and cry out to the Lord. It should mold our hearts. The conviction of our souls tells us that we're wrong and that we're sinners. And it should immediately change us and turn us to have faith in Christ. We must recognize that it is the work of the Spirit that convicts us of our crimes and our sins and gives us faith to believe in Christ, that He pays that penalty that we deserve to pay. Turn with me to Luke chapter twelve. Jesus himself speaks of this way Sometimes we don't like this language of fearing the Lord, talking about him being a just judge, and that we should be afraid of standing before a holy God as wretched sinners. But Jesus says it in Luke 12, verse 4. I tell you, my friends, do not fear those who kill the body, and after that have nothing more that they can do. But I will warn you of whom to fear. Fear him who after he is killed has authority to cast you into hell. This type of fear of just being terrified and shuddering in the presence of someone, this type of fear we often put at the feet of man. We're afraid of maybe our boss. We're afraid of the government. We're afraid of the world and the wicked deeds that are happening all around us. We're afraid of our bodies decaying and falling apart. We're afraid of going to see the doctor and having the report that maybe we just haven't been as healthy as we should have been. But Jesus is telling us not to fear man. Man has no authority over you once you die. Man cannot reach into the grave and grasp your soul and do anything to it. Who can? God He tells us in verse 5, but I warn you whom to fear. Fear him who after he has killed has authority to cast you into hell. If you have not been gripped by the spear of the Lord to recognize that He will judge, that He will cast the sinner into the lake of fire for eternity. You will be separated from the Holy God for eternity. If you have not been gripped by that, I cry out to you this morning. You don't know when that day will be. You do not know the day you will stand before the judge And he is calling now. He is crying out now. He is saying now that if you stand before him And you do not have faith in Christ that he has died on the cross and bought you at a great price, then you will be cast into hell forever. , Now, what kind of story is this? What what kind of joy should we have in this? That we're sinners and God is holy? Well, friends, let me now turn the coin over. Over for us. Because what we see is that actually, because Christ died on the cross for us, because Christ poured out his blood for us, paid for our sins. Paid the price that us wretched sinners deserve to pay. Because he paid for that price, we now can be born again. We can have new life in Christ. How does this happen? Is faith in him Do you believe that you are a sinner? Do you believe that you deserve the just punishment of eternal destruction and separation from God? Do you believe that Christ is the only payment for your sins? Sins. Do you believe that? Come to him. Do you believe that he rose from the grave? Do you believe that he is so victorious that not even death nor sin could hold him down? Come to him. Do you believe that he has ascended into the heavens and now he sits at the right hand of the Father, having dominion over heaven and earth? Come to him. Brothers, the call is simple. Go, believe, trust, have faith in the only one that can save sinners from the wrath of God. That's Christ. And if that happens, if you are in that camp today, if your identity is in Christ, you are a child of God, I have great and wonderful news For you. Your fear of the Lord looks quite different. Your fear of the Lord is that amazement and that awe, the beauty and recognition of who God is, his might, his glory, his grace. You don't shudder in fear of your sins anymore because you have been forgiven. You don't shudder in fear of God's judgment upon you because Christ has paid for your sins. You now sit in awe. You fall down at his feet in amazement of who he is and what he has done. Look with me in 2 Corinthians chapter 5. Second Corinthians chapter 5, verse 17. Therefore, if anyone is in Christ, he is a new creator. You're not a wretched sinner anymore. You are a saint and a child of God when you have faith in Christ. The old has passed away. Behold, the new has come. All this is from God, who through Christ reconciled us to himself and gave us the ministry of reconciliation. Friends, this morning, if you fear the Lord and your His judgment upon you, this call is for you. Come to Christ. Brothers and sisters, this morning, if you have faith in Christ, this identity is for you. you. You are a new creation. You have been reconciled to the Holy God through Christ Jesus. So now what do we do? How now shall we live? This is what we read in 2 Corinthians chapter 7. Since we have these promises, beloved, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit, bringing holiness to completion. And the fear of God. The promises that we see in chapter 6 is the promise that when you are the new creation, when you have faith in Christ, you have been bought by the blood of Christ, you become Become a new creation. The old is dead. The old has passed away. The old is gone. And now you are alive in Christ. This is the new creation that Jesus talks about in John 3. You have been born again. The Holy Spirit has indwelled you and made you new. Your heart of stone has been ripped out, and a new heart of living flesh has been put in. This newness now tells us and shows us that God is dwelling amongst us. Where does God dwell now? In us. He doesn't have a physical temple that he he sits in like we see in the old covenant. We don't see that we're we're always trying to go back to a temple structure where uh one person, the high priest, can go into the Holy of Holies once a year and then and only then can can God have a special presence with his people there? No, no, no. All that has gone away because of Christ. This is good news for us. We now see that the Holy Spirit indwells us. God dwells in us. If you are a believer in Christ, you are his dwelling place. You are a new creation. You are where he dwells and lives and moves. So why does this matter to us? It's because if we recognize this truth, if we recognize that God is dwelling with us, we then must understand That we must live lives that look different. Why? It 's because the Holy God isn't going to dwell with idols. The Holy God isn't going to live in a house full of filth. and destruction. Well holy God's not going to come and dwell with a corrupt people, a corruption that that is following after lusts and passions of the flesh. The holy God dwells with a holy people. Now here's our issue. Has anyone hit that perfectness yet? Is anyone perfect yet? You have an identity in Christ, your faith in Christ, you're born new, and now you're perfect. Don't sin anymore. You never struggle with sin and temptation. Anyone? Not yet, right? So what are we to do? How are we to understand this? How are we to move and live as Christians recognizing that we aren't perfect Well Paul tells us in chapter 7, verse 1, since we have these promises, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body. This is number two on your hand out there, and this is the other side of the fear of God. The fear of God motivates the saints to kill sin and temptation. Within their lives. The fear of God motivates the saints to kill sin and temptation within their lives. Recognize the name change that is happen here. Number one was the fear of God convicts the soul of the sinner. Number two, is different. The identity is different. The fear of God motivates the saints to kill sin and temptation with Within our lives. If you are not a Christian this morning, this is not for you. I'm not calling you to fight against your sin. I'm not fighting you to put your sin to death. Why? It's because you're not You cannot do it on your own. Sure, you may fight it off, you may fix some problems, but ultimately your heart is still broken and dead and a stone that has no life in it. You need a new heart from the Spirit of God. You need to be made new through the blood of Christ. When that happens, then your identity changes to saint. And now, because you're made new, you're a new creation, now through the fear of God, you're able to kill sin and temptation within your life. How does this happen? Well it's because we recognize the all of God. Turn with me to Hebrews chapter twelve. Twenty eight and twenty nine. Hebrews twelve twenty-eight and twenty-nine. Verse twenty-eight. Therefore, let us be grateful for receiving A kingdom that cannot be shaken. And thus let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and all. For our God is a consuming fire. Let us offer to God acceptable worship with reverence and awe. This is the fear aspect we're talking about Are you amazed at who God is? Has your soul been gripped at the beauty of salvation in Christ alone? If so, then let us worship him. Let us come before him. Let us rejoice in him. Because we recognize that he is You don't have to turn with me, but just listen as I read Psalm thirty-three. And it echoes a very similar language. Psalm thirty-three. Three verse eight reads There we go. Let all the earth fear the Lord. Let all the inhabitants of the world stand in awe of him. So how does this happen? It's because the the fear of God has been given to us through the Spirit and the new life we have, the new identity, and now as we're in all of God, let us cleanse ourselves. Let us fight against sin. Let us kill it. Let us kill sin and temptation within our lives. Why? It's because God's not going to dwell with sin. Such corruption. How do we do this though? How do we do this? It's by going to the Lord, trusting God, calling out to Him, repenting of our sin when it happened. Notice that Paul is using two words here. He's saying both the body and the spirit. Both are actions. And who we are deep down, in our thoughts, and our feelings and our emotions and our desires. We must kill the sin that's in our lives. So often, so many brothers and sisters in Christ are walking in unrepentant sin. Let me say again. So often, Christians are walking in unrepentant sin And they're wondering why is things so hard? Why do I not feel the presence of God? Why do I not have joy in the worship and gathering of the saints? and worshiping a holy God. Why do I do I feel as though I can't move past anything? It's because you have unrepentant sin. You're living as though you're still a wretched sinner. You're living as though your identity is still in the death in the flesh of who you once were. But we see that we have a new identity. So let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of the body and the spirit. What sins are you committing? Are you lying to your boss every chance you get? Husbands, are you lying to your wives? Just trying to twist the truth just a little bit so you don't get caught up in something? Children, are you lying to your parents? You didn't actually clean your room like you said you did. Let us get rid of this. Let us hate it as God hates it. What what 's your uses use usage of the internet look like? Is it just filled with filth and disgustingness? Get rid of it. If you are a new creation in God, he is dwelling amongst you, do you think God wants to sit in that filth? May we cast it out. May we destroy it. What other sins do we have that just seem to be present in our lives that we're not killing and fighting and repenting of? Do it now. Don't wait. Repent of your sins now and know that the Holy God forgives you because of the blood of Christ. And go to him. Do it now. Don't wait. Your relationship with your spouse is having problems if you have unrepentant sin in your life. Your relationship with your brothers and sisters in this church are having problems if you have unrepentant sin in your life. Now there's sins we don't know of that we commit and that we are uh we are unaware that we do at times. Do not fear those. Do not get all hung up. Well, maybe I just don't know of this sin. I I think a regular prayer of ours should be to the Lord to convict us of our sin. May we never think that we've gotten away with sin. May we never think that a sin is going to go on Unpunished. And we pray that out, but if if you don't have a sin on your mind, then let's move forward. But often we have sins that we know of that we haven't repented of But we're saying we have a relationship with God because of the reconciliation of Christ, but we aren't actually being reconciled. We're allowing this sin to just dwell and fester a moment. We're allowing it to get more and more disgusting and dirty and filthy. It's like that that that that sink of dishes. After dinner you just have a few dishes dishes right and it's not too bad. And if you just wash them and and and put 'em in the dishwasher, you're you're done and you sinks clean. But you say, no, I'm not gonna deal with it now. I'm not gonna deal with the filth now I'm gonna do it in a few days. And then what happens? You have the flies all around. You have the sink that's overflowing. You can't load the dishwasher because you have so many dishes That's kind of what our sin is like when we don't deal with it. We say, I'm going to deal with that sin later. Right now, I like it. It's not bothering me. Just a little lie, I'm going to keep it going. I'll deal with it later. And then what happens? That lie grows, grows, grows, and then there's just a a flat out war. It's just destruction happens. The relationship is destroyed. Let us deal with the sin that's before us. But Paul also says that we must Deal with both the sins that we are committing, but also of the body, but also of our spirit. Now, what is this? What kind of sins are we committing with our spirit? Well, where's your passions at? Where's your greatest desires in life? Let me let 's put it this way. Where's your lust at right now? What r if you say right now I say confess your sins, repent of your sins before a holy God, what's the first thing that comes to mind? Don't say it out loud. Keep it for now. But then what's your first response to being told to get rid of it? Is it uh I don't like that I don't like how that feels. That doesn't sound good. I actually like my sin more. I actually like this passion. I like this lust more than God. This morning I got to sit in the nursery. Not for a good reason necessarily, but I got to sit down there. And there they talked about the rich young ruler. What's he told? Get get rid of your possessions. And and does he turn away joyfully? No He doesn't actually want to give up anything. He doesn't want to turn from his old ways and live in a new way to God. His passions were of his own desires and of the flesh Friends, are you ready? Are you willing to give up even your desires and your temptations? There's a book that I encourage everyone to read. It's a short book called The Mortification of Sin. And there this talks about how we put to death sin and temptation, not just once in our lives. Not just often, but every day. Are you ready? Are you fighting against sin and temptation every day of your life, Christian? If you're saying no, I don't have to do that, I'm saying you're probably not understanding how disgusting and wicked sin actually is. How perverse temptation actually is. If you're saying I don't actually deal with that. That's not true. Are you are you fighting against it? I'm not saying are you falling into it, but are you fighting against sin and temptation? Brothers and sisters, I know I must every day. I have to. Why? It's because my heart wants to go back to the old ways of life very often. I want to go back to the things that on this earth feel really good and bring me joy. A perceived joy. Because I'm I'm losing and missing the awe and amazement I have of God at times And I must be reminded to turn back. In the fear of God, let us cleanse ourselves from every defilement of body and spirit Can I warn us about one of the problems we'll have if you start this journey this morning? If you say, okay, I'm actually going to fight against my sin. I'm actually going to put my sin to death and fight against temptation and kill it. The first problem is that you're going to rely on yourself. Alright, I'm going to do this on my own accord I'm now smarter than I was yesterday. Maybe. I'm now stronger. I have a stronger will than I did yesterday. And we say we're going to do this on our own. That's not what we're called to do. We're called to do this in the fear of God. of God and the reliance on the Spirit, recognizing that the Spirit has made us new, and the Spirit in our newness gives us the ability to fight and kill our sin and The second warning I want to give you is right now you have something on your mind and you say, I'm going to put this to death today. And I'm saying, good But that's not your only sin and temptation in your life. Friends, too often we get so focus focused in on one specific thing and we deal with it. We put a hundred percent of our effort into killing this one sin and all this other sin and temptation is just rampant in our lives. But because this one is sticking out in our minds, that's where our focus is. May I challenge us , encourage us, and call us to look at all sin, all defilement like God does. There's not a grading scale of what is a sin and separates you from God. It's all sin. Now judged differently according to the law, but may we see sin. May we see sin temptation and hate it regardless of how much we are drawn to it, how big it feels in our lives, may we hate all sin and temptation. May we not just get fixated on one sin this morning, but may we say this is who we are with all sins and all temptation, regardless if it is in our lives today or in the past, or maybe we'll never struggle with that sin. May we hate it and put it to death in the strength of the Spirit. The fear of God motivates the saints to kill sin and temptation within their lives because we recognize that the Holy God is dwelling with us. With joy may we fight against our sin. May with joy put our sin to death. And when it dies today, rejoice in the Lord. And when it comes back up tomorrow, turn back to the Lord and put it to death again. And you may do this until you're 104. For some, that's a long time away. For others. near each moment, right? But we must see that this fight doesn't end at any point in our lives. We do this continuously till our death. And with joy we do this As we start to fight our sin and we start to put our sin to death, we start to fight against our temptation, we put our temptation to death. In the fear of the Lord, we start to enjoy life a little differently. We start to enjoy the Christian life. We start to enjoy the relationships we have with our brothers and sisters. We start to enjoy the call God has laid before us, the work He has given us, the families He has given us, the friends He has given us. The ministry of proclaiming the gospel to our enemies that He has given us. But we must see that we have a call to kill Sin and temptation. The third aspect of the fear of the Lord is that the fear of God draws the saint to obedience. The fear of God draws the saint to obedience. Now, putting to death our sin, putting to death our temptation is part of the obedience. There's not really, that's not like a separate category, like uh You can kill your sin and fight against temptation and put it to death with and not be obedient. No, no, no. Part of the obedience is to kill your sin and temptation. But there's also another aspect of the obedience that isn't just killing and destroying sin and temptation. But it's also how we live. It's what we love. It's how we love one another. It's how we follow after God. How are we obedient to His law and His commandments? Turn with me to Romans 6. Romans 6, verse 1. Romans 6, verse 1. Friends, may we recognize that we are called to obedience. Don't fall for the lie. We were talking about this morning, Pastor Matt and I. Don't fall for the lie of some churches out there that say God is just love, and watch your Christian. He just wants you to be happy. Live your best life now. Enjoy life because you're forgiven in Christ's period. End of statement. Yes, all that's true, but there's actually a call to now live in the new reality you are as a Christian. This new creation. This this new identity you have because of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit. And Paul nails this in Romans. Read Romans, not right now, but tonight. Read Romans and see that Paul addresses the issue. that so many of us ask. He asks the questions in a rhetorical way, but then he gives the response to solve the problem that we may be thinking. So Romans 6, starting in verse 1. This is a longer section, but I think it's important for us to see it. What shall we say then? Are we to continue? In sin, that grace may abound. So are we to continue sinning if we have forgiveness in Christ? So that the grace of God may be magnitude. magnified because of his forgiveness. What does Paul say? By no means. How can And we who died to sin still live in it. Do you not know that all of us who have been baptized into Christ Jesus were baptized into his death? We were buried therefore with him by baptism into death death, in order that just as Christ was raised from the dead, by the glory of the Father, we too might walk in newness of life. Does any of that sound like we don't have a a following after Christ? Does any of that sound like your identity as a Christian is kind of just, meh, you don't do anything? Just sit there and chill out. I hope you're saying no, because we see here that we should walk in the newness of life. We should continue forward on the path, on the journey The new song that we sang this morning, uh that I can't think of the name of right now, is actually partially based off of uh Pilgrim's Progress, if you're familiar with with that that story. And it's about a uh it's a um story about how this young man named Christian is on this path going to uh the golden city. To heaven. And the whole time he's faced with temptations on one side and legalism over here. And a friend that's just trying to draw him into fun and joy of this life. And sometimes he veers off of that path, but ultimately he gets back on the path and keeps walking towards the glorious city of heaven, knowing that he's going to dwell with God forever. There's a life of obedience that we we are called to as Christians. May we not think that there's there's not something, there's not this following that we're called to. Because we are a new creation In Christ. That's the only way we can be obedient to God. That's the only way we can walk in the new life that He has called us to. It's because we have been made new by the blood of Christ. and dwelling of the Holy Spirit. But it continues on. Look with me in verse five of chapter six in Romans, for if we have been united with him in a death like this, we shall certainly be united with him in a A resurrection like this. We know that our old self was crucified with him in order that the body of sin might be brought to nothing, so that we would no longer be enslaved to sin Friends, this is one of the most liberating truths we can hear in the Bible. Is that our new identity in Christ breaks the chain makes us free. We are not enslaved to sin no more. No longer. We're not enslaved to sin. You can fight against sin You can put it to death. You can fight against temptation, and you can follow after your true and perfect master, who is the Lord. May we be in all of this truth. This is the fear of God that draws us, that we see that He has come. He has broken the chain That bound us to sin in the flesh. He has liberated us, given us a new heart, made us his child. May we see the imagination amazement of this truth. May we enjoy it. And now may we sit at his feet. May we sit before the Holy God and say, Because you have liberated me, I now want to follow after you wherever you go. go wherever you command. Tell me what to do. Tell me where to go. Are we seeking his word to understand what the law of God means for the Christian? Are we looking to his truth to say, what does holiness look like? How should a Christian be living? What does it look like to separate ourselves from our old nature and live in the new nature of God? Christ. I'm not saying it's it's necessarily easy and I have a a tens point program that if you You pay me two hundred bucks, I'll teach you the lessons. I'm telling you, go to the Word of God. Open your Bibles. Seek His truth. Not just in the New Testament, not just in the books that are short, but from Genesis to Revelation may you seek. see God 's call to holy living. May we see the failures of men, and may we s recognize ourselves in that. May we see the forgiveness of Christ found in the gospels and may we see his call to live in the Throughout the New Testament. May we see the whole identity of God throughout all of Scripture. May we follow after Him. There is a call to holy living. Are we perfect? No. But are we repenting of our failures, turning to the Lord and trusting Him? With fear of God, you seek to be a holy temple. For the Lord. With the fear of God, you seek to get rid of all your defilement and follow after God. I pray that you do. I pray that you desire that. I pray that when you come in here on Sunday mornings, you desire to hear the preaching of God's word. To refresh and to renew you, maybe to convict you at times, to strengthen you and lift you up. Oh, I hope you desire I hope you desire to come in here and hear the preaching of God's word that motivates you, drives you, draws you into obedience to God. May you not just be seeking to to put your hand to the plow only. Just trying to find the next work to do, the next service project, the next ministry. That you can get involved in and puff yourself up in your good works. But may what you seek the Lord with fear and awe and amazement of who God is. May you seek after him and say, what does obedience actually bring? look like in your life. It is the ministry. It is serving at times. It is coming to church. It is going on the mission field But often we seek those things first instead of seeking the Lord in fear and amazement at who he is. May we grow in our understanding of God. May we grow in what it means to be obedient to him. May we grow and understand that the word of God is what He uses for the Spirit to mold and shape us, sharpen us. Change us, make us new, sanctify us each day. Now you're thinking, man Anthony, you're just being too harsh. This call to obedience That's just being legalistic. You're just being old school and and you're just trying to say I have to I have to become Amish so that I can No, no, no, I'm not saying that I'm not saying that. I'm actually saying that the fear of God draws you to be obedient. And I'm just echoing what Jesus says in John 14. I want you to see this so you hear the words I'm saying. John 14, verse 15. And this is Jesus. He says, if you love me, you will keep my commandments. If you love me, you will keep my commandments. Now he's saying this to all people, and we are unable to keep his commandments perfectly. This is where his payment on the cross has made us new, but in our newness, the change of our Of sin are broken, and we are now a child of God, and we should desire to keep his commandments. We should desire to love him according to how he has called us to love. Him. We should desire to love him and to seek what his will is. We should desire to seek and understand what his commandments are for a Christian. We won't get it perfect in this life. And this is why Paul in 2 Corinthians 7 says that we're bringing holiness to completion in the faith. fear of God. That we are doing this day in and day out. We're we're living and seeking to be obedient to God. We are seeking to be A holy vessel, a holy dwelling place of God. Because we are made new in Christ, we have been cleansed of our sins through the blood of Christ. And that's we're seeking day in. We do it today, we do it tomorrow, the day after, after, after, after until we enter into glory. We are seeking to be holy. Not of our own strength, not of our own doing, but because we are a new creation in Christ. There's a pastor who once said that he's he's showing how how we've actually changed In our identity after the work of Christ on the cross, he says that Christ died on the cross so that you and your sins would die on the cross with him. And then he says that Christ was buried in the grave so that you and your sins would be buried with him. And we're saying yes and amen to this all the way. We we recognize this is what has happened. And then here, he says, Christ has resurrected from the grave so that you and not your sins would live new in Christ. Alone. You see that? That that when you were resurrected from your your deadness, when you were resurrected in Christ, what we use and and and baptism shows this the old goes down in death and the new comes up in life, you're Sin isn't tapped on with you. You're free from that. Now go and live accordingly. Now go and live and follow after your king. Is he the Lord of your life? Do you recognize that Christ has paid for your sins? Then go and follow him. Love him. Worship him. Do you recognize that each day you are becoming more and more like him because of the indwelling of the Holy Spirit? Then go and live in this reality. Friends, I want to encourage us this morning that the fear of God, the fear of God convicts the sinner. Once we have faith in Christ, when we are a new creation in him , The fear of God motivates us to kill our sin and our temptation. And we should be doing this regularly, daily. And that the fear of God also draws us to obedience in Him. Not of our own strength but through the strength we have in him. Let us pray. Heavenly Father, we thank you. We thank you for our Salvation. We thank you that you have redeemed sinners like us, that you have made us a new creation in Christ Jesus. Now, Lord, may we thank you We recognize this newness we have. May we live in this reality. Lord, can give us the strength to fight against our sin. Give us the strength The passions to hate our sins and temptation. Remind us regularly that you forgive us. Call us to repentance in you. Lord, call us and draw us into obedience to you. Give us the knowledge and wisdom to follow after you. Recognizing that a holy God is dwelling in us. Pray this in Christ's name. Amen.