Deuteronomy chapter six, calling this message the righteousness of Christ What I'd like us to think about today is the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Centrally. But alongside that, I'd like us to think about two other things. Number one, God 's law. That God requires perfect personal obedience to Specifically this morning, thinking about his moral law. But secondly, God's gospel That God, through Jesus, provides for us as a gift of grace the very thing that He requires. You see, salvation is not that God stops requiring righteousness. Salvation is this. For people Who cannot attain a righteousness of their own, God gives to them a righteousness in Jesus He provides for us the very thing that He requires. That's how we are saved. 1 Corinthians 1 30. The Apostle Paul writes this by his doing, by God's doing. You are in Christ Jesus, who has become to us wisdom from God And righteousness, and sanctification, and redemption. And one of those things was righteousness, that Jesus is our righteousness. And being clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ is the only way any one of us could stand before God and be approved and be accepted. So, the righteousness of Christ. Roman numero one, the journey's end. The journey 's end. The goal is righteousness before God. That's coming from verse 25. It will be righteousness for us, that's the key word, if we are careful to observe all this commandment before the Lord our God, just as he commanded. So, God gives the commandment. We observe the whole commandment just as He has commanded it. And if you do that , It will be a righteousness for us. And what we'll do in the Roman numeral two, just giving you a preview, is we're going to survey through this chapter and just look at the different aspects of what that obedience and what that righteousness would look like. is. But right now the journeys end that's thinking about the notion of a goal. The goal is righteousness Before God. God really does require perfect personal obedience That really is the goal. And when each one of us comes to the end of our journey and we stand before God, how will we stand before Him? Obedient or disobedient, righteous or unrighteous, covered in sin, covered in Guilt or covered in grace, forgiven by Jesus Christ. There are two ways to stand before God when that day comes. I pray that we would see our need for Jesus Christ. I pray that we would trust in Him and in Him alone to be acceptable before God. His righteousness, the righteousness of Jesus Christ, which is the title, is enough To satisfy God's requirement. It does not need to be supplemented by our good works. It does not need to be supplemented by religious activity or devotion. Jesus is enough. His righteousness is enough for us. Consider a couple of questions before we really get into this. First, what is righteousness? Just a basic definition. It's quite simply the state or the quality of being truly, purely right before God. So when we talk about the righteousness of Christ, it's a different category, it's a different uh degree than when you would talk about righteous living for a Christian, which would be a reflection of Jesus because of the work of the Spirit. That's a to a degree a righteousness, but that's not Righteousness. Okay, so darkness is the state of being dark. Blindness is the state of being blind. Kindness, you're getting the picture, is the state or the quality of being kind. Wellness, everyone's talking about wellness these days. It's the state or the quality of being Well, right? Happiness. Wickedness. Righteousness is the state or quality of being truly, purely right. Before God. And God is the very definition of right. So what we're saying there is you can stand before God and measure up to Him. That's righteousness. Jesus possesses something that no one else possesses. He achieved something no one else could ever achieve. He lived a life no one else would ever live. Perfect personal obedience to God in every way you can imagine. Every detail of his life, every secret thought, every hidden desire. We cannot say that for ourselves. Not only his deeds, but his motives behind his deeds. Not only his words, but his tone of voice. The intempt of his words. Every single aspect of Jesus' life was 100% godly, righteous, pleasing to God the Father. And just in the back of your mind, I really want this churning and simmering and spinning, any metaphor you could put on it, I want you to see how this is necessary for us to be saved. We need a righteous advocate. We need a perfect sacrifice on the cross. We need the law of God to be fulfilled. And Jesus said He came to fulfill the law. So that's the first question. What is righteousness? It's the state or quality of being truly, purely right before God. Second question Why talk about Jesus if he is not mentioned in Deuteronomy 6? Didn't Moses write this over A thousand years before Jesus came to earth? Well, the short answer is that's how the Bible Interprets the Bible. That's how the Bible wants us to interpret the Bible. We don't have time to uh take a timeout and do a lecture on this, but I 'll give you some cross-references The Old Testament promises and foreshadows Jesus. The New Testament is about Jesus fulfilling those promises. It's about Jesus filling or showing the reality behind those shadows. John one forty-five. Philip found Nathaniel and said to him, We have found him of whom Moses In the law and also the prophets wrote Jesus of Nazareth, the son of Joseph. That's what Philip says to Nathaniel. We found the one Moses wrote about in the law. So it makes perfect sense. We're in the law It's about Jesus. We're going to talk about Jesus. John 5, 46, Jesus says this. Some of the Pharisees and leaders are there arguing with Jesus about who he is. Arguing with Jesus about scripture, arguing with Jesus about who are the true heirs of Abraham. Jesus says this if you believed Moses Which implies what about them? They didn't believe Moses. They said they did, of course. But Jesus says, if you believe to Moses, if you really believed Moses then you would believe me because he wrote about me. So there it is again. Moses wrote about Jesus. Luke 24, 27. This is the risen Christ speaking. Then, beginning with Moses And with all the prophets, he explained to them the things concerning himself and all the scriptures Picture should be coming clear. So we're talking about Jesus because we're taking our cues from Jesus on how to understand the Scripture. We don't ever, ever remember this for your personal devotions. Don't ever read Any of Scripture, but especially the Old Testament. Don't read the Old Testament as if Jesus never came to fulfill those promises. Don't pretend as if Jesus didn't come, live a perfect life, die for the sins of his people, rise again to newness. Don't, in your interpretation and understanding of Scripture, don't act as if that didn't happen. And so that's what we're doing. We're interpreting Scripture in the context of the whole light of Scripture. Just one more cross-reference and we'll move on. This is big all the question. Why talk about Jesus if he's not mentioned in Deuteronomy 6? Well, because Moses wrote about him. Romans 3, 21 through 22. This is a big one. But now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been made known. And then there's comma, and then there's this next phrase. So, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been made known, comma , to which the law and the prophets testify. Okay, so the righteousness that we have in Christ, we get that righteousness apart from the law. It's by grace through faith. Amen? But the law And the prophets witnessed to it, spoke about it, foretold it, foreshadowed it. Verse 22, Romans 3, 21. Okay. 21 again. I'll just read it again to get the whole picture. Now, apart from the law, the righteousness of God has been made known, to which the law and the prophets testify. Verse 22, this righteousness is given through faith and the In Jesus Christ to all who believe. There's no difference between Jew and Gentile. So you can have a righteousness before God. Absolutely. Only through faith in Jesus Christ, not through your personal obedience to the law. Now, if you were to live for God, if you were to be with God forever, I pray that's what you want. It's to be with God forever. The goal is righteousness before God. When you breathe your last breath, when the lights fade, and you cross that great divide, when you come to journey's end. All these other questions and concerns will disappear and one question will remain. How will you stand Covered in sin and rebellion, or magnificently clothed in the righteousness of Jesus Christ. Quick point of application. We are not saved simply by acknowledging Jesus is righteous. Lots of people believed that he was a good person, even a perfect person, a great moral teacher, the greatest moral teacher, the most compassionate person ever. Just acknowledging those things doesn't quote get a person saved. Just think of marriage. Just acknowledging that your wife is a great woman doesn't make you a good husband. You should acknowledge that. And you should commit yourself to her in life and death. That's what makes the relationship. That's what makes you a husband. Love her, sacrifice for her, serve her, be faithful to her. Don't just say nice things about her and think nice things about her. Rather, be hers. And that's salvation. Don't just acknowledge this is true about Jesus, that's true about Jesus. Be his by faith. We are saved by receiving his righteousness as our own, by turning to God in repentance and faith in Jesus. Luke 5, 32, Jesus said, I have not come to call the righteous, but sinners to repentance. And sinners repent and come to Him, and He makes them righteous, gives them a righteousness that they did not earn and that we do not deserve. Roman numeral two, the Journey's Road This is from verses 1 through 24. We're going to look at it in sections. The journey's road. The path to righteousness is the multifaceted, multi-layered obedience. To God. So Roman numeral one in general terms was the requirement of God. This is The path of righteousness is obedience to God. Letter A do and keep his commands. This is verses one and three, if you'd like to look at it. Do and keep his commands. Now this is the commandment, the statutes and the judgments which the Lord your God has commanded me to teach you, that you might do them in the land where you were going over to possess it. so that you and your son and your grandson might fear the Lord your God to keep all his statutes and his commandments which I command you all the days of your life and that your days may be prolonged. O Israel, you should listen and be careful to do it, that it may be well with you. And that you may multiply greatly, just as the Lord, the God of your fathers, has promised you in a land flowing with milk and honey. Do and keep. And you will be blessed. God has a law. He truly requires that we do and keep his commands. But God also has a gospel. In Jesus, He mercifully provides the very thing that He requires because we could never do it on our own. Our message to the world is not keep the law and God will accept you. The message is Jesus kept the law. Jesus was accepted. Jesus died in the place of lawbreakers, rose again to give them eternal life. The message is not do the law and God will accept you. The message is Come to Jesus and God will accept you. 2 Corinthians 5, 21. God made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf. That's talking about the cross. The blood sacrifice of Jesus Christ on the cross in the place of sinners. God made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. What an amazing hate to use this word, it sounds so flippant , swap that occurs in salvation. Where he dies a sinner's death, we get to live the life, the eternal life. of a righteous and obedient son. Let her be. Love God with all you are above all else. This comes from verses four and five. Hear, O Israel, the Lord is our God, the Lord is one, and you shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your might. God has a law. He truly requires that we love him, but God has a gospel. In Jesus, God mercifully provides the very thing he requires. Let us see. Teach. Teach God's words faithfully. This comes from verses six through nine. These words, which are commanding you today, shall be on your heart. You shall teach them diligently to your sons and shall talk of them when you sit in your house and when you walk by the way and when you lie down and when you rise up in uh contemporary just pop language we would say we would just say this You want to be all about it. Just your life is defined by it. God's Word and the teaching of His Word. Verse 8: You shall bind them as a sign on your hand, and they shall be on, be as frontals on your forehead, you shall write them on the doorposts of your house and on your gates. Teach God 's words faithfully. Focuses there on the family and the home. That's the center, but it extends beyond that. Your whole life. Should be a faithful witness to God's word as He's revealed it. Letter D. Do not forget. Are we not a people prone to forget the goodness of the Lord? Do not forget the Lord His great power and redemption, his good gifts, or his covenant jealousy. Do not forget who the Lord is and what he's done. Verses ten through fifteen is where this comes from. Then it shall come about when the Lord your God brings you into the land, which he swore to your fathers, Abraham, Isaac, and Jacob, to give you. Great and splendid cities which you which you did not build, their gift, right? Verse 11, and houses full of good things which you did not fill, again, they're a gift. and hewn sisters, which you did not dig, again, it's a gift, vineyards and olive trees, which you did not plant, again it's a gift, and you eat and are satisfied, then watch yourself. Take heed of yourself that you do not forget the Lord who brought you from the land of Egypt out of the house of slavery. You shall fear only the Lord your God, and you shall worship him and swear by his name. You shall not follow other gods, any of the gods of the peoples who surround you. For the Lord your God in the midst of you is a jealous God. Because they belong to Him. They're His people. And He loves them. And He wants them. He's chosen them. Otherwise the anger of your of the Lord your God will be kindled against you, and he will wipe you off the face of the earth. I mean the structure of that passage is very clear. God's given you this, He's given you this, He's given you this, He's giving you this, He's giving you And the context he says several times, we'll see some of them, uh uh not only is he giving you all these things, but along the way he's manifesting himself with these So that you would be clear that this is supernatural, divine gifts that you're receiving. So when you are enjoying the splendor of all these gifts Don't forget the gift giver. God requires that. It's part of obeying his law is Simply remembering him, what he's done. Letter E, do not put the Lord your God to the test. This comes from verses 16 through 19. You shall not put the Lord your God to the test, as you did as you tested him at Massah. You should diligently Keep the commandments of the Lord your God, and his testimonies, and his statutes, which he has commanded you. You shall do what is right and good in the sight of the Lord. that it may be well with you, and that you may go in and possess the good land which the Lord swore to give your fathers, by driving out all your enemies from before you As the Lord has spoken. Do not put the Lord your God to the test One of the this is one of the passages that Jesus quoted when he was being tempted in the wilderness, and by and through through this he overcame. Now to put the Lord to the test means this, to put God on trial and bring charges against him. This is not simply struggling with your faith. This is not simply going through difficult trials that really test your faith. Those things are real. That's a part of the faith journey. That's not what this is. This is something diabolical. I mean, this could happen when you go through trials. This could happen When you uh are struggling, but not necessarily. Putting God to the test, bringing charges against God, this is when you accuse God of either not being present or not being good or not caring. This is blaming God. Mad at God. Pressing charges against God because he didn't give me this and he didn't do this. And he said he was going to do this. And where is he? He said he would be here. That's what the people of Israel did in the wilderness. That's putting God to the test. Do not put the Lord your God to the test. You struggle, we all struggle, we have trials, we all go through seasons of doubt. Going through a season of doubt is is different than being a skeptic. Alright? We're still in the flesh. We're still weak. We still have to grow. We're still being sanctified. That's not what this is. This is when you Press charges against God as if you are the judge and he needs to stand before you Letter F, remember who you are. You belong to God and that God seeks your good. Remember that you belong to God. If you're in Christ, then that God seeks your good. This comes from verses twenty through twenty-five. When your son asks you in time to come, What do the testimonies and the statutes and the judgments mean which the Lord our God commanded you? That's a great question He's asking, what's the meaning of the law? Why has God given us his word? Then you shall say to your son, We were slaves to Pharaoh in Egypt. And if you're highlighting or underlying, you could you could just underline we were. Right? Because that, why did God give us the law? It's about identity. We were slaves to Pharaoh in Egypt, and the Lord brought us from Egypt with a mighty hand. Moreover, the Lord showed great and distressing signs and wonders before our eyes against Egypt. Pharaoh and all his household. He 's an amazing picture here brought us out from there in order to bring us in, to give us the land. Which he has sworn to our fathers. Not only did he deliver us from slavery, and just leave us out there, but he's giving us an inheritance of our own. That's why God gives the law, so that we'd remember that. We'd remember that that's our identity. That's who we are. We are people. We were slaves. God redeemed us, He's given us an inheritance. Verse 24 So the Lord commanded us to observe all these statutes, to fear the Lord our God, reverence him, right, with the supreme reverence, to fear the Lord our God for our Good. Always. It's for your good. God is for your good. His word is for your good. And for our survival as it is today. And it will be righteousness for us if we are careful to observe all this commandment before the Lord our God, just as He commanded. You can go all through this A, B, C, D, E, F. You're careful to do all those. Justice he commanded. If you do and keep his commands Love God with all you are above all else. Teach His teach His word faithfully. You don't forget Him or what He's done or what He's able to do, what He's given you. You don't put Him to the test. You don't blame Him. You don't bring charges against Him. And you remember who you are, that you belong to him. He redeemed you, and he seeks and wants your good. What road will you take? What journey will you embark on? If the path to righteousness is multifaceted, multi-layered obedience to God. We've got a huge problem. Sinners have a huge problem. Because we have proven over and over again In multifaceted, multi-layered ways, we cannot take this path. On our own, the only thing that we shine forth is disobedience. What in the world are sinners to do? Where in the world does that leave me? You, our neighbors If we want to end our journey with righteousness, we must begin with Jesus. He is the way. He is the door. He is our righteousness. 2 Corinthians 5 21, God made him who knew no sin to be sin on our behalf, so that we might become the righteousness of God in him. I'll give you another cross-reference. 1 Peter 3:18. Christ died. For sins, once for all. In other words, you don't need another sacrifice to help take away your sins, as if the cross wasn't enough. Once for all, the just for the unjust. Some translations, some interpretations will say, the righteous for the unrighteous, so that he would bring us to God, having been put to death in the flesh, but made alive in the spirit. Talking about his resurrection. Yes, God has a law. God has a law. He truly requires that we do and keep his commands, but God has the gospel. In Jesus, he mercifully provides the very thing that he requires. Luke 5 32. I have not come to call the righteous but sinners to repentance. I'll give you another little piece of practical application. Seeing Jesus' obedience as part of our salvation will change how you read the Bible, particularly Matthew, Mark, Luke, and John, the gospel narratives. Because when you see Jesus' life and you read about it, you see him obeying God You see him doing good works. You see him serving people. You see him loving his neighbor. You should at the same time see him as saving you. His work of saving does not begin at the cross. It ends. It is finished Jesus said that on the cross, at the cross, but it doesn't begin there. On every page and paragraph of the Gospels, what do we see? We see Jesus saving His active obedience, his perfect personal obedience is part of what makes him Savior It's part of how he just give you one example. When you see Jesus in the wilderness being tempted, being hungry, being weak, yet overcoming temptation and honoring God's word, Jesus is obeying God And he's saving his people. He's loving the Father, and he's loving you. Adam succumbed to temptation in the garden. Israel succumbed to temptation in the wilderness. Jesus did not. King David succumbed to temptation. The Apostle Peter succumbed to temptation. You and I succumb. Over. And over again to temptation, Jesus did not. He overcomes, and in his overcoming, he is actively saving those who could not So when you read about Jesus' life and his obedience and his righteousness, see that it's connected to how you We're saved. Roman numeral three, the heart of the journeyman. The heart of the journeyman, and I'll have to cut this down for time's sake. Verses four and five, the center and source of all obedience, love for God. First, we looked at the requirement of God, and then the the importance of obedience to God. The heart of that is love for God. Verses 4 and 5. Hero Israel The Lord is our God, the Lord is one, you shall love the Lord your God, all your heart and all your soul, and all your might. This is the greatest commandment. Matthew twenty-two, thirty-six. Teacher, which is the greatest Which is the great commandment in the law? And Jesus said to him, You shall love the Lord your God with all your heart, with all your soul, with all your mind. This is the great and foremost commandment. It's the greatest commandment because it is the foundational command, which simply means if you break a command of God, it means you already broke this one. If you lie to your parents, you already didn't love God in your heart. If you steal, you already decided you're not going to love God. This is a foundational commandment. You break any other commandment because you already broke the love commandment. It's the root sin that leads to the fruit of all other sins. It's also the foundational motive for obedience. There are lots of motives for obedience. This is the foundational one. For instance, if you want to glorify God, it's a great motive for obedience. But if you didn't love God first, you wouldn't care about glorifying God. That's a great motive for obedience. But if you didn't love God, you wouldn't care about representing Jesus well. So it's the foundational command, it's the foundational motive for obedience. Second, the love command sums up the whole law. It sums up the whole law because it sums up what God is worthy of Did you notice how emphatic this is? All your heart, all your soul, all your mind, all your strengths. You can think of the cross references and just the different phrases. Now the heart, just saying, love the Lord your God with your heart would have been emphatic enough because in the Jewish Jewish concept the idea of the heart was much much bigger than what we think of. We think of just emotions, maybe a little bit of commitment, but in in the in Judaism the heart was everything. It was your emotions, your commitments, it was the nature of your thoughts, it was the the direction of your mind, it was the direction of your will, it was the very identity of your soul. In Judaism, your heart basically was you. That would have been emphatic enough. That would have covered everything. But he just the emphasis, all your heart, all your soul, all your might. Why does he double down on the emphasis? Well, let me turn it into a different question for you. How do you put into words the kind of love Or the depth of love that an infinite, holy God deserves. What worship is the creator of all things worthy of? What what level of commitment in our lives is a holy and good God worthy of? What emotion What passion! What devotion? Think of how excited you get about your favorite sports team or your a great movie that's coming out. Your favorite pizza that you didn't know we were gonna have this for dinner. We're getting pizza What passion does God deserve The the way that we have loved him? Is that the level of what God deserves? Maybe all our love put together? Is that maybe the holiest of holy people who've ever lived Maybe you put it all together with ours. Our love. We need our love in there. And does that measure up to what God deserves? If we think for a second If that's what we think for a second, then cordially, we don't know God at all. Infinite Perfection, holiness, eternal, all-powerful, all-seeing, all good, creator of all things, visible, invisible Father, Son, Holy Spirit, beyond comprehension, blows the mind, but yet truly revealed in Scripture The definition of love, the definition of right, the definition of good, the definition of just, the definition of beauty, the source of all beauty, the source of all joy. He's outside of time, outs Out of space no limitations, no beginning, no end No needs, no lacks, no shortcomings, no sins. God. We are to love him in such a way that measures up to him. Love worthy of God. Only one person measures up to that. Can you guess his name? It relates to the title of the sermon. Only one obeyed. Only one kept the command. Only one loved God with all his heart, soul. mind and strength. There's only one for whom the heavens opened and a voice thundered from heaven and said, This is my beloved Son, in whom I am well pleased. Behold the righteousness of Jesus Christ. In fact, Hebrews 1 9 identifies Jesus as the only person who ever, quote, loved righteousness and hated lawlessness. Well, the third point there, just to give you the blank. The love command does what the law is meant to do better and more clearly than any other command. does is your blank there. The law is not meant to save. The law is meant to show us our need for a savior and point us to Christ. And the love command does that better and more clearly and more accurately. than uh any other command. But none of us needs it to take a month of solitude in a monastery hidden in the mountains to figure out that we do not love God with the love that He deserves. Okay. The love command shows us our need for a savior because it shows us the unworthiness of our love before God. We have a journeyman. who went where we could not go. He had the heart we could never have. His life was truly obedient because his life was truly centered on and sourced by one intense dominating Faithful traits, love for God. God has a law, it requires obedience, but God has a gospel. And Jesus And by virtue of his death and resurrection, God provides for us the very thing he requires. God gives us righteousness by giving us Jesus. Please. I beg you this morning, if you are outside of Christ, do not end your journey. And stand before God and then lose everything and have nothing. Please be found in Jesus Christ. Diraped with his righteousness that is enough for any sinner. I don't know when your last breath will occur, but it will occur. Would you stand Before God, by yourself, naked and alone, or with Jesus Christ as your advocate. You can share in Him this morning by turning to God in repentance. And faith. Would you trust in him? Trust in his death. Believe in his resurrection. That he'll make you right before God After I pray, we're going to sing. If this morning you would have Jesus, receive Jesus by faith. Or if you need to come forward with any spiritual need or request, won't you come at that time? I will be right up here to receive you. Let's pray, and then we'll sing. Father, we thank you for Jesus. Jesus, we thank you for your righteousness. And Holy Spirit, we thank you for your work in our hearts and minds. Jesus' name. Amen.