We continue in the Gospel of John, John chapter 8, this morning, verses 31 through 59. There's an outline in the bulletin. You'll also see it on the screen. Concerning truth, Jesus said to Pilate in John 18, I've come into this world for this to testify to the truth. Everyone who is of the truth listens to my voice. You remember what Pilate said: what is truth? Well, truth is the reality of things. The reality concerning God, concerning man. Concerning right, concerning wrong, concerning sin against God and judgment of God, concerning purpose in life Concerning life after death. If you believe God created the heavens and the earth Then you naturally believe we should look to God, the Creator, for truth about all of these things , Good news, he has revealed truth. And we honor God by seeking the truth, His truth. The setting of this passage is the temple grounds in Jerusalem. And Jesus is teaching, and he is teaching some who in the last verse, verse 30, It says, came to believe in him. Now, what exactly that means, we're going to see it it doesn't mean saving faith necessarily, at least for most of them. The Pharisees are still there in the temple area. They're still opposing Jesus. They're still looking for opportunity. Still wanting the people to recognize them, the Pharisees, as the standard of truth and righteousness Jesus made clear whose word the people should follow. That's our passage today. The first point of the outline, the source of the truth, that Jesus. Verse 31. So Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed him. But I would have to say from what we what will follow, believed in him, but were not yet disciples, not born-again believers. To those who had believed him, if you continue in my word, if you abide in my teaching, which is our subject tonight. 630. If you continue in my word, you keep hearing, believing , obeying. By the way, a part of our great commission task as a church is to teach disciples to observe all that I, all that Jesus has commanded us. That's what Jesus is speaking about here. If you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples, followers of mine. So just a practical application right here at the beginning, clear evidence that you are a true disciple of Jesus. Is your continued attention and devotion to the Word of God. If that's absent in your life, let me just say something's wrong spiritually. In your life. Continued attention to and devotion to Jesus' teaching. Verse 32. And you will know the truth. And the truth will make you free. If you continue in my word, then you are truly disciples of mine, and you will know the truth. And the truth will make you free. So the quest is to know the truth. The invitation of Jesus is that we can know the truth, not Just the best opinion of the best teacher. That was the Pharisees' way of speaking about truth. And they would argue back and forth. No. Truth according to Jesus. That's the invitation here. Now indeed, some truth in life can be found by common grace. We would call this a general revelation. For example, Romans 1 teaches us about that, that just by looking at the greatness of creation, you know something, someone You would be led to think of that, but but something great and powerful created this world. General revelation. But no quest for truth that is not centered in Christ, which would be special revelation, is sufficient. Because just having general revelation Well we can see it. It leads people to exalt human reason reason rather than Christ. And so, yes, something great created this world, brought it about. Oh so maybe it's a theory of evolution, right? That's what brought it about. No, not if we are seeking truth the right way. So just general revelation is not enough, but God has given us more than that. He's given us special revelation. General revelation, indeed, is enough to make everyone guilty before God for not acknowledging Him, for not seeking more truth But it is special revelation that we have through the scriptures, through Christ Himself, that we look to. And John opened the gospel with that. John chapter 1 verse 3, all things, speaking of Christ in creation, all things came into being through him, through Jesus. And apart from Jesus, nothing came into being. That has come into the source of truth, Jesus. Then look in verse 32, the blessing of the truth. Freedom. The truth will make you free. Well, philosophers have taken that little phrase and gone where they wanted to go with it. But for those who believe in Jesus as the source of truth, that's what John, that's what Jesus is speaking of. For those who believe in me as the source of truth, There will be true freedom. And Jesus will explain this freedom as a freedom from sin in verse 34. We'll get there. One of the effects of which uh the freedom of sin, one of the effects of sin is the inability to comprehend spiritual truth. And that is on display in a big way in this passage. We'll see that. It's on display even right here. The people heard the word free, and their thought was, wait a minute, we're not slaves. Look at verse 33. They answered him, we are Abraham's sin. And have never been enslaved to anyone. How is it that you say you will become free? Well, you have to ask the question. as a a student of the Bible and of history, what do they mean by that? They weren't ignorant of Israel's history and Egyptian slavery. They weren't ignorant of Current Roman rule, so I'm going to give them the benefit of the doubt that they haven't forgotten all that. I think what they're saying is we are Jews, we're God's people. God is our only master. Our thoughts are not held captive by anyone else. Sounded good. Sounded like a statement of faith. How would Jesus answer? Would be true. Verse 34. Jesus answered them, Truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin is the slave of sin. Yes, you're Abraham's descendants. I think Jesus is making the point. You're also Adam's descendant. And because of that, you've inherited a sin nature. And your sins show this to be true. And you are slaves, dominated by sins. Jesus then revealed the significance of this truth, verse 35. The slave does not remain in the house forever. Oh, what does that mean? It means there's no lasting inheritance for the slave. The son does remain forever. He's using An illustration they would very well understand in their culture. The slave does not remain in the house forever, the son does remain forever. In other words, he's just said you are the slave of sin. You are slaves to sin, with no hope of lasting spiritual inheritance In essence, he's saying, you don't have the hope of heaven. You don't have the hope of the kingdom to come. You need to be sons. You think that you're sons because of your physical lineage, you need to be sons. Spiritually. Verse 36. So if the Son, notice Jesus refers to himself as the Son. A title, a messianic title. So if the Son makes you free, we've already learned what that means by knowing and believing his truth. One then is free of sin 's penalty and power, sin 's enslavement. If the Son makes you free, you will be free indeed. Free from sin 's death penalty. Free from sin's death penalty in the future In that I will not be condemned to hell and eternal death, but have everlasting life. But also in the presence, separation from God now, that's spiritual death. Is taken away. And there is communion, fellowship, friendship with God. Free from sin 's power And effect over my understanding, my motivation in life, and my actions. You will be free indeed, free to understand the truth and free to follow the truth. Free to do what he suggested earlier, continue in my word. The third point of the outline Is the rejection of this truth, the rejection of the truth. It's my way of summing up a dialogue that shows the rejection of Jesus is a rejection of the truth. and that the rejection of Jesus and his truth is a reflection of the devil, the father of sin. And uh I I wish I could have been more clever with the outline, so I just put this third point. We're going to walk through it together, okay? And just see this dialogue between Jesus and them, and we'll pick up some interesting things and some things we can apply. To our lives. Verse 37. I know that you are Abraham's descendants, that is, Abraham's physical descendants, yet you seek to kill me. You seek to kill the promised Savior from God. By the way, the fulfillment of God's promise to Abraham. Because my word has no place in you. You've rejected my word. Where does my truth come from? Verse 38, Jesus explains, I speak the things which I have seen with my Father. I am one, he is saying, with God the Father. Therefore, you also do the things which you heard from your father. Uh-oh. What's he saying? He is saying you're in step with your father. Who would that be? The devil. The devil. They answered him and said to him, Abraham is our father. Jesus said to them, if you are Abraham's children, do the deeds of Abraham. Don't you love that? Do the deeds of Abraham. What was the deed? The great deed of Abraham was to believe. Believe God. He believed God and God counted it to him as righteousness. Believe. God has sent me, in other words, Jesus Jesus is saying. Verse 40. But as it is, you are seeking to kill me, a man who has told you the truth, which I heard from God. This Abraham did not do. Abraham believed God. By not believing me, you are doing the opposite of Abraham. You're doing the deeds, verse 41, of your father. You're seeking to destroy. Just like your true father, the devil. They said to him, We were not born of fornication. That's a puzzling statement, but I I I think it has to do not so much with their they're not trying I don't believe they're they're saying anything about Jesus. I think they're speaking about themselves that to suggest a different father other than Abraham, other than God Went against their understanding of their their spiritual heritage and their privilege in Abraham. So they're not they're not we're we're no, this is our lineage, they're saying we're not born of fornication. We have one Father, God. We're God's people, descendants of Abraham. Trying to make that point. Yell it out to Jesus. Jesus said to them, verse 42: If God were your father, you would love me. For I proceeded forth. And have come from God, for I have not even come on my own initiative, but He sent me. Think of what Jesus is saying to them. If you were spiritually related to God. You would love me. The word is agape. You would follow me. You would be committed to me. You would be devoted to me. Why do you not, verse 43, why do you not understand what I am saying? It is because you cannot hear my word. Their dullness of hearing is an evidence of their lostness. It's also often stated as a judgment of God. Their dullness of hearing. You you cannot hear my word. That's why you don't understand what I'm saying to you. Verse 44 You are of your father, the devil. By my count, that's about the third time he's said that here, the most clear. You are of your father, the devil, and you want to do the desires. of your father. He was a murderer from the beginning, and does not stand in the truth, because there is no truth in him. Whenever he speaks a lie, he speaks from his own nature, for he is a liar and the father. of lives. Of lies. So if you want a concise verse teaching on the devil, here's one, John chapter 8 and verse 44. But because I speak the truth, you do not believe me. And this rejection of truth shows that you are of the devil. Verse 46, which of you convicts me of sin? In other words, uh what for what reason Do what reason do you have for not believing me? H has my life discredited me? Well, yes, he healed on the Sabbath for some that discredited him but he's he's bringing that up again. For what sin do you for what action do you convict me of sin? If I speak truth, why do you not believe me? And then Jesus tells them why in verse 47. He who is of God hears the words of God. For this reason, you do not hear them. Because you are not of God. Think of who he's talking to. Some who had begun to believe in him, at least believe what he was teaching, but Pharisees there as well. He is saying to them, You are not of God. He is speaking prophetically. He is prophet, priest, and king. We see his prophetic office on full display here. Verse 48. The Jews answered and said to him, Do we not rightly say that you are a Samaritan? That's a derogatory comment. In other words, that you're lax in your observance of the law is probably what they mean. And have a demon. They resort to some more unfounded personal attack, seeking to discredit Jesus. We certainly see that practice in the world today, don't we? By politicians, by others, seeking to discredit others. But listen, it's not a good practice. It's not a practice that you should ever respect in anyone. It's not good politics, it is evil. It is a tactic of Satan. Because they're acting like him here. They're acting like their father. You should have no part. Jesus answers, I do not have a demon, but I honor my Father, and you dishonor me. Jesus speaks the truth But I do not seek my glory. There is one who sees my glory is understood and judges I love that. God the Father seeks Jesus glory, and God the Father will judge all concerning what they have done with Jesus. Have we sought to bring glory to Him? So in verse 50, my motive is to speak the truth for God's glory, and those who seek God's glory, if you really did, they listen to me. Verse 51, truly, truly, I say to you, if anyone keeps my word, he will never see death. I have words of spiritual life. I have words of eternal life. And we understand what he means by never see death. Death will never happen. Have the last word. Okay? We realize that we die physically in this present day, but death does not have the final word. Verse 52. The Jews said to him, Now we know you have a deal. They upped their attack. Abraham died, and the prophets also. And you say if anyone keeps my word, he will never taste death. And they're thinking just of physical death and not looking at the spiritual truth of what Jesus is saying. Surely, they say, you are not greater than our father Abraham, who died. The prophets died too. Whom do you make yourself out to be? Jesus answered. If I glorify myself, my glory is nothing. It is my Father who glorifies me, of whom you say He is our God. Uh I love how Jesus keeps command of the conversation and where the conversation is going. Back to uh his relationship With God. God glorifies me. This one you claim is your God, I claim as my Father. And he has testified of me. Let's think of some of the ways through scripture of the Old Testament fulfilled in Christ, through the angels proclaiming to Mary and others at the birth of Christ who he was. At his baptism speaking from heaven, this is my son in whom I am well pleased. Through the miracles of Christ's life, etc. God indeed has glorified Jesus. Verse 55. Whom you say he is our God, then fifty-five, and you have not come to know him But I know him. And if I say that I do not know him, I will be a liar like you. But I do know him and keep his word. Word. So clearly, Jesus is saying, you lie when you say you know him. I would be lying if I said I didn't know him. I know him and obey him. And then speaking of Abraham, that was mentioned back in verse 52. Abraham died Speaking of Abraham, verse 56, your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. Abraham, somehow from his vantage point in heaven, was able to see Jesus Day, if that's speaking of his incarnation, what a fulfillment of the covenant promised. That in Abraham all the nations would be blessed. For Abraham to know of the incarnation of the Son of God. And through his salvation, indeed, the gospel goes to all of the world, and all of the nations are blessed through Abraham's seed. Which is the way Paul puts it in the book of Galatians. So Abraham rejoiced. I think this verse is pointing to the incarnation of the Son of God. I don't know what I'm doing to cause that sound, but I'm trying not to do it, you know? Trying hard. Speaking of Abraham. No, continuing on verse 57. So the Jews said then, this is their response. Again, you see the ignorance. They're not following him. We understand that, but we learn a lot from the conversation. You're not yet 50 years old. And have you seen Abraham? Well Set Jesus up to give a spiritual principle that we can rejoice in. Jesus said to them, Truly, truly, I say to you, before Abraham was born. I am. The same way of referring to himself that God gave to Moses as a burning bush. I am the self-existing one. I existed before Abraham. I am God as the Father is God. I Jesus is essentially saying made Abraham Abraham knew me. If you were Abraham's children, you would know me, is the point he is continuing to make. Well, therefore. They picked up stones to throw at him. But Jesus hid himself and went out of the temple. They considered his words blasphemous They're also angry, but they do consider him to be blaspheming when he says what he says in verse 58. But his hour had not come, and so he is able to leave. That area. It is coming, but it had not come yet. Now what I want us to do is to go back to some of these verses and simply Take this passage of scripture personally to examine ourselves. So go back if you would to verse 34. Jesus taught there, truly, truly I say to you, everyone who commits sin Is the slave of sin. Just stopping there to realize that is the default position of every human being. To be enslaved to a sin nature that does not seek God apart from God's grace It does not desire the will of God. It's not that we don't desire some good things, but we don't desire the glory of God. So a slave of sin, unable to do the things we might want to do that seem good to us because of our sin. nature, the default position of every person. Look at verse 36 and ask yourself. Has this happened to you? If the sun makes you free, you will be free indeed. Not that I don't deal with the sin nature and you don't deal with the sin nature, but once we're born again, there is a freedom from its power. It doesn't dominate us. The spirit and the flesh do battle, but the spirit is within us to help us do the right thing, to desire the right thing, and to bring glory to Christ. Has that happened to you? Has the Son made you free? Or has there been no change? Look at verse 31. Does verse 31 describe you? Jesus was saying to those Jews who had believed in him, if you continue in my word. Then you are truly disciples of mine. Church, members, friends, are you continuing? In his word. Being here is part of that. Listening well is part of that, certainly. Being in a Bible study class is a part of that. But so is unrushed time. On your own, with scripture and in prayer. We'll be looking at that tonight in more detail. Continuing in his word. Does verse 32 describe you that you will know the truth? And the truth will make you free. Is there an increase? Is there a an accumulation of understanding? And Freedom because of that, that you can think in right ways, that you know you're understanding God and how He's working in this world and what He wants for the church and what He wants for you as a member of the Church And a freedom to proceed, to pursue that. Verse 42, does it describe you? Jesus said to them, if God were your father, you would love me. Can you say I love Jesus? I grow in my love for him, for what he did, but also my fellowship with him is so Hearing me from loving Jesus. Verse 47. He who is of God hears the words of God. Are you hearing the words of God in a recognition? I don't mean in any mystical way. I mean simply you have a heart for it and you go to it and it blesses your soul. Hearing the word of God. Verse 51. Anyone who keeps my word. Are you keeping the word of God? That's that goes back to earlier verse 13. Verse uh thirty-two, no thirty-one, continuing in his word , same idea. And then verse fifty-six does it describe Your father Abraham rejoiced to see my day, and he saw it and was glad. Are you more excited about Jesus, his kingdom, and his building of the church and his coming kingdom? Than you are about brownies and ice cream later today? Do you have joy in the things of Christ Gladness more than anything else in the things of Christ Now if you have a brownie ice cream, enjoy it. That's a simple pleasure. But I'm just talking about related to Jesus. Let's pray to God. Father, we give you thanks. We thank you for this dialogue. It shows certainly the the need, the mental need, the spiritual need of these Jews. So it gives us a j an opportunity to to look at simpleness of thought and Decision. But we don't rest there because we want to learn from what Jesus said. We want to grow in these principles that we've just looked at. So thank you. Help us to hear well and to continue in your word of God. Thank you for what you've taught us. Father, I pray that you speak to the hearts of the lost. May they be unsettled with their default position, with the destiny that awaits, apart from Christ. And for we who are in Christ, we look forward now to celebrating that which gives us hope, the gospel. Jesus' death, burial, resurrection. That way we might be forgiven. We thank you. We pray in Jesus' name. Amen.