Take you back to Your first waking thought this morning. What was it? What did you think about as your eyes, well your eyes might not have opened, but you realized I am awake. Now this is dangerous because you might have thought, I need more sleep. Uh and you and you might think that now, but no, not now. Your first thought, probably what time it is is it unless you awaken to an alarm and you kind of know Maybe some of you, what day is it? Sometimes I wake up on Sunday and I real that realization, because obviously an important day for a pastor , And the excitement and the the also awareness that this is an important day comes to me first thing in the morning. morning. But but perhaps it was how much longer can I sleep? Perhaps it was for some of you in busy households, is the bathroom clear? Come on, you know that can be a thought Or maybe, maybe for some of you, um, and I don't want to pick on just the ladies, guys, you two, maybe, but what will I wear? But for others Probably the probably the guy's what will I eat, right? That's what we think of. But I wonder what Jesus first thought was on the day that he met the woman at the well I think it's acceptable conjecture to say he thought of where his father's will would lead him on that day in some way, because it is prophesied of him that he awoke in morning by morning to listen as a disciple from Isaiah 50 verse 4. As we read John 4, it becomes increasingly evident that Jesus was quite aware that a simple request for a drink of water was going to turn into an opportunity to reveal the truth of who he was, the Messiah, not just to this one woman, but to many Samaritans. The phrase, Savior of the world, comes from the Samaritans' Declaration that I read a moment ago, verse 42. Look down to that We have heard for ourselves and know that this one is indeed the Savior of the world. The unfolding of this story, going through the verses together, is going to help us appreciate the fullness of meaning that is summed up in that phrase. Let's pray together. Lord God, we pray for your help as we listen, as I proclaim these truths But I pray you would stir our hearts by your Spirit as believers, revive us in appreciation, in thankfulness. In worship, revive us in burden for the world, in understanding of our part in that. And then, Father, would you awaken hearts Who are without Christ, who are part of the world, that you may deal with today, we pray. In Jesus' name. Amen. So you've got to see some points in the outline that's in the bulletin if you haven't found it there, but you can look at it there if you'd like to see where we're going. And and these are points that relate back to the phrase or to the up to the phrase. in verse 42 of Jesus being the Savior of the world. Point number one, Jesus' salvation is for anyone in the world. Verses 1 through 3, and then following. Therefore, when the Lord knew that the Pharisees When Jesus knew that the Pharisees has heard that Jesus was making and baptizing more disciples than John, although Jesus himself was not baptizing, but his disciples were. He left Judea and went away again into Galilee. Now the Pharisees had watched very closely the popularity of John the Baptist and then of Jesus as his ministry began to increase. And the Pharisees saw themselves as the authority on and guardian of God's will. And uh That was in many cases the right thing to do as religious leaders, but they were the ones. They were the unteachable ones you you you might understand and They wanted people to recognize that they were the authority and the guardian. They did know God's law, but they had added many traditions to it. and did not clearly understand, did not at all understand how it related to this one who was being proclaimed by John the Baptist as the Son of God. So they were unteachable and in a position of some authority Confrontation with the Pharisees would be inevitable. We know that in the Gospels between them and Jesus, but it wasn't time for that yet. Jesus would perform miracles to attest to his deity. John singles out several of those, seven of those in particular. Jesus must teach God's truth. All of us love the Sermon on the Mount and the teaching that is there relating the law of God to life, what the law really meant for life. Jesus must train his disciples. And so he departs to Galilee to distance himself from the religious leaders in Jerusalem, in the Judea area And look at verse 4. And he had to pass through Samaria. And between Judah, the southern part of Israel, and Galilee, the northern part, was this region called Samaria. Take you back in history for just a bit when the Assyrians captured the northern kingdom of Israel. Those who were many were transported out of the area, but those who weren't transported out of the region ended up remarrying with other nationalities that the Assyrians brought in. And this was an unforgivable crime in the eyes of dedicated Jews. They had lost their racial purity. It is still the case today that in strict Jewish households, if a son or daughter marries a Gentile, a non-Jew, his or her funeral service is carried out He's dead to the family, in other words. Later, that was the Assyrian invasion of the north, later when Babylonians captured the southern kingdom Judah, Judea and carried them off to Babylon, they refused to intermarry. They maintained their purity. And when exiles returned to Jerusalem and were rebuilding the temple, the Samaritans, you might remember, who had intermarried, offered to help to rebuild the temple, and they were told. That their help was not wanted. And that was about 450 years before the time of Christ, and the quarrel was just as bitter in Jesus' day. All that to say, some would choose to travel around Samaria, but that made the trip about twice as long. Jesus had to pass. through Samaria. Well, why did he have to? Uh I think uh just understanding the verses that come before to promptly leave Judea But I would say also he had to pass through Samaria to accomplish God's will, which obviously in chapter 4 is offering salvation to the Samarians. Samaritans, demonstrating that his salvation was for all of the world. Look at verse 5. So he came to a city of Samaria taught called Sikar. Near the parcel of ground that Jacob gave to his son Joseph. By the way, Joseph's bones that had been removed from Egypt were buried there And Jacob's well was there, verse 6. In other words, a well that Jacob had dug now a meeting place and a resting place. For travelers. So Jesus, being wearied from his journey, take note of his humanity there, as he lives his life in the flesh, was sitting thus by the well. And it was about the sixth hour, 6 p. m. There came a woman of Samaria to draw water. Jesus said to her, Give me a drink. For his disciples had gone away into the city to buy food. Now, this is an alarming thing for Jesus to say to this woman. It breaks down the social barrier of both race, a Jew speaking to a Samaritan, and gender, a man speaking to a woman, will find out later, a sinful woman Strict rabbis in Jesus' day thought it wrong for a rabbi to greet a woman in public. Jesus was thought of as a r rabbi, so many people would have thought him wrong to speak to them. Verse nine. She understood what was going on. On for Jews have no dealings with Samaritans, and I've already explained that. Jews would have thought it unclean To drink water drawn from a Samaritan vessel or with a Samaritan vessel. And so please underscore the fact that Jesus' request here Shows God's intention to save sinners from all the world. He is demonstrating that acceptance of God Secondly, Jesus is a gracious Savior, verses 10 through 19. A lesson from chapter 3. And Jesus' talk with Nicodemus is, as one preacher put it, no one is beyond the need of God's grace. Nicodemus, Pharisee, religious leader, was not beyond the need of God's grace. Grace. And a lesson from his talk with the woman at the well is no one is beyond the reach of God's grace. Good news for the world. Verse 10. Jesus answered and said to her, If you knew the gift of God, and who it is who says to you, Give me a drink You would have asked him, and he would have given you living water. Let's just go through those phrases. The gift of God here is salvation. A gracious gift. God's willingness to forgive personal sin. God's willingness to establish relationship where before there was a righteous separation due to your sin. Salvation, the gift of God. If you had known who it is who says to you, Jesus is referring, of course, to himself, he is the Savior sent by God. You would ask him. You would ask him for what? For salvation. And he would have given you living water. That is eternal life. The water here That Jesus can give pictures, eternal life. Living water was used, and we would have similar terms today. But living water was used for a spring of water, something uh bubbling up fresh, ongoing, uh clear and pure And so it pictures ongoing forgiveness, cleansing, peace with God that doesn't grow old. The gift is available to all, even adulterers like this woman We'll find that out in a moment. You know, some feel that God cannot forgive them. Some feel that they've already blown it in life and they are beyond God's forgiveness. They'll do the best they can. But they don't receive Jesus' offer because they feel they're too sinful. Well, several times in scripture told that that is sinful thinking, wrong thinking. Here is one of the passages that teach us that, and that this woman is offered the gift of eternal life. Life. Mark that. Paul is another example of it in the scripture. Jesus is saying that her sin was not greater than the grace of God. Maybe somebody here needs to hear that. That. Maybe somebody watching needs to hear that because your sin is not greater than the grace of God. She said to him, Sir, you have nothing to draw with, and the well is deep. Where then do you get that living water? She's thinking physically, of course. The well was about a hundred feet deep, we think, and Jesus had nothing to draw the water with. Where was he going to get this living water? Was he saying that water from Jacob's well wasn't good enough? Verse 12, you're not greater than our father Jacob, are you? Who gave us the well and drank of it himself and his sons and his cattle? So how can you improve on what was good enough for the patriarch Jacob? Do you claim to be greater than him? Do you claim to have greater water is the idea of her response? And Jesus answered and said to her, verse 13. Everyone who drinks of this water will thirst again. In other words, it's not the physical water that I'm speaking of. It's fine, but you will thirst again But whoever drinks of the water that I will give him shall never thirst. But the water that I will give him will become in him a well of water springing up to eternal life. Now think of it. By implication, he is saying, I am greater than Jacob, and yes, I have greater water. Drink Jacob's water, you thirst again. Drink my water, water from me, salvation, and you will never thirst again. He's describing the effect of salvation, of being born again spiritually, that the soul's thirst is quenched. Eternally, and nothing will take that away. The quenching results in eternal life. Life in a forgiven state of acceptance and fellowship with God, the Father. Life filled with the Spirit. So full of, or you might think, bubbling up like the spring, bubbling up with love, joy, peace, assurance of my status with God, assurance of eternal life. The woman said to him, Sir, give me this water, so I will not be thirsty nor come all the way here to draw She's still thinking physically, isn't she? The woman thinks what Jesus is offering is a i is a way to an easier life. Let's pump the brakes on that kind of thinking. Christianity is not necessarily an easier way. It is a right relationship with God. We don't know where it might lead, this disciple or that disciple. It's not easy for Saren right now. It's not easy easy for believers in Ukraine right now. It's not easy for many in the world in countries where the gospel is forbidden to be preached. Salvation is not for our ease. Salvation is for God's glory. Amen. Jesus pointedly calls the woman to repentance next for her sinful lifestyle. He confronts her with her spiritual need. She's thinking physically, but not after this. He said to her, go call your husband and come here The woman probably paused like I am, and answered and said, I have no husband. Jesus said to her, You have correctly said, I have no husband, for you have had five husbands, and the one whom you now have Is not your husband. This you have said truly. So Jesus leads her to understand that her personal lifestyle has been a sinful lifestyle, to understand her personal sin. Let me say that the good news of salvation, the good news of this living water cannot be understood by anyone today or received by anyone today without an understanding of our sin and guilt before God. This text certainly raises the question as to whether we should have contact with such sinners as this, but I would say for the sake of the gospel in an appropriate ways, yes, we should. The fact that Jesus knew the woman's sin makes her realize, well, Jesus was more than she thought she was. Verse 9. nineteen. The woman said to him, Sir, I perceive that you are a prophet. That's a good response, a natural response. Obviously Jesus is much more than that, but he told me things about myself. He must be Be a prophet. You're right about my sin. I do need to be right with God. Her her thoughts shift often in this passage, and right now they go to where do I go to get right with God? Look at verse 20. And we learn here that Jesus' salvation reaches anywhere in the world. Jesus' salvation reaches anywhere in the world. You'll see what I mean by that. Verse 20. Our fathers worshiped in this mountain. And you people, Jews, say that in Jerusalem is the place where men ought to worship So this Jewish prophet, in the thoughts of the woman at the well, has awakened her awareness that her lifestyle needs to be repented of. But there's a stumbling block, it seems. Where do I go to worship? Where do I go to seek forgiveness? Where do I go to submit myself to God? Do I do that Here, Mount Gerizim, or as the Jews claim, Jerusalem, the temple there. The Samaritans, by the way, had built the temple at Mount Gerizim. When they were barred from helping to rebuild the Jewish temple in Jerusalem. Well, Jesus answers the question for her, where do I go? He answers that uh answers it for us as well twelve verse twenty one. Jesus said to her, Woman, believe me, an hour is coming when neither in this mountain nor in Jerusalem will you worship the Father Once Jesus becomes a sacrifice for sins, which he knew he was on the way. be, one will not have to go to a special, specific place of worship to or to offer sacrifices anymore. Jerusalem as the proper place of worship was important, but all the time it pointed to a person. A Savior, as John the Baptist put it, the Lamb of God, Jesus Christ. And when he died on the cross, the purpose of the temple, and all that it pointed to, all that it pictured. Was fulfilled. And God's sign of that, so that we would know it, it's in the text, is that the veil in the temple was torn in two from top to bottom. bottom. The veil that was between the holy place and the holy of holies, basically making the temple useless. Not a need for it anymore. One Jesus had died. Because no longer through the blood of animals was one to approach God at a place, Jerusalem, but because of the blood of the Savior, from that day on. We can approach God at any place. A. T. Robertson, a famous Baptist Greek scholar, said, in Christ The worship of God was emancipated from bondage to place. That's good. That's a good word for the world. Jesus is Savior of the world. We couldn't go to Jerusalem, could we? Can you imagine the expense of that every time we were supposed to go to Jerusalem? No, today there is no physical location designated by God as the place of worship Jesus is building his church. We assemble in places all over the world. Verse 22 You worship, he's speaking to Samaritans, to the Samaritan woman, but to Samaritans in general, you worship what you do not know. We worship what we know, for salvation is from the Jews. Jesus is stating the truth about all Samaritans. The Samaritans only accepted the first five books of the Bible They were ignorant of God's revelation through the prophets and through the Psalms. In essence, Jesus is saying, you've developed your own ideas of what pleases God. We, the Jews, accept all of God's revelation, the entire Old Testament. Indeed, Paul says of the Jews that they were entrusted with the oracles of God. And the witness of the Jews' knowledge, Jesus says, to the woman, is that salvation Rescue from the penalty of sin, which the Samaritans need, proceeds from the Jews. The Messiah would be a Jew. Verse 23. But an hour is coming, and now is the Savior who will make such worship possible is in your midst. I believe that's what Jesus Jesus is pointing to the hour is coming, and now is when the true worshipers will worship the Father in spirit and truth. For such people The Father seeks to be his worshippers. There's a lot in verse 23, but just look at those last few words. Are those words near the end? The Father seeks. Praise God that he seeks worshipers. You and I wouldn't be worshipers of the true God if he did not seek Seek worshipers. Amen. I'm so thankful for his sovereign grace. Jesus Reveals that worship, true worship in verse 23, is a spiritual exercise. It is more than showing up at a place or at an assembly. of people. It is more than going through a routine. It takes place in the realm of the heart. So I asked the question many times. Of myself, and I ask it of you occasionally. How do we know when we are worshiping in spirit? Well, I believe it is when we are worshiping prayerfully, that is, consciously of God's presence Speaking to him, praying to him, thinking of him, as we learn of him and as we sing of him. Worship, true worship, is is also necessary according to this verse to be according to truth. That is revealed truth, God's word. Some people say I worship God in my own way. Well, that's not what God is seeking. God is seeking for worshipers who worship him in spirit and in truth. Verse 24, God is spirit, and thus he's present everywhere. So much in those three words. Uh much we could say. Let me just say it means he's present everywhere. He's not confined to a place, to a temple anywhere. He's impossible to represent by anything physical. We don't have anything on the walls to represent him. The plainness of this sanctuary, whether we knew it or not, focuses things here, the proclamation of his word. That's how we know him. God is spirit. And those who worship him must, this is necessary, must worship in spirit and truth. The Samaritan woman had used the same word must in verse 20 in regard to the place of worship. Jesus is saying place is not the necessity. There's not a must there. God is spirit. He's not locked into a place. This is the necessity that you worship Him in spirit and in truth The woman's thoughts turn again toward her understanding that Messiah will come, as she puts it. Let's look then at verses 25 and 26. And with the truth, Jesus is the Savior. She's looking for the Savior. He is right in front of her. Now we've been reading this account, knowing that we know the truth. But verse 25, we get into her mind a little bit. The woman said to him, I know that Messiah, which means anointed one, is coming. John adds, John the gospel, the disciple, the gospel writer, adds, he who is called Christ. Messiah being the Hebrew term, Christ being the Greek term. It means anointed, the anointed one. Kings were anointed. Priests were anointed. Sometimes prophets we see were anointed. I think God chose the title Messiah, Christ, anointed one, for the King of Kings. The priest of priests, the prophet of prophets. Prophet, priest, and king. We understand that Jesus was this. When that one comes, he will declare all things to us, she says. So she views the Messiah as a prophet, notice. That's the emphasis. He will declare. And that fits what the Samaritans knew of any messianic hope, the first five books of the Bible, remember? In Deuteronomy, there is a messianic hope. The Lord your God will raise up for you a prophet from me from among you, a prophet like me from among you, from your countrymen. You shall listen to him. Jesus said to her, verse 26, I who speak to you am he. Take that in. Literally, he is saying, I am the one speaking to you. In other words, that's how you would read it from the original language. I am the one speaking to you. So he's saying to the woman at the well, the one you're looking for, you're looking at. The one you are talking about, you're talking to. Jesus is saying, I am the Messiah, but he is also through the words I am, which show up together in the Greek, he is declaring his deity. I am was the name given when Moses asked for God's name, remember, at the burning bush. Jesus uses it several times and always on purpose to say, I who am equal with God. have come. I who speak to you am he. Verse 27. At this point his disciples came and they were amazed that he had been speaking with a woman because uh of the Jewish traditions, of course, yet no one said, why do you s what do you seek or why do you speak with her? By the way, our our concern and our conduct uh I'm sorry, our our our concern and our contact should reach all people. So in one way or another we need we need to get rid of these boundaries and we need to get rid of these obstacles that the disciples had in their minds for us today find ways to reach. All people, regardless of race, regardless of economic status, regardless of gender, and so forth. So the woman left her water pot. She left her water pot. There's not great significance there, probably not wanting to be slowed down because she's excited about telling others. She went into the city and said to the men, Come, see a man who told me all the things that I have done. Done. This is not the Christ, is it? God uses the testimony of a known sinner to draw others to Jesus. That's significant. One's past does not keep one from testifying to God's grace if they come to know something of God's grace. Grace. And they listened to her. They went out of the city and were coming to him. Fifthly, we see Jesus is a satisfied Savior. Verse thirty-one. Meanwhile the disciples were urging him, saying, Rabbi, eat But he said to them, I have food to eat that you do not know about. Remember he was weary? He was probably hungry too. But look at what he says here. I have food to eat that you do not know about. Something else is more important than that. In other words. The disciples were saying to one another, they're thinking physically, no one brought him anything to eat, did he? Jesus said to them, My food In other words, that which satisfies me, truly satisfies me, that which delights me, my food is to do the will of him who sent me. And to accomplish his work. In other words, Jesus is saying, I am fulfilled when the Father's work is accomplished. Now, if you are unfulfilled in life If there's aches and hungers in your heart for something more, seek to know and do the will of God. Maybe that's where the issue is. Wake up with a prayer. Not thinking, what am I going to eat? Okay, we might think that, but wake up with a prayer that God would lead you into His will in a more full way. Jesus is a satisfied Savior because he is accomplishing the will of God. And he's a successful Savior. Look at verse 35. And his success doesn't stop here. Just know that when I say he's a successful savior, he continues to build his kingdom all around this world as savior of the world. Do you not say, there are yet four months, and then comes the harvest? Behold, I say to you, lift up your eyes and look on the fields, that they are white for harvest. There are souls that are ripe for harvest, he is saying to his disciples. And they are Samaritans, remember. Already he who reaps is receiving wages and gathering fruit for life eternal, the salvation of souls. So that He who sows, Jesus, and he who reaps, probably the disciples, may rejoice together. So in this case, the harvest is coming on the same day as the sowing, and that's the power of God to work in hearts. Sometimes it happens that way, but not as often. For in the case, for in this case, verse 37, the saying is true: one sows and another reaps. That's normally the case. And we need to be ready and willing in his fields to do either task. Paul speaks of that in 1 Corinthians 3, verse 6. I planted, Apollos watered, but God was causing the growth. Verse 38, I sent you to reap that for which you have not labored. They didn't labor because they were in town, remember, getting food. Others have labored, Jesus and the Samaritan woman and her testimony, and you have entered into their labor, these who have come are ready to receive the truth. God 's will, notice here, is disciples, followers of Christ, then and now. God's will for us is the work of sowing and reaping. And some are called to special positions in the field, pastors, missionaries, and so forth, but all are called to work in the field. Take this personally. Then we see in verse 39, from that city many of the Samaritans believed in him because of the word of the woman who testified. He told me the things that I have done, all the things that I have done. So super knowledge, supernatural knowledge, convinced them he must be the Messiah. So we note again, God used her testimony, this sinful woman that was coming to faith in Jesus. Verse 40. So when the Samaritans came to Jesus, they were asking him to stay with them. Awakened faith, listen, awakened faith desires knowledge of Jesus , desires his word, desires his church. If that's not something that you desire in your life, then quite likely your faith is not awakened. You're not a believer. Because we see that And we see that throughout the book of Acts as well, that those who were saved came together and formed churches, quite naturally, assembling together, to learn together. In the book of, I mean in in the first chapters, the church in Jerusalem, it was a daily thing that they were doing. They were asking him to stay with them, and he stayed there two days. Many more believed because of his word. And they were saying to the woman, It is no longer because of what you said that we believe, for we have heard for ourselves and Know that this one is indeed the Savior of the world. Another's testimony can be used by God to awaken faith, but I want you to notice here That faith must be personal and individual. We're not saved by a parent's faith. We're not saved simply because a parent has told us what to believe. We're not saved by a spouse's faith. We're not saved by a friend's faith. No. God will use such testimony to draw men, women, and children to personally believe in Jesus. As I said earlier in the message, there'll be some understanding of sin, their need of a savior. There'll be repentance and faith together. And the receiving of Jesus in a personal way as Savior and Lord. A couple of implications or a few Number one, Savior of the world does not mean all the world will be saved, but that Jesus' salvation is for all the world, not just for the Jews. That's good news in this passage. To the Samaritans, to you and I, to everybody in every place in the world. There's no other plan of salvation for anyone, anywhere in the world. And let me say, if you'd like to talk to a pastor about your personal salvation, contact us. You have a card in the back of the pew that you can use to do that. Or just come up to us after the sermon. Service. Secondly, God is seeking true worshipers. Let me emphasize that. Perhaps He is seeking your heart for a deeper commitment to worship True worshipers, notice, will worship the Father in the text. That's the bottom line. They don't just talk about it or study it. They worship, exalting God prayerfully from the heart according to his revealed truth. And then thirdly, remember that tomorrow, when you wake, consider as Jesus surely did. Try to, try to discipline. m myself included, to discipline ourselves, to awake with the prayer, with the thought, where might God's will take me today in the opportunities of life? As a witness of his Grace. So here's the third point. Pray for eyes to see the need in the field, and pray for opportunity to labor in the field, sowing seed. Watering seed, reaping, rejoicing. And may we find, as Jesus found, satisfaction in that work. Let's pray together. Lord, we're captivated by the physical. We admit that as sin in our lives. But true believers here don't want to be. We want to we long to be satisfied with the things Jesus was satisfied with in his earthly life. Grow us in that, we pray, by your spirit by encouragement one to another and by opportunities this week to be involved in the field sowing watering reaping And Lord, we're forgetful people. So remind us in ways of these truths as we go through. The week together. And Father, I pray for that one in this place of the world that needs salvation, perhaps in this room, perhaps watching, perhaps Family member or friend of someone who's here, we pray for them. We pray that you would work by your spirit to convict of sin, of righteousness, of judgment, and show them Jesus. Draw them to Christ, we pray. It's in Jesus' name. Amen.