Welcome to the podcast. Today is Philippians chapter two. We've been looking at a lot of things for our present situation. practical discipleship, Christian living, the power of the Word of God right now. Last episode was the indwelling spirit. What I want us to do today is to look backward at what Christ did. to make all of this possible. So not exclusively. We can't only look backward to what Christ did. And I'll explain that when we get to that point in the text. But primarily I want us to focus on who is Jesus Christ? And what did he do so that we could be forgiven, have eternal life, be reconciled to God? And that is the person and work of Christ. So Philippians chapter 2. I'll read verses 1 through 5 just for the context. The context is Christian living. It is practical discipleship. But Paul's um method of helping the Philippians in practical discipleship and Christian living is to set their eyes on Christ, which is verses 6 and following So we'll start in Philippians 2 verse 1 to 5 just for context. So if there's any encouragement in Christ Any comfort from love, any participation in the Spirit, any affection and sympathy, complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being in full accord and of one mind. Do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourselves. Let each of you look not only to his own interests, but also to the interests of others, having this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ Jesus. Paulsy Obviously, there's some convicting and challenging, very important aspects of Christian living and discipleship there. That doesn't cover everything, but that's stuff that we all need to um be praying for and striving to grow in. Now to our main topic. I'll read verses 6 to 11 and then I'll shoot it over to you just to draw our hearts to the first topic, the first the first heading we want to break this up under. So verse 6, which picks up on Christ Jesus at the end of verse 5, all right. Christ Jesus, who, though he was in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grasped. but emptied himself by taking the form of a servant, being born in the likeness of men, and being found in human form, he humbled himself by becoming obedient to the point of death, even death on a cross. Therefore, God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name So that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow, in heaven and on earth, and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. It's a big deal. It is a big deal. It's great stuff, man. Yeah, so just uh to start with the very beginning of this chapter This command, this Christian living that's being instructed here first to complete my joy by being of the same mind, having the same love, being full accord. of one mind, do nothing from selfish ambition or conceit, but in humility count others more significant than yourself. Right off the face of it, it goes, that's a big ask. Do the things that are completely opposite of your nature. Yeah. And and so when we hear this, and this often happens with Being a Christian, you're like, we can't do it. And this is why that that verse five is so beautiful. Have this mind among yourselves which is yours in Christ Jesus or which Christ himself had. So we see this is who he is. And the reason that we're called to do this and the uh the only way that we can do it is because of Christ and what he has done. So it gives us hope. And then this the second part after five there shows us how much more Christ did. We're being asked to not be selfish while he laid down his life for us. So it's a really nice imagery there to see that there is hope. We can walk in obedience to God because of what Christ has done for us. It's a really neat passage. It's a great passage because it has Jesus as the example and it has Jesus as the savior. Yeah. And drawing out the details of how he's the savior. If we only had Jesus as the example But not a savior, that does not help us. That's just law. Um and so that can convict us of our sin, but that can't change our hearts. But that's not what we have. We have Jesus, the a perfect example of obedience, of humility, of Sacrificial love, and we have Jesus accomplishing salvation, which is what we have here. We have this humiliation and his exaltation. Verse 8, he humbled himself, that's his self-humbling, his humiliation. And then verse 9, God has highly exalted him. So the humiliation and the exaltation of Christ In other passages of Scripture, it'll be summarized as his suffering and his glory, his suffering through which he purchased our salvation. and then his glory, which is the reward for his work. And you could summarize that by saying his death and his resurrection, of course. Now, after his resurrection is his ascension and his enthronement in heaven. But summarizing it, you have death, resurrection, putting it into categories, you have his suffering, unto his glory, here you have his humiliation. uh and his exaltation and it's because of those two estates of Christ that they've been called that we can be saved. Yeah. So use the word humiliation. Um and and I think for our modern ears, that sounds really offensive and like maybe you're insulting Jesus. So will you explain what Jesus' humiliation is and what that means to us? Yeah, it means him being obedient to the point of death. It means the eternal son of God who is equal to God, who is God, which is verses uh that's verse six Though he's in the form of God, did not count equality with God a thing to be grass. Verse 7, all humiliation does is summarize what's written in verse seven eight. So if you don't like that term, just use a different term. It comes from verse eight. But here's the humiliation. Um the one who is God taking on the form of a servant. being born in the likeness of men, and being then being found in human form, he lowered himself. He lowered himself, he humbled himself, becoming obedient to the point of death. Not destroying his enemies on earth, defeating them in a spiritual sense, but not destroying his enemies on death, but allowing them to betray him, allowing them to arrest him, allowing them to beat him, to publicly humiliate him and execute him in this horrific way, the shameful way, death on a Roman cross. That's how he purchased our souls for God. Yeah. So humiliation is not a bad thing. It actually is part of the revelation of God's glorious grace. Yeah. And that connection there that The humiliation isn't limited just to the cross. Like, yes, that is humiliating, that's the humbling of of Christ. But the reality that the Son of God came down from heaven and took on flesh, becoming uh a mere man, uh, demonstrates his love for us with the humiliation that he didn't have to. He Could have stayed in heaven, could have never taken on flesh, had gone through this life and gone to the cross, didn't have to, yet he did. It magnifies the wonder of what Christ has done. Magnify the Wonder. That's a good book title. My Christmas song if I ever read one. Magnify the Wonder. Those words have to be in a Christmas song. Yeah, you'd have Is a m if it's a modern song though, you just have to say you have to say magnify the wonder like thirty times. And uh Just gonna lull everybody into this? No, I'm having a pipe organ. It's gonna be good. Pipe organ. But that's exactly what it does. It magnifies the wonder of God's grace, his power, his wisdom to confound the forces of darkness, to accomplish our salvation, to accomplish God's eternal purpose. To give this full revelation of divine love and grace through suffering and death publicly in a horrible way. But That's not where the story ends. Quick recap. You have the eternal Son of God is co-equal with the Father. And we haven't fleshed all of this out because we can't talk about everything in every single episode, but um co-equal with the Father, co-equal with the Holy Spirit, you have this uh this Son of God. who becomes a human being, so that he now is truly God and truly man. And um so you go from form of God, verse six to born in the likeness of men. Verse 7. So you have the person of Christ, he's God in man. Then you have the work of Christ on earth. perfect obedience and death on the cross. That's not where the story ends. So pick us up and from verse nine forward and uh g tell us the next chapter of the story. Yeah, so post humiliation. So he now from, so let's just recap verse 9. Therefore God has highly exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name. so that at the name of Jesus every knee should bow in heaven and on earth and under the earth, and every tongue confess that Jesus Christ is Lord to the glory of God the Father. If we would just stop at verse 8, so he died on the cross, like that's how verse 8 ends, and we stop there. Okay, that demonstrates the love and sacrifice of God. But now what? Like What are we to do? He he died. Like if the Son of God can be put to death and there's no hope for us. And that's why this the second part of the gospel and uh this section here is so important for us to be here and be reminded of and to believe that He then rose from the dead, and he was established as Lord and King over all. So while the enemies thought they won, they killed the Son of God, he died on the cross, buried in the grave, Satan and his team thinks they have victory. Now the Father raises the Son from the dead and establishes him as King and Lord over all, which is already rightly his But through all of this, it's magnified. Well wait a minute. Now you've said twice now Lord of all, maybe three times, although I can only remember twice. Lord of all. So not just Lord of my heart. No, no, no. Not just Lord of the church. No. Flesh this out. Well, I'll just I'll read what it says. It says, Exalted him and bestowed on him the name that is above every name So think of the greatest king, the greatest ruler, the greatest politician. Jesus is over them. And then it says so that at the name of Jesus Every knee should bow. Not just the Christians. Not just the ones that are saying, yeah, I recognize him as King and Lord, but that every knee will bow before him. So I'll The enemies don't recognize him as Lord. They will one day. And just because the the world, the enemies don't recognize him, doesn't mean his status as king isn't true. Nailed it. Right. Just because they don't acknowledge his authority does not nullify his authority. Right, right. Um, some cross-references, Ephesians 121 He reigns far above all rule and authority and power and dominion and above every name that is named, not only in this age, but also in the one to come. So it's not like we're waiting for the age to come and then he'll have this rule over all, far above every other authority. Um but it's in this age and in the age to come, of course, the Great Commission, all authority in heaven and on earth. has been given to him. And this shouldn't surprise people. Throughout the whole entire Bible, God is the King over the world, over heaven, over earth, over all the nations, over every king. The only difference now after the ascension of Christ is that global kingship is now mediated through the incarnate an exalted sun. But it's the same sovereign global lordship over all. Yeah. To go back to your phrase. And that so Let's drive this in that okay, we're talking about the world and all of creation. Yes, he's the Lord over, but now we're bringing it into the individual and not just our heart. Or I'm sorry, not just in the church. Like When we're instructed to not be selfish, conceit, and to have humility, it's not just on Sundays when we're in the church building together. It's also not just when you're around other people. The lordship of Christ goes all the way down to our thoughts, our feelings, our desires. um that our command to walk in obedience and the only way we can do that is to have the mind of Christ and to recognize that that matters in every single area of our life. That's really important for us to see. It's a it's daunting at first when you see that. You go, oh, that's that's unbelievable. I can't do it. And that's why we've got to stick to having this mind among yourselves, which is yours in Christ's time. It's supposed to be daunting. Yeah. It's supposed to look impossible. It's supposed to make us feel, not just no, but it's supposed to make us feel like there's no way we can make a millimeter of progress apart from Christ. It's supposed to be so daunting that it gets to it uh it brings us to this amazing thing that we wouldn't do otherwise and that is trust in God not in ourselves. to bring us to the end of ourselves. And um so that's Paul's method. And he gives the commands and he now he sets the eye on Christ. Because looking to Christ will enable us to obey. Um yes, go ahead. And he's not he Paul does this in other places in scripture. The focus of him being Lord and overall has a flavor and idea of him being judge in that we're we're sinners against the holy God. And that's a big deal. That's not what Paul does here. This is exalting and lifting up and um glorifying Christ that we're in awe. Like this is our king. This is amazing. This is great. Oh what joy it is that he is our King and He looks at us and says, You are mine. Um so sure we need to be concerned about sin and judgment, absolutely, but in this instance Paul's keeping our minds on the glory of Christ. Right. And he he's our advocate. Yeah. He is for us and he l loves us. So let's brainstorm for some practical application. I know we've already went there. Um that's where the chapter begins, but Let's see if there's any more dots we can connect with the person of Christ, both God and man. Maybe there's some practical application. uh there the uh the two stages of his work, his uh self humbling and his death on the cross, and then his exaltation and reign in heaven. Maybe there's some dots we can connect there, some encouragements we can give there. Um just trying to think of things people struggle with how this can Help them in practical ways. So does anything come to mind? Uh joy is what comes to mind because of verse two. I don't think that was in your list of being joyful, but We have a reason to be joyful today. It's not just the future, oh I'll be joyful when I get to heaven. Absolutely. You're right there. But we also have a reason to be joyful now because of what Christ has already accomplished. on our behalf. I think um assurance of salvation would be another one too sometimes we can Um shape our identity by looking at how we're performing And then measuring it in a worldly way. Right? So how am I doing in repenting of sin? How am I doing at being grieved at my sin? How am I doing in prayer and good works and on and on and on? And then we when we We're looking at our performance and then we measure it with a worldly measure and it just saps. Joy and it saps assurance from our hearts. And the truth is We have assurance because Christ died for us, paid the penalty for our sins. Has erased the guilt of all of our sins. We are reconciled to God. You are a child of God You are going to heaven because you've been joined to Christ. But living that out is so hard. Yeah. But I think assurance is another Application of look to Christ, look to Christ as your assurance, not to your performance. Yes. And it's a present reality. If you're in Christ, you're presently in Christ, like that's now, but you're also presently justified and righteous in Christ. That's what Ephesians 1, that's what it's turned into. Ephesians 1, 7, in him. we have redemption through his blood, the forgiveness of our trespasses, according to the riches of his grace, which he lavished upon us in all wisdom and insight, making known to us the mystery of his will, according to his purpose, which he set forth in Christ. as a plan for the fullness of time to unite all things to him, things in heaven and things on earth. It's not, and all this is either present or past. uh perfect tense. So it's not just in the future those things are going to be. It's a present reality. You in Christ you are redeemed. It's now. You're forgiven now, which then helps us be um Assured of our salvation. Yeah. It's really good. Would you make fun of me if I said if I said so there and I'll say yes. If I use the word experiential that um believing in Christ is not just intellectual, it's experiential. And that's why I said at the outset, we do want to primarily look back. in history from this passage and what Christ did to save us. But to do that only would be unbiblical because it takes him to being exalted in heaven as the reigning Lord. We are united to the reigning Lord. Our joy is in him. Our assurance is in him. Now, just to uh temper The last uh thing I was saying about la uh lacking assurance because you looking to your accomplish looking to your performance and then measuring it. in a worldly way. The fact is sometimes we do lack joy and assurance because we are being negligent. We're not at we're not availing ourselves of the means of grace. We're we could be spiritually a pro proud, excuse me, proud and think we don't need them. We can be spiritually lazy and And just be giving ourselves to other things and and distractions and we're not consistently receiving God's grace. through the word, through the preaching, through the Lord's Supper, and through prayer. And so sometimes actually it is perform. It is your performance. And and And then if you're saved, you know that. And then you have a guilt. And then the guilt also is going to drain more of true joy and assurance Yeah. So again, what's the remedy? You're just throwing all these things out here. Jesus is the remedy. Come to Jesus, cry out to Jesus, and avail yourselves of the means of grace, the things that God has given us, so that your heart can be infused with his grace. Yeah. We have to so Paul gives us the illustration, the imagery and the truth of Christ's humiliation. so that we recognize that we need to be humiliated, humbled before him, and see our need for him, see our need for Savior, see that our works are worthless without Christ. But then on the reverse, when or on the after Christ, after faith, we now need to see that we need him all the more to live. according to what he's called us to. We need him all the more to love one another and to love God because we couldn't do it before Christ So why do we think we can do it on our own? We just have a little Christ's face sprinkled. We need him to uh lead us and that takes humbling ourselves. Yeah. Yeah, and uh we should we should know now more than ever how much we need him. Like we don't decrease in sensing our need for Christ when we're saved. That's when we f start we first start learning how to sense our need for him. Um let me read one verse and then uh if Make some comments on it, and then after that, if you could make whatever closing comments you want to and close us in prayer. This is from 2 Timothy 1-1. There's this great clause at the end of 2 Timothy 1-1. Paul, an apostle of Christ Jesus by the will of God, according to the promise of the life that is in Christ Jesus Isn't that a great clause? The life that is in Christ Jesus. We have new life. Because we are in Christ Jesus. And there's different phrases. It's eternal life. It's life in fellowship with God. It's a spirit-filled, spirit-led life. It's a life where God is humbling us, teaching us. There are so many different aspects, but this is this the center point uh of experiencing God's grace is living the life that is in Christ Jesus. 2 Timothy 1. 1. Yeah. And it should bring a new a newness. and a joy to every aspect of our lives that um outside of Christ we don't understand. So as fathers we should have a a new um way of looking at being fathers because of Christ as as husbands. We should have a new way of looking at being husbands and conduct ourselves different than if we were outside of Christ. wives, the same children, how you live. When you come to Christ, you should start to respect and see your parents in a different light than you did before Christ. And then to that. Just preach. Preach that. But in every area of our lives, like we we change because of Christ and there's a freshness. So if we think, oh, well, this life's just boring and we're just doing the same thing. We're just trying to exist, trying to last till we get to heaven. Well, that's not what Paul says in Philippians. He's saying to live is Christ. Like this is. what he's doing. Yeah. Um, this is who he is and as long as he's here, this is his goal in life, is to live in Christ. And it's uh we need to have that same call. If you're a Christian and you're in that trap, you feel like Church is boring, Bible's boring, gospel is boring. If you're there, I don't know why you'd be listening to this podcast, but Come talk to us. Yeah. Like we we will help you with the Bible only by God's grace. But if it's all becoming bored to you and you're you're slipping away into apathy and joylessness and just a routine, please come talk to us, email us, whatever Should I close this out in prayer? Do it. Alright. Go before the Lord. Holy God, we thank you for sending your Son uh to take on flesh. To be man and to die on a cross for us. Lord, we we rejoice just as much that you rose him from the dead and now he sits in heaven He's the Lord of Lords, the King of Kings. So Lord, I ask that you remind us that every knee will bow before him, that the enemy is not winning, the enemy is not victorious, but that Christ is. He is the ultimate. Lord, I ask that you humble us before him, that we see our need for Christ. In salvation and sanctification in every way we live, we need Christ. Draw us to you more and more. We pray this in Christ's name. Amen.