First Peter one, chapter two, and uh going to read verses one through twelve. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and end Envy and all slander, like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk, that by it you may grow up into salvation And as you come to him, a living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God chosen. And precious , you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifice. sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. For it stands in Scripture, behold, I am laying in Zion a stone. a cornerstone, chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. So the honor is for you who believe. But for those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone, and a stone of stumbling, and a rock. of offense. And they stumble because they disobey the word as they were destined to do. But you are a chosen race. A royal priesthood, a holy nation, a people for his own possession, that you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light Once you were not a people, but yet now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. Beloved, I urge you as sojourners and exiles to abstain from the passions of the flesh. Which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers They may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. I'm calling this message the house Christ is building. The house Christ is building. That comes from verses four and five. As you come to him, Christ, as you come to him, a living stone, who is rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious, you yourselves, like living stones, are being built up. It's a spiritual house. So we're talking about the dwelling place of God on earth. Not the omnipresence of God, but the special revealed presence of God. When God spoke to Abraham, that's different than God's Omnipresence. That's a special revelation, a special presence of God. He revealed himself to Moses in a bush that appeared to be burning. That's different than God's omnipresence. Within the temple, within the most holy place, God revealed Himself in a special way. And of course, climactically, supremely in the person of Christ, the presence of God here in a human nature. On earth. So we're talking about the dwelling place of God on earth. And the good news this morning is that you are, we are in Christ, the dwelling place of God. Verse 5 being built up as a spiritual house. Brethren, that's a temple. That is the temple of the living God. You yourselves are being built up. as a spiritual house. Old covenant priests who was just a few of the people would go into the house of God. But new covenant priests, who are all those who are in Christ, are the house of God. And so in the New Covenant, we are the end time reality. That the old covenant temple foreshadowed. It's been realized in Christ. It's been fulfilled in Christ. You yourselves are being built up as a spiritual house. Hebrews 3:6. We are his house. First Corinthians 3, 16. You are God 's temple. And so, together, as those united to the risen Lord by faith, bound together by the Holy Spirit of God We are the living, breathing, real life, dwelling place of God on earth. And that's why Jesus here is a living spirit. stone and we are living stones as those in him. We're not talking about inanimate, lifeless building. We're talking about God's people, in whom God dwells. When I was first given this opportunity to come and worship with you and preach for you, the very first thing that came to mind was I just want to come and encourage them. And I began to pray, Lord, just help me come and be an encouragement from your word. And so I asked Jason, give me an assignment. Mentally, that's for some reason that's always easier for me to have an assignment. So I said, Jay, you've got to give me an assignment. He got back to me and said Why don't you do something on the church? Uh maybe something like 1 Peter 2, 1 through 12. And I said, okay, great. That's fine. I had an assignment, so I was ready to go. But What better way to come and be an encouragement than basically to come and from Scripture preach that we belong to Christ and Christ by his power is building us up As a dwelling place, as the dwelling place of God. Christ in us is our encouragement this morning. So despite all trials, Christ is building his house. Despite all sufferings, Christ is building his house. Despite doubts, fears, whatever, Christ is building his house And in Christ, you are that house. Think about something that you've built. I was trying to think of illustrations for this. The first thing that came to mind for me was Legos. My kids are in a huge Lego phase. There's Legos all over the place. They're always building things. Not my three-year-old. He's not quite there yet. He tries, but he's pretty good with blocks. He can stack a block. Uh people build houses and buildings all the time. Think of something that you've built. We build things all the time, but we can never send our spirits into the things that we build so that we can dwell there personally. But that's exactly what's happening in the house. Christ is building. And we can never supernaturally transform the building materials that we build with to reflect our character and become like us. But that's exactly what's happening in the house that Christ is building. And things that you build with have not been delivered from the bondage of sin and death. to experience in their hearts the hope and joy of eternal life. But that's exactly the case with the house Christ is building. Verse 5, being built up as a spiritual house. Now I've got four points under this. I think we can get through them. The house Christ is building, number one, is a house of holiness. Number two, the house Christ is building is a house of redemption. Of course it is. Christ is redeeming wicked sinners. Reconciling us to God is a house of holiness. It's a house of redemption. Number three, the house Christ is building is a house of Of proclamation. We are a people that proclaim the excellencies of God. And number four, the house Christ is building is a house at war. It is a house at war. So, number one, the house Christ is building is a house of holiness. Let's look again at verses one through three, where this comes from. Because the passage begins with a command. So put away all malice and all deceit and hypocrisy and envy and all slander. Like newborn infants, long for the pure spiritual milk That by it, you see that whatever this pure spiritual milk is, it is the source of growth. By it, you may grow up into salvation. If indeed you have tasted that the Lord is good, fire in your hands burns. Ice on your face freezes Christ in your heart sanctifies and purifies. The house Christ is building is a house of holiness. God is holy And God is creating for himself a people who are holy. And Peter here lists five unholy things. that we should strive to put away, and then one holy thing that we are to strive after. And first he says, malice. Put away all malice. So strive to put away malice. You could just as easily translate this evil. This is referring to vile wickedness. If there was one nutshell term that would be the opposite of God's love, it would be this. God's holy love, the complete opposite is this malice, vile wickedness And so put it away. Strive to put it away. Don't join in the nastiness and the bitterness and the anger and the angst. of the society around us. And then he says, deceit. Strive to put away deceit. Treachery. Thank Judas Iscariot. Think about Someone who's always spinning things to get their way is working behind the scenes to get their way, put away deceit. Then he says hypocrisy, put away hypocrisy Put away the double life. Don't be a faker. Don't be one who excels in outward religion and then lives like the rest of the world. Strive to put it away. And then he says, envy. Strive to put away envy. Jealousy. This is a tendency toward holding grudges. Specifically, a tendency toward holding grudges against those who have more or against those who seem to be doing better. We envy after that. By the way, all of these are particular sin struggles that are intensified in the midst of trial and suffering. When we're exhausted It's harder to fight against these things. But envy. So strive to put away under this envy category, strive to put away an unforgiving spirit. Strive to put on grace toward others and not always be envious and jealous. Holding grudges against what others have. Finally, he says here, slander, strive to put away slander. We must discipline ourselves by the Spirit, how we use our mouths and our words. Slander, speaking ill of others. Speaking ill of others is the socially acceptable norm these days, is it not? I mean it's applauded out in the world But we've been set apart. So we don't join in that. We put it away. It's the socially acceptable norm to make ourselves look brilliant and make others look like idiots at all costs. We must put it away. That's not how we operate. But then he lists one holy thing to strive after And this striving after this one holy thing is going to be the fountain of all other aspects and applications of holiness. He says this Long for the pure spiritual milk with a purpose in mind that by it you may grow up into salvation. Strive after pure spiritual milk. In the context, that's the gospel. That's the word of Christ. This is the good news of Jesus Christ. In the at the very end of chapter one. Well, we can just read it. Chapter 1, verses 20, uh starting in verse 22, actually. It's the word of the gospel that gave them new life. It's it saved them, and it also is the word of the gospel that will sanctify them as saved people. Verse 22, having purified your souls. By your obedience to the truth. What truth? Truth of the gospel. For sincere brotherly love, love one another earnestly from a pure heart. Since you have been born again, you have been born again, not of perishable seed, but of imperishable, through the living and abiding word of God. And specifically, that would have been the gospel of the Lord Jesus Christ The message of his perfect life, the message of him as mediator, his crucifixion, his resurrection, and the salvation that is to be found in him by faith. It is through this word that you were born again. For all flesh is like grass, in all its glory, like the flower of grass, the grass withers and the flower falls. But the word of the Lord remains forever, and this word is the good news, aka gospel that was preached to you. It's the word that gave us new life, is the word that grows us in that life. Gospel is a never-ceasing fountain of practical relevance for the Christian life. So we strive after these things, strive to put away malice, deceit, hypocrisy, envy, slander, striving to striving after pure spiritual milk. We strive as those under grace, not under law. In other words, we're not uh if we if No, he's talking to people who are already saved, and he's giving them them admonition as to how they live. We strive as those born again, not as those who are enslaved to sin. We strive in desperate prayer. an absolute dependence upon the Holy Spirit. We do not strive as those who are able, but we strive. We strive as those who delight in God's commands, not as those who detest God's commands. I'm going to take all of those different aspects of how we strive and how we don't strive. You could put it under one umbrella. We strive as adopted children of God, not alienated rebels. Who are under condemnation. But those who love God love holiness because God is holy. What if I were to say to you, I love. These hot and spicy chicken wings, but I hate their hot and spicy flavor. That's absurd. You can't love something and hate its defining attribute What if you were to say, I love this person, but I can't stand their personality? I hate to be with them. I everything they have to say just makes me cringe. I hate their face. You cannot love someone and hate their defining characteristics. That's absurdity. God's defining attribute is holiness. All of his other attributes are defined by holy. He is love. It's a holy love. He is just. It's a holy justice. So as children of God, as those who love God, we love holiness. Because holiness is God's Defining attribute. And so, as children, we strive after holiness. But the house Christ is building is the house of holiness. Now we've got to get there in our hearts We've got to get there in our hearts and understand that the Lord Jesus Christ has sanctified us, is sanctifying us, and he's called us to holiness. He's called us to be a set-apart people in this world. And then we've got to go to prayer. And we've got to go to the Word. And we've got to go to the Holy Spirit as our only hope for any progress in this striving. But we strive. Secondly, the house Christ is building is a house of redemption. Now this comes from verses 4 through 8. But first let's just read verse four and five. And really what he does here is verses six through eight, he gives Scriptures to prove what he says in verses four to five. We'll see that. Okay, verses four and five. As you come to him, a living stone. Rejected by men in the sight of God, chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house. To be a holy priesthood and to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. Now, that through Jesus Christ is everything. I mean, that is so important. The only acceptable sacrifices to God are those that are offered through Jesus Christ. So, the living stone is a person. Specifically here, the Redeemer. He is the one who delivers from sin and death. It's clear that the living stone is a metaphor. It refers to a person, the redeemer. Living stones are people. They are the redeemed. They are those who've been delivered from sin and death. Spiritual house is a people. So it's the people taken as a whole, a collective whole, the redeemed. But specifically, this has an eye to the to the kingdom status, the kingdom role of this redeemed people in the world. Everything here is about redemption. And we know that because the scriptures that Peter quotes to prove his point are all about redemption. So verse verse 6. It stands in script for it stands in scripture, right? So he says it there. For or because it stands in scripture. So he's using these Old Testament prophecies to prove his point about what he just said about the living stone and your living stones in him you're being built up as a Spiritual house, for it stands in scripture, behold, I'm laying in Zion a stone, a cornerstone, chosen and precious. And whoever believes in him, see the stone is a person. Whoever believes in him will not be put to shame. It's from Isaiah 28 and the context is redemption. From Isaiah 27 to 28, the context is Is God coming and atoning for the sins of his people and restoring his people and blessing his people? Verse 7. So the honor is for you who believe. For those who do not believe, the stone that the builders rejected has become the cornerstone. That's from Psalm 118. Again, the context is redemption. The context. Read Psalm 118. What a glorious Psalm. It's about the steadfast love of the Lord. It really is One mass of celebration of the steadfast love of the Lord and rejoicing in the salvation that God has given us out of his steadfast love. The context again is redemption. Verse 8, and a stone of stumbling and a rock of offense. From Isaiah 8. And again the context is what? Redemption, the Emmanuel prophecy. Everybody will be talking about it in a couple months around Christmas time That narrative is from Isaiah 7 through 9. Basically, God promises to personally come and save his people. The context is redemption. This house he is building is a house of redemption. Matthew 1:21, you shall call him Jesus because he will save his people from their sins. All this took place to fulfill what the Lord has spoken by the prophet. Behold, the virgin shall conceive and bear a son, and they shall call him Emmanuel, which means God with us. So we are living stones because we, beloved, have been spiritually united to the living stone who lives and reigns in heaven, the Lord Jesus Christ. And then he draws out a couple implications of this, specifically to be a holy priesthood and to offer spiritual sacrifices. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. What makes these sacrifices acceptable? How in the world can sinners like us bring sacrifices to God and have them be acceptable? Our hands are filthy blood red with sin and guilt. Here's how these sacrifices are acceptable. Jesus Christ. He's the first and last word on this. Our offerings are accepted only because his offering was accepted. We are a priesthood on earth only because he is our priest in heaven. We live to God. Only because he lives in us. The way to think about all gospel blessings is Under this phrase, through Christ. They come through Christ to us, and anything we offer back to God is acceptable because it comes through Christ. You could call it the paradigm of the substitute. This is the way to think about all gospel blessings. Our sin upon him rather than us. Our guilt upon Him rather than us. The wrath and the pain and the death do us wrought from the Father upon Him rather than us. So that, dot, dot, dot, his righteousness given to us, his spirit given to us the reward and the life and the glory that he won graciously given by the Father to us. It's the paradigm of the substitute. Jesus reaped what we sowed so that We would reap what he sowed, the glorious inheritance of eternal life. And so, therefore Rejoice. Let us rejoice. Let us rejoice, for by the blood of Jesus Christ, we are the house of God 's redeemed. There's nothing better in the universe. Than that. And being a part of the house Christ is building, it's a house of redemption. Brothers and sisters, He loved us. He died for us. He has saved us. And he will never, ever, ever forsake us. The Lord Jesus Christ. He is our encouragement this morning. Number three, the house Christ is building is a house of proclamation. It is a house of holiness. Brothers and sisters, let us strive to be holy as our Father is holy. It is a house of redemption. We've been redeemed from sin and death. The house Christ is building is also a house of proclamation. This comes from verses 9 and 10. And there's so much in verses 9 and 10. I had to just pick something out to highlight. And I think the overall point of nine and ten might be this, and I'll say what what I think it is. It might be this. But I believe at the center of that is this aspect of proclaiming Verses 9 and 10, but you are a chosen race, a royal priesthood, a holy nation. This should make you think of the language that's used for Israel. But whatever is foreshadowed, the eternal kingdom that was foreshadowed in Israel as an earthly kingdom is fulfilled here. The chosen race, the world priests, of the holy nation, the people for his own possession, that you may proclaim. See, there's where I got that point from. That you may proclaim, because he's made you into this. That you may do this. So there's a purpose behind, there's a reason why God did this. There's a reason why God is doing this. That you may proclaim the excellencies of him who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. So it's a proclaiming his excellencies, not not just in general, but specifically Of re his work of redemption, or you proclaim the excellencies of the one who called you out of darkness into his marvelous light. That's redemption. That's his work in Christ wrought in our hearts. That took us out of darkness and brought us into his marvelous light. And once you were not a people, but now you are God's people. Once you had not received mercy, but now you have received mercy. And so the um the end time reality That was foreshadowed by the temple is fulfilled and realized in the church. And the eternal kingdom that was foreshadowed by Israel as an earthly nation is also fulfilled and realized. in the church. And that's why this language is used here referring to believers. There's a lot more to say about that, but I wanted to focus on this idea of proclaiming Because that's the point. The house Christ is building is a house of proclamation. The sun is in the sky to give light and heat. That is its core task. The heart is in the body to move blood throughout the body, right? You need that to happen. That's the heart's core task. What is the core task of a road? What is the core task of a bridge? What is the core task of a plane? You can think of Many illustrations. What do you see as your core task as existing on earth for this very, very short time that we're going to exist on earth? What is your core task? Well, the core task of Christ's house, the house Christ is building, is proclamation. And as soon as I typed that out and I was sure of it because I believe that's what this paragraph is about, I thought, no, the core task is worship. But then I thought, yeah, well, what's the centerpiece of worship? The proclamation, proclamation of God, specifically his redeeming work through Christ. And that will always be the centerpiece of worship, the revelation of God through His re through His redemption in Christ, even in glory. We won't need to have preaching there because we'll be in the presence of the Lamb who was slain, but now lives and reigns. But either way, the point here is proclamation Proclaim his excellencies. So, application. Because it's not just for the sake of it that we proclaim the redemptive excellencies and glories. of God as brought to us through Christ. This is preeminently practical What saves lost people? The proclaimed excellencies of Jesus Christ, the gospel. What sanctifies saves people? The Spirit working through, I would go to 2 Corinthians 3 into 4. Where this is explicitly taught, but what sanctifies saves people, the proclaimed excellencies of Jesus Christ, the gospel. Where do we receive strength in the midst of our weakness? The gospel. Where do we receive stamina in the midst of exhaustion and weariness? The gospel. Where do we go for security and assurance in the midst of our doubts, in the midst of our fears? The gospel. The gospel, the proclaimed gospel, is the revelation of the living Christ to us. And we see him by faith Through the gospel. What keeps the church fruitful and effective in ministry and evangelism? It's got to be the gospel. What else do we have? What else do we have? We're not peddlers of religion. We're proclaimers of a savior. The house Christ is building is a house of proclamation. We must never give up on that We must never, ever get to the point in our hearts where we think, well, if we put something else in the center, we'll be more effective. We trust Lord, we trust the gospel. The house Christ is building is a house at war. It's a house at war. This comes from verse 11 and 12. Beloved, I urge you, as sojourners , travelers, visitors Right. And exiles, uh people who aren't at aren't in their true home right now, right? Your sojourners, your exiles, to abstain from the p passions of the flesh, and this connects to the the first point of where house of holiness. Here's where I get this word war from, or house at war. Abstain from the passions of the flesh, which wage war against your soul. Keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable, so that when they speak against you as evildoers Do people speak against Christians as evildoers or morons or whatever? Yeah, of course they do. That they may see your good deeds. Good deeds done by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ. It's a unique kind of good deed. That they may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. And I that's just one of the things I ch I chose just you can't put everything in the sermon to not really flesh out, but I believe what he's getting at there in that final phrase is the heart that we should have when it comes to our witness. First of all, our wit our witness is for God's glory. And for our obedience to God. But in terms of its impact in the world, we want others to not only hear the gospel, and they must hear the gospel, but they must see a Christian witness that we are a holy people. We are a set apart people. That's exactly what it's talking about here. The see your good deeds. Now that will function in the unbelievers Life as not as gospel, but as law that could help to bring them under conviction of sin, show them the character of God Show them the guilt of their sin. I thought I said I wasn't going to flesh that out. Well I didn't flesh it out in my notes, but I something needs to be said about that. This is talking about our witness in the world. But with a point I wanted to focus on for us is We are at war. If a tree is in a hurricane, the tree has no choice, right? It is up against it. If one country is invaded by another country, it has no choice. It's at war. Choice is off the table. Likewise, if a person has the Holy Spirit within them, aka saves people. They are at war. There's no choice in the matter because now they have two warring forces within them, and nothing they can do can ever change that. Not ever change that. While we're alive on this earth, that won't change. That will change when we go to glory, okay? But my point is if you have the Holy Spirit, you now have two warring forces within you. Your own sinful flesh. And you can't get rid of that. And the spirit of holiness, the Holy Spirit of Christ. We are at war. And that's exactly what he says here. The passions abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. That will not end until this mortal body we have dies and our soul is brought to heaven. But he says he he speaks here from Two perspectives that we need to have in this war. First, there's an internal perspective. I think that's clear, but I want to highlight we need to have an internal perspective. Abstain from the passions of the flesh which wage war against your soul. That is something that's going on inside of us. And we need to be mindful of that. And um then he also wants us to have an eternal perspective. And there's two things he says here which frame that out: that we need to have an eternal perspective if we're going to persevere. By faith, we must have an eternal perspective. And the first thing he says that gives us a hint of that is the very first thing in verse 11. Beloved, I urge you, as sojourners and as exiles, our true home is in heaven. Our citizenship is in heaven. From there we await a Savior, the Lord Jesus Christ. This world is not our home. It is literally true that we are just passing through, but we need to have that perspective that we're sojourners. That we're exiles. Otherwise, what are we going to do? We're going to live as if things in this world are ultimate. We're going to live as if this Sin cursed world is our true home, and this is where we really belong. And if we're going to find fulfillment, it's going to be somewhere in this world. No way. No way. So we must have an eye above. Where Christ is, our true home, our true identity. And also on eternal perspective, he gives another hint The end of uh the last phrase, actually. He bookends it. He brings the return of Christ into view that they may see your good deeds. And glorify God on the day of visitation. This is a day of visitation. Christ is coming back. He's going to make all things right. He's going to bring all of his enemies under full and final judgment, and he's going to bring all of his people into a full and final redemption in his presence forever. So we have we must have an eye above But also, we must have an eye ahead because God's work is not done. Christ is coming back. But we are a house at war. Unless we don't care about sinful passions and waging war within us. So the question would be: are you fighting? Are you in the battle Are you in the flight? Do you care? People come to me all the time, I'm struggling with this, I'm struggling with this, I'm trying to get this I'm much more concerned or even worried about people who'd never have any struggle or fight or trial in sanctification. Those who are in the fight are giving evidence that they belong to Christ. Why? Because they're in the fight. They're in the fight. I would say this to you: don't give up. Keep striving. Keep fighting. Keep praying. Stay in the word. Keep worshiping. Keep asking. Keep crying out. Don't give up the fight. That doesn't mean fight by works, fight by effort, fight by faith, fight by the Spirit, but don't give up. So the house Christ is building is a house of holiness, it's a house of redemption, it's a house of proclamation, it's a house at war What a blessing. What a blessing what Christ is doing. So we are the dwelling place of God on earth, but I've got to add something to that sentence. That's the sentence I started off with. I want to add one more thing to this, so bear with me. I've got to add one more thing to this to round it off. Okay, we are the dwelling place of God on earth, and here's what I'm adding. On our way to dwell with God in heaven. We're the dwelling place of God on earth now. But we are on our way to dwell with God in heaven. You see, that's our hope. And that honestly is 1 Peter in a nutshell. Really, that's the Christian life in a nutshell. 1 Peter, uh, this is his theology. This frames the whole book. We're exiled in the world. on our way to heaven. We're sojourners in the world, on our way to glory. We are despised in the world. We suffer in the world on our way to a grand inheritance that's kept by Christ that can never be taken away from us. See, the old covenant temple had a twofold significance. One, it signified God's dwelling with his people on earth, right? We know that, right? The temple's Symbolized and signified God's dwelling with his people on earth. But it also signified God's promise that his people, through a blood sacrifice, will one day dwell with him in heaven. It's a two-fold significance of the temple. It wasn't just that the temple was there and that God was there. Yes, that's a huge deal. That's one part of the significance of the temple. But you see The question, beloved, the question was this. Who can enter in and be with God? That's the question. Who can pass through into the most holy place? That's the other significance. Of the temple? How can sinners pass through and enter to the dwelling place of God And you see the architecture and the priesthood and the sacrifices, the whole ministry, they're all shadows of Christ and his redemptive work. They all pointed forward to him. He is the priest. He is the blood sacrifice. Heaven is the most holy place. And by faith in Christ, our great high priest, we enter heaven in him. And that's why I believe he says, as you come to him. Look at verse that four. As you come to him. Now I've changed my view on this. I used to think that was a way of referring to the fact that it's not only that we what I'm about to say is true, I just don't believe anymore that that's what this phrase is referring to. But I used to believe that referred to the fact that we not only come to Christ in faith, but we continue coming to him in faith. Absolutely true. Yes, that that's true. But I believe in the context of 1 Peter, his theology is so clear, the perspective we're about to have. I believe he's referring to something that's very simple. The Christian life is one long journey of coming to God who's in heaven. This morning I came here. I was on my way here. And as I came here, I thought about this and I did this and I made this call. That's how we're to think of ourselves. We're on our way to heaven. And as we come to him, the living stone, rejected by men, but in the sight of God, chosen and precious. You yourselves, like living stones, are being built up as a spiritual house. You see, that's what Christ is doing in us and with us as we're on our way to Him, as we're coming to Him. We're coming to him. Where is he? Heaven. We're going to heaven. And uh, to be a spiritual house, to be a holy priesthood, to offer spiritual sacrifices acceptable to God through Jesus Christ. And so these things Are true now, but they have not yet come to their full expression. They are a seed of things to come. It's a smell now It will be a feast later. We see dimly now. We'll see face to face later. You see, one day you will no longer be on your way to Christ in heaven. But you will be with your Christ in heaven. And one day you will no longer walk by faith in a Christ that is unseen, but by sight with the Christ you can see and speak to person to person. One day you will serve as a priest under Christ, but you will be stationed in heaven and in the new heavens and new earth. And one day the spiritual sacrifices you offer will be alter offered on the altar of God in heaven. One day, here's my point that I'm being long-winded about because I think it's a glorious point. I think it's so encouraging. One day we will not only be being built up as a spiritual house, which is what he says. Being built up as a spiritual house on earth, but you see, we will be totally built to completion and perfection in the new heavens and new earth. The house will be completed one day. Right now you're just being built up. But Christ will bring this project to completion to the glory of God the Father forever and ever. Read a passage, and then we'll be done Revelation 21, 3 and 4. And I heard a loud voice from the throne saying, Behold. The dwelling place of God is with man, and he will dwell with them, and they will be his people, and God himself will be with them as their God. He 'll wipe away every tear from their eyes. Death shall be no more. Neither shall there be mourning, nor crying, nor pain anymore. For the former things, you see, the former things, beloved, have passed away. Christ is building A spiritual house. And one day he will complete this glorious, magnificent house where God dwells and his people dwell, there with him And the encouragement I wanted to offer this morning is this: you are that house. Let's pray together. Father, we thank you for all that you've done All that we know that you will do based on your promises, based on your faithfulness. Father, we thank you for the Spirit We thank you for Scripture. We thank you for each other. We thank you for your church. We thank you for this church. We thank you for your kingdom. Father, we thank you. What can we say? It's in Jesus we pray. Amen.