Let's go ahead and turn to Galatians. Chapter 5, and we're looking at verses 16 through 26 this evening. So everybody have the handout. Yeah, raise your hand if you don't have a handout. I'm going to get you one. These there'll be some different sections in this sermon where I'm going to cross-references. But so you so that you don't have to worry about flipping to each one, you could just focus on what's being said. Uh printed them out ahead of time. Thank you for passing those out. Galatians five, sixteen through twenty-six, I'm calling this that God's children must walk by God's Spirit. God's children must walk by God's Spirit. In the guiding influence and power of the Holy Spirit is the only way we'll be able to obey God to any degree in any way. So we must walk by the Spirit. It's the only way, walking by the Spirit is the only way we'll be able to truly love each other to any degree, in any way, in word and deed, even in our thoughts about each other, we must walk by the Holy Spirit It's the only way we can obey God, truly love each other, and truly develop a burden for the lost that they would know Christ and have a relationship with God forever. Walking by the Spirit is the only way. For any godliness to well up within us, that we would then live that out in the world. We must walk by the Holy Spirit. Let me go ahead and uh read the passage and then we are going to give our time in the word to prayer. Galatians 5, 16 through 26 But I say, walk by the Spirit. Some of you might have walked in the Spirit. Means the same thing. Walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are against the spirit And the desires of the spirit are against the flesh, for these are opposed to each other, to keep you from doing the things you want to do. But If you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law. Now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry, sorcery, enmity, which is uh which is hatred or hostility Flavored with hatred. Strife, jealousy, fits of anger, also known as temper tantrums Right? Losing your cool. Rivalries, dissensions, divisions Envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. So you see, it's not an exhaustive list, right? Things like these. I warn you as I warned you before that those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. But The fruit of the Spirit is love, joy, peace, patience. Kindness, goodness , faithfulness , gentleness , self-control. Against such things, there's no law And those who belong to Christ Jesus have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. If we live by the Spirit Let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Let's pray. Father, I read a passage like that and my only thought is, dear God help me. Help me to walk by your spirit. We so desperately need your power in our lives. I pray that even tonight You would intervene. Show yourself merciful. Renew our minds. Sanctify our hearts. Purify us. Father, we pray that as we come to your word, we would be humble. That we would submit ourselves to the authority of your word. I pray that you would show us That we are lawbreakers, that we are corrupt, that we desperately need a savior, and that you've provided one. And as sinful as we are Jesus is sufficient to forgive our sins, to reconcile us to you, to give us the hope of eternal life. Father, we thank you for your love. Your love that we could never fully comprehend. Your love that we can never accurately put into words that would describe it sufficiently. You've loved us with an infinite gracious love. And part of that is you've given us your Holy Spirit to help us live for you. We know we must walk by your Spirit if we are to live for you. Father, help us in our time of need. Teach us, we pray, in Jesus' name. Amen. Before we get into the into the details of the passage, just think about what God did to save you. The Father sent the Son to do the work of salvation. And Jesus Christ, the Son of God, did everything necessary to save us, to reconcile us to God. And the culminating event of that, or the culminating complex of events of that, which just means set of events, is his substitutionary death on a cross, right? Are you tracking with me? His substitutionary death on a cross. His resurrection from the dead and his ascension into heaven, which is his enthronement, his being installed by the Father as the King of the universe. The Father sent the Son to do the work of salvation, but then the Son from heaven poured out the Holy Spirit into our hearts. to save us, to give us new life, and then to gradually sanctify us, conforming us to the likeness of Jesus Christ. The role of the Holy Spirit, the third person of the Trinity. This is how God dwells in our hearts while we're on earth, is by the Holy Spirit. This is everything for the Christian life. Walking by the Holy Spirit means we must first be filled with the Holy Spirit, which means we must come to Jesus Christ in faith. If you've not done that, come to Him. Don't delay. Come to Christ in faith. See that you're a lawbreaker, but see that God has provided a Savior and come to Him. Be born again and receive the Holy Spirit. God 's children must walk by the Holy Spirit. And walk by the Holy Spirit means to live Under the guiding influence of the Holy Spirit. Let me show you where I'm getting this emphasis from the passage, and then I'll give you the outline and we'll work through each point. First of all, look at verse Sixteen. But I say walk by the spirit. Okay? Pretty clear. Synonymous with live. Live by the Spirit. Live in the Spirit. Live under the guiding influence of the Holy Spirit. An illustration would be the front wheel of a bike. It is the guiding influence for the bike. Now the rear wheel may be the propelling influence for the bike, right? It's the rear wheel that makes it go. But it's the front wheel that determines what direction the bike goes. It's a guiding influence. But also look at verse eighteen if you are led By the Spirit. Led by the Spirit. Walk by the Spirit, verse 16, led by the Spirit, verse 18, but wait. There's more. Look at verse twenty -five. If we live by the Spirit Let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Keep in step with the Spirit. If you live by the Spirit, if you've been born again by the Spirit, Keep in step with the Spirit. Walk by the Spirit. Be led by the Spirit. Keep in step. With the Spirit. We must live under the guiding influence of the Holy Spirit. And think about it. What's the other option? What's the other option? Just to live based on however we feel like living. A completely arbitrary set of morals Maybe we follow the example of the world around us. Maybe we just follow our base passions and whatever they tell us to do. No, we must walk by the Holy Spirit. And as we move through the passage, we'll see four things that we must know. You must know. I must know if we're going to walk by the Holy Spirit. Number one, we must know that there is a spiritual war within us. That's number one. There is a spiritual war within us. We must acknowledge that if we're going to walk in the Spirit. The second thing we must know if we're going to walk by the Spirit is we must know in this war what to fight against. In a battle, there's two, at least two sides. In this battle, there's two sides. We must know that there's a war. We must know what we're fighting against. What is it that I'm striving against? What enemy do I want to put to death? Third, we must know what we're fighting for. What are we fighting for? What are we praying for? What do we want to see? What is the end goal of this? We're in the war. We must acknowledge it. We must know what we're fighting against. We must know the enemy. We must know what we're fighting for and striving for and hoping for and wanting and crying out to God. God, please give me Fill in the blank. We must know what the blanks are. So we must know that there's a spiritual war inside of us. We must know what to fight against. We must know what to fight for. And fourth, we must know how to fight. We must know how to fight this battle. Okay, I'm on the battlefield. Tell me what to do. And we'll look at each one in turn. First of all, we must know, children of God must know that there's a spiritual war inside of us. Look at verses 16 through 18. But I say, walk by the Spirit, and you will not gratify the desires of the flesh. For the desires of the flesh are, here's a key phrase, against The Spirit. Against. Desires of the flesh are against. Set against. Opposed to. Set in opposition to the Spirit. But the desires of the Spirit are against the flesh. You see the Lord? Two sets of desires at war with each other, set against each other. You cannot follow both sets of desires Simultaneously. You've got to choose. Will I live based on the desires of the flesh or will I live based on the desires of the spirit? They're set against one another. These are opposed to each other to keep you from doing the things you want to do But if you are led by the Spirit, you are not under the law. We will summarize what that means. It may seem out of place to you. Where did that come from? Well, it's in the context of Galatians That makes perfect sense. He's contrasting the true gospel of walking by faith to be truly free from the power of sin versus the false gospel walking by uh walking with a works mentality as if you're under the law which has no power to overcome sin You're filled with the Spirit. You can live by the Spirit. You are no longer a slave to sin. You're not walking under law, you're walking under grace. Children of God must acknowledge that there is a spiritual war within them, within us. Or will never make any progress in the Christian life because it is true. Imagine if you were on a battlefield, front line, the battle has begun. But you're completely blindfolded and then with a bag over your head. It would be the worst place to be on earth. You need to know what's going on. You need to see You need to see the battlefield. You need to see the enemy. You need to see your army so you know where you're supposed to be. But please don't be found as if you had a blindfold on, moseying through life without being aware of the spiritual war within you. Desires of the flesh. Just the natural fallen passions of humanity. We are naturally disposed towards sin. That's why we must be born again. To love God and to seek God and to believe in God and to even want to live for God, the desires of the flesh. But they're set against what? The desires of the spirit Godly desires. Desires of the Spirit, aka, godly desires, aka things that God wants. Things that God would want from you. And as we grow into the likeness of Christ, Gradually, gradually, but truly. We come to love what God loves rather than what our base sinful passions love. We come to prioritize what God prioritizes Rather than just the things the world around us prioritizes. And we come to hate what God hates, namely sin and our own sin within us. The desires of the flesh are set against and at war with the desires of the spirit. But the desires of the spirit Desires that are created in us by the Holy Spirit are at war with the desires of the flesh. Are you not glad that God didn't just leave us in our situation? That He didn't just leave us only with our base, sinful desires, leave us in that miserable state. He shows us a love, and he changes our hearts through redemption that is found in Christ. On your handout you'll see a subheading called war. And this first one I thought was just a good illustration Think about the war that 's within us. 1 Samuel 18. 29. Saul was David's enemy. Continually. Continually. I thought that's a good illustration. Our sinful flesh is going to be at war with the desires of the spirit. continually. Now you should think, okay, well then how in the world am I going to walk in the Holy Spirit? Well you must be at war against the flesh. Continually. 1 Peter 2, 11 and 12, Beloved, I urge you as sojourners in exiles, to abstain from the passions of the flesh. Which wage war against your soul and keep your conduct among the Gentiles honorable so that when they speak against you as evildoers They may see your good deeds and glorify God on the day of visitation. You know, in the midst of being hated, in the midst of being persecuted, in the midst of being slandered, God can use our example of Christian living and faithfulness to bring the lost under conviction for their sin. They start to see their sin and the weight of it God can use our witness in that way. James 4. 1. What is it that causes quarrels and causes fights among you? Wow, James, that is a good question. Why are we always arguing? Well, he answers the question, is it not this that your passions are at war within you? Sinful passions within us The cause of these things. Now, verse 18. Before we move on to, we need to know what we're fighting against. Verse 18 If you are led by the Spirit, you are not under law. We need to understand that we're on the battlefield. Against sin at all, like the only reason we're on this battlefield at all is by God's grace. It's by God's grace. We didn't earn our way onto the battlefield against sin. And now we're fighting in our own strength against sin. Sin. Now the battlefield is an illustration for the Holy Spirit within us at war with the passions of the flesh within us. It's the passions of the flesh that we've always had. That's natural to us. It's the desires of the Spirit that we received. We're on the battlefield by grace. If we were still under law, raise your hand if you're awake this evening. I need to know. I need to know. If we were still under law and not under grace, we would have zero power to overcome any sin in our lives. Are you with me? Do we get this? This is why this is important. That's why he says it here. If we were still under law, or if we were under law, rather than under the grace of God in Jesus Christ, we would have zero zilchanata power to overcome any sin to any degree, in any way, in any area of life. We have no power to overcome sin at all. It's the self-righteous mentality that thinks that we do have power to overcome sin while we're under the law. But we don't. Yeah, you can picture uh go back to the earlier illustration of the bicycle, the front wheel is the guiding influence Imagine that that front wheel is chained up tight so that it can't even move. That's what it would be like. Under law rather than under grace. There's only one direction you can go. Sin. And there's nothing we can do about it. I have some cross-references on the sheet for you on this too. It's under the heading The Power of Sin. The power of sin. 1 Corinthians 15, 56 and 57. The sting of death Is sin. Pay attention to the second phrase in a particular manner. And the power of sin is the Law. Power of sin is the law. But thanks be to God who gives us the victory through our Lord Jesus. Christ. So we need to be set free from sin. We need to be set free from the law in some sense. Set free from the curse of the law Romans 7, 5. For while we were living in the flesh, our sinful passions aroused by the, call it out, aroused by the law, being under law. Arouse , stokes up sinful passions, where it work in our members to bear fruit unto death. Romans 7:13 Uh dealing with an important question therefore because some might mistakenly want to blame the law. As if the problem is with God's holy law. The problem's not with the law. The law is meant to expose our sinfulness so that we would see our sinfulness. See our need for a savior and flee to Christ for salvation. Romans seven thirteen. Did that which is good then bring death to me. Now that which is good is referring to God's law. God's law is good. You know God's commandments are good, right? Everything in the world around us and everything within our own sinful flesh wants us See God's commandments and said, no, that's not right. Surely that's not it's not good to live that way. No, God's commandments are perfect and righteous and holy and good. So did that which is good then bring death to me? By no means. It was sin Sin producing death in me through what is good, in order that sin might be shown to be sin. And through the commandment might become sinful beyond measure. When we see God's commandments, we see a reflection of God's character. And by way of contrast, we see our corruption. We see how we're vile, beyond imagination, and we need to be cleansed. We need to be washed We need to be purified by God and praise God. He provides that in Christ. The power of sin Is still reigning over us as Lord and Master as long as we're under law. But when we come to Christ and we're under grace We've been liberated from the ruling power of sin in our lives. Now, did I say that we no longer have sin in our lives? No. But we are liberated from the ruling power of sin over us when we come to Christ. Now turn to Galatians 3, 13 and 14. Things just go two pages back in your Bible. Galatians 3, beginning in verse 13. Christ redeemed us from the curse of what? Sin? What's he saying? The law. He redeemed us from the curse of the law by becoming a curse for us. For it's written, cursed is everyone who is hanged on a tree. So that in Christ Jesus the blessing of Abraham might come to the Gentiles, so that we might receive the promised Spirit. Through faith. Receive the promised Spirit through faith. He redeemed us from the curse of the law. The curse of the law is that by law there's no way you can attain a righteousness With which you can stand before God and be accepted. That's a curse. When you're under law, the only possible destination is death and judgment. That's the curse of the law. Christ redeemed us from that curse by becoming a curse for us. He lived a righteous life, and he died as sacrificial death, taking the penalty that we deserve so that we could go free. We have to walk By grace and understand that if we're still under law, or if we act or think as if we're under law, we're forfeiting the only power we have to overcome sin in our lives. If we want to walk by the Spirit, we must acknowledge the war within us. Secondly, we must know what to fight against. We must know what we're fighting against in this war. Verses 19 and 20, back in Galatians 5. Now the works of the flesh are evident. Sexual immorality, impurity, sensuality, idolatry. Sorcery, enmity, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, envy, drunkenness, orgies, and things like these. I warn you as I warned you before Those who do such things will not inherit the kingdom of God. Of course, now those who do such things can repent from those things. That's what's defining your life. You cannot currently consider yourself a citizen of the kingdom of God, an heir of heaven. God's children must fight nonstop against the works of the flesh. And just for time's sake, we can see that there's basically Four categories here, the works of the flesh. That's just categories I'm putting in. It's not like Paul says, okay, now here's four categories I'm putting them in four categories for the sake of time, but I want you to know that sin in these areas, like sin in every in all areas, is not just things that we do It sins in our hearts, sins in our minds, sins in our words, and sins in things that we do. But first of all, uh The first category would be the first three of works of the flesh is sexual immorality and impurity. Sexual immorality and impurity We see that quite clearly. Verse 19, sexual immorality, impurity, and sensuality. That's your first category Sins of sexual immorality, works of the flesh, we must constantly fight by prayer And by repentance, going to the Word of God, with our mind being renewed and transformed by the Word of God, we must fight against that. We must actively fight against those things. In mind, heart, words, eyes, ears, actions, everything. The second category is works of the flesh as false worship. This would be the next two that you give: idolatry, sorcery, just generally speaking, false religions Folk religion. Made up religion. It's easy for human beings to feel Re-spiritual to feel religious and to make up religious people have always we're built to worship, we're made to worship But apart from God's truth and apart from God's Spirit, we'll just create our own ideas of God's, our own idea of truth, our own idea of morality, and our own idea of worship. Our duty and our delight is to worship according to God's truth, is to serve Him according to His truth, to love each other according to His truth To teach his teachings, not our own. The fourth category, works of the flesh, is just violence and fighting. Even there's like an argumentative spirit Alright, so enmity, which I said before, is hostility, but tinged with just hatred and uncontrolled anger, strife, jealousy, fits of anger, rivalries, dissensions, divisions, and envy. See the relational aspect of this set of sins. Fight against us, brother. Pray against us. Pray for the Holy Spirit to purge that argumentative spirit out of us. However it shows up. I pray God would help us not have a short temper or a short short fuse and be given to fits of anger. The fourth category is it's really broad, but we'll just say drunkenness and debased living. Debased living and drunkenness, just giving ourselves over. To sin in such an entrenched and vile way. Drunkenness, orgies, and things the like of these There's lots of things like this. There's lots of different varieties of debased living, works of the flesh. We have to know what to fight against. You see, there's it's not just like one thing. It's different categories. Sexual sin, religious sin, anger issues, right? Relational sin , quarreling, divisions And drunkenness and debased living. Fight against it. Fight against it. And we need to know what to fight for. Verses 22 and 23. The fruit of the spirit. The fruit of the Spirit is number one love. Love. Self -giving love for each other. Yeah? Working for the good of each other, with our lives formed and shaped by Christ's love for us, which is a self-giving sacrificial love Pray for that kind of love. Pray for the Holy Spirit. The second one is joy. It is to be glad in God. To have an inner delight in God. To be happy in God. Pray for that joy. Pray for the Holy Spirit. Third is peace. To have an inner contentment, to be content with what God has given us. To be content with our situation in life, because that is where God has put us To be content with what God has promised in the future. Rather than always wanting more, never having a peace, always having an anxiety Pray for that peace. Pray for the Holy Spirit. Next it says patience. That means able to endure. Able to suffer and not give up. Able to wait on the Lord. Well, we know we need the Holy Spirit for that. Pray for the Holy Spirit. Pray for patience It will not come naturally. And then he says kindness. That means having a benevolent spirit. That means you actually do good to others and for others It means you speak well of others. Kindness. Pray for that kindness. Pray for the Spirit. Goodness. It means that you love that which is good. You love that which is right. You love that which is holy. Pray for that kind of goodness. Pray for the Holy Spirit. Then he says faithfulness. It means not giving up, not quitting, not abandoning God when things get tough. You think of our application as a church to be a faithful church is at the center of our prayers. God help us to be faithful, to remain faithful to you, Lord, to your work. And to your gospel. And then he says, gentleness. This is the person who's meek, not the harsh, mean-spirited person. This means the person who's compassionate and can listen is not domineering. Pray for that kind of gentleness. Pray for the Holy Spirit. And then self-controlled. Self-controlled. To be disciplined. To not be mastered by the passions of the flesh. To not be a slave to sin, self-control. And we must humble ourselves and pray for the fruit of the Spirit. That's what to fight for And finally, how to fight. Now, this is just going to be a quick section, but honestly, brethren, this is the whole Christian life. Learning how to fight against the flesh. And and pray and strive for the fruit of the Spirit. Verses 24 through 26. And those who belong to Christ have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit. Let us not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another. Now we can work backwards. You can see one of the ways, one of the crucial ways of how to fight this fight is do not become conceited. Don't be arrogant. It's not gonna have it's not been going to end well. You won't progress in sanctification, and in fact, it'll just cause trouble with those around you Do not become conceited, provoking one another, envying one another, jealous of one another. You can go right above that. If we live by the Spirit, let us also keep in step with the Spirit I focus in on, live by the Holy Spirit. That means you've been born again and you're indwelt by the Holy Spirit of God. Now here's the point. You have to believe that This is by faith that we believe that what God says He has done in our hearts, He actually has done in our hearts. You must believe that the Holy Spirit of the Almighty God dwells within your heart. You must believe that. Embrace that by faith. That's part of faith. You are not in this alone. You have the power of God on your side to fight against sin and to create the fruit of the Spirit that we cannot create on our own. But then you can go up above that. It says you have crucified the flesh with its passions and desires. I'm so sorry. This is another area. We have to have faith that the old me has been put to death. The old me, who is a slave to sin, has been put to death. The old you who was a slave to sin has been put to death The old us, who did not love God more than anything, has been put to death. And there's a new man, and Christ lives in us. The flesh has been crucified. Like we said earlier, it doesn't mean we no longer sin. Sin is no longer our master, beloved. Sin is not our master. The old man has been put to death. By the power of the Spirit. You've got to believe it. You've got to believe that the old you has died with Christ and the new you has been risen. Isn't that what baptism symbolizes? And uh work continue to work upwards. The very the beginning of verse 24. Those who belong to Christ There you have it. How do you fight this fight? You must belong to Christ. We're talking about the fight of children of God. We must belong to Christ by virtue of his life, death, and resurrection. We must be his. We must give ourselves to him and be saved by faith. That's how we get on the battlefield There's no sense in trying to fight this spiritual warfare if we don't belong to Christ. If you don't belong to Christ, come to Christ for salvation, for the forgiveness of your sins, and for this blessing of sanctification. How do we fight? We fight by faith in the Lord Jesus Christ, crying out to Him for help. To give us. Brothers and sisters to give us what we could otherwise never ever attain to. And here's what it is godliness. Godliness, the fruit of the Spirit. It's part of salvation Let's pray, and then we're going to celebrate the Lord's Supper together. Father, I thank you for Jesus, and we thank you for the Holy Spirit. I pray that you would help us in our fight. It's in Christ we ask. Amen.