We're looking at covenants this evening. And I'm going to pray to that end that we can help make it an overview type of message, but with some very practical application points And I'll be leaning on Pastor Matt, especially in that time. I'm going to outline them at the beginning for us and give a few pointers toward application. But let's pray and ask God to give us wisdom. Lord, we thank you for what we saw this morning, the covenant with Abram concerning the land and just the way it was presented to him. And Father, I pray that you'd help us to in a broader way understand covenants that you made with individuals and with groups in the Scriptures. And I pray, Father, that we would see Jesus. We would see you and what we learn of you, what we learn of ourselves and our need. And then, Father, especially what we learn of fulfillment in Christ. And that that would bless our hearts. Give us a yearning to bring glory to you day by day. Give us a yearning for souls around us. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. Amen. So the biblical covenants and why they matter is what I called uh tonight's time And the easiest way to think about covenant is an agreement , but a serious agreement. And these are agreements between God and man. And so we know they're they're serious because God is making them. Most people count five or six of these covenants. I count six, and so we're going to begin with the one that Some don't count, but the covenant with Adam. The reason some don't count it is because covenant is not used in Genesis 2. But if you'd like to turn to these, and I hope you will, Genesis chapter 2, and they'll go in order in the scripture, but Genesis chapter 2, verses 16 and 17. So this would be God's covenant with Adam. And this would be an example of a conditional covenant. That is, there is something that Adam is supposed to do. There are also examples like this morning of unconditional covenants. uh with Abram that God was going to give them uh the land. God was going to uh build a nation from him. And that is something God was saying, I am going to do. He was the only one that walked through the animals, remember this morning. So Genesis 2, 16 and 17, the Lord God commanded the man, saying, From any tree of the garden you may eat freely, but from the tree of the garden of good and evil you shall not eat, for in the day that you eat from it, you will surely die. And so You would think logically. The other part of that is if if they would obey, they would surely live. So the point of this covenant, what we see in it is if we sin, if we disobey God, we die. Adam sinned And we all as his descendants, we learn from Scripture, are born in sin. So we bear uh the consequence of his fall into sin. And so Romans 6. 23 says, for the wages of sin is death. But the free gift of God is eternal life in Christ Jesus our Lord. That's the sixth covenant that we'll get to. But the wages of sin is death. Now Jesus is, I'm going to point to Christ each time, at least a little bit, but Jesus is the second Adam, he's called in Scripture. who did know sin. He lived the life that Adam failed to live. And those born again in him will be free from sin and its effect. They will live. So as in Adam we die, in Christ we die. are alive. John 3. 16, whoever believes in him shall not perish, but have eternal life. That's the great promise there. And so this covenant with Adam is meaningful because we see if we sin we die. Well, how many have sinned? All have sinned. So all experience death. But in Christ we can have life. Second covenant is with Noah. And uh I love you see the rainbow that Jen found. I love that. Um God's covenant with Noah, Genesis 9 and verse 8. And this one is an unconditional covenant, as I see it. Then God spoke to Noah and to his sons with him, saying, Now behold, I myself do establish my covenant with you. And with your descendants after you, and with every living creature that is with you, the birds, the cattle, and every beast of the earth with you, and all that comes out of the ark with you Even every beast of the earth. I establish my covenant with you, and all flesh shall never again be cut off by the water of the flood. Neither shall there again be a flood to destroy the earth. So God states the agreement, the covenant he is making with all flesh. Verse 12, God said, This is the sign of the covenant which I'm making between you, uh between me and you, and every living creature that is with you for all successive generations. I set my bow in the cloud And it shall be for a sign of a covenant between me and the earth. It shall come about when I bring a cloud over the earth that the bow will be seen in the cloud. And I will remember my covenant, which is between me and you and every living creature of all flesh. It doesn't remember, it doesn't mean God has to remember. It means he does remember. When we see the bow, it reminds us that he knows. And uh and never again shall the water become a flood to destroy all flesh. When the bow is in the cloud, then I will look upon it to remember the everlasting covenant between God and every living creature of all flesh that is on the earth And God said to Noah, This is the sign of the covenant which I have established between me and all flesh that is on the earth. And so here is the practical meaning of that. For us, we sin, we die, right? We learn that in the covenant with Adam, but we don't die right away for our sin. And so we have time on God 's earth, most do , to seek him, to seek the Lord. So this covenant with Noah is very meaningful. uh to remind people God has given us time. There's a judgment to come, but God has given us time to seek Him. So before I go to the third, anything you want to interject, Pastor Matt? Um yeah maybe One cross-reference for sure. It's a good one to know. The word covenant is not used in the early chapters of Genesis for Adam's situation. But in Hosea 6 7, the word covenant is used in reference to that situation. Um so let me just read that verse. And it's God through Hosea speaking to speaking about Israel. But like Adam, they transgressed the covenant. Like Adam, they transgressed the covenant. And so the obvious implication is Adam transgressed the covenant that God had placed him in. And so um I th uh there is biblical warrant for using the idea of a covenant when we talk about Adam's situation. Um and the the uh the key word, hopefully you got the key word there that you brought out, obedience. Obedience unto life or disobedience unto death. And the only escape from our disobedience now is Jesus. As the pastor said, we're wanting to point everything to Christ. By the way, we get that from the Bible. That's what the Bible does, right? So we just want to follow suit and point all of this. Read article number one out there. Yeah, that's right. That's right. We want to point to Christ. Yeah, our works cannot save us. They do not save us, but works were necessary to save us, right? Jesus obeyed The covenant. Jesus fulfilled this requirement of obedience that actually is necessary for you and I to be right with God. Obedience is required. And so the story of redemption and of being saved, being a Christian, is not that God stops requiring obedience. It's that Jesus obeys. and credits that obedience to us as we receive it by grace through faith. Which I think is the main application Come to Jesus and believe and be saved. Okay, so he wanted to go to the last page of our notes. That's always that's good. What I said about first atom, last atom, that that fits there because he did what the first atom failed to do, uh, and we are credited with that. The third covenant is God's covenant with Abraham, which we saw this morning in chapter 15. Chapter 17 speaks of it as well. Chapter 17, verse 1 and following. Now when Abram was ninety-nine years old, the Lord appeared to Abram and said to him, I am God Almighty. Walk before me and be blameless. I will establish my covenant with between me and you. I will multiply you exceedingly. Abram fell on his face, and God talked with him, saying, As for me, behold, my covenant is with you, and you will be f the father of a multitude of nations. No longer shall your name be Abram, but you shall, your name shall be Abraham, for I will make you a father, the father of a multitude of nations. I will make you exceedingly fruitful, and I will make a nation of you, and kings will come forth from you. I will establish my covenant between me and you and your descendants. That's the word seed that Paul picks up on especially after you throughout their generations for an everlasting covenant. To be God to you and to your descendants after you. I will give to you and to your descendants after you the land of your sojournings, all the land of Canaan for an everlasting possession, and I will be their God. So God Then after this segment further commands circumcision as a sign of the covenant for Abram and Abram's descendants. And So what do we see what we see here is that God has chosen a people through which he will bless the world. We saw that as In chapter 12, verse 3, a few weeks ago in the messages, in you all the families of the earth will be blessed. Through the Jews would come the Savior of the world. We trace that in Scripture. Paul says in Galatians 3 that Jesus is the seed of Abraham who makes it possible for us to possess. uh what I called this morning the eternal promised land, uh the land that Israel's land, physical land, pictures. Hebrews 11. 10 indicates that Abraham too longed for this eternal promised land. You might remember, he was looking for the city which has foundations, whose architect and builder is God. Abraham also illustrates God's gift of righteousness through faith. That's what we saw in chapter 15 this morning, that he believed in the Lord and it was reckoned to him, and he reckoned it to him as righteousness. So, salvation conditioned, what this points to is that salvation is conditioned on Christ alone. We know that in the gospel. His righteous life and death for sin 's penalty. Abram believed. It was reckoned to him as righteousness. We believe in Christ alone, and we receive penalty. uh a reckoning, uh a imputation of his righteous life and his death for uh our So God's covenant with Abraham, pointing to Christ, we'll come back to that perhaps. God's covenant with Moses. Let me hasten on so we can get to uh how this is so practical to us. God's covenant with Moses would be one that we are most familiar with, the law. We know that this is a conditional covenant for Israel. And I'm just going to read about it from Exodus chapter 19, verse 3, and following. Moses went up to God. And the Lord called to him from the mountain, saying, Thus you shall say to the house of Jacob, and tell the sons of Israel, You yourselves have seen what I did to the Egyptians. and how I bore you on eagle's wings and brought you to myself. Now then, if you will indeed obey my voice, condition, if you will indeed obey my voice and keep my covenant, which included The Ten Commandments, the Moral Law, and then more detailed regulations for life and worship. Sometimes they're Called the ceremonial law, at least many of them. Then you, if you obey, keep my covenant, then you shall be my possession among all the peoples, for all the earth is mine. And you remember in chapters, at least it's chapter 31, but thereabouts in the book of Deuteronomy, there are these blessings and curses. And they have to do with Conditions of the covenant, if you obey, this will be the blessing of God. If you do not obey, this will be the curse of God Verse 6, and you shall be to me a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. You'll have access to me through the law, through the tabernacle. um regulations, but you'll be a kingdom of priests and a holy nation. These are the words that you shall speak to the sons of Israel. Well Israel did not keep the law. Jesus kept the moral law, and he was the fulfillment of the ceremonial law. So The law of God, Israel failed in it. They didn't keep the condition that God set upon them. Jesus came, and in the Sermon on the Mount, you remember, he did not come to abolish, but to fulfill. And he fulfilled the law. A perfect priest is what we see in him after the order of Melchizedek , saw that a couple weeks ago in the message, and he offers a perfect sacrifice. A Lamb without blemish. John the Baptist said, Behold, the Lamb of God. So God's covenant with Moses, God's covenant with David, and then Pastor Matt, I'll see if you want to interject anything. Just simply God's covenant with David, your house, and your kingdom. 2 Samuel 7. 16. I'm sorry. 2 Samuel 7. 16. This is an unconditional covenant as I see it. Your house and your kingdom shall endure before me forever. Your throne shall be established forever. If there's a condition on it, you could say, well, they did lose the kingdom because of their sinfulness, the land was taken by the Assyrians and the Babylonians of the southern kingdom. So the kingdom was interrupted, certainly. But that had to do more with the Mosaic covenant I believe in God's promise to David. That was put on hold, we could say, but it was to be fulfilled and was fulfilled. Jesus fulfilled the promise of an everlasting kingdom. Luke chapter 1 verse 32. He will be great, the angel said to Mary, and he will be called the Son of the Most High, and the Lord God will give him the throne of his father, David. So he holds that place as king. Pastor Matt, anything about these three covenants that you'd want to have? It's how the New Testament starts, the first sentence in the New Testament, the book of the genealogy of Jesus Christ. The son of David, the son of Abraham. And so that's how the New Testament starts, by an announcement of Jesus the Christ, who's the heir. of the promises and the fulfillment of the covenant with David, and he's the heir of the promises and fulfillment of the covenant with Abraham. He's the son of David, he's the son of Abraham. I think uh yeah, there's d yes. Not yeah. Yes. That's the uh the old South Jersey coming out. Yeah, there's something I have here. Um So this is We'll get cheesesteaks later. Yes for them to go. Yes, please. Um Real ones. So we may have to do some driving to get them. Um this is a point of I guess Th it is theology, but it's it's it's application heavy too. Hermeneutics, right? Principles of interpretation. And just to emphasize that These aren't different storylines that we're talking about. This is one storyline of redemption that unfolds. It gradually unfolds throughout history according to God's purpose and to God's plan. And so we see these different covenants. They are distinct from one another, but they are organically connected as a vine to the branches, to the leaves, to the fruit. This is one storyline of redemption, and that's why in some sense we could say it's it's all fulfilled in Christ, of course, and we want to look at the details and that's what we're doing, but to But it it's good application for how we read the Bible and what we're looking for and what life is about. We're a part of this one story of redemption that's been unfolding. since creation and we live in the age of fulfillment. What a what a glorious glorious thing. Yeah, and I I I'm glad you s mentioned the story of scripture. It's not like one of these failed so God had to come up with another covenant. That's not what we're seeing. What we're seeing is his orchestration of this leading to Christ. And these covenants were a part of how he led uh his people, including Isra Israel, David the king. And then of course the sixth covenant is, you would guess, and you would be right, the new covenant in Christ And this is one that is by grace through faith. So I say an unconditional covenant, because even faith is a gift of God. But if you want to say there's It ha there has to be faith. Yes, there does. That's the way it's the gospel is presented to us. But even that is a gift of God's grace, the Spirit. Awakening in us, a conviction of sin, of righteousness, and of judgment to come. So what scriptures would we go to? Well, we could go to Old Testament scriptures, Jeremiah 9, and other places that prophesy this. I read last week from 1 Corinthians, or maybe this morning from 1 Corinthians chapter 11, where Jesus took the cup after supper saying, This is the new covenant in my blood. Do this as often as you drink it in remembrance of me as he celebrated the supper. And then Hebrews 9, 11, and 12, I chose. which says, when Christ appeared as a high priest of the good things to come, he entered through the greater and more perfect tabernacle, so a reference back to the Old Testament way of worshiping uh God by by the law of the tabernacle. But he entered the greater, more perfect one, the heavenly one, not made with hands. That is to say, not of this creation, and not through the blood of goats and calves, but through his own blood. He entered the holy place once for all having obtained eternal redemption. So the new covenant in Christ was we see here pictured in the old but does the eternal work in the eternal place, uh heaven. So let me just give a a snippet of practical application, pointing these covenants to Christ. And then Pastor Matt, I want you to uh to to lead in that. So the covenants under the the covenants under the Old Covenant. In other words, the Old Testament covenants. They do not give eternal life. That's one thing I want to say. None of those five give eternal life. But they point to Jesus, who does give eternal life. So think about it with me. We're not saved by obedience because we sin like Adam. And so we die. And we're not saved because of rainbows or time enough to be saved. No, we are reminded That God is patient, but that is not salvation for us. We don't come to Him on our own. We don't have enough time to get good enough. That's not the point there. And we're not saved by being Jewish. The covenant with Abraham of a great nation. Yes, there was that great nation. We know that it points to uh all of the world in Christ. in the New Testament points to that. But we're not saved by being Jewish. We must have faith, like Abraham, in Christ And we're not saved by the law, the Old Testament law. It is called a tutor that a teacher that leads us to Christ. And we're not saved by having what the Israelites really wanted when Jesus was on earth. They wanted a new earthly king. That's not our salvation. And so we don't crave after some uh um perfect world to live in uh that we are supposed to create as as Christians. No, we await King Jesus to return in judgment though. And so our hope is not in any earthly kingdom, that's my point, but in the return of Jesus as King in a new heaven and new earth. So those are some practical ways that the covenants point us , showing us that they are insufficient in and of themselves. So a Jew today who's trusting in the old covenant is Knows that he has sin, knows that in Adam all die, and there's no hope in that covenant alone. And so we would point them to Christ from the old covenant. Yeah, okay. So I I'm going to be heavy on the application here. Yeah. But um one One one thing just to reiterate on the importance of the new covenant. This is the covenant that is in effect Right now and for all eternity, right, and so for example we we don't worship like Israel or like Noah. So that the covenant, if there's a condition, that you use the idea of condition, it's the blood of Christ, right? The Father sent his son to do this work, to live a righteous life, and to die as an atoning sacrifice, to shed his blood for the forgiveness of sins for his people. That's the condition, and then he is resurrected and receives the Spirit from the Father and pours out that Spirit. Acts two, if you want to read about that. And so this is the this is the new covenant That all who come into union with Christ have all their sins forgiven, and they're reconciled to God forever. That's that's the new covenant that you can enter into, or you have already entered into it probably, through faith in Christ, his blood cleanses you of all of your sins and brings you into a relationship with God forever. So So hope you you caught that. I mentioned faith that some call that a condition, but really that's why I say it's unconditional because we are trusting what we're believing in, what we have faith in. is what Christ has done. That's right. From our f for us, it's it's unconditional. Right? You don't have to do any work at all. to earn it or to um to deserve it in any way. The work is done. 100% done, finished. You receive the blessings of this by entering into a relationship with Christ. So the two applications for this new covenant discussion is we've already talked a little bit about one, entering into Entering into this relationship with God in Christ, right? That's first. Enter into this relationship with God through faith in Christ. And then after that, living the Christian life. Living the Christian life. And those have to be kept as two distinct categories. That are inseparable, but they have to be kept distinct because we don't ever want to say that our Christian living um helps us get into our salvation or helps us get into a relationship with Christ. No, Christian living flows out of a relationship with Christ So entering into this relationship with God in Christ, we've said the word faith, and I would add to that repentance. Faith and repentance. Faith is the hearts Trusting in Christ alone for salvation, trusting in his righteous life, trusting in his sacrificial death, that he died for my sins. This is saving faith. Not just checking the box and saying, I believe that Jesus died for sins. But that I truly believe in my heart that he died for my sins and received the wrath of God that I deserve because I am a sinner. So this is this is faith and repentance is the turning that accompanies saving faith. And saving faith is always accompanied by true repentance, which begins as sorrow for sin in the heart It it ha includes a change of mind, right? A change of mind about myself, a change of mind about God, a change of mind about Jesus, a change of mind about sin, and on and on and on. It's uh it begins in the heart It also includes a change of mind and it manifests in a new life. There are certain behaviors that we repent of. And that would be called the fruit of repentance. True repentance happens on the inside. The fruit of repentance is Um you stop this sin, turn away from that sin, and now you're living a new holy life. And so faith, true saving faith is what saves. And Pastor said, that itself is a gift of grace by the working of the Spirit through the gospel. Right? And so hearing the gospel, receiving it with faith, accompanied by repentance, this is This is what entering into a relationship with God and Christ looks like. And I'll just say one more thing about entering into this relationship with Christ. And it is it Is the foundation or it's underneath everything else I just said about faith, repentance, change of behavior, all of that. Uh the the one last thing I'll say on this is You must be born again. You must be born again. And we want to emphasize, what scripture emphasized, that our conversion is not a Human work. It's not a work that we accomplish where we decide in the power of our own flesh to be wise or to be good or to be spiritual. This is a miracle. Salvation is a miracle. We must be born of the Holy Spirit. And that's why we preach the gospel and teach the gospel. And we ought to share the gospel and give people books where they could read the gospel and tell them to listen to this radio program where they could hear the gospel in the car because the gospel changes hearts This is the only way that any of us have been born again is through the power of the Holy Spirit working through the gospel message. And so this is entering into a relationship, and we don't ever, ever want to reduce it down to a human decision. It always involves a human decision. But it's a spirit wrought decision that we make. This is not something we can do on our own, and we don't ever want to give ourselves or others the impression that it is. So that's the first that's the first point of application. And this is the at the center of our mission and ministry. in the church and the community to preach the gospel and urge all to come to Christ in faith. So um I want to pause here and then we can, whenever's appropriate Sh hear from you. I don't know if you're opening up for questions. Yeah. Any uh and then we'll talk about Christian living. application. I said I wanted to keep those separate. Any comments or questions? And also, Pastor John, anything from you on this? I mean this is this is really important because You want to make sure that you are born again. Okay, so this is important. Questions? I'm gonna get a little sip of my water back here. By the way, that was a proper use of the word miracle tonight. That was good. Yeah, yeah. I I joked with him that he talked on a Wednesday night that it was a miracle that he still had time left at the end of class and and Yeah, that's not a miracle. But this was born being born again. Tom 's a little bit. Technically, yeah, that was an act of unique providence, but that wasn't a miracle. Was there a comment or question while I was being silly, and I apologize for that. Such a wonderful topic We'll go on to the second part. Part two. Nothing? It's we we don't have yes, I knew there was some. Good. Yes, Miss Janet. Yeah. Praise the Lord. Amen. Praise the Lord. And I don't think that's a selfish response. I we we've said the same thing this morning in in our Sunday school class as we talked about the Romans Road, you know, that it's a it's a celebration every time we speak of such things. So thank you for that, Jan. Yeah the Word of God is life giving. The Spirit uses the Word of God. I I so much appreciate what you said. And um yeah that's that's That's where we need to be in our hearts. Thank you. Anybody else? Okay. Living the Christian life. Living the Christian life. All right. Well, uh the uh The foundational thing for entering into the new covenant, I say till the end, right? You must be born again. Well, the foundational thing for this, I'll I'll put on the front end. Seek first. Join in when you figure out what I'm saying. Seek ye first. The kingdom of God. Seek it first. My prayer for myself. And for my family, and for you, Pastor John, and for everyone here, for anyone watching this, my prayer is that we would seek First, the kingdom of God. We've just got to get there in our hearts. And all the little details and specific applications that will fall under that, God will work that out. And there are some of those, and they're very important. But we've just got to get to this place in our hearts where what God is doing is the most important thing to me. And it is going to shape my life. And it is going to shape and reshape, right, my desires. And so that's where we are. We want to seek first the kingdom of God. That is what God wants for us. That is his purpose. And so that would include things like cultivating personal holiness. I'll go slowly on these. Just so we have time to let them shimmer and thicken up in that pot, right? Cultivating personal holiness. What are you doing? Uh first of all, are you even thinking about it? To pursue and grow in personal holiness, those who love God Also love holiness because holiness is just a description of the character of God. He is holy. You can't love him and not love the number one descriptor of what he's like and who he is. So are we cultivating personal holiness? Are we devoted to his word? Are we devoted to prayer? If we love God, we will love his word. And if we love God, we will love prayer. One of the simple ways I talk to my children about this, I'm sure I'm not the only one who does this, and I definitely didn't come up with this on my own. I forget where I heard it first, but Prayer is speaking and reading the word or listening to the word is hearing. So you talk, but you also hear. This is like a conversation that you would have with someone that you love. So you never want to go through the day or, heaven forbid, the week or month in your home and not talk. To your family members, the people you love the most, and the people who love you. And you would never listen, you would never not listen to them Now we struggle with that, don't we? We can ignore and not not want to be bothered. But this walk with God, this being a member of the new covenant in Christ is about a relationship. It's about a person it's about personal communion with God. That's a daily reality. So are you cultivating holiness? Are you growing in your love for the word and your devotion to the word, your commitment to prayer, your desire to your desire to pray? And um Let's see this. Holiness, Word, Prayer. Um, and then I just have church. And then underneath church you can say so many different things. Uh I'll back up and talk about churches broadly and then shoot it over to you. We c we can't flesh all of these out, but do you love the fellowship of the church? Do you love the worship of the church? Do you love the mission of the church, which is to reach, to reach the lost for Christ with the gospel? Do you love the gospel? Do you love the lost? And and desire more than anything that you get that gospel on their ears. Since you know, you know, without a doubt. that it's the only thing that can change a sinner's heart and reconcile them to God. You want them to come into the new covenant where you are. But church broadly speaking, I'll be brief on this. The the God has organized his new covenant people in local churches spread all over the world. In the old covenant, his his people was organized in Israel a nation, but now he's organized his kingdom. His New Covenant people and local churches all over the place, and it's through the ministry of the church that God advances his kingdom. It's how he brings glory to himself. It's how he brings the lost into the fold And s church life is not a it's not an option for biblical Christianity. It's right at the heart of it. To be saved is to become a member of a church, the body of Christ. and to join the church, join God really, join God in his mission in advancing his kingdom and saving the lost. And so Do you love the church? Do you love holiness, prayer, the word, and then church and all those other subcategories? But this is just where we want to be. If we're seeking the kingdom first, we will pour ourselves out. in the in the ch body life of the church and the mission of the church. Pastor, that's uh that's all I had on that. Yeah I just I I want to if anyone has another comment, but let me just kind of sum things up uh the covenants, the five from the Old Testament, what they were meant for, uh it's most clearly seen with with Adam. Abram, Abraham , David, and with Israel. But what they were meant to do for the people we have in such a much more full way in Christ. So with Abram, you think, or with Adam, you know, relationship, fellowship with God was broken through his sin. Well that's restored. We have fellowship with God. Abraham, a a people uh that he never got to see, but you mentioned the church, that we are the people uh that that was pointing to and so cherish uh the fellowship of fellow believers in Christ. And then the land there. We we have um uh that to look forward to. We're not clinging to earthly things. We look forward to uh the blessings in Christ in in heaven and new heaven and new earth. And uh the Davidic kingdom, well we we have a Lord who is perfect. And one who will be recognized by every uh living creature one day as as Lord. So we can confidently follow him. And I think of uh Israel's covenant. So much of that was about how to live with a holy God, how to approach him. You know, only the priests could go behind the curtain once a year. Well in Christ that curtain is destroyed from top to bottom. We have access in Christ. And so each of these covenants, as you see them in Scripture. they should point you to the much better covenant and the privileges that we have in Christ. I'll stop there. It's time, but any other comment or or question before we close? Just wanted to connect some dots and wanted to put the covenants before you in a systematic way tonight. pray. Father, we thank you for your scripture to us. We thank you. Well it's a privilege to live in a day when we have the the the word of God the the word culminating in in Christ that you've spoken through him. And we thank you that we see all of your revelation uh from a gospel point of view, and it's beautiful. And we look forward to the promises fulfilled in the future, but we thank you for how we can live now in your presence, in your church looking for great things to come. Salvation of souls, the coming of Jesus. Thank you. In Jesus' name we pray. Amen. And God bless you. We'll see you. God bless you online.