Thank you for coming this morning. I have a very brief introduction. We're so happy to have our special guest, Dr. Robert Carter from Creation Ministry. International and his fiancee Joy is also with him this morning. I'm going to pray for our time together and then I'm going to hand it off to you, brother Let's go to the Lord in prayer. Father, we thank you for your goodness, for your mercy, for your faithfulness, and for your love. We thank you for your wisdom and for your power, and we worship you through faith in Christ. Father, fill our hearts with the Holy Ghost. Holy Spirit. We pray that through today's ministry you would fix our hearts on the Lord Jesus Christ. We pray that you would direct our minds to your word. The truth of your word, not only about you, but about everything else that there is. Father, let our hearts be strengthened by your grace. It's in Christ we ask. Amen. Good morning. What a pleasure it is to be here this morning. Uh pardon me a little frazzled running around, but now everything's set up. Everything is good. All the jots and sittles are taken care of. So we can spend the next hour learning about God's Word and His world. Now my name is Robert Carter. You know that. I'm a marine biologist by training. I spent years scuba diving in Belize and the Bahamas and up and down the Florida Keys. It was a tough life. But I'm studying corals. And you can see a coral in there, that green blobby thing under the water. Well, when you take a coral and you zoom up on it under a microscope and shines fluorescent or ultra- ultraviolet light on it. They glow green and red and blue and white. They are absolutely delightful little animals. They are beautiful. But I'm studying these things and I'm trying to figure out what that color was. Eventually I learned that's a protein, which is weird, because I'm made of proteins and I don't go under black light. But they do. And so I said, oh, I'm going to study this more. And I realized if there's a protein there, there's a gene behind it. And I actually ended up in a genetics lab and when I stole the genes out of these animals and engineered them into those animals, that's when I got my doctorate in genetic engineering. Yeah, I made the Franken This opens up a giant problem, doesn't it? Literally. Church, Sunday morning, I just started talking about science, and already we ran into a moral problem. Are we allowed to do that? Christian, can we monkey around with God's creation? If we can, how far can we go? So these are questions that all of a sudden we have to answer. And we never had to worry about these things before. But you can't go to the grocery store today without genetic engineering. You can't go to the doctor's office without genetic engineering. Even the you know the so-called uh health food stores, lots of their stuff has been produced somewhere along the line in the the chain there's something genetically engineered. Medicines? Almost all of them. So what do we do? There's a tension here, isn't there? Well, you know what? My laboratory, even though this one laboratory is my university, I would not have wanted to walk into the doors of, but my lab, we were working on cancer. models. We're trying to get that gene next to a gene that turned on when the fish got cancer. So the tumor would be colored and we if you cured the tumor, it wouldn't be green anymore. And honestly sacrificing the lives of a few fish to improve human health I think it was a noble goal. But I found a guide for my work on page one of the Bible. We call this the Dominion Mandate. Is God talking to Adam and Eve? He says to them, Be fruitful and multiply and fill the earth and subdue it. Have dominion over the fish of the sea and over the birds of the heavens and over every living thing that moves on the earth. So that says that God put Adam and Eve on this earth earth as stewards, as caretakers. And as their descendants we've inherited that responsibility. But take care of something though, you need to know what you're taking care of, right? I mean what kind of a parent would you be if you didn't know your kid What kind of farmer would you be if you didn't need know the water and the nutrients that your crops need to grow throughout a season? And once we learn these things, what do we do? We apply them, and we learn more and more and more, and we get better and better, hopefully, at taking care of what God gave us to take care of. That's called science. Learning something and applying it to solve a problem, that's called science. Science exists so that we can fulfill our role in God's created world Oh. So science and the Bible aren't fighting each other? No. In fact, we've been writing about that for nearly 50 years in our Creation magazine We 've been writing about this for, I think we have now 18,000 articles on our website, creation. com. We talk about this all the time on social media. We've got actually a massive now. social media presence, we're working really hard to produce the highest quality video content that anyone's ever made on these subjects. And interestingly, just a couple of months ago, maybe actually a month ago They did a one-minute short and they posted it on Facebook and we got a million views just on that. It's a lot of work. I mean, we call ourselves an information ministry. We exist to answer questions. questions about creation and about science and about the Bible. But I remember being young and being absolutely convinced that evolution was true. I didn't know anyone grew Growing up who believed the Bible. I went to church, but nobody believed the Bible. And no one ever tried to give me some consistent view of science and the Bible. And I remember um, and if you asked me when I was like 18, I would have said, evolution's a fact. And if you said, why do you think that? I probably would have thrown Pacacetus in your face. The perfect transitional form between land animals and whales. I needed no other information. That was me. That was proof that evolution was true. What I didn't know though was that cartoon was based only on those blue bones. nothing below the neck. What I didn't know was that when I was at college they could discover the rest of the skeleton and that's a land animal. And I had no idea you can go to Wikipedia today and grab this image of a packaging See this. That's not a transitional animal. That's like a four-foot-long rat dog with zero transitional features. And I said to myself, I think someone pulled the wool over my eyes. I think I have Things I need to unlearn. And that sent me on a lifelong quest to know for myself. But you know, we have more answers to these questions than any other time in church history. We should be shouting from the rooftops that the Bible is true. But you're not hearing that in the culture, you're not hearing any of that in from Hollywood. would. And most Christians are intimidated. Because honestly, if I'm uncertain about something, I'm usually terrified that person's going to ask me something about that something. So usually I don't say anything. And I think that's how most people are. Intimidation makes us be quiet. So therefore the more we learn The more we understand, the better uh answer or way of actually not even if you have the answer, it's a way of taking something and then answering it. Once you have a good foundation , You can relax a lot on how you interact with the world and your faith. So we know this is a tricky question. A tricky subject. We we took a TV camera and we went around to four or five different college campuses in the Atlanta area, right? Atlanta, the buckle of the Bible belt. Yeah, no, but they call themselves that. And we interviewed hundreds of kids walking down the sidewalks. So hey, would you like to take part in our documentary? This is a quick survey, a couple questions like, yeah, and sound a little released. And we asked them this question. Were you raised in the church? They didn't know who we are. Is this an Atheist group, just one of those Christian groups, they have no idea. Were you raised in the church? Out of the hundreds of students, we found 100 of them that said, Yes, I went to church growing up. Then we asked them another question. Actually, we dismissed the ones who said no. No. The ones who said yes, I went to church growing up. Which is true. Creation revolution. Take a guess. Five said creation. Ouch. And then we asked them, were you ever taught about creation? Same five said yes. And guess what the last question was? Are you still attending church? What do you think the answer was? Six. So here we have a hundred church-going kids growing up, and 94 % of them don't go to church in college. And you know what? Most of them don't come back. I am glad I'm not 18 years old today. The world is different. It was easy growing up under Ronald Reagan. It's hard growing up in today's culture. There were no people, what YouTube didn't exist, but there was no people on YouTube talking about their deconversion. Stories or atheists is railing and honestly. It's mostly emotional arguments. Almost all of it's emotional arguments, but that's what traps younger people because they haven't been jaundice by the world yet. They haven't been around the sun enough times to realize that when people are talking, they're actually plucking at your heart strings, not at your mind. That takes an adult, an older adult, to even realize that. And right now our young people they're going through a meat grinder and it's it's really, really sad to watch. So let me give an idea. If you want to reach the current culture, not the night 1950s culture, the current culture. We have to be able to give them an alternative to the things they're using to reject the Bible. But most people today don't know anything about the Bible. You ask if someone you know my age and older, why don't aren't you a Christian? Why don't you believe the Bible? And they'll probably try to come up with some supposed Bible contradictions Younger people today, they can't even do that. They'll say, well, they might know, well, the Bible says that evolution isn't true, and I know evolution is true because science says it, therefore the Bible's wrong. That's a totally different argument. Are you ready for stuff like that? Well, people are scared of this because science. Well, let me help you out. We have an email newsletter. We call it info bytes. It comes out every Friday. It'll be a summary of the articles we've written that week. Might have a uh interview with somebody, maybe a a brand new um uh book or something that we've written, maybe even talk to someone who's a f former evolutionists, who knows what might appear in the pages of our newsletter. If you'd like to get this, it's really easy. We ask for a name, an email address, and a zip code. And if you want to, you can stick your phone and and click on the uh QR code on the corner there. So they're being handed out now. Do me a favor since we're kind of spread out, just kind of like pass them around as they go so everyone has an opportunity. We got Alright, so those are going around, and I'm going to keep on talking about science, but I need to define what we're talking about. And this is hard, and this is what the evolutionists really they do capitalize capitalize upon. On our misunderstanding of what science is. But there is a form of science. It's called operational science. It deals with figuring out how things work. This is what you learned in school. Remember like seventh or eighth grade physical science, maybe you had a pulley and a block and you're trying to measure acceleration or something like that, and you You write a little hypothesis, you do a little test, you revise your hypothesis. Well, that observing, testing, and repeating is the basis of modern science. And that has led to the development of all of our technologies, including like nuclear-powered rovers that NASA drives around Mars today. Technology is amazing. None of this has anything to do with evolution. It's just figuring out how things work. And these ideas they're pioneered by, oh, I don't know, Christians like Johann Kepler, the great astronomer. Who discovered the three laws of planetary motion that NASA uses to fly things around the solar system today? And he said it was like thinking God's thoughts after him. His work. What? Yeah, do you realize that to be a scientist is a privilege? We get to discover things that God hid in creation thousands of years ago. It's amazing. I mean this several times in my life where I've worked like a dog, I you know do all these analyses and all these things and chemical extractions and DNA and whatnot, and I finally get a graph on my computer screen and it hit me. No one has ever in the world seen that before. And I get to tell the world it's something God did. Oh, yeah, that's fun. But it's not just Kepler. You remember chemistry class? You remember how hard chemistry was? You remember those formulas? Oh, you forgot all the formulas. Do you remember that there were formulas in chemistry class? Okay. You ever take physics? Even more formulas. Well, there's some Greek letters in those formulas. Take out the Greek letters and what are you left with? The initials of people's names, like all the constants. Yeah, every single one of those constants you learned in high school was the initials. of a Bible believer's name, without exception. What? Yeah. Christians gave us modern Science. That is an irrefutable fact of history. But how is that true? Most scientists say aren't Christian. Christians, well these men, mainly men, they looked at the Bible. The Bible says, an all-powerful genius, creator God who doesn't change his mind on a whim, who never does anything against his own nature. And if that type of a God created the universe, well, the ultimate lawgiver would have created the universe operates according to law. Boom! Modern science arose. Why do I trust the universe? Because I trust the God of the universe. Why do I think there are rules and laws in the universe? Because my God built this universe. Huh. And yet something happened. After that first big wave of scientific discovery, the philosophers started getting involved. And during a period that we call the Enlightenment During uh late 1600s, 1700s. Now think about it, to be enlightened means you think the people before you were in the dark. That's where we get the f Phrase dark ages from. Now historians don't use that phrase anymore. The medieval period was an amazing period of scientific and intellectual advancement. That these people used and said, Oh, those people are ignorant. Yeah, the people who invented eyeglasses and windmills and universities and writing and Logic. They're in the dark ages. But they brought us away from theism, a belief in God, towards materialism, a belief that the physical world is all there is. They drawed us towards naturalism, the belief that nature is all there is, that you can use the natural forces we see in the world to explain Everything that's ever happened in the whole history of the universe. But if God is true, by definition, naturalism is not not. Because if God is true, God can do what he wishes. He can do a miracle. He can create like that. He can do whatever he wants. So once the universe is created, yeah, it operates naturalistically. It operates like a clock. Those things are true. The universe was created and the universe is naturalistic. The problem is that naturalism as a philosophy Is terrible at explaining origins at where things came from. They had a good run of it. For like 200 years or so, they thought they were going to be able to explain everything. And they had all these scientific laws, and Darwin tried to write a law of evolution and he failed. See, there's not really any laws in biology. There are laws in physics and chemistry. And what happened was over the last couple of decades , The scientists, including myself, have run into what I call the hard wall of biological complexity. The more complex life is, the less Less possible it is for evolution to explain it. Evolution, if it was true, might be able to explain some simple things. Accidental, you know, this organism changed a little bit, oh, now it can do something else. Accidental. But the more complicated life is, evolutionary power to explain it falls away. And all we've known over the last I mean, man, in my lifetime, I've watched scientific understanding increase by By orders of magnitude, there's so much detail and complexity. Life itself is screaming that evolution isn't true. It's testifying to the God of creation. Okay, you understand operational science, how things work? Let me give you another type of science. This is called historical science. This is when someone reaches back in time and tries to explain something they didn't actually see But can you see that the further back in time you go, the less certain you can be of what happened? I mean, we can solve a murder if it happened yesterday, maybe. What if it happened a hundred years ago? How about a thousand years ago? No, history is hard because one, if you weren't around a Not observable. Two, it only happens once, it's not repeatable. Three, we don't have time machines, it's not testable. History is very different, or historical science is very different than operational science. So Did a slumpy legged fish crawl out of an ocean hundreds of millions of years ago on his way to evolve into people? Or not? That's where the argument is. We're not arguing over the boiling point of water. We're arguing over views of history that we can't go back. In time and see. I mean, is the universe even that old? Well, I don't believe so, but is it? That's the argument, and that's why this is hard. All right. Operational versus historical. I'm going to give you a quiz. One question, true or false? Is this how fossils form? He sinks to the bottom of the sea. He's lying there dead. Over, I guess, millions of years, he's buried and petrified, and maybe millions of years later, play tectonics. Let's talk about These rocks and erosion exposes a dead dinosaur skeleton. Is this how fossils form? Yes or no? Who says yes? True. Who says no? False. Okay, what 85 -90% of you are not going to answer my trick question? Can you at least imagine that happening? I can. I can see that, and here's the problem. It sticks in my head as being true, even though it's not. That's why they put this in the Children's Museum in Australia. To give them a false understanding of fossilization. We can test this. Let's get in a submarine. Let's look around the bottom of the ocean for a big dead thing. What do you think you're going to see? You? Yeah, things get eaten in the oceans. In fact, according to the laws of chemistry, bones dissolve in seawater. Oh. So all of a sudden, naturalistic science has to explain things like fish that looked like they were petrified before they began to rot fossils. How long did that take? Or fish eating fish fossils? Or mother ichthyosaurs in the process of giving birth fossils? Or fossilized salamanders that are preserved so quickly, their gills are preserved, their tail, that tail is only a few cells thick. How do you convert something like that to stone? Does the millions of years version of geology have an answer to that? No, not really. Because it had to happen quickly, or those parts wouldn't be preserved. Have you ever had a goldfish? Or a fish in a fish tank. Did it die? Did it start turning fuzzy and falling apart? How long did it take before it started turning fuzzy and falling apart? Not very long. How do you get fossils like that? They're petrified. In fact, his belly's full of clams. We know what he had for his last meal. Weird. Well, here's a historical model. This is Goldie. He's happily swimming along in the oceans on the morning of Noah's flood, and he gets under overwhelmed by some underwater avalanche, and now he's dead. But he's buried in mud. And that mud has water in it. And the water has salts and minerals in it. And as the water dries out, if you have enough pressure, it's like about a mile of rock. That's how much pressure you need. You force some of those minerals into his flesh before he rots away. You might replace it with his crystal-y stuff. We call that a fossil. It must occur quickly. In fact, we have a documentary on the tables. It's called Evolution's Achilles Heels. I poured three years of my life into this. This was a lot of work. In fact, we've won two awards at Christian Film Festivals for a documentary. That was really Exciting. But all we did was go around and ask Bible-believing PhD scientists one question. Say, hey, Mr. Scientist, what can evolution not answer in your area of expertise. Oh, they said the most incredible things. We call them evolution's Achilles heels. What's an Achilles heel? It's a fatal flaw in something that looks like it's impervious to it. attack. And we identified Achilles seals in multiple areas of science, including paleontology. This is Dr. Marcus Ross, he's a friend of mine. He's a a paleontologist, a father Expert. And he said, the existence of a fossil by itself is actually proof that something happened very, very fast. But if the fossil occurred quickly, Then that's a fossil. Then the rocks that occur the fossil occurs in, the rocks themselves must have occurred quickly. So now we're talking about the entire fossil record is a record of fast, not slow, or the fossils Wouldn't be there, including things like trees that stick vertically through the geologic column and defy evolutionary time. These are called polystrate, many layered fossils. Trees, dinosaur bones, there are polystrate fossils in different rock layers around the world, and each one of them says no to See what I just did. I just gave you about a half a dozen or more illustrations to get you to question something. To get you to question time. These fossils say no to deep time. Because trees don't stick up out of the forest for thousands of years after they die. They burn, they rot, they get eaten by termites, they fall over. But where does the millions-of-years idea come from? Well, it really came from European geologists in the 1700s who were using nothing but naturalism and what's called uniformitarianism, the thought that the unif the rates always happened at the same rate. Things always happen at the same rate. But what if slow and gradual doesn't explain what we see? Then the whole system's going to come crashing down. Now, we look at things like Grand Canyon. Oh, it looks like millions of years. To look at it Carefully. Watch this. We know that erosion can happen quickly, easily, under natural conditions. Do you remember? I think this was five years, maybe six years ago. The highest dam in the United States nearly failed. They had too much snow in California that year, and Oroville Lake in Northern California filled up and was ready to overtop the dam. And they were terrified because they would have lost like 300,000 homes downstream. So they had to drain the lake. They should just drain it. And they were shocked and horrified. Because this water that's not a lot of water compared to major world rivers. That's not a giant drop in altitude compared to like you know hip waters coming down off the Himalayas and things like that. But this water over just a couple of days ate through Steel reinforced concrete and carved a side channel 1300 feet long, 400 feet wide, and 160 feet deep through solid rock, which is now the gravel out in the riverbed. I thought erosion was slow Well it can be, but even under natural conditions, it can be extremely fast because of a process called cavitation. When water flows over a rough surface, it'll flow over it until it gets a little too fast. And then if there's a bump, it can lift off the surface and create a vacuum bubble that goes. Wow. And that imploding vacuum bubble can eat through stainless steel. It can eat through solid rock. So if you ask me, hey Rob, how long do you think it took to carve the Grand Canyon? You know what my answer is? I don't know. How fast is the water flowing? Because once it's flowing too fast, all bets are off. And the recipe is: at the end of Noah's flood, as the waters are coming off the continents, they're going to cause massive amount of erosion. But not just erosion, we can also get sedimentation happening very fast. I don't know how many of you were alive in 1980, I was in fifth grade. I remember seeing these brilliant red sun sunsets off the east coast for in New York where I lived. The sun was coming up like red. Like, what is that? It was a volcanic ash that was in the air from this mountain 3,000 miles from where I lived that happened to blow up. And I didn't know it then, but now I know. Mount St. Helens has given us a tremendous testimony that a lot of geology can happen very quickly. Here we have three different layers laid down by that volcanoes. There for scale. That 's the first eruption, 1980. A month later, a boiling hot cloud of steam and volcanic ash came racing down the mountain the speed of a hurricane, deposited the middle of the Two years later, a mud flow came down off the mound, deposited the upper layer, and carved the canyon. Oh. Hey, does that look like the fossil record to you? I see stuff like that all around the world. Flat bands, distinct layers. This is not millions of years. This is um well in the case of that middle layer, that's a few minutes. This is dust just falling out of the sky, spontaneously stratifying into these high-density and low density bands. Some geologists before this might have been tempted to say something like, oh. Count up the layers, count up the years, slow and gradual, millions of years. No, dude, this is minutes. This is Layers. So now we know. I love that phrase, we now know. You know when a scientist says we now know? Do you know what that means? It means I was wrong yesterday. They don't say it that way. We now know. No, it doesn't take millions of years to form many different types of rock formations or many different types of rocks. Because we now we have enough information, we've seen enough examples, we can watch rocks form sometimes. And they look just like the rocks in the fossil record, and the rocks we see forming today were fast. So if the present is a key to the past, something different must have happened in the past. Right? Yeah, it's called Noah's Flood. Now notice what I haven't done yet. I have not actually opened up the Bible. Oh, boo on me. No, I did it on purpose Because most people today don't know much about the Bible. Their arguments are kind of pseudo-scientific. They usually don't know very much about science, but they try. So what I did was I tried to knock down some of those things, and now we can introduce a replacement, which is scripture. First, understand, the Bible claims to be the history book of the universe. Like it or not, it claims to explain where everything came from, where everything is going, and the reason why it is the way it is now. I don't think there's another religious book on the planet that makes all those claims that the Bible does. But when you open up the Bible to the very first page, you're hit with a very stark reality. The Bible claims that God created the entire universe. Six consecutive days. I didn't like this. I fought this. I tried to add millions of years and evolution to this every way you can imagine. But the Hebrew language is clear. If you wanted to write six consecutive days in Hebrew, you would have written it just like Genesis is written. There's lots of ways of explaining or lots of ways of describing long periods of time. Hebrew. Zero of those are used in Genesis 1. I kind of wish one was, because then my life would be so much easier. I could believe in deep time. I might even be able to believe in evolution. The society would accept me, right? No, they would not. Are you a Christian? Do you believe that Jesus did not have a father? Then you are insane according to the secular world. Do you believe that Jesus was dead for three days and came back to life? That's impossible. You believe crazy things It doesn't matter how much we compromise on things like this. They're still not going to accept us. So what are we worried about? Let's just jump in with both feet and believe the Bible as is written. We might as well. But man, I remember maybe each of these days is a long period of time. I didn't know that's called the day H theory. I thought it was Being smart. I must have heard it from somebody. I believed that for a long time. Until someone said, Hey Rob, yeah, cool idea, but you can't get plants millions of years before you get a sun. Oh. Well, maybe this is just evolutionary history. Yeah, no, because the Bible says all the flying creatures came before the land animals, and evolution says all the flying creatures evolved from land animals. Birds, bats, pterosaurs. Whatnot. The order of events is all wrong. It's as if when God set up this order of events, he did it to thwart all naturalistic explanations on purpose. Ouch. The reason I'm talking about this though is not because of the Old Testament. It's because of the New Testament. We have to understand there's over a hundred references References to Genesis in the New Testament, and more than half of those come from the first eleven chapters. What's in the first eleven chapters of the Bible? Creation, Noah's Flood, and the Tower of Babel. Every single New Testament author references Those chapters, including Jesus, at least 16 times in the Gospels, like Mark chapter 10, where he starts by using the opening words of Genesis in Greek, and then he quotes from Genesis twice. He actually says NRK in the beginning. But from the beginning of creation, quote, God made them male and female. Another quote, therefore man shall leave his father and mother and hold fast to his wife, and the two shall become one flesh. Did Jesus believe that Adam exists at the beginning of creation? Then Jesus believed in the history of Genesis. Not a Big Bang. Because a Big Bang would happen billions of years ago and after many billions of years, Homo sapiens appears. No. If we're at the beginning, he can only be referring to the creation. week. And consider John chapter 1. In the beginning, same words again, was the Word. And the Word was with God. And the Word was God. And in the next chapter, in the next verses, we learn that the Word created everything. And then in chapter, sorry, in verse 14, and the Word became flesh. So the word is Christ, and Christ is the creator of the universe. So when Jesus says something like that, you know how a lot of uh you know scholars they'll they'll argue over Paul's authority? Does Paul really have the authority to say that women must be silent and all those kind of things? That's some controversial stuff in our modern society, right? Well, that's just Paul, they said. You can't use that argument. With Jesus. Jesus is the trump card. Jesus is the ultimate authority. So forget all those other doctrinal things we might wrestle with. This is done. Jesus said Adam existed at the beginning of creation. Adam and Eve did. And I have to take that. Or I question the deity of Jesus Christ. I know people struggle with this though. There's one point in time in the Gospel of John, Nicodemus comes to Jesus at night, Nicodemus the Pharisee. He says things like, Can a man be born again? Or how can these things be? And Jesus says, If I've told you earthly things and you do not believe, how can you believe I tell you heavenly things? Well I believe one of the main things. reasons why Christianity struggles to remain relevant in our culture today is that people don't believe the earthly things in the Bible. That's the science in history. And since they don't believe the science and history, you know what? The people who wrote the theology in the Bible also wrote all the science and the history. And if they got so much wrong, how did they get anything right? Or if the Bible is not true in the beginning, where does it start being true? And if people later on references the non-true passages as if they were true, we've got some theological issues here. But the Bible is consistent in its treatment of Genesis as a foundational document. Look here, Romans 5. 12. Therefore, just as sin came into the world through one man and death through sin, so death spread to all men because all sinned. Who's that one man? Adam. Whoa! There's no death before Adam. Sinned, then there's no evolution. Because evolution requires millions, even billions of years of death to produce an atom. No, death was did not make us, death is not our Death is the enemy. Death came after the fact. And is that thing that we yearn to escape? And it's a thing that Christ gave us a door. Of escape. We get this idea that death is a punishment for sin way back in Genesis. Genesis chapter 2. The Lord God commanded the man, Adam. Saying, You may surely eat of every tree of the garden, but of the tree of the knowledge of good and evil you shall not eat, for the day in which you eat of it, you shall surely die. Now, Adam didn't die that day Because that's not what the Bible says here. Actually, the the word death is used twice in Hebrew. It only comes out once in English. This is really hard to translate. It means something like, in dying you will die. Not I'm going to send a lightning bolt down and fry you. on the spot. That's not what he said. Adam, if you sin, you will, I guarantee it, die. That's what he was doing. So it's not a contradiction there. But we know what happened. Adam reached out, he took the fruit from that tree, he ate it, and because of that, God said, Cursed is the ground because of you, and pain shall eat of it all the days of your life. But it's not just the dirt that's cursed, it's actually the universe Look at all these references to creation in Romans 8. The creation wasted with eager longing. The creation was subjected to futility. The creation itself would be set free from his bondage to corruption. The whole creation, the Greek word there means everything. The universe, if you like. The whole creation has been groaning together in the pains of childbirth until now. He keeps harping on the fact that the entire universe is weighed down by the weight of Adam's sin That makes no sense in an evolutionary context. It only makes sense if there was no death or suffering or disease in the beginning, then the universe fell into corruption, and then crisis Oh yeah, he's going to come back. Look at the hope we have at the end. Revelation 21. He, Jesus, will wipe away every tear from their eyes, and death shall be no more. Neither shall be a mourning or crying or pain. What are the former things? It's all the junk we got from Adam. And I say that comfort Because in the same context it says there's no more curse. Wait a minute. You ever realize that the end of Revelation is fixing the problem at the beginning of the Bible? They're like two bookends on a consistent store with these golden threads running through the entire text. You know what this is? This black squiggly line? Those are all the chapters in the Bible This rainbow, those are the 12,000, I think, cross-references amongst all the chapters in the Bible. You can't pull the early chapters out without destroying the integrity. Why? Because the later authors will quote from the life of Solomon or David or Abraham or Noah. or Cain or Adam, as if they're real historical figures. And they never throw in a caveat. Okay, we know this is really mythology. or just a morality tale. However, we can use this morality tale to draw these spiritual things. No, they don't do that. And they would have if they didn't think it was real. Do we have any Tolkien fans in the room? Lord of the Rings, Hobbit. I love J. R. Tolkien. I've read his all everything he's ever written multiple times. But if I were to open up like, I don't know, some Oh, it's a story of of a man who fell in love with an elf, an elf princess, actually, and her father wouldn't let them get married, but he said, Okay, if you go and steal a jewel From the crown, the biggest, baddest thing on the planet in his dungeon, I'll let you marry my daughter. And both of them get killed in the process. Oh, it's a great love story. Beautiful. They get resurrected after that. And if I said to you, that's real history. You would chase me out of this pulpit, call me a heretic, and I would lose my job and I would never be in this position ever again. It's not history. It's a story that some guy made up Now I can use an illustration from anything in the culture in a sermon. You can do that. But you have to say what it is and why it's not true. None of the latter authors treat Genesis as anything except history. Or they would have said something and they didn't. But if it's history, we don't have millions of years. Now what do we do? How do we explain the fossil records? Well, remember the Mount St. Helens example, the Orival Dam example? I could use any number of other local catastrophes. What if something not local happened? Something global happened. Something catastrophic. So about 1600 years at the scene in the garden, God's looking around the world and only finds one righteous person. His name is Noah. He said to Noah, I've determined to make an end of all flesh, for the earth is filled with violence through them. Behold, I will destroy them with the earth. So he tells Noah to build a large ship. We call it an ark. And in the 600th year of Noah's life, the second month, the 17th day. I know most of you aren't scientists. I know some of you really don't like science. Okay, that's my feeling in English class. Fine. But you people who are good in languages, help me. I'm not. I got C's in English, and I think my teachers are being nice to me. I'm now an awesome I don't know how that happened. But I'm not good with languages. So you otherly gifted people, tell me, what genre is that? Poetry? Prophecy? Allegory? Or historical Narrative. Is that written like a specific thing happened on a specific day of a specific person's life? Yeah. That's called history, very detailed history. On that day, all the fountains of the great deep burst forth, and windows of heaven were open. And rain fell upon the earth forty days and forty nights. Okay, that's nice. Did that really happen? Better question. If it happened, what would you expect to see? And I asked. Ask it that way because the church, by and large, in the eighteen hundreds got that question wrong. But then again, they didn't have modern science, a modern understanding of erosion and deposition. and all sorts of stuff like that. So everywhere I'm going now, I'm looking at the fossil record. I'm trying to see it. And man, if you got your brain thinking right, you can see Noah 's flood everywhere, including places like Grand Canyon. Yeah, you have a multi-stack set of layers that are laid down perfectly flat Covering continents. The sandstones that are at at the base of the layers in the Grand Canyon are under our feet. What? Yeah, spanning the continent. What deposits sandstone in a sheet proportionally thinner than a sheet of paper across a vast flat area Nothing today. What do we have today that moves sand? Powerful rivers. Not even the Mississippi River. It doesn't move sand, it moves silt. Sand is only moved with fast-flowing water. But when water, when like a river gets to an ocean, what happens to all the sand? It falls out. It makes a delta, which is also wedge shaped. It's thicker near the shore gets thinner as you go out. That's not a delta. There's nothing in the world today doing things like this, and yet the fossil record is layer after layer after layer. With this huge extents, usually very thin, and deposited by things that aren't happening today. What car is this? Noah's flood. cause this. Something washing across continents deposited massive thin layers. Many of them right on top of each other. But something else, I hinted at this earlier. I expect that Noah's flood is going to cause a massive amount of You ever seen Monument Valley in Utah? Have you realized all those beats and mesas have the same height? They were carved from a plane. But if you go north, these rocks dip underneath other rocks. In fact, there's about a mile of missing rocks. What erased a mile of rocks on the Colorado Plateau to create a flat plain and then a into what was left, but not by rivers. This is not carved by a river River. And where are all the boulders that fall off of these things over millions of years? Why isn't the valley floor filled? They've been washed off the continent. The sand is gone. This is not slow and gradual. Something very fast did that. Go just to the west over the Grand Canyon area. You stand on the rim of Grand Canyon and you look north. North You see what's called the Grand Staircase. This is a multicolored stack of rocks. And Bryce Canyon is in here. A couple of the famous monuments are in here. These beautiful formations. They used to be over the top of the canyon area. But they were removed to create a flat plane. What today is creating giant flat plane? Nothing. Therefore, something different happened. This is Noah's flood writ large on the landscape, erasing massive amounts of things. And then did the Colorado River carve the Grand Canyon? Consider that Grand Canyon, the high point is the middle of the canyon and the river flows through it. Have you ever been to the Delaware Water River Gap uh The Delaware River water gap. Yeah, you know what that is? It's when a Delaware River flows through a mountain instead of flowing around it. There are in this area of the country hundreds of water gaps and wind gaps. A wind gap is a watercarved notch that doesn't have a stream in it. What? What did that? Why do mountains go I mean rivers go through mountains, not around mountains? Well, because the rivers didn't carve the mountains. Treating stage of Noah's flood did. Now the rivers are in the landscape and they just find the quickest route. They didn't make the holes in the ground. Like the Colorado River itself is called an underfit stream. It's too small to explain the giant canyon that it's in. No, the flood waters carved it and the Colorado River instead of flowing to the Gulf of Mexico where it's supposed to go, it falls into a hole in the ground, gets diverted to the west, and goes over to Baja California. Oh. We now can reinterpret the entire fossil record. One more thing I want to impress upon you. Noah's flood is not a kid's Story. It's actually a horror story. In one way, the wrath of God poured out on wickedness. But it's also a beautiful picture of salvation. Because through faith in God, Noah came through the waters of death alive. And came out alive on the other side. What does the New Testament tell us? It says, whoever puts their faith in Jesus Christ will be ushered at a second judgment and come out alive to inherit eternal life in heaven. How do you survive the wrath of God? Through faith and Noah showed us that. In fact, uh the the Noah's flood account is is amazing. Chapter six, seven, eight, and nine of Genesis those. are one structure. You see, all of these repetitive statements, the the rain stopped, the rain started, the mountains disappeared. The mountains appeared. Animals went on the ark, the mountain animals came off the ark. It's like 20 nested statements that are mirror images of each other. You know what the middle verse and all that is? And God removed Remembered Noah. The Noah's flood story is a story of salvation and grace. And my friends, if you put your faith in Jesus Christ on that faithful day of judgment God will remember you. We have that picture here. You know you can preach the gospel from Genesis? I tried. I hope I did okay. But look, there's a lot of other subjects and I've only covered a couple. Pick one. Dig in. If you're going to ask me for recommendation, I'm going to recommend Creation Magazine first and foremost. Why? Because we get more testimonies from our magazine than we even do from our videos. and from our website. I mean this goes out, I think to f I don't know, fifty-six thousand US citizens and it's all of we go to like hundred or more countries around the world. This is a great way for us to bless you. So you get to bless us. Thank you. Partnering with us. And in return we get to bless you with this beautiful magazine. It doesn't have any advertising in it. It's got great stuff. Every time I get the issue unit, I work on it. I still read it. I spend a day you know going through all the little things in the front. and reading really cool articles. If you sign up for it here, we'll get your first issue today. I've got them on the table out there. If you sign up for a two-year subscription, we're also going to throw in the digital version of our magazine. So give us your email address and we'll email you a link that you can click on and we'll let you share that email with other people. Now we say up to five, shh, we don't count. Share it with other people. And for a two-year, we're also going to include, for this is brand new, we've never done this before. Creation in the New Testament is a great book. I mean, really, really interesting book. So when you read the New Testament, you cannot escape references to Genesis. It's everywhere. Just perfusing the entire New Testament. And reading this book, I was like, I mean, I do this for a living. I did not even know the extent to which the New Testament quotes Genesis. or references or or allusions to Genesis. So that's there. You can get that with the two-year magazine. Here's what the sign-up form looks like. We're going to pass this around as I'm wrapping up and I think I'm going to have a couple of minutes for questions and answers. right? Yes. Okay. Those go around, feel free. If not, no big deal. Just pass the clip or to your n to your next door neighbor there. Let them go around. Now, if you're new to this and you don't know where to go, can I also recommend the Creation Answers book? We wrote this to answer 99% of the questions. the questions that we get. No joke. So what about carbon dating? What about dinosaurs? Has starlight yet here from outer space that the universe only is thousands of years old? All those sorts of questions in one Book. We also have a great little pack called the Starter Pack. It comes with the Creation Answers book. Then the best-selling Creation Evolution book ever written called Refuting Evolution. And a DVD called Genesis the Key. to the gospel. That's a great combination. Here's Evolution of Achilles Seals, the documentary and the book. So if you'd like to read, if you'd like to watch either way. By the way, I know a lot of people don't have uh DVD players anymore. But you can stream any of these things from our website, including this one. Ancient DNA, Illuminating Tapestry of Biblical Human History. See, I'm a geneticist. I didn't talk about genetics this morning, because if I start, I can't stop I basically gave you a biblical geology talk. But this the disk, when we printed this, knowing what was happening in the world, if you flip it open, there's a QR code on the disk itself. If you hold your phone over that, it will add this to your account on creation. com and then you can watch it off our website and then give the disc to somebody else. the So this is a great, a good opportunity, one to learn things and two, share with other people. Here is Biblical Geology 101. I'm very happy about this book. Really fun. Not for geologists. It's written for everybody else. Or Biblical Biology 101. Super excited about this one because it's the first book that only has my name on the cover. That was my life I poured into this. This is a lot, or it took me like two years. write this, but it's there. So if you're interested in biology or you want some encouragement, I I put a a lot as much fun into that book as I I I possibly could. Here's Creation Astronomy for Kids. A great little read. I wish I had this when I was like 10, 11 years old. Or a little kids book, middle kids book, exploring geology. with a little cricket called Mr. Hibb. Really cool stuff. I learned stuff I didn't know in this kid's book. Here's a 12-part series on the first 11 chapters of Genesis. Genesis, the Genesis Academy. I also wrote a study guide, which you can get. Go to creation. com, type in study guide, and it'll be in the list. This is great for personal study, Bible studies, youth groups. Um it's there, but I did not Come here to sell you a magazine or a DVD or a book. No. I came here to encourage you that the answers are there. We can stand confidently and competently With a Bible in hand and defend what we believe. But you can't do it unless you know it. And that takes time. So I want to encourage you, put aside The social media a little bit every day, find some time to dig and get to God's Word, especially. And after that, spend a little time studying on this creation issue. It's really fun and Someone might depend upon some answer that you might have. And you never know what's going to come up in conversations. I'm going to leave you 1 Peter 3:15. In your hearts, honor Christ's The Lord is holy, always being prepared to make a defense to anyone who asks you. For reason for the hope that's in you, get do with gentleness and respect You okay? Alright, let's pray. Father, thank you for this morning. Thank you for the Bible. Thank you for the beauty of the world that you've created. We know though that there are some really horrible things in this world. The sickness and disease and death are constantly visiting us. And yet we trust in you that you have the rest of the answers. Thank you for the book of Genesis that you told us where things came from. from help us Lord to believe it help us to have a full biblical understanding of theology even though it's intimidating And hard, but we know you're gracious. You've worked with us. You haven't cast us aside. How many times have you picked us up and dusted us off and set us on our feet and told us to go? So asking , Help us to do it again. Help us to go, to learn, and to share. Amen. Okay, I got seven minutes. Um if you ask me a question, I'll listen to it, I'll repeat it for everybody else. You okay with that? Uh can we do a few things though? Please don't ask me a doctrinal question that might tempt me to disagree with something preached from this pulpit. I probably agree with everything, but I don't know. There might be something. So nothing about end times theology or the role of men and women or Bible translations or free will versus predestination. No. But anything about science, this fair game, anything about Genesis, I don't, I might not know the answer. And I know this is a little old, but please don't ask me anything about COVID-19. Because it doesn't matter how I answer, someone will get mad. That's just it's not worth it. Alright. Who's got the first question? Sir. Did you really uh synthesize that Franken fish or was that a joke? No, I made that fish. Really made that fish? Yep, yeah, but you took the RNA out of corals, like made it into DNA. injected into uh E. coli um and made green E. coli and then we took it out of that, treated with some restriction enzymes, put it into another vector that we could inject into Fish eggs. Yeah. We made um look the green fishes had already been made, but we made the world's first red fluorescent fish. In fact, I thought I had found the world's first red fluorescent protein. And I was I was sitting there in the lab with his little red E. coli and a dish saying, I just made myself a million dollars. In fact, I was wrong, it's probably $10 million. On that day, I'm like, oh. And on this hand, I had a paper that came out that same day. Red fluorescent proteins. Alright God, you got a good sense of humor. But we at least made a red first red fluorescent fish. Um I I kind of got a gram to your answer, but I was curious if you could elaborate um using CRISPR for solving some of the mutations, genetic things. Go to creation. com, type in genetic engineering or CRISPR, C-R-I-S-P-R. Uh the question is what about CRISPR and genetic engineering and like curing human diseases and things, this is terrifying. We can now do great evil. But it's also encouraging because we can do great evil Good. I have a friend who has Huntington's disease. It killed her father, it killed her brother, her other sister's carrier also, but my friend is 35-ish, maybe 40 by now, and she's melting down. She's mean, angry, she I mean, she's violent because it milks your brain and then your body falls apart. And she's terrified. And honestly, if someone said, hey, uh, if I just stick this in your arm, we can change all your genes. And this gracious, who was a gracious, lovely Christian girl, all of a sudden gets cured. Why would that be a bad thing? The question is, the the deal is, and the ethicists have all said this, though some people are pushing bounders anyway. Don't do anything that affects the germline. Don't do anything that's inheritable. So if you're an adult and you want to change your DNA and fix something or change something, you're an adult, I guess you're allowed to do that, but don't have any kids afterwards. Because when we change DNA, it always makes mistakes. Mistakes. It always makes mutations, and therefore, if you have a child afterwards, your child didn't have the right to say, hey, don't do that to me. And don't experiment on babies. Don't experiment on embryos. I wish the scientific world thought it was evil to murder a human embryo, but they don't. And that's that's actually the issue. It's not what can we do with adults, it's what are we doing with embryos. And how many of these embryos are aborted if they don't develop correctly? Sorry about using I don't know what your stance is, what you do with children in the audience. Um and can things be inheritable? That's that's really where the the line should be drawn. But I mean even in vitro fruit fertilization, it's not neutral. By manipulating the egg in a dish, the temperature is wrong, salinity is wrong, that egg is under stress. And it turns genes on and turns genes off because of the stress. So IVF children have an elevated suite of different Developmental abnormalities, I guess you could say. They happen in the regular population, just they have like ten times the rate. It's not zero. There's no zero risk. And plus with IBF, what do you do with the leftover embryo? So there's a lot of um there's a lot of very difficult questions there. go to creation. com and read some of our articles. We've wrestled through a lot of these. And it's not genetic engineering is immoral. I mean virus is genetic engineer us. Our genomes change. There are some viruses that when they infect us, they stick themselves into our genome. If they stick it into the wrong place, they can literally turn genes on and turn genes off. And humans have different copies of the viruses And we know our genomes change, etc. Ooh, I probably made some people mad just with that answer. It's hard. That that's a hard one. Okay, I got time for maybe one more? In the back, sir. Can you speak to some of the flaws in carbon dating and how it it kind of assumes a thing? Can I talk about the flaws in carbon dating that we said? Yeah. Yes, I can. I'm actually on a carbon dating task force. We meet twice a year online internationally. Professionally, professors in physics, a person who runs a carbon dating lab professionally, and his wife, who's an archaeologist who does carbon dating of samples in the old city. of Jerusalem and has just gotten her second Proceedings of National Academy of Science paper as a first author on Archaeology of Jerusalem with carbon dating. It's a lot of fun. Thank you, Mr. Evolutionus, for inventing carbon dating. That's ours. Go play with something else. I can say that with confidence. Because we cannot find any carbon source in the world that has zero carbon-14. That's a problem, because carbon fourteen can't last millions of years. In our Evolutions Achilles Heels documentary, uh Dr. Jonathan Sarfady, he said this on camera. And I didn't believe it. I actually had to go and Google. He said, if the entire earth was a giant ball of nothing but carbon-14, it would be entirely gone in less than a million years. What? I mean it's when we're breathing in carbon dioxide, like one out of trilli every trillion atoms is radioactive carbon-14 But if you make the entire earth a solid ball of carbon fourteen, less than a million years yet, if you Google how many atoms are in the earth, put that in the Excel spreadsheet, and divide by two, two, two, two, two until you have one left, and then with the half life of carbon fourteen is five thousand something. I always get it mixed up with how many feet are in a mile. But it's five thousand something years and divide, divide, divide, divide. You actually less than nine hundred thousand years and all the atoms are gone. So you can not use carbon-14 on anything that's millions of years old. It will have zero. But dinosaur bones Coal, all coal , the entire fossil record, the same amount of carbon 14, a little bit, but is there? Diamonds that can't be contaminated. And it's it would be easy to say, okay, contamination does that, but it would be hard to explain all of the different forms of carbon for uh carbon have carbon-14 in them. That's scientifically very difficult to answer unless maybe God created, let's say God created the world with no carbon-14. Because it has no biological function. Let's just say it was none. And over time it built up. And then we had Noah's flood. Noah's flood, I mean volcanoes, when they pump out carbon, uh a lot of carbon dioxide, it's called old carbon. It's just like trace amount of carbon-14. Just a teeny little bit. Well that's going to dilute the carbon fourteen in the atmosphere. If there was carbon fourteen in the atmosphere, volcanoes go off during the flood and all of a sudden there's less carbon fourteen. So Either the zero or the volcanoes diluted it right after the flood, we predict only a little bit of carbon-14. So we go and we sample something. bone or something from way long time ago. Oh, this is very little carbon-14. It must be 60, 70,000 years old. No It was from right after the flood. It has less carbon fourteen in it because of when it was formed. So the assumption with carbon dating is that the carbon fourteen has always been stable in the action. atmosphere. We know that's not true. It fluctuates with the seasons, it fluctuates with latitude, it fluctuates with which way the wind is blowing across an ocean. We we the the instruments are so extremely sensitive now we can measure all those things. And because we know it does this, in fact, last little thing about carbon dating. There's something in archaeology called the Hallstatt disaster. Or the Hallstatt dilemma, they like to say. They don't like disaster. I like disaster. There's a site in Austria called Hallstatt. that and they've got all these different layers and they've carbon dated all these layers going back you know three thousand years or so and the carbon 14 does this it goes as you go back in time it goes da da da da da da da they goes There's a flat spot that lasts several centuries. You can't use carbon dating for anything in that flat spot because all the dates are the same. This is the same time period as a divided monarchy between Jerusalem, between Israel and Judah. The same time frame as the um The Assyrian Empire, the Babylonian Empire, the Persian Empire, some of the most important archaeological time periods in world history you can't use carbon dating for, and everybody knows it. Because no matter where you are, you get the same number for several hundred years. So do I trust that you can use carbon-14 back 40,000 years ago, 50,000 years ago? ago? Not really, because there's too many assumptions. Great question. I could do a whole entire talk on that. Creation. com, carbon dating. You come up with my article, how carbon dating works, creation answers book. I think chapter five, I think. Maybe, maybe, I don't know. It's how it's a whole chapter on carbon dating. Really cool stuff. All right, I better stop. Thank you for listening. You're all wonderful people. Have a great morning. I'll be out there trying to take care of some book sales if you want to come talk to me.